GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 5.0 HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE IN THE YEAR 2014 During the year under review, the mine engaged the services of new Health and safety Superintendent to oversee the Health and Safety section of the Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) Department. The year 2014 closed with a total of nine (9) injuries. The nine was made up of three (3) lost time injuries, 3 medical treated injuries and 3 minor injuries. These injuries as expected were at different parts of the body: 6 on the Hand/Fingers, 2 on the ankle/knee and 1 on the head/eye. Although the hand is used in most activities and thus the most exposed part of the body to hazards, it is imperative for the mine to drill down further on the root causes of the injuries to the hand and put in preventive actions. This will help minimize the maximum extent of future injuries to the hand of employees. Monitoring performance, identifying emerging issues, addressing problems, reporting and evaluating, are also key elements of any safety programme. Operating a just culture where people are recognized and rewarded for their safe practices as well as holding them personally accountable, will bring management systems to life and bring the mine closer to a workplace free from harm. The twelve months rolling Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) at the close of the year 2014 stood at 1.94% as compared to 7.86% for 2013. 5.2 Safety Programmes Undertaken in the year 2014 A number of programmes were held during the year in order to adopt a more proactive safety system of improving on the safety of the mine. 5.2.1 National First Aid Competition The inspectorate division of the minerals commission in collaboration with the Ghana Chamber of Mines organised the annual first aid and safety competition. Although GMC did participate in the zonal, the company could not qualify for the final which was held at AngloGold Ashanti Iduapriem Mine. Golden Star Resources Wassa Mine came first as the best mine for the year 2014. Before the competition, the mine was audited both internally and externally by the internal auditors and the IDMC respectively. The audit by IDMC was based on the provisions of LI 2182. 27 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 No major nonconformity was observed during the annual national mine audit. See plates 24 and 25 for GMC First Aid Team and a cross-section of Officials of the MINCOM respectively. Plate 24: Showing GMC First Aid team Plate 25: Showing cross-section of Officials of the MINCOM 5.2.2 Training The mine’s routine induction and review trainings were conducted on weekly basis. Over 2000 trainings were conducted for employees and contractors on various modules. Plans are far advanced to ensure trainings in 2015 on Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) that have been developed for respective departments. 5.2.3 Incidents As indicated in Figure 3.0 above, 52 incidents were recorded during the reporting period; the breakdown being 9 injuries and 33 property damages and 10 near misses. All the incidents were investigated and corrective actions recommended. The corrective actions recommended were followed up to ensure conformance to prevent reoccurrence. As part of the preventive actions, tracking of Planned Task Observation conducted by supervisors was intensified. Reports on various reportable incidents were submitted as required by law. 5.2.4 Emergency Response The Emergency Response Team (ERT) of the mine was taken through refresher training by the Ghana National Fire Service. This is part of their competency training to ensure best practices in response to fire and other emergencies. 28 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 5.2.5 Fire Incident Report on Bungalow 16 At about 7:52pm on Friday 24th January 2014, a fire broke out at bungalow 16 which was formerly occupied by the Deputy Managing Director. Immediately, the Ghana National Fire Service (GNFS) as well as GMC Emergency Response Team (ERT) were summoned to control the fire from escalating and spreading onto nearby premises and vegetation. The fire spread so quickly that it engulfed the whole building before the arrival of the GNFS. It was finally extinguished after battling for about five (5) hours. Close-by residences were evacuated and no fatality and injuries were recorded since the bungalow was unoccupied at the time of the incident. See plates 26 and 27 for the bungalow before and after the fire outbreak respectively. Plate 26: Shows Bungalow prior to fire disaster Plate 27: Shows Bungalow after the disaster The fire was finally brought under control around 1:30am the following morning 25th January 2014 and monitored till 9:30am same day to ensure that it was completely extinguished. All electrical cables leading to the bungalow in question were re-directed by GMC electrical department and incident scene barricaded. The Chief Inspector of Mines was duly notified on 25th January 2014 by the General Mine Manager. 5.2.5.1 Investigation Committee A seven (7) member Fire Investigation Committee was constituted and given two weeks to: • Determine the root cause of the fire outbreak; • Recommend measures to prevent future occurrence. • Make recommendations on emergency response protocols. 29 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 The members were: 1. Emmanuel Coffie-Anum – HSE Superintendent (Chairman) 2. Daniel SarpongResident Electrical Engineer (member) 3. Nils Andersen – Electrical Consultant (member) 4. Paul ApalangyaMine Superintendent (member) 5. Francis Adade – Warehouse Superintendent (member) 6. Richard Mensah – Safety Officer (member) 7. Oswald SagrazaSecurity Co-ordinator (member) 5.2.5.2 Investigation procedures The committee commenced work on the 27th January 2014. Twenty (20) witnesses including the house cook and the security guard on duty at the time of the fire were interviewed individually. Eye witnesses reports indicate that the fire started at bungalow16 around 19:43 hours. During this period, it was raining with strong windstorm (16mm rainfall and wind speed of 87105km/sec were recorded). There was no electrical power supply to the area at the time of the fire. An eye-witness saw lightning striking the bungalow and heard the Automatic Alarm System Siren blowing, another witness saw lightning and smoke from the building and called ERT member. Automatic Systems notified about a fire alarm. See plates 28 and 29 for fire alarm system notification and MTN call made to ERT member. Plate 28: Shows Fire alarm System notification Plate 29: Shows MTN calls made to ERT member 30 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 The ERT and G4 Security Radio Controller got notified by various sources and moved to the scene with a number of portable fire extinguishers as first response since GMC fire tender was not usable. The Ghana National Fire Service (GNFS) was called immediately with backup GMC water tanker to the scene. Before ERT moved to the scene, the Security Coordinator and G4 Security were in position ensuring traffic control and evacuation of occupants of nearby residences. 5.2.5.3 Field Inspection The lightening arrester and the earth wires on the building structure were inspected. The earth wires were only burnt from outside, not from inside. The Inspector (Daniel Paddy-Nartey) from Inspectorate Division of the Mineral Commission visited the mine on the 5th February 2014 and joined the committee to the incident scene. 5.2.5.4 Findings and observations a. General i. Bungalow 16 was historical building built from imported, heat treated timber on Rolled Steel joist pillars; ii. The construction was covered with 2mm steel sheets, the roof and outside walls. b. Alarm System fitted to the house to alert ERT/Security of fire hazards and intruder presence notified the fire outbreak earlier than any other report to the ERT; c. Lightning arrestor fitted to the building was damaged by the fire; d. It was revealed that the security guard on duty at bungalow 16 was not aware of the fire out-break as he was taking refuge under the building due to the rainstorm and only responded to security control communication at the time of the fire; e. No traces of excessive current were found on earth-wires when it was checked; f. No traces of external ignition sources were found; g. An empty gas cylinder was found equipped with safety valve, the cylinder had shown severe burn marks but no trace of explosion/damage was seen; h. During the fire outbreak, GMC fire tender was not useable, hence GMC water bowser was deployed to assist the Ghana National Fire Service to extinguish the fire; i. No fatality/injuries were recorded; j. Few trees (coconut, palm, acacia etc.) serving as wind breaks were found withered; 31 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 k. The service cables/pole and all household items were found burnt by the fire; l. It was found that evacuation and traffic management worked efficiently. 5.2.5.5 Weather Conditions Temperatures in Nsuta were estimated at 25°c with local reports of very strong winds predominantly from the North East. The nearest automatic weather station (AWS) is located at the Repeater station and records are representative. See table 9 below. Table: 9: Shows Hourly observations at GMC Nsuta, 24th January 2014 Local Temperature Relative Wind Dir Wind Rain Barometer General Time (°C) Humidity (degrees) Speed (mm) Pressure Weather (%) (km/h) (hpa) Condition Cloudy/tender 19:30 25.00 98.6 285 78-100 16 1008.5 and lightning 5.2.5.6 Root Cause Analysis of the Fire All evidences point to support that harsh meteorological condition (lightning induction) over bungalow 16 caused the fire. Conditions were observed locally at the time of the fire. The following evidences confirm the likelihood of the source of ignition by lightning induction: • Eye-witnesses’ statement indicate lightning and fire-alarm were observed in close timely manner. This led to the assumption that the fire started below the ceiling sheets where the smoke sensors were mounted. • GMC lightening disaster register was checked and histories of similar occurrence were seen; • Direct hit was not possible as earthing and lightning arrestors of the outer sheets and on top of the house showed no heat traces of excessive current as it should be in practical terms by direct lightning hit during inspection of the incident scene; • The gas cylinder found had no signs of explosion/structural damage. It was found empty. It contained gas when the building was left unoccupied. It is assumed that the cylinder content was discharged by the fire. 32 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 5.2.5.7 Financial cost of property damage The book value of bungalow 16 is approximately USD 39,000. The estimated market value is USD 56,000. Using the estimated market value plus the cost of items in the house leads to a total cost of property damaged as USD 83,410.13 5.2.5.8 Conclusion The harsh meteorological conditions at the time of the fire, the available fuels (wooden structure and LPG gas), and the topography of the surrounding area, all contributed to the fire event. Generally, there are two possible hazards posed by lightning in terms of fire; these are direct lightning hit and induction. Strong induction is capable of destroying electronics in a way that serves as a source of ignition. Upon systematic fire scene examination, the investigators eliminated the presence of external heat sources. Further verifications from witnesses interviewed and observations, the investigators identified one potential heat source (fire ignition) within the area to be lightning induction fueled by LPG gas located in the kitchen. However, all additional findings such as glitches in procedures, communication delays, unavailability of equipment and lack of training are hereby documented to ensure better response in future occurrences. 5.3 Simulation Drill Report As part of the recommendations of the Bungalow 16 fire incident a fire simulation drill was conducted by GMC officials at the scrap yard. A scenario was created as follows: A Security guard’s house located at scrap yard containing empty cartons caught fire. A petrol tank was near to the incident scene and an employee who saw the fire escalating to the petrol tank and an adjacent laboratory got a severe burn on the right arm and fell when he attempted to initially put out the fire. The main boom to the scrap yard was locked with a padlock to serve as obstacle to the Emergency Response Team. Emergency call out procedure was executed by Charles Sapah G4S guard force commander at 16:13hours. Emergency response team on GMC fire tender arrived at the incident scene within five (5) minutes but was a little confused since the gate to the boom was locked and the Security guard could not make the key available. Finally, the boom gate was opened for the fire tender. 33 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 The emergency response team spotted the casualty in pains and carried him to a safe location and the fire tender was operated to extinguish the fire. Response time by ERT was excellent, identification of a casualty at the scene and immediately carried from danger to safe place was good. Operating the fire tender to extinguish fire was also perfect. It was noted that, personnel of ERT were inadequate in case of emergency and needs to be increased. G4 Security Supervisors and Crew should be sensitized to practically involve themselves in assisting ERT in emergencies; even serve as by-standers to direct unauthorized personnel and vehicles during such situations. See plates 30 and 31 below for firefighting demonstrations. Plate 30: Shows fire drill scenario setup at the scrap yard Plate 31: Shows ERT extinguishing fire 5.4 Risk Assessment and Fire Extinguishers Risk registers have been developed for all departments of the mine. Monitoring matrixes will be generated out of these registers in order for risk owners to focus. This is to ensure the efficiency of the controls for the activities with high residual risk. As part of emergency preparedness, fire extinguishers are positioned at vantage points on the mine and all the equipment have been provided with. Every employee has been taken through the procedure to extinguish fire. Fire drills are conducted periodically to build up confidence level of employees. Fire Extinguisher checks are done monthly to know their conditions for necessary actions to be taken. Below are the number of fire extinguishers on the mine and their distributions. The total number stands at two hundred and sixty-nine (269): • Equipment – 72 • Light vehicles – 50 34 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 • Other Locations on the Mine – 72 • Other Locations Outside the Mine – 34 • Reserves in our store room 41 5.5 Ebola Awareness Campaign Workshops Ghana Manganese Company Limited organised an Ebola awareness campaign workshop for teachers of public schools in the company’s host communities at the cost of US$156.74. The programme was a joint effort by the Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) and the Medical Departments of GMC. The lead facilitator for this programme was Mr Stephen Gyabaah, Head of Laboratory at the GMC Hospital. On December 1, 2014, participants were taken through the tit-bits on Ebola including, symptoms of the disease, mode of spread, probable gestation period for symptoms to manifest and how to prevent or support victims of the disease. At the end of the programme, participants were advised to take the knowledge gained from the workshop to their schools and to their school communities as well. Below in plates 32 and 33 are some pictures of the programme. Plate 32: Participants listening to lectures on Plate 33: Participants discussing how to the Ebola disease reach out to their communities 5.6 Staff Development Programme In pursuance of the commitment of management to promote knowledge, skill and talent development of its workforce, the Company recognizes the need to develop its people so that they become fully equipped with the necessary skills and technology to deliver the Company’s business objectives and in support of the minerals commission’s local content agenda . Ghana 35 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 Manganese Company Ltd (GMC) supported quite a number of training and development programmes in the year 2014 internally and abroad. This commitment to training has been congruent with yearly increase in budget allocation for training activities. Under the year of review, all departments of the company benefitted from training programmes. Total amount spent on training for the year under review was US$ 89,923.77. See table 10 below for summary. Table 10: Shows Summary of 2014 Training Activities S/N Type of training Purpose of the Who List of Participation training conducted Beneficiaries fee the training? A professional career In connection Emmanuel 1 development GMC’s KNUST, Cobbinah GHC sponsored package localization plan Kumasi 1,400.00 for 2-year degree as presented to programme in the Minerals’ mechanical Commission of engineeringJan Ghana 2014 A professional Payment of a Ghana Isaac Ekow 2 career surveyor Institute of Anaman GHC development certification fee Surveyors 1,440.00 sponsored programmeJan 2014 IT professional Undertake a GIMPA, Bernard Kwame 3 career Microsoft Legon Kramo GHC 6, development professional 560.00 programme certificated (MCTIP)Feb course 2014 A technician In line with HR Covenant Emmanuel 4 certificate in succession Institute of Nketsia GB£ 395.00 mechanical planning Professional GHC1,995.18 engineeringFeb designs. Studies, 2014 Tarkwa • Abubakar Evaluation To improve lab Precision Seidu 5 measurements of workers’ Professional US$ 2, uncertainty for knowledge on Events • Bright Asare 385.00 36 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 chemical testing use of statistical Company, Sarpong GHC6,391.80 laboratoriesFeb methods in South Africa 2014 evaluation • Emmanuel efficiency and Otoo effectiveness of lab results. 6 Professional career In line with HR KNUST, Stephen Armah GHC development in succession Kumasi 4,626.00 Electronic & planning Electrical designs. Engineering – Feb 2014 7 Commonwealth In line with HR KNUST, Solomon GHC Executive MBA – succession Kumasi Kwame Dankwa 8,000.00 Feb 2014 planning designs. To prepare 61 people were GHC 3, 8 Fire prevention & security and Ghana Fire trained 050.00 fighting trainingsafety personnel Service comprising 41 March 2014 with the security necessary skills personnel and to prevent or 20 departmental fight fire safety reps whenever it occurs. S/N Type of training Purpose of the Who List of Participation training conducted Beneficiaries fee the training? Continuous Professional Ghana GHC 350.00 9 professional certification Institute of Isaac Ekow development course Surveyors Anaman programme refresher trainingSept. 2014 NEBOSH Professional 10 International career NEBOSH, Richard GHC 4,200.00 general development U.K. Mensah certification in programme occupational Safety & Health Training 37 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 ProgrammeMarch 2014 NEBOSH Professional George Bentum 11 International career NEBOSH, GHC 4,200.00 general development U.K. Joseph Adizero certification in programme GHC 4,200.00 occupational Safety & Health Training ProgrammeJune 2014 Mobile Crane & Continuous 12 workers 12 Forklift professional CITAfrica from the Light GHC 12, Operating development and Vehicle 651.19 training certification of department programmelifting equipment June 2014 operators. GEO User Improve 13 Conferenceknowledge skills Ghana Isaac Ekow GHC 300.00 July 2014 in the use of the Institute of Anaman GEO software by Surveyors surveyors 14 Annual Land Continuous Surveyors and professional Ghana Isaac Ekow GHC 400.00 Continuous development Institute of Anaman Professional programme Surveyors Development Seminar-July 2014 15 Conference for Continuous Ghana Health Dr. Agodzo Ghana Physician professional Service Mr. Barnes GHC 1,000.00 Assistantsdevelopment Ayisi AnaesthesiaAug programme 2014 16 Practical Update Francis Fosu Geostatistics and knowledge and Nana Owusu US$ 9,990.00 mineral resource skill in Neoedge Oppong GHC26,773.20 estimation master geostatistics and Consultancy class trainingmineral resource March 2014 estimation as part of a continuous professional development 38 GMC’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – UN GLOBAL March 30, COMPACTPART II 2015 17 2014 Paediatric Continuous Ghana Health Dr. Agodzo conference professional Service Mr. Kpolley GHC 500.00 development Yankey programme S/N Type of Purpose of the Who List of Participation training training conducted Beneficiaries fee the training? Continuous Continuous Ghana Yvette Adjei GHC 1,150.00 18 professional professional Employers Benn development development Association Ramatu Ali programme programme Toure August. 2014 Continuous Professional 19 professional career Laysia Sixteen GHC8,812.50 development development Consult Employees programme programme from various September 2014 departments Continuous Professional 20 professional career GIMPA Six Employees GHC 4,800 development development from various programme programme departments September 2014 Continuous Continuous Web and Mr. Wisdom 21 professional professional software Adjei Mensah GHC2,500 development development in Consult programme HR Data November 2014 Management Continuous Continuous Uhuru 22 professional professional Institute of Mr. J. Ampong GHC16,279.20 development development Management programme programme on Training in March 2014 Executive and South Africa leadership skills 39
