Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. During this year, Aspirations Education Foundation (AEF) has consolidated their project activities in line with the Principles of Global Compact Initiative and has inculcated these principles in their all program initiatives. AEF Program initiatives are based on the right based approach and participatory development approach in order to mobilize all stakeholders within the community to achieve AEF vision. We also work with the underserved, unprivileged, marginalized communities to realize their Aspirations and to meet their basic needs; Right to education, free and equal access to quality education at all times. We also work with the marginalized communities to empower them to overcome the vicious circle of poverty. Ensuring children’s right to education, AEF commenced a schools based development program based on the holistic and need based approaches. AEF also encourages the active involvement of school community and also the all stakeholders in the education sector in the planning, implementation and monitoring of all development projects. In this process, we have implemented a variety of development programs in order to address various needs within school community. One salient feature during this year is that AEF has been able to partner with number of International and national donors to take part in its development initiatives. Consolidating the ‘Apeksha’ Scholarship scheme which was launched in 2007 to assist talented students with financial difficulties, AEF continued to support more than 425 students representing 23 schools. According to our observations, the students use the scholarship grant to purchase their basic needs in education such as school shoes, uniform, books and also to meet tuition fees. This scholarship program ensures the continuation of compulsory education of the children up to grade 11. Following the holistic development approach, AEF has identified the development gaps in schools affecting the smooth operation of the educational system in our partner schools and introduced number of new initiatives to combat these issues. All these initiatives support to create a healthy learning environment for children to continue their education. The assistance lent to these deserving rural schools and surrounding less income group communities in this manner has helped to secure the children’s rights to education and has ensured that they have access to basic facilities a student requires thus providing them a stimulating educational platform to achieve their aspirations. “Apeksha” scholarship scheme being the first initiative of the AEF, continues to support the less privileged school children in more than 18 districts such as Ampara, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Colombo, Gampaha, Jaffna, Kandy, Kegalle, Kilinochchi, Kurunegala, Mannar, Matale, Monaragala, Mulativu, Nuwara Eliya, Polonnaruwa and Tricomalee. Access to clean drinking water at school is a basic need of the children. AEF coordinated to provide a gravity water scheme at B/Kandegama Maha vidyalaya, Ridimaliyadda benefitting nearly 200 children. This water project was supported by Sampath Bank. A well was constructed at Am/Polwatta Maha vidyalaya with the assistance of AEF to provide drinking water for about 300 school children. This well would provide water for sanitation as well as agriculture. AEF also coordinated a water project at KU/Lihiniwehera Vidyalaya with the partnership of Brandix Garments. This is being constructed at this moment and would benefit nearly 150 children. AEF has also supported water for agriculture project at AM/Namalthalawa Maha Vidyalaya by providing necessary pipelines. Health and Nutrition play a major role in children education. Although the Health Indicators for the country rank high, health and nutrition of the marginalized communities remain at risk. As a part of the effort to develop health and nutrition, few measures have been taken as follows. We conducted a seminar on Balanced diet and nutrition at B/Kandegama Maha Vidyalaya, Ridimaliyadda targeting senior students, parents and teachers. We also conducted a Dental clinic, Clinic for noncommunicable disease, Mothers clinic and general medical clinic at the same school supported by Sampath bank. In the same school, arrangements have been made to provide a daily mid day meal to the students as a way to combat child malnutrion. AEF also conducted an introductory Yoga class for children at B/Kandegama Maha Vidyalaya as a part of the health promotion initiative. This also supported by the Sampath bank. Access to First aid, during emergencies is a basic need of school children. This has been a major problem in all of our partner schools. In order to support schools in this process, AEF coordinated to train 40 teachers in 25 schools in Ampara Education Zone. This was conducted in partnership with St John Ambulance, Colombo. This process will be continued to finally establish First Aid committees at schools. Language education and science education in rural schools, AEF continue to provide monthly financial assistance to few of our partner schools to cover the remunerations provided to qualified teachers who were hired by the schools, under our encouragement and guidance, to address the dearth of qualified teachers. Under this project. AEF launched a comprehensive sports development project at partner schools during the year in consideration. With the partnership of Deakin University, Australia, AEF conducted under 17 girls and Boys Volleyball tournament at Am/Kotawehera Maha Vidyalaya with the participation of 16 schools, conducted a Volleyball Clinics at Am/Polwatta Maha Vidyalaya and Kotawehera Maha Vidyalaya, distributed volleyball nets and balls to 16 participating schools. These were made possible with the assistance of Zonal Education office Ampara. Further to that, with the partnership of Sampath Bank, an outstanding athlete at B/Kandegama Maha vidyalaya was given a special training in Colombo and provided with basic track kit, sports shoes and nutritional support. AEF also provided the transport cost to the school sports teams to take part in the Provincial Sports meet held in Badulla. Under the pre-school assistance project, AEF provided a complete school building for “Arunalu” PreSchool in Polwaga janapadaya in Inginiyagala. Both Lower and Upper nursery class are conducted in this new building. We trained two nursery teachers at this pre-school on First Aid with the support of St John Ambulance. AEF distributed children books and children play items to two pre-schools in Kandegama and one pre-school in Kurulubedda in Polonnaruwa district. In order to promote and protect the right of elder population in our project areas, AEF conducted elders care clinics with the partnership of HelpAge Sri Lanka. They conducted three eye care and medical care clinics at Am/Dehiaththakandiya temple, Ovagiri Temple at Inginiyagala and MO/D.S. Senanayaka Maha Vidyalaya, Inginiyagala. In this process, 625 elders were given medical advice and support for noncommunicable diseases, provided free spectacles for 201 elders and screened 30 cataract patients. Access to proper water and sanitation is a basic need of school children. During this year, AEF constructed two toilets for boys and girls at Am/ Aluth Ela Vidyalaya which was a long felt need. The children, especially girls were compelled to use toilets of nearby houses or shrub jungles around. This was made possible with the support of Deakin University Australia. AEF has constructed another toilet at the same school with the partnership of Study Group, Australia. Child play areas play impotent role in school by providing mental and physical entertainment for the child. AEF has constructed a complete Child Play Area with all necessary equipments at H/Kudabolana Maha Vidyalaya with the partnership of Girls Gone Riding Project of Tasmania. AEF also donated three child play equipments to Am/Kulegama Maha vidyalaya while repairing and paintings the old Child play Equipments at Am/Aluth Ela Vidyalaya, Am/Sirisanda Vidyalaya and Kotawehera Maha Vidyalaya. AEF has also supported infrastructure development at partner schools. We have painted the GCE advanced level class at B/Kandegama Maha vidyalaya and provided a Magi Board and necessary stationary for the new children. Sampath bank has already agreed to provide funds to build a complete school building with three rooms. AEF has also constructed a Canteen at the Ku/Lihiniwehera Vidyalaya with the partnership with Leeds Metropolitan University, UK. AEF has contributed immensely for the IT development of partner schools. The computer lab completely destroyed and made redundant by a flood at H/Kudabolana Maha Vidyalaya was renovated and provided with 10 computers with the partnership of Girls gone Riding project, Australia. AEF has introduced mobile technology using 20 tablets to teach English language to rural schools. The curriculum is based on a program developed by BBC. This project is supported by Deakin University Australia. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation AEF operates in the context of respecting the all rights of all employees, working partners and does not tolerate any form of discrimination and all are treated equally irrespective of the race, colour, sex, sexual orientation, religion or belief, family circumstances, political opinion, trade union membership, age, nationality or disability. AEF practices the Participatory Development Process in order to promote and encourage the stake holder engagement, Community participation, integrity and accountability in total project management cycle. AEF also believes in community mobilization and resource mobilization in order to create sustainability in partner schools and village communities our projects. The Community Based Organizations (CBO) established during the last few years was further consolidated and empowered to take more social responsibilities. Arunaloka Community Organization has been requested to broaden their memberships in order to increase more community participation in its activities. This CBO will conduct its annual General Meeting at the end of this year. We also encourage more women participation in the projects initiated by the CBO. Women members of the Arunaloka Community Organization has been given training on Bee keeping, Home gardening, Intercrops and well as making handicrafts using bamboo trees. AEF also consolidated the CBO’s established at Kobawela in kegalle district and Lihiniwehera in Kurunegala District. Both of these CBO’s are engaged in the weaving of handicrafts using bamboo. The registration process of these CBO’s have already commenced. Sri Lanka, based on agriculture economy is having rural communities engaged mostly in agriculture and allied industries. Most of the children and the Youth remain with the village communities after school and make a living on Paddy or Chena cultivation. In this context, it is important that they get basic agriculture knowledge and practices while they are at schools AEF has taken this national responsibility and initiated the cultivation of hybrid variety of Mango as a main crop and number of area specific intercrops. AEF encouraged the participation of whole school community in this exercise to ensure ownership and accountability of the project. 28 Mango project schools are progressing well and it is expected to harvest first crop of mange in the year 2016. The consolidation process is already started and we encourage school community to team up and work together to face variety of challenges ahead. IT training centre established in Inginiyagala, Ampara District continues to teach IT literacy for the youth and school children in the surrounding community. Two batches of children/youth that followed the basic computer course at this center were awarded certificates recently. The next level of advanced course will be commenced soon. Main aim of this project was to create better career opportunities for the rural youth by equipping them with a proper IT education which is a necessity in highly globalized modern world. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. AEF is very concerned about the environment protection and environment friendly projects at schools and rural communities. One objective of our mango cultivation project is to provide green environment to the school premises. Specially, in the dry zone where we cultivate mango plants is having 9-10 month long dry spell. The mango trees with proper water network would keep the environment green at all times. These projects raise awareness about benefits of recycling organic waste and other environmental friendly techniques utilized in eco friendly agriculture schemes. As a part of the agriculture project scheme following cultivations are now at our partner schools; Tri/Padaviya Jayanthi Maha Vidyalaya – Mango cultivation Tri/Padaviya Yaya 10 Vidyalaya – Mango cultivation Tri/Padaviya Yaya 11 VidyalayaMango Cultivation Tri/Padaviya Yaya 12, 13 Vidyalaya, mango cultivation Ke/Dhammajothi KV from Kegalle district – Rambutan, Pineapple, Passion fruits Ke/Am/Polwatta MV from Ampara district – Mango cultivation Ke/Sirisanda Vidyalaya, mango, Guava cultivation Ku/ Lihiniwehera vidyalayaBanana cultivation B/Kandegama KV from Badulla district – Mango cultivation, Papaw, Pineapple Mo/D.S. Senanayaka MMVMango Am/Paragahakele MV from Ampara district – Mango cultivation Am/Namalthalawa Maha VidyalayaMango and Papaw cultivation Am/Namaloya Vidyalayamango cultivation Am/Welusumana Vidyalaya_ mango cultivation Am/Ambagahaella Maha vidyalaya – Mango cultivation Am/Senagama Maha Vidyalayamango, Guava, Am/Kotawehera Maha vidyalayaMango cultivation Am/Wavinna Maha vidyalayaMango cultivation, Papaw Am/Padagoda Maha VidyalayaMango cultivation Am/Koknahara Maha vidyalayaMango cultivation Am/Aluthela VidyalayaMango Am/Dewalahinda VidyalayaMango Am/Kulegama VidyalayaMango Am/Ovagiri TempleMango Am/Namal Oya templemango Am/Koknahara TempleMango, Papaw Am/ Neeththa Vidyalayamango Am/Ruhunugama Maha vidyalayamango Am/Thottama Maha vidyalaya – mango Am/Dehiaththakandiya templeMango, Papaw, Guava Po/Kurulubedda PV from Polonnaruwa district – Guava and mango cultivation Po/Kadawathmaduwa Vidyalaya – Mango Po/Kurulubedda templeMango These crops will be cultivated in environmentally friendly manner and organic fertilizer use is being promoted in every school to maintain their cultivations and other home gardens. All these agricultural projects are being supervised by a well experienced and qualified agricultural consultant to ensure that these introduced crops do not disturb the natural ecosystems. Cultivating crops are selected depending upon the geographical and weather conditions of the location to ensure sustainability and high productivity. These school based agricultural projects will empower the agricultural sector of Sri Lanka in future and awareness would be raised regarding sustainable, eco-friendly agricultural techniques as many schools children, their parents and surrounding communities are educated through this project scheme. Anti corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. AEF program principles are based on Integrity, transparency and accountability. Therefore, AEF practices best accepted policies and procedures nationally and internationally. We are accountable to the donors as well as to the Government Authorities and Law and Order of the country. We are against all sorts of corruptions, bribery and extortions.
