Corporate Responsibility 2014 www.j-lauritzen.com 2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 Questions regarding this report or J. Lauritzen’s corporate responsibility/CSR activites, please contact: Kathrine Geisler Madsen Manager, Corporate Communication & CSR Phone: +45 33 96 84 35 Email: kge@j-l.com ABOUT THIS REPORT This report has been prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act (Sec. 99a) and the UN Global Compact’s annual requirements for communication on progress. The scope of our reporting is determined by our commitment to the UN Global Compact and an assessment of materiality. The main aim of this report is to give our internal and external stakeholders an overview of our corporate responsibility policies, actions and performance. WPRINTED BY: KLS GRAFISK HUS A/S, DENMARKS MOST GREEN GRAPHIC HOUSE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 3 Table of Contents CEO STATEMENT 4 HIGHLIGHTS AND OUTLOOK 5 ABOUT US 6 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS 8 ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 11 LAURITZEN BULKERS 12 LAURITZEN KOSAN 14 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 CEO Statement More than three years have gone since we signed One of the main themes in 2014 has been the new the UN Global Compact. A commitment that has 0.1% sulphur requirements laid down in the MARoffered us valuable insights on our business conPOL Annex and the EU Sulphur Directive. The duct and imposed us on a journey. new requirement came in to force on 1 January, 2015. This new legislation aims at reducing maOur corporate responsibility rine sulphur emissions in ECA zones (North and Baltic Sea and the US/Canadian waters). efforts continue, also in these challenging times, and we are At J. Lauritzen, we fully support the new requiredemonstrating our dedication ments for increased utilisation of low sulphur, yet through our business practices more expensive fuels, but we also recognise the and our continued support for obvious incentives for non-compliance. the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on responsible To ensure fair competition, business conduct the new regulations call for strict enforcement and this led us to We have updated and adopted new policies and become a founding member of procedures, implemented a compliance prothe Trident Alliance in 2014 gramme, conducted awareness sessions building knowledge and in-house capacity, ensured faceWe believe that global regulation, transparency to-face training of key employees, made due diliand proper enforcement is the only sustainable gence of third parties and aligned expectations road to reducing the foot print of our industry and with selected suppliers. we will support initiatives that contain all these elements. We are active members of the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network and founding members of IMPA I hope that you will find the reading interesting. ACT, a programme for responsible supply chain management – efforts that continue and bring Jan Kastrup-Nielsen value to our business. President & CEO, J. Lauritzen A/S We believe that part of a quality service is to conduct business in a responsible manner creating benefits broadly while being open, honest and fair We achieve this by living up to our policy commitments and promises. We expect our employees to apply our policies in their daily work. We encourage our organisation to identify potential or actual adverse impacts from our services, operations or business relations. Operating around 150 vessels, we obviously have an impact on the environment. We have implemented an environmental policy including efforts to manage and minimise our environmental footprint – efforts that include implementing initiatives on both technical and operational optimisation. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 5 Highlights and Outlook Our corporate responsibility efforts are based on In 2015, we plan to take our corporate responsibilour core values and aligned with internationally ity efforts to a new phase of integration with our recognised principles, such as the voluntary UN business model and strategy and thus our overall Global Compact initiative and the UN Guiding value creation. Principles on Business and Human Rights. Policy commitment Global Our corporate responsibility policy includes comCommitments mitments in relation to human rights, labour rights, protection of the environment, anti-corrupWe are signatory to and support the UN Global tion and responsible supply chain management. Compact. The initiative is a voluntary commitment to include and integrate ten principles on human In 2014, we formalised an overarching policy that rights including labour rights, protection of the ensummarises our global commitments and existing vironment as well as anti-corruption into our busipolicies. ness practices. This work has been structured and conducted since we signed the Global Compact in Focus areas 2011 and has resulted in the implementation of In 2014, our main corporate responsibility activie.g. our Anti-Corruption Programme, our responties were focused on human rights assessment in sible supply chain management programme relation to our offices, the continued implementa(IMPA ACT) and our energy-efficiency programme. tion of energy-efficiency projects, compliance sessions as part of the implementation of our antiGame changing principles corruption programme and dialogue with selected In 2011, the UN Human Rights Council unanisuppliers as part of the implementation of our supmously endorsed the Guiding Principles on Busiplier code of conduct. ness and Human Rights. The Guiding Principles and their ‘spirit’ have been accepted and embedOur main achievements and results in 2014 can ded in guidelines (e.g. the OECD guidelines for be summarised as follows: multinational enterprises) and legislation (e.g. the Danish Financial Statements Act, S.99a) making • Assessment of our potential and actual huthem the first universally accepted reference man rights impacts in relation to our offices points for managing adverse impacts on human • Continuous implementation of our Energy Efrights including labour rights. ficiency Project enabling a cut in our CO2 emissions For us, the Guiding Principles provide tools and a • Founding member of Trident Alliance description of a process assisting us in our com• Anti-corruption training of approximately mitment to respect human rights, and thus the 75% of our shore-based personnel in Copentranslation into practice of the first six principles of hagen, Singapore, Shanghai and Manila our voluntary commitment to the UN Global Com• Launch of anti-corruption training sessions pact. Consequently, we have developed an overall for our senior officers starting in Lauritzen Kocorporate responsibility policy commitment that is san with approximately 50% trained at yearaligned with the requirements set forth by the UN end Guiding Principles. • Engagement with selected suppliers with regard to the implementation of the IMPA ACT programme 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 About us J. Lauritzen has served the maritime trade worldLauritzen Kosan specialises in carriage of petrowide for more than 130 years and has been enchemicals and liquefied petroleum gases a seggaged in a range of different segments of the ment of the shipping industry characterised by shipping industry. Today, we are a global provider technically complex requirements from regulators of marine transportation of dry bulk cargoes, petand clients. Lauritzen Kosan controls a fleet of 39 rochemicals and liquefied petroleum gases. In adsemi-refrigerated, fully-pressurized and ethylene dition we have investments in the offshore service gas carriers. sector. In addition to our two main business areas, we Our business have business interests in the offshore service Lauritzen Bulkers controls a modern fleet of more sector through our part-ownership of Axis Offthan 100 primarily handysize and supramax dry shore Ltd., provider of high specification accombulk carriers. The handysize operation is our main modation units servicing the offshore oil and gas business activity and is based on a large homogeindustry. neous fleet of owned, part-owned and long-term time-chartered vessels, vessels committed by partners as well as a substantial number of shortterm time-chartered vessels. Business unit’s share of invested capital, 2014 J. Lauritzen Lauritzen Kosan at a glance • Founded in 1884, Denmark • Owned by the Lauritzen Foundation. The Lauritzen Foundation is a self-governing inLauritzen stitution regulated by the Danish Act on Bulkers Commercial Foundations. Through its charter, the Foundation is committed to promote and develop the Danish shipping industry in general and support humanitarian work Business unit’s share of revenues, 2014 • Operating world-wide with headquarters in Copenhagen, Denmark • Overseas offices in Singapore, China, the Philippines, the United States, Switzerland and Spain • 5,759 port calls in 104 countries during 2014 • 213 employees ashore Lauritzen Kosan • 20 nationalities with a gender distribution of 37% female and 63% male • 798 seafarers on board owned vessels Lauritzen Bulkers CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 7 Business strategy During 2013-14, we made wide-ranging adjustWho ments to our business portfolio, and this has allowed us to devote our full attention to the develwe are opment of Lauritzen Bulkers and Lauritzen Kosan. We consider ourselves a value-driven organisation with Accountability, Respect, Competence, The strategies of Lauritzen Bulkers and Lauritzen Enthusiasm, Entrepreneurship and Team Spirit Kosan share the objective of creating value to our representing the essence of who and what we owner and clients by being reliable and trustworare. Our attitudes, decisions and actions always thy providers of marine transportation services on reflect our values. a global scale. Our two business units operate in two distinctly different segments of the shipping Our value creation is anchored in the ability of industry, and their respective business models difour people to build and manage relations with fer, yet, they share the following strategic attriour clients and hereby understand and fulfil effibutes: ciently many different types of transportation requirements. • Build and manage long-term relations with clients and stakeholders Our aim is to be considered always approach• Create insight via building critical mass able, always accountable and always looking toin selected segments wards shared value creation. • Embrace complexity, leverage skills and competencies We can only achieve this by attracting and devel• Select and invest in talent oping high-calibre talented people, who anchor themselves in our tradition for open communication, in combination with our organisational structure and tools, and who are empowered to develop our business. We believe that part of a quality service is to conduct business in a responsible manner creating benefits broadly while being open, fair and honest in all our activities. Geographic distribution of imports, 2014 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Lauritzen Bulkers Lauritzen Kosan Africa Asia Oceania Europe North America South America 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 Human and Labour Rights As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we supThrough this assessment, we identified gaps in port human and labour rights basing ourselves on our policy commitments, which has led to a rethe UN Guiding Principles on Business and Huview of the Group’s policies, procedures and comman Rights. mitments. As shipowner and operator, our operations have human rights impacts ashore as well as at sea What are Human Rights? Human rights assessment In our work to respect human rights, we assess Human rights are the rights that all human beings our impacts on rights as they are outlined in the have irrespectively of nationality, place of resiInternational Bill of Human Rights (IBHR), includdence, gender, national or ethnic origin, colour, ing the International Labour Organisation’s Declareligion, language, or any other status as outlined ration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at in the International Bill of Human Rights. They are Work (ILOD). Further, we apply the Maritime Laall interrelated, interdependent and indivisible and bour Convention 2006 (MLC) when assessing imspan from the right to life to the right to work. pacts related to crews onboard our vessels. In corporate language, the right to work means that employees have the right to be trained, have a We work to identify potential contract and have a period of notice of terminaand actual adverse impacts, tion. to prevent and mitigate these in the best possible way On board all our vessels, our seafarers’ right to safe and healthy working conditions is identified In 2014, we conducted human rights assessas a potential impact. Managing our impact on ments related to our staff at all our offices. In this right is a vital part of our safety efforts as these, we reviewed the rights outlined in the Interworking aboard any vessel could naturally have a national Bill of Human Rights and considered potential negative impact on this right, see page each in respect to the particular human rights 12 and page 14. risks related to our operations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 9 Environment and Climate With a controlled fleet of more than 150 vessels, lated. We engage in and encourage partnerships our operations have environmental impacts and with different stakeholders, e.g. other shipownwe acknowledge our responsibility in this respect. ers, suppliers, clients, authorities and associations, with the aim of indentifying the most effecPolicy commitment tive solutions. In order to manage and minimise our environmental footprint, we adopted an environmental Emission figures are disclosed in the environmenpolicy in 2009. The policy is aligned with the Rio tal statements of the individual business units in Declaration on Environment and Development this report, see p. 13 and 15. and reflects our support to the UN Global Compact’s environmental principles. Our policy commitment is to mitigate emissions Founding member of by establishing relevant operational procedures, to demonstrate accountability by reporting our Trident Alliance environmental performance and to follow the deThe Trident Alliance is a coalition of ship owners velopment of environmental improvement techand operators sharing a common interest in ronologies relevant to our business. bust and transparent enforcement of current and forthcoming marine sulphur regulations. Initiatives and actions During the year, we continued our efforts with our As a shipping company with focus on our environEnergy-Efficiency Project. The overarching objecmental impacts, the enforcement of sulphur regutive of the project is to enhance fuel-efficiency and lations is of great importance to J. Lauritzen. cut emissions whilst achieving savings on costs. Further, we acknowledge that these regulations Both business units work in a structured manner are not only for the benefit of the environment, but with their environmental performance, and in also for human health and responsible business. 2014 these efforts were further strengthened stimulating a performance-oriented culture. Focus of the alliance is to raise awareness of the issue with poor or insufficient enforcement, which A focus has been to develop a solid data platform is achieved by members’ contributing their reputafor ongoing monitoring and evaluation of perfortions, resources, access and competences to drive mance, see page 15 for more details. solution strategies that contribute to the vision of robust enforcement. In 2014, focus was on achieving fuel-savings through technical Additionally, members share experience on differinstallations of various equipment ent technologies and methods available in order to as well as scrutinizing savings foster innovation in enforcement technology. through our operations At year-end 2014, the alliance Vessel Energy Renovation Plans (VERP), a fleet had grown to 31 members performance catalogue covering optimisation of auxiliary machine consumption, including pumps, As founding members of the alliance, we join forcfans and air conditioning, plus additional initiaes with other shipping companies and various tives for technical and operational optimisation stakeholder groups who share our dedication to have been implemented, see page 12 for more dethe cause. tails. See www.tridentalliance.org for more information. Due to the nature of our business, some of the environmental challenges we meet are industry-re10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 Anti-corruption Our Anti-Corruption Policy provides strict guidand other stakeholders to anonymously report ance for all managers and employees within the any severe negative impacts our operations may Group and is specified in our compliance prohave. gramme. The policy is in line with the principles laid out in the United Nation’s Convention against Partnering on Anti-Corruption Corruption and various national laws. We continued our participation in the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) in 2014. MACN, Focus on training a global business network, works towards a vision During 2014, we conducted compliance semiof a maritime industry free of corruption enabling nars for relevant employees from our offices in fair trade to the benefit of the society at large. Copenhagen, Singapore, Stamford, Shanghai and Manila. Additionally, compliance seminars Through our participation in MACN, we meet with took place as part of our officer seminars. other representatives from the shipping industry and discuss and share best practices. The netAll compliance seminars were work seeks solutions to the root causes of corrupt conducted by our Group Legal practices and seeks support from governmental bodies and international organisations to target Counsel for both shore and such practices. sea based employees See www.maritime-acn.org for more information. All seminars were face-to-face training sessions Facing an with focus on compliance and anti-corruption, and for shore based personnel they also included fraud, anti-trust and related items. The seminars allowed employees to gain knowledge on adeIndustry Challenge quate behaviour and at the same time to engage One of the main challenges facing shipping comin discussions on high-risk situations and dilempanies in relation to corruption is demands for famas. cilitation payments. Being part of the global shipping industry, we conduct business worldwide Approximately 75% of our shore including in countries where demands for such based personnel have been trained facilitation payments are embedded in the culture. in anti-corruption One of the main consequences we and other shipowners and operators experience from facilitation Office staff attending the seminars included compayments is the substantial psychological presmercial as well as operational staffs together with sure our crews experience when such demands staffs from corporate and marine control involved are accompanied by threats to their physical and in day-to-day economic transactions. Additionalpersonal integrity. Additionally, turning down faly, we have trained approximately 50% of our secilitation payments may result in serious financial nior officers at Lauritzen Kosan. consequences when vessels are punished with serious delays due to ‘lack of cooperation’. At the sessions, our new Gift and Hospitality Policy was also introduced. The new policy was deAs corruption remains an industry challenge, we veloped in 2013 and is part of our overall complibelieve that it can only be tackled successfully ance programme. through joint global action. We are therefore an active member of the Maritime Anti-Corruption New Whistleblower scheme introduced Network (MACN), through which we aim to create In 2014, we updated our existing Whistleblower a level playing field for the entire industry. Policy and introduced a whistleblower scheme that includes an online whistleblower portal. The new whistleblower scheme allows employees CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 11 Responsible Supply Chain Management We work with Responsible Supply Chain ManThe Supplier Code of Conduct sets forth our reagement through our implementation of the IMPA quirements to suppliers regarding the establishACT programme. ment of internal policies and processes to identify, prevent and mitigate potential impacts on human By engaging in close dialogue with selected suprights including labour rights, protection of the enpliers, we work towards aligning expectations vironment and anti-corruption. within human and labour rights, environmental performance and anti-corruption. Our expectations are specified in our Supplier Code of Conduct. Focusing on supplier dialogue A joint approach Since 2013, we have engaged in dialogue with The IMPA ACT 27% of our largest suppliers. The IMPA ACT is an international standard that Our goal is to engage with 70% of brings together buyers and suppliers in their efforts to achieve responsible supply chains. our selected suppliers by 2016 This joint approach provides leverage for ensuring Being that our responsible supply chain managethat suppliers make actual improvements in the ment programme is a rather new initiative, we fields of human rights including labour rights, prorecognise that sharing knowledge and experience tection of the environment and anti-corruption iswith suppliers about the programme, is an essensues. As actual improvements require time and tial part of our initial engagement. resources, IMPA ACT is a long-term commitment for both buyers and suppliers. Supplier Code of Conduct One of the tools in our responsible supply chain We are a founding member of IMPA ACT and management programme is our Supplier Code of serve on the programme’s Advisory Board. Conduct, which builds on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the UN’s See www.impa-act.org for more information. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 12 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 Lauritzen Bulkers Lauritzen Bulkers controls a modern fleet of more Security than 100 primarily handysize and supramax dry Entering high-risk areas, we follow the Group’s bulk carriers. The handysize operation is our main overall security guidelines. The guidelines state business activity and is based on a large homogethat before scheduling a voyage into a high-risk neous fleet of owned, part-owned and long-term area, a risk assessment must be conducted by an time-chartered vessels, vessels committed by independent external party. In 2014, Lauritzen partners as well as a substantial number of shortBulkers had 50 transits in high-risk areas. There term time-chartered vessels. were no incidents related to these transits. Fleet management Environment Technical management, including crewing for our Following fleet expansion and renewal over the owned fleet, is performed by New Century Overpast few years, we own and operate a young, seas Management Inc., Manila, and Synergy Marmodern and energy-efficient fleet comprising of itime Pte., Singapore providing safe, cost-effecmore than 100 vessels with an age profile considtive and reliable vessel operations controlled and erably below the industry average. A continued supervised by our in-house technical department. focus on fuel-savings, energy-efficiency and reduction of our carbon footprint were the key isWith ship management outsourced to external sues for our dry cargo operation during the year, service providers, our in-house technical departcf. Table 1. ment specifies requirements, aligns expectations and monitors performance on achieving safe, reliOur technical department implemented Vessel able and efficient operations. Energy Renovation Plans (VERP) on four vessels during 2014 (three vessels in 2013). VERP is a Health & Safety fleet performance catalogue that covers the optiIt is part of our safety strategy to build open relamisation of auxiliary machine consumption, intions with both our external ship managers and cluding pumps, fans and air conditioning, plus adour vessel crews to ensure operational transparditional initiatives for technical and operational ency. optimisation. As part of these efforts, we benchmark our external ship managers’ safety performance though Lauritzen Bulkers KPIs, regular vessel visits, office audits and other initiatives to ensure an ongoing and open diaMajor Disaster Fund logue. In 2014, we conducted 23 vessel visits, five In 2013, the Philippines were hit by the devastatoffice audits and two officer seminars. ing Typhoon Yolanda, which killed thousands of people and injured many more. Due to our close Our vessel visits and office audits are used to asrelations to the Philippines, J. Lauritzen made an sessing and discussing various items including immediate donation of USD 40,000 to the internaactual safety performance and the level of best tional medical organisation Médecins Sans Fronpractice sharing. tièrs and their work in the affected areas. Further, we conducted officer seminars with the The typhoon also caused severe property damage purpose of increasing knowledge sharing, imand made hundreds of thousands of people homeproving our seafarers’ operations and for us to less, which in 2014 led to the establishment of the learn from their experience. In 2014, we used Lauritzen Bulkers Major Disaster Fund. The fund these seminars to share best practice in terms of was set up to provide our seafarers with financial energy-efficiency, operational excellence and aid in case of property damage caused by Yolanda safety. and in order to provide some economic cover in case of future natural disasters. We find that the seminars support our overall strategy to In 2014, a total of 83 seafarers have received doincrease efficiency and reduce nations from the fund, amounting to approximately USD 23,300. risk in our entire value chain CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 13 Vessel Energy Renovation Plans have been implemented on seven vessels over the last two years realising fuel-savings of approximately 7% A performance desk was established during 2014 to strengthen our efforts within energy-efficiency and increased fleet performance. This new function is establishing a Key Performance Indicator system for all performance-related data as a tool to streamline efficiency and at the same time stimulate a performance-oriented culture. During 2014, our operations department began utilising the Optimum Ship Routing (OSR) platform provided by WNI Weathernews International, enabling us to work in an even more structured way with day-to-day performance analysis, projected fuel consumption and routing recommendations. Table 1: Emissions pr segment G/ton-miles Segment Emission 2014 2013 2012 Total fleet CO2 6,68 7,82 8,03 SOx 0,12 0,14 0,14 NOx 0,17 0,20 0,21 Capesize CO2 4,29 5,26 5,53 SOx 0,08 0,09 0,10 NOx 0,11 0,14 0,14 Handymax CO2 6,13 6,51 8,59 SOx 0,11 0,12 0,15 NOx 0,16 0,17 0,22 Handysize CO2 10,09 12,32 12,54 SOx 0,18 0,21 0,22 NOx 0,26 0,32 0,32 Emissions note Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the financial control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our economic bottom-line and our emissions. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions and include owned vessels. 14 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 Lauritzen Kosan Lauritzen Kosan specialises in carriage of petroOur seafarers chemicals and liquefied petroleum gases a segOur skilled seagoing personnel is recruited from ment of the shipping industry characterised by the Philippines, Spain and Cuba. Respect and toltechnically complex requirements from regulators erance for individuals and understanding national and clients. Lauritzen Kosan controls a fleet of 39 and cultural differences are some of the key issemi-refrigerated, fully-pressurized and ethylene sues which enable us to understand each other gas carriers. and work efficiently together. Fleet Management Biannual crew seminars are used to communicate Our in-house Fleet Management department fospecific topics and provide dialogue and discuscuses on high performance and safe operations sions. that devote top priority to the health and safety of our seafarers and to protection of the environA fair and reasonable relationship between hours ment as well as our clients’ cargo. of rest and hours of work on board the vessels is vital. Our seafarers serve on board our vessels for The ever-changing regulatory agenda is setting an many consecutive weeks and as we acknowledge increasingly demanding scene for ship managefatigue and exhaustion as the main causes leadment in terms of both complexity and costs. Howing to accidents, we have strict rules and policies ever, we see increased complexity as an opportuto ensure that our seafarers are well-rested and in nity. Working proactively with regulators and fit condition. increased demands are embedded in our business model. We continuously monitor new deIn 2014, alternative watch routines have been demands and we prepare and invest to meet future veloped and campaigns focusing on our ways of demands from regulators and clients always foutilising our planning tools have been launched. cusing on competitive ship management and Further, our policies ensure compensated rest pushing the boundaries of best practice. whenever a rest hour violation is identified e.g. in connection with operational urgencies or emerHealth & Safety gencies. We are committed to providing safe and healthy working conditions in an environment sometimes characterised by demanding circumstances. The aftermath of Safeguarding our people, the environment and our clients’ cargoes is the crux of our health and Typhoon Yolanda safety efforts and improving the safety culture for In November 2013, the Philippines were hit by the all employees is always on top of our agenda. devastating typhoon Yolanda, which killed thousands of people, injured many more and left hunAll crew members are introduced to Lauritzen Kodreds of thousands of people homeless. san at a Safety Culture Awareness course and on the basis of this our senior officers are enrolled in Due to our strong relations to the Philippines the Lauritzen Kosan Leadership and Management through our significant number of Filipino crews, course, empowering leaders on board our vessels we have obviously followed the situation closely. with our management culture and tools. Luckily, none of our seafarers or their families were reported missing. However, several experiLost Time Injury Frequency enced great damages to their houses. was 0.5 in 2014 To help our seafarers recover from the typhoon While the human element is one of many factors and rebuild their homes, a disaster relief fund was we work with, we also include IT and business inestablished between J. Lauritzen and the Laurittelligence as part of our efforts. In 2014, we conzen Foundation. From this, 55 Lauritzen Kosan tinued to work with identifying trends and patseafarers and their families have received donaterns to improve our performance. Combining our tions amounting to a total of approximately USD experienced seafarers, our company culture and 140,000. IT tools form the basis of our strategic work to create value and increase safety performance. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 15 Intensified focus from external parties such as To mitigate exposure to these risks, our anti-piraflag state administrations and port state authoricy counter-measures include close internal diaties throughout 2014 followed by the implementalogue, monitoring risk patterns, using external extion of the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 in perts’ risk assessments and the employment of 2013 have enabled us to benchmark our internal professional armed guards when transiting highefforts with our external performance. risk areas. In 2014, a total of 62 Port State Control inspecIn 2014, Lauritzen Kosan had 32 transits in hightions were conducted on board our vessels. On risk areas and there were no incidents relating to average, only one port state deficiency were these transits. raised during a port state inspection. Environment Security We are strongly committed to minimising the enA significant part of the liquefied and petrochemivironmental footprint of our global operations and cal gases carried on our vessels is transported our fleet utilisation and operational profiles are through some of the high-risk regions of the continuously scrutinised for optimised potential, world. The risk to our crews and clients’ cargo due cf. Table 2. to piracy or violent crime-related activity in certain parts of the world has our strictest attention. Our performance management department monitors, develops and implements energy-efficiency initiatives as part of our REJUICE programme, a systematic approach to assessing and achieving fuel-savings. Table 2: Emissions pr segment G/ton-miles Since 2012, our energy-efficiency related to transport work has improved by more than 15% Segment Emission 2014 2013 2012 across our owned fleet Total fleet CO2 90,58 99,64 106,28 Our initial focus has been to develop a solid data SOx 1,40 1,58 1,65 platform for ongoing monitoring and evaluation of NOx 2,32 2,55 2,72 performance. Enhanced data collection through Ethylene auto-logging and KPI tracking has been added to CO2 92,62 96,57 100,12 the traditional daily reports to form the basis for SOx 1,61 1,66 1,73 an automated reporting system that provides us NOx 2,38 2,48 2,57 with a reliable and current overview of the perforF/P mance of our fleet. CO2 108,33 112,87 134,90 SOx 1,49 1,69 1,86 In 2014, focus on optimising trim and ballasting, NOx 2,76 2,89 3,44 as well as limiting the hull and propeller fouling, S/R contributed with approximately 6% fuel savings. CO2 74,61 92,91 88,63 SOx 1,09 1,39 1,32 Looking into 2015, further improvements are exNOx 1,91 2,38 2,27 pected as we introduce enhanced weather routing and initiatives to increase crew awareness on energy-efficiency. The implementation of an enEmissions note hanced KPI structure will support and motivate Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual consumption, oil quality and energy-efficiency efforts onboard our owned vesengine emission factors and are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ sels. Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the financial control approach as defined in the GHGP, Seven external shipboard audits were conducted because we seek to create a direct link between our economic bottom-line and our emisin 2014, to ensure compliance with the environsions. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions and include owned vessels. mental standard ISO14001. FINANCIAL YEAR: AUDITORS 1 January – 31 December Ernst & Young P/S Osvald Helmuths Vej 4, DK-2000 Frederiksberg, Denmark Phone: +45 7323 3000 Fax: +45 7229 3377 HEAD OFFICE OWNER J. Lauritzen A/S Lauritzen Fonden 28, Sankt Annae Plads 28, Sankt Annae Plads PO Box 2147 DK1291 Copenhagen K DK-1291 Copenhagen K Phone: +45 3396 8425 Phone: +45 3396 8000 Fax: +45 3396 8434 Fax: +45 3396 8001 Email: lf@lauritzenfonden.com Website: www.j-lauritzen.com Website: www.lauritzenfonden.com CVR: 55 70 01 17 CHINA SPAIN J. Lauritzen Shanghai Co. Ltd. Gasnaval S.A. Unit 2306, Chong Hing Finance Center PAE Ibarrabarri No. 288 Nanjing Road West Edificio A-1 Huangpu District, Shanghai C/Iturriondo 18 China 200003 E-48940 Leioa, Vizcaya Phone: +86 21 6358 0066 Spain Fax: +86 21 6358 0077 Phone: +34 94 479 5600 Fax: +34 94 416 7316 PHILIPPINES Lauritzen Kosan Representative Office Manila SWITZERLAND 6th floor, Glass Tower J. Lauritzen S.A. No. 115 Don Carlos Palanca Jr. Street 6, Place de Eaux-vives Legaspi Village, Makati City 1229 1207 Geneva Phillippines Switzerland Phone: +63 2856 7929 Phone: +41 79 595 1424 Fax: +63 2813 1129 SINGAPORE USA J. Lauritzen Singapore Pte. Ltd. J. Lauritzen (USA) Inc. 1 Harbour Front Avenue 4 Landmark Square, Suite 150 #16-18 Keppel Bay Tower Stamford, CT 06901 Singapore 098632 USA Phone: +65 6275 8000 Phone: +1 203 961 8661 Fax: +65 6275 7208 Fax: +1 203 964 0350
