SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION Our new Chief Executive , Helge Lund, and our 03 Chief Executive’s letter Sustainability Committee Chairman, Sir David 04 Sustainability Committee Chairman’s letter Manning, discuss the highlights from the year. RESPONSIBLE OPERATOR We seek to develop society’s resources 06 Safety responsibly. We do this by looking after the 08 Security safety and security of our people and operations, 09 Ethical conduct maintaining a high ethical standard in our work and respecting human rights. 11 Human rights 13 People and skills OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE This document is a PDF version of the online BG Group 2014 Sustainability Report. The report We recognise our duty to minimise the 16 Climate change: collective action covers our performance on our impact of our operations on the environment, 18 Climate change: our operations most material sustainability including the climate. Here we discuss our issues from 2014. 20 Non-greenhouse gas emissions and waste response to climate change in our operations and working collectively with partners, how 21 Spills Our website is an integral part we manage non-greenhouse gas emissions, 22 Water of our sustainability reporting, waste and spills, and how we aim to minimise covering our management 24 Biodiversity and ecosystem services our impact on water and biodiversity. approaches and policies, a wide set of issues and case studies. POSITIVE SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT bg-group.com/sustainability MATERIALITY We are committed to contributing to 27 Social performance We develop our reporting around the social and economic development of the 29 Our economic contribution the issues we believe are the most countries where we work. This includes important to our stakeholders 30 Supply chain how we work with local communities and and have the greatest potential our supply chain. to significantly affect our business performance and society. DATA AND TARGETS Many of these issues emerge through our regular stakeholder engagement with investors, We report our key data and progress against our 33 Data governments, business partners, annual targets and previous years’ performance 40 Targets NGOs, academia and other in our key areas of safety and health, ethical stakeholders throughout the year. conduct, environment, climate change, people We also commission bi-annual and social performance. in-depth and independent research to review and confirm the key issues for the report. ABOUT OUR REPORTING SCOPE OF THIS REPORT The 2014 Sustainability Report Information about how we select and where 44 About our reporting covers data from 1 January we report our material issues as well as how 45 Index to 31 December 2014. we report against internationally recognised 46 Independent assurance statement Our Data Methodology reporting frameworks. This includes a statement appendix outlines the scope from our independent assurance providers. and methodologies of our data reporting. Data Methdology BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S LETTER 03 “I have been pleased to see the Company’s commitment to sustainability issues and that important progress was made in 2014. I am convinced that sustainability should be an integral part of our business.” HELGE LUND | CHIEF EXECUTIVE 1.38 I joined BG Group as Chief Executive on 9 February 2015, My ambition is that BG Group should work in a way and so this report covers the period before my arrival. which responds to the expectations that society has of I have been pleased to see the Company’s commitment companies operating in our sector. Our world will need to sustainability issues and that important progress hydrocarbons for many years to come. We must ensure was made in 2014. I come to this role convinced that we can continue to provide energy in the right way – a INCIDENTS PER MILLION WORK sustainability should be an integral part of our business. sustainable way. In practise this translates into the need HOURS TOTAL RECORDABLE CASE to continue to apply the highest ethical standards in FREQUENCY, IMPROVED SAFETY I start with safety and security as this is my highest everything we do and take account of the growing PERFORMANCE priority and at the heart of our work on sustainability. importance of the role of business in the human rights We work in a hazardous industry – we operate with field; respect, understand and address the interests and combustible liquids and gases, with heavy equipment concerns of the communities where we work; recognise using complex processes, and in physical locations the risks of climate change and play an active part in which can expose our employees to terrorism and crime. finding solutions to it; and respond constructively to the Our duty is to manage the risks from these hazards, calls for extractive companies to be open about their keep our employees safe from harm and, as responsible activities and held to account for their conduct. stewards of the environment, minimise the impact of our operations. This requires a culture which emphasises During 2015 and thereafter, I want to build on the individual accountability for safety, clear leadership, strong good work already underway in these areas. This is a systems and a high level of competence. particularly important year for the global climate change agenda and working with my colleagues in BG Group As this report shows, the Company made important I hope to contribute to the preparatory work for the progress on safety in 2014 – in particular we reduced our UN Conference of the Parties in Paris in December. It total recordable case frequency from 1.64 in 2013 to 1.38 will be important for companies to make clear in the incidents per million hours worked. I am also pleased to run-up to the meeting how industry can contribute to note our focus on ensuring the security of our employees the efficient functioning of carbon markets, both at working in high-risk security environments. the national and regional level, and to inform governments of the value of linking regional and On environmental performance, there was an increase national carbon markets together, as the first stage in in our greenhouse gas emissions during the year, resulting setting a global price on carbon. primarily from first production at our Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) project in Australia. Despite this, we remain firmly We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact and we committed to the target we set in 2012 for a 10% reduction remain committed to its Ten Principles. We detail in our emissions intensity by 2017. how we fulfil this commitment in this report and on our website. I encourage all our stakeholders to judge us by results. We will update you during the year on some of the issues covered by this report. I hope next year to be able to report continuing progress. HELGE LUND CHIEF EXECUTIVE BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE 04 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER “In 2014, the Sustainability Committee took a close interest in the Group’s efforts to further improve its safety record, considered a number of new country entries and monitored work on our licence to operate. It also discussed climate change, while continuing to monitor social performance and ethical conduct.” SIR DAVID MANNING | CHAIRMAN OF SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE In 2014, the Sustainability Committee took a close interest on the approach taken to build support from Indigenous in the Group’s efforts to further improve its safety record. First Nations groups for the proposed pipeline, and how It considered a number of possible new country entries this approach had been informed by the lessons learnt and monitored work on our licence to operate approach from the QCLNG project in Australia. across the Group. It also discussed climate change, including the Group’s contributions to collective industry It received a similar briefing on the work underway in action in that area, while continuing to monitor social Tanzania, which covered both the significant success we performance and ethical conduct. had had in taking forward social investment there and the outstanding questions about how we could build SAFETY broad-based support for the proposed LNG project in The Committee received updates on safety at each of the country as a whole. its meetings. In 2014, we monitored progress on total recordable case frequency, and noted both a continuing The Committee also discussed our licence to operate improvement in Australia and a good performance across in Australia, Honduras and Myanmar. In November, the Group as a whole. The Committee renewed its focus my fellow Committee member, Caio Koch-Weser and on asset integrity, and received detailed background from I visited Myanmar to make a first-hand assessment of management about the level of high potential incidents the progress the Group was making. While recognising and the safety ‘stand down’ exercise in June organised the challenges and the need to apply international in response. We also discussed issues such as the asset best practice scrupulously in areas such as consultation, integrity of our operations in the North Sea and well stakeholder engagement, social investment and ethical integrity across the Group. conduct, we came away encouraged by the prospects for the country and for the Group’s work there. CLIMATE CHANGE The Committee took a close interest in the Group’s progress The Committee looked at the Group’s overall approach towards its 2017 emission reduction targets, and the impact to political risk assessment and quantification. It agreed on those targets of the higher than expected emissions on the importance of continuing to give weight to in 2014, as a result of the ramp up of activity in Australia. reputational risks, particularly in respect of new country It was pleased to note the positive work undertaken to entry. It agreed that political risk should be reflected use infrared techniques to identify and reduce methane in the Group’s Business Risk Management Process. emissions, as part of broader efforts in that area. It heard about the Group’s contribution to collective industry SOCIAL PERFORMANCE AND HUMAN RIGHTS efforts on climate change through the Climate and Clean Work in areas such as consultation, benefits-sharing and land Air Coalition Oil & Gas Methane Partnership and the access continued to play a major part in the Group’s work on Oil & Gas Climate Initiative. new country entry and licence to operate. The Committee heard about the important work underway on human rights NEW COUNTRY ENTRY in Myanmar and the link between security and human The Committee continued to receive regular updates on rights in countries such as Honduras and Tanzania. countries where the Group was considering entry, or for which the Board had recently approved new country entry. LOOKING AHEAD The Committee made positive recommendations in respect The Committee greatly welcomes the new Chief Executive’s of two new countries. emphasis on sustainability and looks forward to working closely with him on these issues. LICENCE TO OPERATE AND POLITICAL RISK The Committee received an in-depth briefing on our SIR DAVID MANNING work on licence to operate in British Columbia, focusing CHAIRMAN OF SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING RESPONSIBLE OPERATOR We seek to develop society’s resources responsibly. As an oil and gas company, we work in high-risk and sometimes challenging environments which puts a premium on safety, integrity, fairness and transparency. We aim to treat all those who work for us with respect and to develop the skills of our people. We believe this approach helps us manage and mitigate risks to our business. Read more about: > Safety > Security > Ethical conduct > Human rights > People and skills INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING SAFETY 06 WHY IT MATTERS Working in high-risk situations, safety is our first priority. Failure to operate safely can result in fatalities, injuries, environmental damage and disruption to communities. OUR PRIORITIES Clear leadership to maintain a strong safety Ensure seamless work practices culture and embed the right behaviours between employees and contractors in all workplaces. – our “One Team” approach. Plan, assess and monitor work to identify safety Provide ongoing training and ensure risks and eliminate or mitigate them through competency levels match the requirements our safe systems of work. of safety-critical tasks. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE 1.38 SAFETY LEADERSHIP AND CULTURE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY We recognise that leadership and culture are fundamental We are committed to protecting the safety, to good safety performance. The Group’s commitment to health and well-being of people working for us. safety culture comes from the top. During 2014, the senior INCIDENTS PER MILLION WORK leadership team continued to build on progress to date Total recordable case frequency (TRCF) is the HOURS TOTAL RECORDABLE CASE and took a number of opportunities to reaffirm their industry standard key indicator we use to measure FREQUENCY, BEATING OUR TARGET full commitment to safety. our occupational safety performance. It looks at the total number of injuries within a given number In particular, in June, there was a major Group-wide safety of exposure hours and helps us to understand how “stand down” to encourage good safety practices amongst we are managing our operations when work our people. Teams across the organisation took time to activity fluctuates in intensity. watch video messages from senior leaders and colleagues who had been involved in incidents as well as to reflect In 2014, the Group’s TRCF further improved to 1.38 on how further safety improvements could be made. compared with a target of 1.40 per million hours for the year and a 2013 performance of 1.64. TOTAL RECORDABLE CASE FREQUENCY (incidents per million work hours) This progress reflected good safety performance in 2.5 a number of operations but particularly in Australia 2.26 during the challenging start-up of our QCLNG project 2.0 1.92 and its on-going commissioning. Active and visible 1.64 leadership across our teams was a key enabler, as we continued to simplify our processes at the worksite 1.5 1.38 to identify and manage safety risk. 1.0 0.94 We pay particular attention to high potential incidents (HPIs), which are safety incidents where a fatality 0.5 could have occurred, to ensure that the causes are 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 fully understood and that lessons are learned and shared across the Group. In 2014, 77 HPIs were reported from our operations. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING SAFETY CONTINUED 07 Working with contractors Major accident hazard management and training Contractors make up a significant percentage of our A major accident is an event connected with the operation workforce (completing 75.8 million hours of work out of our facilities, such as a fire, explosion or release of a of a total of 97.4 million in 2014) and often carry out substance, which has the potential to cause multiple the highest-risk activities. fatalities, serious injuries or damage to the environment. Throughout the year we continued to test, inspect and Our Contracts and Procurement Standard sets minimum monitor our safeguards regularly, and to ensure our people requirements for contractor selection and management. are trained to deal with the occurrence of an incident. It sets specific requirements for contracts assessed as In 2014, 350 contractors and employees completed having high health, safety, security and environment our Major Accident Hazard Awareness training. The (HSSE), human rights or ethical conduct risks. We track training uses live reconstructions, professionally acted how well individual contracts are managed and, in 2014, case studies, and workshops to raise awareness of the we met our target of actively managing 95% of high-risk risks and the ways we control them. contracts against these requirements. This improves on a performance of 91% in 2013. During the year, we rolled out a training programme aimed at improving contractor performance including safety performance on contracts with high HSSE risk. The programme, which was developed with a leading business school, was delivered at five operations during the year. We plan to roll out the programme further in 2015. PROCESS SAFETY Process safety, or asset integrity, is the ability of our physical assets to perform their required function 350 PEOPLE COMPLETED THE COURSE IN 2014 effectively whilst safeguarding life and the environment. We have been delivering our Major Accident We track the number of process safety events that occur Hazard Awareness training since 2010. across our operations. COMPETENCY 3 800 Loss of primary containment (LoPC) is an industry We regularly assess the competency of people performing standard key indicator that we use to measure process safety-critical tasks through our Competence Assurance safety performance. It is an unintentional release of Management System (CAMS). By the end of 2014, 82 223 gas or liquid, for example through leakage or corrosion, individual assessments, involving 3 800 people across 11 and is an important measure of the safety and integrity PEOPLE WHO PERFORM SAFETYof our operations, had been completed. In 2013, BG Group of our physical assets, from well sites to plants. LoPC CRITICAL TASKS ASSESSED was the first company to have an accreditation from incidents are classified by severity, with Tier 1 being OPITO (the industry body for global oil and gas standards, the most severe. skills and workforce development) for our CAMS, for both onshore and offshore operations. In 2014, there were two Tier 1 incidents (2013: 0) and five Tier 2 incidents (2013: 18). One Tier 1 incident was OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH associated with a gas leak from a sub-sea flowline and We recognise the impact that occupational health the other from internal erosion of a well-site flowline. has on the safety and well-being of our workforce Both of these incidents were fully investigated by and we continue to review health risks in our business. subject matter experts and lessons learned were These risks include travel to countries with particular shared across the Group. health risks, exposure to chemicals and the risk of disease from foodborne organisms. Occupational illness frequency (OIF) is a key performance indicator for the business. We monitor the reporting of health incidents (health conditions, illness or disease caused by the working environment) which enables us to identify any potential new risks and any gaps or breakdown in our health risk management system. In 2014, our OIF per million work hours was 0.13 against our target of 0.50 for the year. In 2015, work will continue to promote the open reporting of health concerns. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING SECURITY 08 Security WHY IT MATTERS We are committed to providing a secure working environment for our people, and protecting our operations and information. We work to understand and mitigate threats and ensure that we have effective plans in place to respond to any crisis. OUR PRIORITIES Provide protective security, including physical Prepare for and manage crisis incidents, ensuring security of our sites, anti-piracy measures for we respond quickly and effectively to any event offshore operations and ships, and advice and that has the potential to harm our people, support for business travellers. business or reputation. Ensure that our security is delivered lawfully, Investigate fraud allegations. ethically and in accordance with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE EGYPT VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY In 2014, we continued to monitor the security situation AND HUMAN RIGHTS in Egypt. We faced a major security challenge as public An important dimension of our overall approach to protest, disorder and widespread acts of violence affected security is our commitment to the Voluntary Principles on Cairo and the wider country. We maintained an enhanced Security and Human Rights (VPSHR). In 2014, we revised level of security for all employees and our operations. our VPSHR guideline to include new tools for external We reviewed and updated our mitigation plans to collaboration, risk assessment and reporting. We rolled address the evolving situation. out the new guideline to our operations where it has been well received and measures implemented. During the year, there were a significant number of armed carjackings in Cairo. An employee from our operations in  ead more about our work promoting the VPSHR R Egypt was the victim of one such incident. The individual in 2014 followed the correct security procedures (our “Life Savers”) 4 and no one was harmed. As part of our normal response to CRISIS MANAGEMENT any high potential incident, we conducted an investigation In 2014, we completed a comprehensive programme to understand the circumstances fully, ensure our procedures of training and live simulations across our operations are effective, and, where appropriate, share lessons learned to ensure readiness for any crisis situation. We focused KEY LOCATIONS TRAINED across the Group. in particular on maritime-related incidents for the crisis CRISIS MANAGEMENT teams at Group level and in Australia, Brazil and our We continue to work closely with the UK Government, global shipping operations. Egyptian Government, and other international companies to ensure that our security measures are robust, flexible and appropriate. LIFE SAVERS Our Life Savers are nine mandatory rules regarding safety and security that we follow when carrying out recognised high-risk activities. The Life Savers are depicted in pictograms and are displayed at worksites. They convey the basic Life Saver message visually, so that it can be understood by anyone on site, whatever their native language. Our Armed and Violent Crime Life Saver sets out the rules to be followed when travelling or away from home and in the event of a robbery. Learn more about our Life Savers BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING ETHICAL CONDUCT 09 Ethical conduct WHY IT MATTERS A high ethical standard in all our operations is integral to how we conduct our business. This approach helps us manage ethical conduct risk and protect our licence to operate and our reputation. OUR PRIORITIES Train and equip our people so that they understand Conduct independent assurance of our anti-bribery our values, follow our ethical conduct standards and corruption compliance processes. and can identify ethical conduct risks. Reinforce awareness of “Speak Up” and promote Analyse, assess and manage fraud and corruption an environment where our people feel able to raise risk across the business, including carrying out due concerns about breaches of our Business Principles, diligence on the organisations with whom we are Policies or Standards. considering working. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE DO THE RIGHT THING CAMPAIGN ETHICAL CONDUCT CULTURE AND TRAINING 850+ Increasing the capability of our people to manage potential ethical conduct risks and detect and prevent fraud in their work environment remains of high importance. PEOPLE IN KEY ROLES COMPLETED In 2014: OUR NEW FRAUD RISK MANAGEMENT TRAINING •• We ran a global awareness campaign – “Do the Right Thing” – aimed at encouraging good ethical conduct and “speaking up” In 2014, we ran a “Do the Right Thing” global campaign reminding our people to disclose •• We introduced knowledge-sharing conference calls conflicts of interest, to carry out anti-bribery and for our fraud managers corruption training, to report any suspicious or •• Over 670 individuals completed our fraud and bribery fraudulent activity and to use our “Speak Up” e-learning and in November we launched our new whistleblowing facility. fraud risk management e-learning for those in roles that are key for the detection and prevention of ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY fraud. Over 850 individuals completed this training. We have a zero tolerance policy towards corruption. Its roll-out will continue in 2015, alongside workshops Corruption and bribery represent significant risks for the to identify fraud risks in our operations oil and gas industry and in 2014, we continued to assess •• We trained more than 110 contract managers to and manage our exposure to these risks as well as increase their awareness of ethical conduct risk monitor compliance with our ethical conduct standards. and their ability to manage it in the contracts for which they are responsible During the year, we appointed a dedicated Fraud Prevention and Detection Officer to oversee the Group’s •• We released a video from our General Counsel fraud risk management framework. This step was one encouraging our people to raise any concerns about of a number of improvements made in response to actual or suspected breaches of our Business findings from an independent review of our fraud Principles, Policies or Standards. management processes undertaken in 2012. We continued to manage corruption risks in our new venture activities as part of our due diligence process when entering new countries. In 2014, this included Aruba, Colombia and Myanmar. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING ETHICAL CONDUCT CONTINUED 10 Ethical conduct 6 We monitor corruption allegations against those AUDITING AND ASSURANCE with whom we work. For example, we are closely We continued to test the robustness of our anti-bribery monitoring the situation in Brazil where one of and corruption processes using both internal assurance our partners, Petrobras, is subject to investigations and independent external assessors. This forms part regarding allegations related to several large of our integrated assurance process, which is designed OPERATIONS INDEPENDENTLY (mainly construction) contractors forming a cartel to ensure we have a joined-up approach to assuring the ASSESSED TO TEST OUR ANTI-BRIBERY and paying bribes in order to secure contracts. quality of the Group’s risk management environment. AND CORRUPTION PROGRAMME We investigate all genuine “Speak Up” reports We carried out six independent assessments to monitor and allegations of corrupt activities. Four Speak Up the robustness of our anti-bribery and corruption cases closed in 2014 resulted in the dismissal or programme and so exceeded our target to visit four disciplining of employees for breaches of our ethical operations. In 2014, all our operations conducted conduct standards. quarterly reviews of their ethical conduct risks and action plans. In 2014, no fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations were imposed on the Group.1 “SPEAK UP” (WHISTLEBLOWING) REPORTED CASES During 2014, 106 Speak Up cases were reported, compared with 106 in 2013 and 120 in 2012. Of the 106 cases reported in 2014, some are still under investigation. Of the cases that were investigated and closed in 2014, 13 cases resulted in actions recommended against individuals, employees or contractors, ranging from training or disciplinary action, to contract termination or other appropriate action. A further 11 cases resulted in follow-up 35% General workplace concernsa actions, such as changes to procedures 21% Malpractice allegationsb and organisational controls. 14% Health, safety, security and environment concerns 30% Fraud allegationsc a) Including allegations of harassment, discrimination and unfair treatment. b) Including allegations of breaches of BG Group’s Ethical Conduct Policy and Standards. c) Including allegations of theft, corruption or misuse of funds. 1 We only report on significant fines or non-monetary sanctions where these have been made through a formal external legal or regulatory process. Finally determined significant fines and/or non-monetary sanctions of more than $2 million are reported, subject to legal restrictions and commercial confidentiality. We have excluded fines and penalties imposed by tax regulatory authorities that are subject to ongoing external or legal and regulatory process (for example, where we are in appeals processes with the relevant authority). BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS 11 WHY IT MATTERS Our business has a responsibility to respect human rights, in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our commitment to respect human rights is integrated across our business. OUR PRIORITIES Strengthen our implementation of the Voluntary Assess and manage human rights risks. Principles on Security and Human Rights. Contribute to developing industry knowledge S  ee our dedicated in the business and human rights field, including Human Rights Policy by participating in global forums. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE 2014 VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights impact assessment and management We are a long-standing member of the Voluntary is integrated across our business processes and policies. Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) However, when we enter new countries with particular UPDATED OUR VOLUNTARY initiative which provides a framework for companies human rights challenges, we may also engage external PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY AND to ensure security for their operations, while respecting experts to inform our approach to human rights HUMAN RIGHTS GUIDELINES human rights. impact assessment and management. 7 In 2014, we contributed to the international debate and In 2014, we progressed work in this area in two of our further strengthened our commitment to the VPSHR emerging operations: in our operations in the following ways: •• Honduras: We conducted a conflict and human •• Participated in the annual plenary meeting of the rights assessment to better understand the political OPERATIONS COMPLETED VPSHR and presented the results of an external audit and security context in our area of operation VPSHR ASSESSMENTS on our implementation of the principles in our business •• Myanmar: We began work on integrating human •• Implemented recommendations of this external audit rights considerations into the planning for our offshore to strengthen our processes and tools for managing seismic operations, building on the desktop human security and human rights risks, for example through rights impact assessment we conducted in 2013. improving the monitoring of our VPSHR implementation •• Issued an updated guideline for implementing the VPSHR which is aligned to industry best practice •• Conducted VPSHR assessments for our activities in Egypt, India, Kenya, Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, and our global shipping operations, in order to identify potential security and human rights risks and develop risk mitigation plans. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS CONTINUED 12 DEVELOPING INDUSTRY KNOWLEDGE KAZAKHSTAN In 2014, we sought to contribute to the evolution of We are joint operator of Karachaganak Petroleum good practice in the business and human rights field. Operating BV (KPO), a consortium that operates an onshore oil and gas condensate field in Kazakhstan. •• We presented our work on grievance mechanisms at the third annual UN Forum on Business and In July 2013, a complaint against KPO was filed under the Human Rights OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, claiming •• We continued to co-chair IPIECA’s1 grievance mechanism that KPO had caused damage to the environment and working group, to help develop a series of tools and public health. The complaint is being handled by the UK guidance for the industry on grievance mechanisms National Contact Point for the OECD Guidelines, see our 2013 Sustainability Report for more information. •• We contributed to the development of a sector-wide The UK National Contact Point dismissed many of the impact assessment for the oil and gas industry in claims in the complaint, apart from those related to two Myanmar, produced by the Institute for Human Rights properties located at the boundary of the protective zone and Business and the Myanmar Centre for Responsible around KPO’s facilities. In 2014, KPO participated in a Business by sharing our desktop Myanmar human rights mediation process, convened by the UK National Contact impact assessment with them, and providing feedback Point. The mediation process is ongoing. on their draft methodology and report. The report provides an aggregated assessment of the impact of the In late 2014, a number of school children and teachers oil and gas industry in Myanmar and is a resource for in the village of Berezovka, located approximately five governments, businesses, civil society and development kilometres from the Karachaganak field, fainted and were partners to support responsible business practice. hospitalised. Some NGOs and media alleged that pollution from KPO was the cause. The issue received coverage in the national and regional media. KPO engaged extensively with the investigators of the incident and the community of the Berezovka village, including providing ongoing transport to medical treatment centres for patients. In January 2015, the preliminary government investigation found that there was no evidence that the emissions from KPO’s operations were the cause of the illnesses. However, further investigations are still underway. KPO continues to offer its support to the Berezovka community and to the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the issue. MYANMAR Following the incident, a new environmental monitoring We are integrating human rights considerations into the planning station has been installed in Berezovka. KPO remains for our offshore seismic operations. committed to achieving the highest standards of environment and safety performance and compliance with applicable regulations. 1 IPIECA is the global oil and gas industry association for social and environmental issues. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING PEOPLE AND SKILLS 13 People and skills WHY IT MATTERS Our business benefits from a diverse culture, in which individuals contribute different perspectives and ways of working. Our success depends on the talent, skills, organisation and motivation of our workforce. OUR PRIORITIES Develop and empower our people to reach Attract talented candidates to join our business. their full potential. Develop an inclusive leadership approach. 4 927 ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE OUR WORKFORCE At the beginning of 2014, we launched a cost and efficiency We encourage our employees to be globally mobile review across the business, which included a voluntary but we also engage many people on local terms as TOTAL EMPLOYEES redundancy programme and other redundancy exercises employees and contractors. The local employment in many of our locations worldwide. This efficiency review opportunities we create represent a key part of our 1 198 led to a reduction in our overall workforce. economic contribution to the communities and countries where we work. In common with most oil At year end, we had 4 927 employees and 1 198 core1 and gas businesses, contractors make up a significant contractors from around 70 nationalities working for us. percentage of our workforce. Through our “One Team” TOTAL CORE CONTRACTORS We work in over 20 countries on five continents in approach we work to ensure collaborative work different cultural, legal and regulatory environments. practices between employees and contractors. 64 50 1269 375 NORWAY 7 3 UK CANADA 2 0 139 4 AREAS OF 363 53 PALESTINIAN KAZAKHSTAN AUTHORITY US 7 1 387 20 0 1 464 61 CHINA TUNISIA MEXICO TRINIDAD 1 0 1 0 & TOBAGO 141 36 MYANMAR HONDURAS EGYPT 286 39 INDIA 3 2 21 1 83 13 68 2 213 0 THAILAND BOLIVIA KENYA SINGAPORE BRAZIL 72 0 69 20 GLOBAL TANZANIA 1267 517 CONTRACT AUSTRALIA Total number of employees per location Total number of core contractors per location 1 ‘Core’ are category 1 and 2 contractors. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING PEOPLE AND SKILLS CONTINUED 14 People and skills DIVERSITY 49% We also continued to attract high quality graduates. Our business benefits from a diverse culture in which During the year, as part of a global recruitment campaign, individuals contribute different perspectives and ways of we strengthened relationships with key universities working. To achieve this, we aim to build a workforce that by offering students the opportunity to complete their OF GRADUATES FROM OUTSIDE UK is diverse in ethnicity, gender, background and approach. summer projects with us and by offering internship We aspire to increase the proportion of women in opportunities. In 2014, we recruited 57 graduates on leadership positions to 20% by 2020. As at 31 December to our graduate programme. 2014, 27% of our total employees, 8% of our senior 73% leadership2 and 25% of our Board was female. TRAINING We design training and development programmes GENDER DIVERSITY ACROSS BG GROUP for our employees and contractors. In 2014: Board •• 1 409 people participated in classroom courses OF PAST 10 YEARS’ INTAKE OF •• 2 510 people completed our Life Savers modules GRADUATES STILL WORKING WITH US in key aspects of safety 0 20 40 60 80 100 •• 250 people completed our e-learning training 25% Female on major accident hazards awareness 75% Male •• 495 people completed the Business Principles e-learning course and a further 283 completed Senior leadership the refresher course •• 509 people completed our Information Security e-learning course 0 20 40 60 80 100 •• 272 people completed our online induction programme. 8% Female 92% Male Throughout 2014, we offered 1 313 different classroom and e-learning courses to our people. Development Organisation as a whole extends beyond the classroom with “on the job” learning, coaching and mentoring. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT As the Group grows and diversifies, employee engagement 0 20 40 60 80 100 is a key factor in our success. Listening to our employees 27% Female through continuous knowledge sharing, to identify issues 73% Male or concerns early and collaborate globally, enables us to gauge employee satisfaction. Our employee survey also gives a good indication of employee engagement. We remain committed to building and retaining a During the year, we incorporated feedback from the diverse pipeline of talent for the future. During the year, we 2013 employee survey into our business plans. conducted an extensive consultation across the business, carried out detailed learning needs analysis and engaged REMUNERATION a world-class university in order to develop an inclusive The Remuneration Report, in our Annual Report and leadership programme. We also simplified competency Accounts, sets out how we ensure our remuneration policy frameworks to be more globally accessible, gender neutral is aligned with shareholders’ interests. Our remuneration and support mid-career re-entry to the workforce. policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate our employees and was approved by the BG Group PEOPLE FOR THE FUTURE shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. We plan for future requirements in our business by developing our own people and through recruitment. R  ead our Remuneration Report 2014 for We are committed to creating a sustainable pool of more information talent for the future of our business. During the year, we continued to implement our talent management strategy. We conducted development workshops for leaders across our business to build their capability. Through active succession planning we assessed the talent in our workforce and identified a number of personal growth opportunities. This enables us to look at the talent across our business and strategically manage our resource pool as well as build it for the future. 2 Senior Leadership is defined as BG Group A grades and above. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE As an oil and gas company, we recognise our duty to minimise the impact of our operations on the environment, including the climate. We aim to be part of the solution in meeting the energy demand of a growing global population, while addressing the critical challenge of climate change for society and our business. Read more about: > Climate change: collective action > Climate change: our operations >N on-greenhouse gas emissions and waste > Spills > Water > Biodiversity and ecosystem services INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING CLIMATE CHANGE: COLLECTIVE ACTION 16 Climate change WHY IT MATTERS We consider climate change to be a key issue for both our company and our industry. We recognise our responsibility as an energy producer and work with industry peers, academia, governments, investors and other stakeholders to be part of the solution. OUR PRIORITIES Recognise and respond to risks from climate change Improve our emissions performance through setting to our business, including the use of an internal emissions intensity targets and energy efficiency carbon price in our investment analysis and decisions. initiatives with a focus on methane emissions. Contribute to technology innovation, research and Work with governments directly and indirectly industry partnerships to ensure natural gas fulfils through industry associations to develop public policy its potential as a vital part of a carbon-constrained that balances flexibility and environmental integrity. energy mix. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE INVESTING IN TECHNOLOGY In 2014, we continued to participate in collaborative We believe that innovation is critical to deliver a costinitiatives to improve industry measurement, management efficient and less carbon intensive industry. Our research and mitigation of methane emissions including: and development focuses on improving emissions •• A study on methane emissions run by the University performance across all aspects of our business. of Texas in collaboration with the Environmental We recognise that we cannot work in isolation and are Defense Fund: This study provided new data on collaborating with leading institutions, governments emissions from hydraulically-fractured shale gas and organisations to help find long-term solutions wells in the USA. It is one of the first to use actual through projects such as the Sustainable Gas Institute. measurements from wells rather than generic estimates which have previously been used to METHANE PARTNERSHIPS AND INITIATIVES calculate methane emissions. Several of our wells The oil and gas industry releases methane into the were studied as part of this research. In December, atmosphere in a number of ways, for example, through a second phase of the research was published S  ee our climate change: fugitive losses which include unintentional small leaks providing new data on the relationship between our operations or other irregular emissions of gases from equipment. well characteristics and emissions greenhouse gas For us, methane emissions are a small percentage of our emissions pages total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (approximately •• The Australian Department of the Environment for information on 6%). However, given methane’s significant contribution collaborative project with the Commonwealth our emissions data, to near-term climate change, it is a priority for us. Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO): targets and energy We recognise that methane losses can be minimised This research project measured fugitive emissions efficiency projects and are committed to driving industry action in this area associated with leakage from coal seam gas facilities and because effective management of methane emissions wells. The results are the first measurements of fugitive can contribute to significant, cost-effective GHG savings. methane emissions from the production of coal seam gas The priority for the industry on methane is on improving in Australia. Our operations in Queensland contributed data and reducing emissions. eight wells to this measurement programme THE SUSTAINABLE GAS INSTITUTE The Sustainable Gas Institute (SGI) is a collaborative centre for research, technology and education in gas sustainability founded by BG Group and Imperial College London in May 2014. The institute draws on world-class expertise to answer key research questions on energy efficiency, gas innovation, and carbon capture, storage and use. Read more about our work with the SGI BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING CLIMATE CHANGE: COLLECTIVE ACTION 17 Climate change CONTINUED •• The Environmental Defense Fund’s Methane Detectors Challenge: This project is a collaboration CASE STUDY: between six oil and gas companies designed to encourage the adoption of new, cost-effective INSUSTRY PARTNERSHIPS technologies that could provide continuous detection of methane emissions which would allow companies to find and fix leaks more quickly. We reviewed a number of technologies and will explore participating in pilot adoption projects CCAC OIL AND GAS METHANE PARTNERSHIP •• The Climate and Clean Air Coalition (CCAC) Oil and The Climate and Clean Air Coalition (CCAC) Oil and Gas Methane Partnership: We are a founding member Gas Methane Partnership aims to help companies of this partnership which aims to help participating better understand and manage their methane oil and gas companies improve understanding and emissions. The partnership was launched at the management of their methane emissions as well as UN Secretary General’s Climate Summit on communications with stakeholders (see case study). 23 September 2014. We are a founding partner along with PEMEX, PTT, Southwestern Energy,  ee our work on our operations on methane S ENI and Statoil. Other partners include the assessments and emissions data for 2014 Environmental Defense Fund, the World Bank, the UN Environment Programme and agencies representing around a dozen national INDUSTRY PARTNERSHIPS governments. Companies commit to: In 2014, we helped develop two oil and gas industry partnerships, the CCAC Oil and Gas Methane Partnership, •• Conduct emissions surveys to identify sources and the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (see case study). of methane emissions from their operations •• Evaluate cost-effective options to address the CLIMATE ADAPTATION AND RESILIENCE sources of emissions We aim to minimise long-term physical risks of disruption to our operations from changes in weather and climate •• Share best practices to improve the performance as required by our Environment and Climate Change of the industry in reducing emissions Standard. During 2014, we worked to develop our risk •• Transparently report progress on reducing management approach to addressing systemic risks methane emissions. to the Group. This will inform our climate adaptation processes and help ensure business and environmental risks align. Companies have the ability to leverage best practices across the industry to reduce methane ENGAGEMENT ON CLIMATE RISKS emissions, improve their performance and develop We actively engaged with our key stakeholders, including a platform to better inform policy and regulation investors, on major climate risks to be better positioned in this area. to respond to, and address, their concerns. Topics of discussion included: OIL AND GAS CLIMATE INITIATIVE The Oil and Gas Climate Initiative is an industry-led •• The potential risk of ‘stranded assets’ in our portfolio due initiative that encourages oil and gas companies to to commodity price fluctuations or the implementation work in a collaborative manner to deliver a tangible, of climate change legislation placing limits on emissions credible, transparent and integrated contribution to climate change solutions. We are a founding partner •• Our approach to managing methane emissions from of the initiative alongside Saudi Aramco, ENI, PEMEX, both conventional and unconventional resources TOTAL, Sinopec and the World Economic Forum. •• Our voluntary targets and the disclosure The objectives are to: of our emissions performance •• Build, strengthen and recognise the positive •• Our position on key climate change policies and our contribution of participating companies in the support for carbon pricing policies as well as efforts context of climate change undertaken to influence their development •• Catalyse meaningful action and improved •• The resilience of our operations to the projected coordination among participating companies impacts of climate change on climate change solutions •• The exposure of our portfolio to fossil fuel subsidies. •• Encourage others in the oil and gas industry to engage in collaborative actions on climate change. We believe it is important to understand our stakeholders’ needs; receiving feedback from them on our approach helps The central premise of the Initiative is that companies’ us to ensure our business remains aligned with external engagement and action on climate change is more expectations and best practice. powerful when implemented as a collaborative effort. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING CLIMATE CHANGE: OUR OPERATIONS 18 Greenhouse gas emissions WHY IT MATTERS We have made a public commitment to reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity of our portfolio and report transparently on our progress. In 2014, our GHG emissions rose. Nevertheless, we remain committed to meeting our emissions intensity target. OUR PRIORITIES Achieve our five-year emissions intensity reduction Proactively manage our methane emissions. target across our operations by 2017. +8% ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS Scope 1 emissions are defined as direct GHG emissions GREENHOUSE GAS TARGET from sources we own or control. Our Scope 1 emissions We have set the following targets for 2017, based on derive from fuel use, flaring, venting and fugitive losses INCREASE IN GHG EMISSIONS our 2012 emissions intensity levels: (unintentional small leaks or other irregular emissions INTENSITY of gases from equipment). In 2014, operations directly •• An 8% reduction in GHGs per barrel of oil equivalent under our control emitted 7.6 million tonnes of GHGs, produced for exploration and production activities an increase of around 600 000 tonnes, or 9%, on 2013. •• A 15% reduction in GHGs per barrel of oil equivalent Our equity share emissions were 8.3 million tonnes of from our LNG business. GHG, remaining constant with 2013 levels. The increase in our GHG emissions is due to our activities in Australia. At Group level this equates to a 10% overall reduction of our GHG emissions intensity per barrel. Our target is set In 2014, we delivered emission and energy reduction on an equity share basis to include all operations in which projects in our exploration and production operated we have a financial interest, except shipping. Progress will assets which accounted for approximately 5% GHG not be linear and the targets are sensitive to changes in emission reduction compared to the ‘do nothing’ case. our production profile and business portfolio. Examples included projects which delivered a reduction in fuel use at our North Sea and Tunisian facilities. In 2014, the Group’s GHG emissions intensity rose 8% against the 2012 baseline. This was a result of our activities SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS in Australia, as well as the impact of lower throughput Scope 2 emissions are defined as indirect emissions from from some operations and increased energy required the consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam1. to extract oil and gas in maturing fields. Electricity use in offices and field operations is our only significant source of Scope 2 emissions. In 2014, businesses The results from Australia were due to increased activity under our control purchased electricity that emitted at our QCLNG project. We expected the commissioning 260 000 tonnes of GHGs when originally generated at phase to be more emissions intensive as a result of higher source. This compared with emissions of 15 000 tonnes than normal gas flaring and commissioning of the LNG in 2013. This increase is due to the use of electrically plant, both of which will continue in the early part of 2015. powered infrastructure operating in our gas fields in Once the LNG plant is fully operational by mid-2016, Australia. Electricity use is expected to increase until the efficiency gains from the facility design should deliver project is fully operational and then remain constant. improved emissions intensity performance. Important lessons were learnt during the start-up phase, which will COMBINED SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS help us to minimise emissions in the future. Despite these Combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions are the total GHG challenges, we remain committed to achieving our GHG emissions resulting from our direct business activities and emissions intensity target by 2017. are the areas we have the most influence over. Overall, our total operated Scope 1 and 2 emissions rose approximately Each of our operated assets has its own emissions 13% and our equity share Scope 1 and 2 emissions rose 2% intensity target and energy management plan, which to 8.5 million tonnes GHG. identifies the energy and emission reduction initiatives to be implemented in order to deliver these targets. 1 We calculate indirect GHG emissions from electricity consumption by applying country-specific emission factors (reflecting the average GHG emissions per unit of electricity produced on a country-by-country basis), to electricity purchased. See Data Methodology. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING CLIMATE CHANGE: OUR OPERATIONS CONTINUED 19 Greenhouse gas emissions SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS Paired with seeking to improve our own methane emissions Scope 3 emissions are defined as indirect emissions performance, we are working on a range of initiatives in associated with activities outside our direct control. partnership with governments, industry peers and academic We sell our gas or oil into the wholesale market, or to institutions to drive the uptake of best practice across the large energy generators or suppliers. The consumption industry and contribute to research into methane emissions of our products by these users is by far the largest source measurement and management. of Scope 3 emissions associated with our business. We estimate that the emissions from the use of the See our methane emissions initiatives fuel we supplied were 105 million tonnes in 2014, compared with 88 million tonnes in 2013. FLARING AND VENTING METHANE EMISSIONS We are implementing a methane emission assessment and management programme across our portfolio, in order to proactively manage our methane emissions In line with our Environment and Climate Change Standard, our facilities are designed and operated to have no continuous flaring or venting of gas, except when required for safety reasons. Our facilities are also 5 FACILITIES COMPLETED METHANE designed and operated to promote plant stability and EMISSIONS ASSESSMENTS and improve our performance. In 2014, we completed avoid depressurisation events that could lead to flaring. infrared camera surveys to detect fugitive methane We require flare mitigation plans to be developed for emissions on five facilities: Australia, Trinidad and Tobago, well testing, commissioning and early life, start-ups, our LNG facility in the UK and two platforms in the North shutdowns and similar activities. Sea. Unintentional leaks identified during the surveys were immediately rectified and documented at the Flared gas volumes in 2014 were 497 000 tonnes. This was facilities for further monitoring. an increase of 353 000 tonnes from 2013 and was 22% of our 2014 operated Scope 1 GHG emissions. As explained, Our total methane emissions increased 69% in 2014, to in the ramp up to production for our project in Australia, 23 000 tonnes. This rise is primarily due to the increased we experienced higher than normal gas flaring. We expect activity in Australia described earlier. Our 2014 reported these flaring levels to be significantly lower in 2015 for methane emissions represented 6% of our operated the reasons explained earlier. Scope 1 GHG emissions. The most recent available International Association of Oil and Gas Producers The amount of GHGs emitted through venting in 2014 was benchmark, released in 2014 but based on 2013 data, 7% lower than 2013, and represented 6% of our operated ranks us in the first quartile of oil and gas companies for Scope 1 GHG emissions from the year. This is primarily lowest total methane emissions per unit of production. venting of CO2 included in the reservoir gas. OPERATED SCOPE 1 EMISSONS GHG EMISSIONS: BY BUSINESS GHG EMISSIONS: BY SOURCE (Millions tonnes CO2e) (Millions tonnes CO2e) 10 10 8 8 6 6 4 4 2 2 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 0 Upstream Venting Fuel use Global Shipping & Marketing Fugitive Electricity generation Other Flaring Distribution losses GHG EMISSIONS: BY OPERATION (Millions tonnes CO2e) 9 Increase 8.5 Decrease Total 8 7.5 7 6.5 6 13 20 lia sia al 20 India ra stan ni he r illi ng ypt ob g Gl pin 20 14 13 st Tu Ot Dr Eg re Au kh ship d za ba se Ka BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING NON-GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND WASTE 20 Non-greenhouse gas emissions WHY and wasteIT MATTERS We aim to measure, manage and monitor emissions to air and waste from our operations in order to minimise our impact on people and the environment. OUR PRIORITIES Introduce mitigation plans and measures to Minimise the use of raw materials and manage improve the performance of existing operations waste at all our operations. and contribute to the design of new operations. Meet or surpass air quality standards established by local and regional governments. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE +6% NITROGEN OXIDE EMISSIONS We are currently working through various process During 2014, nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions totalled improvement options for reducing SO2 emissions at this 35 000 tonnes, an increase of 6% compared with 2013. facility. An option under evaluation is a redesigned sulphuric Our NOx emissions per unit of production also rose 6% acid plant that would treat hydrogen sulphide from our gas, INCREASE IN NOX EMISSIONS between 2013 and 2014. instead of incinerating it. These improvements will enable us to meet new Tunisian legislation on emissions levels -7% Recent years have seen an increase in NOx. This is mainly which is due to come into force in 2016. due to an increase in use of duel fuel diesel-electric vessels in our global shipping fleet. These vessels are more WASTE fuel efficient, reducing CO2 emissions, but have higher Total waste disposed in 2014 was 115 000 tonnes, compared NOx emissions. with 143 000 tonnes in 2013. Drilling cuttings are generated DECREASE IN SO2 EMISSIONS when drilling mud is removed from the well bore resulting SULPHUR DIOXIDE EMISSIONS in solids waste with liquid (mud) content. In 2014, we During 2014, sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions were 26 000 disposed of 25 000 tonnes of drilling cuttings, compared tonnes, a decrease of 7% compared with 2013. This was with 10 000 tonnes in 2013. This change was primarily due due to a decrease in oil used for fuel in our shipping to the nature of drilling activity during the year. The total operations. Our SO2 emissions per unit of production quantity of oil (from oil based mud) in drilling cuttings decreased 6%, between 2013 and 2014. discharged offshore decreased 82% from 770 tonnes in 2013 to 139 tonnes in 2014. Around 30% of BG Group’s SO2 emissions arise from our operated Miskar gas field in Tunisia where the gas has a 46% of our disposed waste was reused or recycled, high hydrogen sulphide content. To treat it to sales gas including 54% of our total hazardous waste. quality, hydrogen sulphide is sent to an incinerator, where it is converted to SO2 and dispersed into the atmosphere. NON-GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS NITROGEN OXIDE EMISSIONS SULPHUR DIOXIDE EMISSIONS (’000 tonnes) (’000 tonnes) 35 30 30 25 0.00 25 20 20 15 15 10 10 5 5 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 0 BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING SPILLS 21 Spills WHY IT MATTERS Our facilities and operational procedures are designed to reduce the risk of spills and ensure a comprehensive response should a spill occur. We are committed to ensuring the safety of people and reducing our impact on the environment. OUR PRIORITIES Lower the risk of spills and leaks, through design Increase our spill response capability, including in new facilities and through maintenance in training our people. existing facilities. -68% ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE OIL SPILL PREVENTION We have in place a wide range of precautionary measures DECREASE IN OIL SPILL VOLUME to ensure the risks of an oil spill are reduced to a level that is as low as reasonably practicable. Through the design, operation and maintenance of our facilities, we work NUMBER OF to achieve ‘asset integrity’, or the ability of our physical HYDROCARBON SPILLS assets to perform their required function effectively whilst (of one barrel or more) safeguarding life and the environment. 2014 During 2014, a focus across the Group was on strengthening well integrity, which is ensuring the 2013 safety, reliability, efficiency and general fitness for service of every well. For example, all BG Group-operated wells OIL SPILL RESPONSE now have a well integrity management system in place Exercise in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 2012 that plans for the various stages throughout the lifecycle of a well with the aim of reducing the risk of uncontrolled HYDROCARBON SPILLS 2011 releases or spills. In 2015, we will roll out a data program In 2014, we had no significant spills. The total amount of oil to provide real-time information from all our wells to spilled during the year was 20 barrels, a 68% decrease from facilitate enhanced management of well integrity and 2010 2013. There was a total of three barrels of oil spilled to sea, early detection of potential incidents. and only one spill to sea was a barrel or greater in volume. 0 5 10 15 20 OIL SPILL PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE Land Sea WATER SPILLS We put in place measures to ensure that if a spill occurs While we aim to contain and dispose of the water produced it will be contained and not discharged to the environment. by our operations safely, in 2014 we did experience some TOTAL VOLUME OF All of our facilities or operations that produce, store or uncontrolled releases of slightly saline and desalinated HYDROCARBON SPILLS TO SEA transfer oil have an oil spill contingency plan which assesses associated water which is produced during operation. (barrels) the potential risks of oil pollution and outlines response The total number of water spills greater than a barrel in 2014 procedures. During 2014, we established a spill response was 37, with a total of 7 900m3 water spilled. This compared 3 2014 capability to cover offshore wells being drilled in our early with 29 spills in 2013 totalling 6 200m3. This rise is aligned life operations in Kenya and Tanzania. This includes with the increased volumes of associated saline water that pre-positioning spill response equipment and training 7 2013 is produced at our operations in Australia, which ramped up teams to mobilise the equipment in the event of an production during the year. incident. We also conducted several oil spill response 1 2012 exercises in our operation in Brazil. This consisted of OTHER SPILLS deploying oil spill containment equipment, such as In 2014, we had no significant spills of other substances booms (temporary floating barriers to contain an oil spill) 82 2011 or chemicals. in Rio de Janeiro. We continued to participate actively in several industry initiatives to improve our oil spill response, 617 2010 including the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and IPIECA Oil Spill Response Joint 0 200 400 600 800 Industry Project, Oil Spill Response Limited initiative, and the Subsea Well Response Project. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING WATER 22 Water WHY IT MATTERS Our operations use and produce water in diverse areas around the world. We manage water resources throughout the lifecycle of our operations. We aim to minimise our impact on water resources and take opportunities to benefit our business and stakeholders. OUR PRIORITIES Continually review and update our water Develop and implement water management management approach to align with industry plans to mitigate identified risks and manage best practice. any potential impacts. Assess our exposure to potential environmental, social and economic water risks. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE COLLABORATION In 2014, we progressed work to mitigate and manage We work with IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry impacts in countries where we have identified water risks: association for environment and social issues), industry experts and academics to understand our water risks and •• Australia: We face challenges in our project in Queensland advance our approach to managing water. During 2014, we associated with operating in a water stressed area and also worked with a specialist consultancy, Irbaris, to review managing produced water from our activities. In 2014, our current approach. It applied the Ceres Aqua Gauge we made progress on water treatment, groundwater tool as part of an assessment. In 2015, we will incorporate monitoring and reviewing future plans to ensure we the findings of their assessment. manage water resources in a responsible manner (see case study) We continued to develop a proposal to address water challenges through technology as part of a five-year •• Kazakhstan: We are generating increased volumes research partnership in nanotechnology with Rice of produced water in our operations which present new University, Houston, USA, and the Federal University water management challenges. In 2014, we developed of Santa Catarina, Brazil. The proposed research would a water management plan that sets out a range of examine ways to use nanotechnology to treat produced actions designed to minimise the impact of produced water for re-use, reinjection or disposal purposes. water on hydrocarbon production, asset integrity and health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) risks. We also continued our participation in the annual This plan will be implemented during 2015 CDP Global Water Report, to which we have been a contributor since 2011. •• Tunisia: Produced water from one of our offshore platforms has historically been sent onshore and MANAGING OUR IMPACT transported by trucks for disposal. In 2014, operational We use and produce water in a number of ways across improvements significantly reduced the amount of oil our operations. In certain operations we have to find an in the water we produce to levels of 12 parts per million, appropriate source of water to use for process cooling, well below the levels acknowledged as industry good in the drilling process, in construction and in hydrocarbon practice. As a result, we are now able to discharge reservoir management. In addition, some of our activities produced water offshore, achieving a level of treatment generate produced water from hydrocarbon reservoirs. that makes this one of the cleanest offshore discharges across the company while simultaneously removing The water we use and that we generate as produced the HSSE risks associated with the onshore water water requires appropriate management to avoid disposal process environmental impacts and detrimental effects •• Tanzania: We recognise that there will be a challenge on local stakeholder communities. developing a major LNG project in a water stressed country. In 2014, we completed a water risk assessment of our early life operation in order to identify and prioritise risks and opportunities associated with water management. The risk assessment will be further developed into a detailed water management plan during 2015. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING WATER CONTINUED 23 Water 38 WATER USE In 2014, the total volume of water we withdrew for use in our activities remained fairly constant at 2 million tonnes. CASE STUDY: WATER MANAGEMENT IN AUSTRALIA MEGALITRES OF CLEAN WATER The water we disposed of from our operations increased As part of our efforts to manage water responsibly A DAY PRODUCED AT OUR WATER 59% from 25.0 million tonnes in 2013 to 39.7 million tonnes TREATMENT PLANT IN AUSTRALIA in Australia, we treat produced water for beneficial in 2014. This rise reflects increased volumes of saline water use which we make available to the local landholders, that is produced from our coal seam gas operation in industry and communities in Queensland. In 2013, -2% Australia. This water is treated to fresh water quality we constructed the Central Water Treatment Plant (see case study). near the town of Chinchilla. In 2014, it produced on average 38 megalitres a day of clean water. Our offshore gas exploration and production processes This water was particularly valuable to the farming result in water discharges that contain oil, known as DECREASE IN THE LEVEL OF OIL IN community nearby and to feed the Chinchilla Weir controlled discharges. We seek to minimise such discharges PRODUCED WATER DISCHARGES on the Condamine River in a year of drought in order to maintain water quality. In 2014, the amount conditions. During the year, we also progressed of oil in produced water discharged from our operations with construction of the Northern Water Treatment decreased 2% from 117 tonnes in 2013 to 115 tonnes. Plant. It is expected to produce approximately Across our operations annually, total volumes of oil 30 megalitres a day of treated water for farmers discharged are very low. near the town of Wandoan and Glebe Weir on the Dawson River after commissioning in the first WATER WITHDRAWN quarter of 2015. (Million m3) 2500 In 2014, as part of our ongoing groundwater monitoring programme, we largely completed 2000 construction of the network of monitoring bores. A few non-essential bores required re-design 1500 and will be completed in 2015. The results from these monitoring bores will provide confidence 1000 that the health of the groundwater system is being maintained. Early monitoring results are 500 consistent with predictions from our initial groundwater assessments. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 Freshwater As production in Australia ramped up during 2014, Non-freshwater we were better able to assess actual water and brine production against our forecasts. Overall, our operations are producing less water and brine than predicted. While our long-term plan for salt management is a secure landfill, we undertook a detailed review of brine management and salt commercialisation options in 2014 to ensure we had the most suitable solution. Planning will continue in 2015. THE NORTHERN WATER TREATMENT PLANT Currently under construction in Queensland. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEM SERVICES 24 Biodiversity WHY IT MATTERS We explore and develop reserves in diverse and sometimes remote environments. We seek to understand and respond to any potential impact our activities may have on biodiversity and ecosystem services and look for opportunities to make a positive contribution. OUR PRIORITIES Strengthen our biodiversity risk identification and Manage our impact on biodiversity and ecosystem management process. services where we work through survey, assessment, monitoring and mitigation projects. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE BUILDING OUR APPROACH 2014 We work with industry associations, international and During the year, we joined the Proteus Partnership, national organisations and expert consultants to learn a collaborative forum of extractive companies and and share best practice approaches for understanding the UNEP World Conservation Monitoring Centre. biodiversity and ecosystem services – the benefits that The partnership provides access to extensive UPDATED STANDARD TO people, including businesses, derive from ecosystems. biodiversity and ecosystem information worldwide. ALIGN WITH BEST PRACTICE We use this information in assessing our potential In 2014, we continued to work with The Biodiversity impact when we enter new countries and in managing Consultancy to review and strengthen our approach our existing operations. to assessing and managing biodiversity risks. We implemented its recommendations and updated our ASSESSING OUR RISKS AND POTENTIAL IMPACTS Environment and Climate Change Standard to be further In 2014, we continued to build our knowledge of aligned with the International Finance Corporation’s biodiversity and ecosystem services where we work Performance Standard 6. Performance Standard 6 is through a programme of surveys and assessments in internationally recognised as the best practice approach our early life projects. This helps us to understand our for the integration of conservation requirements with local risks in each environment at the beginning of the human development activities. project lifecycle and informs our overall environmental and social impact assessments. Appropriate mitigation measures for each situation are then developed to minimise potential impacts. BIODIVERISTY ASSESSMENT WORK IN 2014 WAS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR EARLY LIFE PROJECTS CANADA HONDURAS TANZANIA BOLIVIA BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEM SERVICES 25 Biodiversity CONTINUED 25 000 Assessments from the year included: MANAGING OUR IMPACT We require that all our operations assessed as having •• Bolivia: We gathered baseline data and engaged with significant biodiversity sensitivities near our activities local stakeholders to identify key biodiversity features develop action plans. These plans outline mitigation and ecosystem services for an area of proposed HECTARES ADDED TO and monitoring measures to minimise potential impacts exploration in southern Bolivia – a diverse mountainous A CONSERVATION AREA from our operations. IN AUSTRALIA dry forest area and adjacent to the protected Tariquía National Park. The data gathered will increase our In 2014, we completed a new biodiversity action plan understanding of specific habitats and sensitive for Trinidad and Tobago, began developing an action locations and will inform the mitigation plans to be plan for our proposed new exploration activities in Bolivia adopted for our proposed exploration work programme and continued to implement the action plans in place •• Canada: We carried out baseline surveys working for our existing activities in Bolivia and Kazakhstan. with stakeholders, such as Indigenous First Nations In Australia, we implement species specific management groups, to understand better the potential impacts plans to manage risks from our operations to important of our proposed LNG project in British Columbia, biodiversity features. particularly on the marine environment. Work in 2014 included a fish monitoring programme with First BIODIVERSITY OFFSET PROGRAMMES Nations representatives We develop plans to avoid adverse impacts to biodiversity and where this is not possible we implement measures •• Honduras: We used remote satellite sensing prior to minimise and then restore associated impacts. to exploration activities to map seabed features and Where we have significant impacts on biodiversity, we sensitive shallow water habitats to begin building aim to implement an offset programme. our database of knowledge in support of our planning for potential future activities Biodiversity offset programmes are designed to achieve •• Tanzania: We continued to use the SERPENT initiative positive conservation outcomes to compensate for in our seabed surveys in support of our drilling impacts to sensitive areas or important biodiversity activities. SERPENT is an initiative set up by the features. During the year, we delivered a biodiversity National Oceanography Centre in the UK where marine offset project at our Australian operation which added biologists use remotely operated vehicles to explore nearly 25 000 hectares of land to a conservation area the seabed to map key features and collect sediment on Curtis Island. samples from the seabed. CASE STUDY: OFFSET PROGRAMME IN AUSTRALIA In 2014, we expanded a conservation area on Curtis Island in Queensland where we have an LNG plant. This offset was delivered in partnership with two companies who are also developing LNG facilities on the island. By working together the offset will achieve more significant conservation benefits. The offset has added nearly 25 000 hectares of newly protected land, expanding conservation coverage to nearly two thirds of the island. It protects important habitat for threatened fauna and ecological communities. This offset exceeds the level required under Australian legislation. THE CONSERVATION AREA ON CURTIS ISLAND Former Queensland Minister for the Environment and Heritage, Read more about the programme Andrew Powell, visiting the island. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING POSITIVE SOCIOECONOMIC IMPACT We are committed to contributing to the social and economic development of the countries where we work. We aim to create shared value and develop strong partnerships and meaningful stakeholder engagement with the governments, communities, businesses and people that we work with. The relationships we build have a significant impact on our ability to operate effectively. Read more about: > Social performance > Our economic contribution > Supply chain INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 27 Social performance WHY IT MATTERS The long-term sustainability of our business is dependent upon establishing and maintaining effective relationships with our stakeholders. This approach can reduce risk and create value for our business and the societies where we operate. OUR PRIORITIES Deliver social baseline and impact assessments that Expand our social investment partnerships enable us to identify and manage risks, impacts and to deliver jobs, skills and benefits in the countries opportunities for the Group and other stakeholders. where we operate. Build and maintain open relationships with our Ensure social performance is integrated stakeholders in our areas of operation. into our business planning and development as well as our operations. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE CONSULTATION AND IMPACT ASSESSMENT •• Bolivia: We consulted with the two Guaraní We assess potential social and economic impacts and representative groups within our proposed exploration develop mitigation measures for planned or proposed areas and will negotiate agreements prior to starting Review projects, in consultation with stakeholders and local our seismic activities in 2015. We also continued to communities. For example, our social impact assessment work with the Weenhayek communities on building for an onshore seismic exploration project in Bolivia involved their capacity to manage their own affairs and to widespread consultation and participation from Indigenous develop alternative livelihoods CONDUCTED INTERNAL and non-Indigenous groups in the area. In 2014, we worked REVIEW OF OUR COMMUNITY •• Canada: We signed capacity funding agreements on five social impact assessments, in relation to Bolivia, GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS with Tsimshian First Nations groups and set up Brazil, Canada, Honduras, and Myanmar. We go beyond a multi-stakeholder employment and training compliance with local legislation to meet internationally roundtable with First Nations accepted best practice. For instance, in Honduras, we are conducting an integrated environmental and social •• Honduras: We engaged with the representative impact assessment for all major geophysical operations; organisations of the Miskito and Garifuna peoples on the depth of our social baseline research and level of the potential impacts from our exploration activity. consultation conducted for these assessments surpass regulatory requirements, as we work to build strong GRIEVANCE MECHANISM REVIEW stakeholder relationships in the country. Our community grievance mechanisms aim to provide a proactive and structured approach to receive, acknowledge, WORKING WITH INDIGENOUS PEOPLES investigate, respond to and remedy grievances about our In 2014, we upheld our commitments to respect, engage projects from affected stakeholders in a planned, timely and build mutually beneficial relationships with Indigenous and respectful manner. communities in and around our areas of activity. Our level of engagement depends on the stage of our project In 2014, we conducted an internal review of our development in country. We currently work alongside community grievance mechanisms which highlighted our Indigenous communities in four countries: progress in improving grievance processes at several of our •• Australia: We continued to implement our Indigenous operations. For instance, in Tanzania, where it is common employment, training and business development for community members to report grievances to local programme. The number of Indigenous persons government, we collaborated with the local government employed by the Group and its contractors increased process, so that any grievances related to BG Group from 63 in 2011 to over 300 in 2014. Over the life of would be addressed in a manner consistent with our the project, our Australian operation has traded with grievance process. In 2015, we will work to strengthen our 19 Indigenous businesses to the estimated value of grievance mechanisms by improving our processes for A$40 million. We published a good practice guide recording, monitoring and reporting grievances, and by on Indigenous employment, training and business conducting internal training on grievance management. development, in partnership with the University of Queensland’s Centre for Social Responsibility in Mining BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING SOCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED 28 Social performance $20m SOCIAL INVESTMENT SUPPORTING YOUTH ENTREPRENEURSHIP In 2014, we spent approximately $20 million on social In 2014, we implemented youth entrepreneurship investment, compared with $17.9 million in 2013. In addition programmes to help provide jobs in Canada, Kenya, to an overall increase in social investment, we increased the Tanzania and Trinidad and Tobago through our global SOCIAL INVESTMENT SPEND proportion of social investment spend in our three strategic partnership with Youth Business International. We also areas for investment: science, technology, engineering and conducted feasibility work for a fifth programme in mathematics (STEM) education, vocational training, and Myanmar. For example in Kenya, we worked with livelihoods and enterprise development. These three Kenya Youth Business Trust (KYBT) to support young strategic areas now make up 67% of our overall spend. entrepreneurs close to our offshore exploration area. Our strategy focuses on long-term, strategic investment in The project focuses on disadvantaged youth, and builds the countries where we work, in contrast to philanthropic on KYBT’s existing activities such as providing start-up giving. In 2014, 13% of our social investment spend was loans, business skills and business plan training. on charitable or philanthropic donations. SOCIAL INVESTMENT ($’000) 30 000 27 232 20 046 20 000 17 889 13 303 10 000 8 334 YOUNG ENTREPRENEURS Fatma Omar is one of the young entrepreneurs who has 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 benefited from KYBT. R  ead her story Mandatory VOCATIONAL TRAINING Voluntary We invest in technical and vocational training because TOTAL VOLUNTARY SOCIAL INVESTMENT BY THEME they are the most important skills for local people seeking employment in the energy and related sectors. In addition to our ongoing support in countries like Australia and Tanzania, 33% 38% we started to widen our work in other countries during the year. Our business in the USA invested $50 000 in a scholarship fund to support local people in Louisiana to gain the trade skills and qualifications needed to be employed in the Lake Charles LNG project and wider industry development in the area. We also engaged with UK and German development organisations (DFID and GIZ) on the establishment of an East African umbrella organisation 21% 8% to provide technical and vocational training related to the emerging oil and gas sector in Kenya, Mozambique, Tanzania, and Uganda. We commissioned a scoping study $7.0m STEM education to identify a new vocational training partnership in Kenya $1.6m Vocational training in the area where our business is exploring. $3.8m Livelihoods and enterprise development $6.0m Other STEM EDUCATION BG Group invests in STEM education to create opportunities TOTAL SOCIAL INVESTMENT BY COUNTRY ($’000) for young people, particularly those from backgrounds under-represented in the science and technology sector. Australia 3 179 We also aim to contribute to building the pipeline of talent GHG EMISSIONS: NUMBER Bolivia OF 970 that is critical for the future success of our industry. BY SOURCE 2010-2014 30 000 HYDROCARBON Brazil SPILLS 2 829 (million tonnes co2e) (of one barrel or more) Canada 1 890 CASE STUDY: Equatorial Guinea 1 700 2010 0.00 2014 Kazakhstan 0.00 793 STEM EDUCATION STUDENTS BENEFITED FROM Tanzania 2 789 2011 an We published external review of our investments 0.00 OUR STEM PROGRAMMES 2013 0.00 in STEM education from 2011 to 2013. Since 2011, the Trinidad and Tobago 2 422 BG Group STEM education programme has expanded UK 2 167 2012 in nine countries to 25 projects 0.00 and now works 2012 0.00 Other a 1 307 with more than 20 partner organisations globally. Total 20 046 We have invested more than $6 2013 million in STEM 0.00 2011 0.00 programmes that have directly benefited more a Other includes Colombia, Egypt, India, Kenya, Thailand, Tunisia, than 30 000 students. R  ead the full report USA and Uruguay. 0.00 2014 0.00 2010 0 30 60 90 120 150 0 30 60 90 120 150 BG GROUP Lorem | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ipsum. INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING OUR ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION 29 WHY IT MATTERS We have a commitment to develop natural resources in a way which creates lasting benefits for our host countries. We contribute to the economies of local communities and broader society where we work through taxes, jobs and investments. OUR PRIORITIES Employ people from host communities and countries Committed to transparency of payments where possible. to governments. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION We aim to share prosperity generated from our activities. The table below shows the direct economic value we generated and distributed over the past five years to governments through taxes, to people through jobs and social investments and to suppliers and contractors. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED ($ MILLION)a 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Revenue and other operating income 19 949 19 311 19 200 17 849 13 710 Operating costs 13 572 11 827 11 355 10 459 8 485 Finance costs 753 114 138 34 51 Dividends paid 1 024 923 859 772 680 Income taxes paid 2 616 2 468 2 720 2 720 1 984 Employee costs 1 259 1 105 1 393 1 271 1 134 Social investment 20.0 17.9 27.2 13.3 8.3 a See our Annual Report and Accounts Financial Statements for more information. R  ead more about our social investment TRANSPARENCY OF PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENT We support transparency of payments to governments, Read more about local content within our supply chain which are an important part of our contribution to host countries and local economies. Transparency supports LOCAL EMPLOYMENT an informed public debate about natural resource The jobs that we provide are a fundamental part of extraction and the use of revenues. our economic contribution in the communities and countries where we work. We aim to create employment We are working towards reporting in 2016 on all payments opportunities for people from local communities. to government that are eligible under the UK regulations During 2014, we increased the number of local employees that implement Chapter 10 of the EU Accounting Directive. as a percentage of the total workforce in Singapore Chapter 10 requires all extractive sector companies by 8.0%, Brazil by 6.4% and Thailand by 6.2%. registered in EU member states to report on payments to governments worldwide, on a project-by-project basis. INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS The UK is the first member state to pass this requirement As well as building infrastructure for our core business, into law. In 2014, we participated in an industry working we also invest in public or shared infrastructure, which has group that developed a guidance document to support both business and societal value. For instance, in Australia, implementation of the UK regulations. we are contributing approximately $1 million to the Thorn Hill Training Centre, which will provide training and We continued our support for the Extractive Industries employment opportunities for the Indigenous community Transparency Initiative (EITI), the international standard in construction, civil and asset maintenance within the for the disclosure of tax payments by extractive coal seam gas sector. In addition, we spent approximately companies, and receipts by governments. We have $33 million on road upgrades in 2014. In Tunisia, during supported EITI since its inception and have interests the year we invested $120 000 on a health centre and in ten EITI implementing countries: Colombia, Honduras, $555 000 on water infrastructure to connect community Kazakhstan, Madagascar, Myanmar, Norway, Tanzania, members near our operations in Sfax to the water grid. Trinidad and Tobago, UK and USA. View our 2014 EITI reporting BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING SUPPLY CHAIN 30 Supply chain WHY IT MATTERS As a global business operating in a technical industry, we work with a wide range and number of contractors, suppliers and local businesses. We work to gain knowledge of our sphere of influence and identify risks and opportunities in our supply chain. OUR PRIORITIES Manage contracts to meet our Use and develop local services sustainability standards. and suppliers where possible. Work in partnership with contractors to manage risks and impacts. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE 95% OUR APPROACH TO MANAGING RISKS Our Contracts and Procurement Standard sets We aim to provide a consistent and integrated approach minimum requirements for contractor selection and to managing our supply chain. We identify and manage management. It sets specific requirements for contracts potential risks and opportunities, with a particular focus assessed as having high HSSE, human rights or ethical OF HIGH RISK CONTRACTS ACTIVELY on: ethical conduct, human rights, socio-economic conduct risks. We track how well individual contracts MANAGED development, and health, safety, security, and environment are managed and, in 2014, we met our target of actively (HSSE) risks. In 2014, we continued to strengthen our managing 95% of high-risk contracts against these approach in the following areas: requirements. This improves on performance of 91% in 2013. •• Organisational structure: During 2014, we reorganised our global procurement team and created a new •• Training: It is vital that those who work for us understand Supply Chain team and Head of Functional Excellence. their role and have the tools to work to a high standard. This will increase our focus on sustainable sourcing As part of addressing this ongoing challenge, we piloted with the aim that it becomes common practice across a Demand Manager Training Programme designed by our organisation Ashridge Business School. A demand manager is an employee who undertakes procurement of a product •• Contracts and procurement: Contractors make up a or service from a contractor, alongside their other core significant percentage of our workforce (completing work. They are responsible for assessing risk and selecting 75.8 million hours of work out of a total of 97.4 million the best value contractors including taking into account in 2014) and often carry out the highest-risk activities. sustainability aspects. They also manage the contractor They are frequently the first people on the ground throughout the term of the contract. There are about a when we enter a new country. Contractor behaviour thousand potential demand managers across the Group. can significantly affect our operational efficiency, reputation with governments and relationship with The programme aims to raise awareness and capacity local communities where we work to manage risks in our supply chain. It seeks to ensure demand managers across the Group take a consistent, In 2014, we worked to integrate human rights, ethical best practice approach and are equipped to do their conduct and social performance considerations into role competently. the selection process for a strategic partnership with a global engineering, project management and During the year, we delivered the programme to procurement contractor. The company, KBR, will more than 110 people across our operations in India, work with BG Group in an integrated way with the Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, UK and USA. In 2015, aim of delivering engineering services and project we will continue to roll out the programme across management support for future projects for the Group. our business. We will work with KBR to strengthen its capacity to identify and manage social issues. The aim is for such considerations to be factored into strategic business decisions at an early stage of the project lifecycle. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING SUPPLY CHAIN CONTINUED 31 Supply chain LOCAL CONTENT We recognise the importance of local content to contributing to the sustainable economic development of the countries and communities where we work. 89% OF TOTAL SUPPLIER SPEND We develop procurement approaches suitable for each ON LOCAL BUSINESSES location and commit to consider opportunities to source locally where possible. In 2014, the total spend on local suppliers was $8.4 billion, 89% of our total supplier spend compared to 85% in 2013. Notably, we increased our use of Indigenous businesses to supply goods or services to our operation in Australia. We are also committed to developing the competitiveness and employment potential of domestic contractors. For LOCAL SUPPLIERS example, in Trinidad and Tobago, we continued to work Working on our Hibiscus platform in Trinidad and Tobago. with suppliers to improve their performance and regional competitiveness to develop and sustain strong in-country capability, by: 2014 GROSS EXPENDITURE WITH SUPPLIERS BY COUNTRY ($ MILLION)a •• Working with the Energy Chamber of Trinidad and Payments to Of which Tobago to help suppliers compete for business suppliers localb suppliers •• Collaborating with key suppliers to improve their Australia 5 312 4 887 performance, for example by developing quarterly Brazil 183 179 performance reviews with targeted key performance Canada 60 46 indicators and performance improvement interventions Egypt 288 230 •• Engaging with local community members on India 301 241 employment opportunities and business opportunities Kenya 97 74 for local service providers. Norway 772 746 Tanzania 296 265 SPEND WITH LOCAL SUPPLIERS ($ billion) Trinidad and Tobago 684 536 Tunisia 150 69 12 11.5 UK 983 878 1.7 10 9.6 9.4 USA 222 166 8.7 9.8 1.0 Otherc 35 32 8 2.3 8.4 Total 9 384 8 351 3.0 7.3 6 5.7 a The figures shown are from primarily BG Group-operated 4 exploration and production operations and are compiled from our accounts payable records, which classify vendors by type. 2 Figures are for unaudited, gross, invoiced spend and do not include all spending on our behalf. Spend covers only those 2011 2012 2013 2014 contractors with whom we contract directly, and for whom we have records in our system. We include here spending on behalf Non-local spend of our joint venture partners in operations where we have the Local spend majority interest. We do not include spend by non-operated or joint venture operations in which we have an interest, but where we do not fully control the procurement process. Figures are shown for countries with total spend over $50 million. b ‘Local’ suppliers are either national companies, or international suppliers which are tax registered and have core facilities/ infrastructure relevant to the scope of work/services located within the country in question. c Other includes Algeria, Bolivia, China, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Singapore and Thailand. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING DATA AND TARGETS We report our sustainability data for the year and track progress against previous years. We also set targets for the coming year. This helps us monitor and drive performance in our key areas. Read more about: > Data > Targets INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING DATA: RESPONSIBLE OPERATOR 33 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Total recordable case frequency (per million work hours) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Employees 0.56 0.48 0.53 0.67 0.63 Contractors 1.61 1.95 2.73 2.35 1.04 Total workforce 1.38 1.64 2.26 1.92 0.94 Lost time injury frequency (per million work hours) Employees 0.14 0.35 0.31 0.18 0.31 Contractors 0.45 0.45 0.70 0.59 0.43 Total workforce 0.38 0.42 0.61 0.49 0.40 Fatalities (number of incidents) Employees 0 0 0 0 0 Contractors 0 1 2 3 2 Occupational illness frequency (per million work hours) Total workforce 0.13 0.17 0.21 0.49 0.56 ETHICAL CONDUCT 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Employees and individual contractors who have completed our Fraud & Bribery e-learninga 671 2 560 – – – Speak Up/whistleblowing cases 106 106 120 134 151 Cases where actions were taken against individuals, following Speak Up investigations 13 18 18 28 24 Speak Up/ whistleblowing cases relating toa: General workplace concernsb 35% 48% – – – Malpractice allegationsc 21% 29% – – – Health, safety, security and environment concerns 14% 12% – – – Fraud allegationsd 30% 11% – – – a This data was not reported in data tables in previous years but was reported in the narrative of the report. b Including allegations of harassment, discrimination and unfair treatment. c Including allegations of breaches of the Group’s Ethical Conduct Policy and Standards. Prior to 2014, corruption allegations were classified as malpractice. d Including allegations of theft, corruption or misuse of funds. Since 2014, corruption allegations have been classified as fraud to mirror the revised definition of ‘fraud’ in BG Group’s revised Fraud Risk Standard. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING DATA: RESPONSIBLE OPERATOR 34 CONTINUED PEOPLEa OUR PEOPLE BY COUNTRY 2014 Local employees by gender Employees Total working in employees country from on local other BG Group Total contracts Male Female locations Contractors Workforce Areas of Palestinian Authorityb 2 2 0 0 0 2 Australia 1 117 854 263 150 517 1 784 Boliviab 77 51 26 6 13 96 Brazil 195 109 86 18 0 213 Canada 0 0 0 7 3 10 China 6 0 6 1 1 8 Egypt 108 83 25 33 36 177 Global Contractc 0 0 0 72 0 72 Honduras 0 0 0 1 0 1 India 274 240 34 12 39 325 Kazakhstan 54 18 36 85 4 143 Kenya 0 0 0 3 2 5 Mexico 0 0 0 0 1 1 Myanmar 0 0 0 1 0 1 Norway 41 23 18 23 50 114 Singapore 44 18 26 24 2 70 Tanzania 35 18 17 34 20 89 Thailand 15 4 11 6 1 22 Trinidad and Tobago 405 279 126 59 61 525 Tunisia 368 305 63 19 20 407 UK 1 161 800 361 108 375 1 644 USA 316 197 119 47 53 416 Total 4 218 3 001 1 217 709 1 198 6 125 a All figures are reported as at 31 December, 2014. b Includes employees on contracts in locations not hosted on the central human resources data system in 2014: Palestine (2 employees) and Bolivia (13 contractors). c Employees on global contracts with no fixed location counted as a separate group rather than where they are physically working. OUR EMPLOYEES 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total (average for year) 5 143 5 536a 6 569 6 472 6 171 of which employed outside of UK 3 515 3 758 4 703 4 496 4 211 of which working away from home country 771 802 775 679 646 Male (%) 73 72 72 71 72 Female (%) 27 28 28 29 28 Women in senior leadership positions (%) 8 13 12 10 10 Total turnover (%) 19 10 14 11 11 New graduates recruited during the year 57 80 99 96 – of which from the UK 29 17 34 39 – of which from overseas 28 63 65 57 – Graduate Retentionb (%) 73 76 – – – a Significant decrease of employees due to the exit of Comgas (November 2012) and Gujarat Gas (June 2013). b Percentage of past 10 years’ intake of graduates still working with us. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING DATA: VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 35 ENVIRONMENT NON-GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS Electricity Distribution by type (‘000 tonnes) Venting Fugitive Flaring Fuel use generation losses Carbon monoxide – – 4 16 0 – Nitrogen oxides – – 1 33 1 – Sulphur dioxide – – 13 13 0 – Volatile organic compounds 4 3 0 2 0 – by type (‘000 tonnes) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Nitrogen oxides 35 33 32 29 21 Sulphur dioxide 26 28 24 21 23 Volatile organic compounds 9 9 11 12 12 by type (tonnes/mmboe) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Nitrogen oxides 89 84 68 63 42 Sulphur dioxide 66 70 52 46 46 Volatile organic compounds 22 22 23 24 24 ENERGY USE (GWHrs) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Gas 20 515 21 575 25 443 25 627 28 577 Electricity 328 28 34 32 46 Oil 3962 4 762 3 948 2 897 2 391 Total 24 805 26 365 29 425 28 556 31 014 WASTE Authorised Treatment / Reuse / Disposed and stored by type and method (‘000 tonnes) landfill Incineration In situ disposal discharge recycling On-site storage Cuttings 1 0 18 0 6 1 Metals 0 0 0 1 0 General 10 1 1 0 10 227 Hazardous 14 4 11 2 36 26 Total 25 5 30 2 53 254 Disposed by type (‘000 tonnes) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Cuttings 25 10 7 10 7 Metals 1 1 1 1 2 General 22 20 40 13 7 Hazardous 67 112 65 15 24 Total 115 143 113 39 40 WATER Groundwater / reinjection to nonInland Water disposed by type to freshwater freshwater sewerage Inland surface Soil water / and method (‘000 tonnes) Coastal water Open marine aquifer aquifer system water irrigation Evaporation Produced water – 5 117 – 591 – 15 – 1 963 Oil in produced water – 0 – 0 – – – – Process water 2 14 – – 1 – 4 – Oil in process water – – – – – – – – Other waste oily water – 17 – 7 – 3 3 – Oil in other waste oily water – 0 – 0 – – – – Associated water – – – – – – 29 033 1 927 Total oil 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total water 2 5 148 0 598 1 18 29 040 3 890 BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING DATA: VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 36 CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT WATER CONTINUED Water disposed by type (‘000 tonnes) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Produced water 7 686 6 700 6 921 6 090 – Oil in produced water 0 0 0 0 – Process water 21 69 230 287 9 386 Oil in process water 0 0 0 0 0 Other waste oily water 30 23 14 8 – Oil in other waste oily water 0 0 0 0 – Associated water 31 923 18 218 4 558 3 272 – Total oil 0 0 0 0 0 Total water 39 660 25 010 11 723 9 657 9 386 Desalinated Municipal Water withdrawal by type associated Desalinated Desalinated water Reused / and source (‘000 tonnes) water ground water Ground water seawater Seawater supplies Rain water recycled Freshwater use – 2 186 22 – 265 – 66 Non-freshwater use 367 – – 19 29 – – – Total 367 2 186 41 29 265 0 912 Water withdrawal by type (‘000 tonnes) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Freshwater use 735 961 1 824 1 904 1 857 Non-freshwater use 1 261 950 74 107 – Total 1 996 1 911 1 898 2 011 1 857 CONTROLLED DISCHARGES TO SEA from drilling activites (‘000 tonnes) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Drill cuttings 4 22 13 10 15 Oil in cuttings 0 1 0 0 0 Muds 5 57 14 13 15 Total 9 80 27 23 30 SPILLS TO THE ENVIRONMENT Hydrocarbon spills of more than 1 barrel (number) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Spills to land 3 13 11 12 5 Spills to sea 1 2 0 6 6 Total 4 15 11 18 11 Volume of hydrocarbon spills (bbls) Spills to land 17 55 60 203 42 Spills to sea 3 7 1 82 617 Total 20 62 61 285 659 Saline associated water spills (number) Spills to land greater than one barrel 37 29 16 25 25 Saline associated water spills (volume – m3) Spills to land 7 922 6 229 170 1 030 774 BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING DATA: VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 37 CONTINUED CLIMATE CHANGE GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) (CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENT) EMISSIONS GHG emissions from operations under BG Group control (‘000 tonnes CO2e) 2014 2013a 2012a 2011 2010 Scope 1 7 590 6 959 7 740 7 507 8 716 Scope 2 260 15 19 16 24 Scope 1 and 2 combined 7 850 6 974 7 759 7 523 8 740 Scope 3 104 773 87 695 90 419 87 678 88 692 GHG emissions intensity (‘000 tonnes per mmboe) Scope 1 intensity 19.2 17.5 16.6 16.3 17.5 Scope 2 intensity 0.66 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.05 Scope 1 and 2 combined 19.8 17.5 16.6 16.3 17.5 Scope 1 and 2 equity share basis GHG emissions GHG emissions (‘000 tonnes) 8 475 8 321 9 608 10 611 12 232 GHG emissions intensity (‘000 tonnes per mmboe) 24.7 22.6 22.9 25.3 28.4 Scope 1 GHG emissions by source (‘000 tonnes of CO2e) Venting 452 486 595 676 643 Fugitive 76 49 45 19 6 Flaring 1 637 584 620 559 795 Fuel use 5 081 5 549 5 276 4 623 3 902 Electricity generation 344 288 1 114 1 526 2 614 Distribution losses 0 3 90 104 756 Total 7 590 6 959 7 740 7 507 8 716 Scope 1 GHG emissions by GHG (‘000 tonnes of CO2e) Carbon dioxide 7 051 6 609 7 306 7 064 7 665 Methane 480 283 368 381 985 Nitrous oxide 59 67 66 62 66 Total 7 590 6 959 7 740 7 507 8 716 Scope 1 GHG emissions by business segment (‘000 tonnes) Upstream 5 075 4 101 4 250 3 852 3 723 Global Shipping and Marketing 2 170 2 562 2 271 2 007 1 605 Other 345 296 1 219 1 648 3 388 Total 7 590 6 959 7 740 7 507 8 716 Scope 1 GHG emissions intensity by business segment (‘000 tonnes per mmboe) Upstream 19.0 13.7 13.2 11.9 10.9 Global Shipping and Marketing 17.0 27.1 21.4 21.2 21.6 Other 367.4 89.8 34.1 41.0 40.6 BG Group overall 19.2 17.5 16.6 16.3 17.5 a Scope 2 GHG emissions updated for 2012 and 2013 using latest IEA CO2 emission factors for purchased electricity. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING DATA: VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 38 CONTINUED CLIMATE CHANGE GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) (CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENT) EMISSIONS CONTINUED Methane emissions from operations under BG Group control (tonnes) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Venting 6 161 5 780 5 620 7 069 6 227 Fugitive 3 604 2 296 2 148 981 306 Flaring 8 895 2 269 2 376 2 016 2 447 Fuel use 4 172 3 007 3 055 2 991 1 700 Electricity generation 28 23 100 137 263 Distribution losses 0 123 4 225 4 949 35 962 Total 22 860 13 498 17 523 18 143 46 904 Total methane emissions per unit of production by business segment (percentage of production) Upstream 0.03% 0.02% 0.01% 0.01% 0.01% Global Shipping and Marketing 0.01% 0.01% 0.01% 0.01% 0.00% Other 0.01% 0.02% 0.05% 0.05% 0.17% Direct methane emissionsc (losses) per unit of production by business segment (percentage of production) Upstream 0.01% 0.01% 0.01% 0.01% 0.01% Global Shipping and Marketing 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Other 0.00% 0.02% 0.05% 0.05% 0.17% Flaring Flared gas in tonnes 497 144 155 142 228 c Direct methane emissions exclude combustion sources. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING DATA: POSITIVE SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT 39 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE SOCIAL INVESTMENT ($’000s) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total voluntarya 18 346 16 089 25 432 11 484 6 328 Total mandatoryb 1 700 1 800 1 800 1 819 2 006 Total 20 046 17 889 27 232 13 303 8 334 TOTAL SOCIAL INVESTMENT, BY COUNTRY ($) 2014 Australia 3 179 207 Bolivia 969 817 Brazil 2 829 177 Canada 1 889 871 Equatorial Guinea 1 700 000 Kazakhstan 793 049 Tanzania 2 788 932 Trinidad and Tobago 2 421 932 UK 2 166 845 Otherc 1 307 067 Total 20 045 897 a Voluntary – Social investment spend that BG Group makes on a voluntary basis. b Mandatory – Social investment spend that is a requirement or obligation under a licence, production sharing contract or other commercial agreement with a host government. c Other includes Colombia, Egypt, India, Kenya, Thailand, Tunisia, USA, and Uruguay. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING TARGETS 40 RESPONSIBLE OPERATOR SAFETY Our targets for 2014 Our 2014 outcomes Our targets for 2015 Total recordable case frequency (TRCF) Target met TRCF of 1.38 TRCF of 1.20 per million work hours of 1.40 per million work hours 95% of high risk contracts Target met 95% of high risk contracts to be actively managed to be actively managed HEALTH Occupational illness frequency (OIF) per million Target met 0.13 incidents per million man hours Group OIF per million work hours of 0.50 work hours of 0.50 ETHICAL CONDUCT Undertake at least four visits to operations deploying Target met Six independent assessments and Roll out new Business Principles e-learning modules. either in-house teams or independent assessors four visits by in-house teams were carried out All new starters to complete this training 100% of operations to conduct quarterly reviews Target met Launch communications to raise Speak Up awareness of their ethical conduct risks and action plans across BG Group Roll out new fraud management training to all Target met Over 850 key individuals Create a personal conduct standard through individuals in key roles for the detection and completed the training rationalising and simplifying existing standards prevention of fraud PEOPLE Actively manage university relationships to attract Ongoing Launched a global recruitment Strengthen our global university partnerships the best candidates from around the world campaign in partnership with key universities for future graduate recruitment campaigns from our key countries Develop action plans to respond to the results Ongoing Managers of our global of the 2013 employee survey businesses reviewed their survey results and incorporated key actions into their business plans Implement our diversity and inclusion strategy Ongoing Increased proportion of women in graduate intake, designed a new leadership programme and simplified competency frameworks to include diversity considerations Develop and deliver an Inclusive Ongoing Delivered the first pilot programme Roll out our Inclusive Leadership workshop across Leadership workshop three hubs: Americas, Australasia and Europe BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING TARGETS 41 CONTINUED VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Our targets for 2014 Our 2014 outcomes Our targets for 2015 Continue to work towards the 2013 to 2017 Ongoing Although our GHG emissions Continue to work towards the 2013 to 2017 GHG GHG emissions intensity target equating intensity increased in 2014, we remain emissions intensity target, equating to a 10% intensity to a 10% intensity reduction overall1 committed to achieving our targets by 2017 reduction overall Conduct methane assessment and report Target met Five methane emissions Deliver on the CCAC Oil & Gas Methane Partnership progress on minimising methane emissions assessments conducted. 23 000 tonnes commitments, including completing the methane emissions reported in 2014 implementation plan and at least one asset assessment covering the core methane sources pursuant to CCAC guidelines Reduce Group-wide operated sulphur dioxide (SO2) Ongoing Currently reviewing various process 100% of producing operated assets complete emissions by 35% from 2012 levels by end 2015 improvement options in Tunisia energy and emissions management plans through process improvements in Tunisia Develop a water management plan for Tanzania Ongoing Water risk assessment completed. Update Group water strategy Management plan will be developed in 2015 All businesses with water management plans Ongoing All operated assets to carry out an updated to implement agreed actions for 2014 environmental review and amend their environmental risk register accordingly 1 The specifics of our GHG emissions intensity target are: 15% improvement in LNG liquefaction segment GHG emissions intensity and 8% improvement in upstream production segment GHG emissions intensity. It does not include shipping. BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING TARGETS CONTINUED 42 POSITIVE SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Our targets for 2014 Our 2014 outcomes Our targets for 2015 Establish a Group-wide community information Target not met Following an internal management system review, we are approaching this on a countryspecific basis Ensure we have effective grievance mechanisms Ongoing Conducted internal review of Strengthen grievance mechanisms in line in all our new operations and major exploration our community grievance mechanisms. with recommendations from 2014 review projects Recommendations made to improve their effectiveness Expand and consolidate our social investment Target met Increased the proportion of our Develop a strong monitoring and evaluation partnerships in the areas of STEM education, social investment spend in these three areas framework for four social investment programmes vocational training and livelihood and from 49% to 67% enterprise development Implement youth entrepreneurship programmes ≈ Ongoing Programmes implemented under our global partnership with Youth Business in four countries, with one country International in five countries in feasibility stage Establish new programmes or partnerships in ≈ Ongoing We established a new vocational Establish new vocational training programmes vocational training in at least three countries training partnership in the USA, and engaged in three countries with DFID and GIZ regarding a programme to provide technical and vocational training related to the emerging oil and gas sector in Kenya, Mozambique, Tanzania, and Uganda Publish our approach to human rights ≈ Ongoing Delayed because of internal implementation organisational change Strengthen implementation of the Voluntary Target met Updated VPSHR guidelines Conduct VPSHR training in three countries Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR), published which strengthen processes including by updating our VPSHR guidelines and tools for identifying and managing security and human rights issues Contribute to the development of human rights Target met Contributed to development impact assessment methodology of the sector wide-impact assessment in Myanmar Participate in at least one relevant global forum Target met Participated in two global forums: the UN Forum on Business and Human Rights and the Annual Plenary of the VPSHR Initiative BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING ABOUT OUR REPORTING We report on our material issues from the year, informed by global reporting frameworks. This section covers how and where we report. Our report is assured by independent assurance providers. Read more about: > About our reporting > Index > Independent assurance statement INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING ABOUT OUR REPORTING 44 This report provides information and data on the most material sustainability issues from 2014. Our website, bg-group.com/sustainability, is an REPORTING FRAMEWORKS integral part of our sustainability reporting, covering We report our sustainability performance using our management approaches and policies, a wide set internationally recognised reporting standards and of issues and case studies. frameworks. We report in line with the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting MATERIALITY PROCESS developed by IPIECA (the oil and gas industry association We develop our reporting around the issues we believe for environmental and social issues), the American are the most important to our stakeholders and have the Petroleum Institute (API) and the International Oil greatest potential to significantly affect our business and Gas Producers Association (IOGP), as well as the performance and society. UN Global Compact Ten Principles Many of these issues emerge through our regular Our reporting is also informed by the Global Reporting stakeholder engagement with investors, governments, Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines and the Oil and Gas Sector business partners, NGOs, academia and other stakeholders Supplement. See our index for how we report against throughout the year. In addition, we commission bi-annual these frameworks on the following page. MORE INFORMATION ONLINE in-depth and independent research to review and confirm S takeholder engagement the key issues for the report. While 2014 was not a year REPORTING SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES scheduled for a full-scale materiality research process, The 2014 Sustainability Report covers data from 1 January  erformance in sustainability P we internally reviewed our approach to sustainability to 31 December 2014. Our Data Methodology appendix indices reporting to ensure that we continue to report on the outlines the scope and methodologies of our data material issues for our business, in an accessible and reporting. These follow industry guidelines set out  limate Change Public C transparent way. by IPIECA/API/IOGP. Position Data Methodology A SHORTER REPORT ASSURANCE In 2014, following our internal review, we moved to Our sustainability report is assured by independent,  ustainability Standards S producing a shorter sustainability report and expanded external assurance providers. In 2014 this was completed and Policies our coverage of sustainability on the website. In order to by DNV GL. U  N Global Compact make the report concise and relevant at a global level, we reporting 2014 cover the highest priority material issues from the year We recognise the importance of assurance for building within the report. On our website we provide more detail credibility and for driving performance. At the end of the Learning from our assurance on our high priority issues including case studies from the reporting process every year, our assurance providers year, as well as information about a wider set of issues produce a detailed report for our management on their and our management policies and approaches. We only recommendations for areas of improvement. We aim to report on the sustainability issues that are relevant for address these areas and annually report on our progress our industry and our business. through our learning from our assurance appendix. UNCONVENTIONAL GAS In 2012, we published BG Group’s Operating Principles for Unconventional Gas, and in the last year’s SR we provide an update on the progress made in 2013 under each heading in the document. This year’s SR takes a different approach and provides the relevant information in the sections on climate change, water, safety and social performance. In the first half of 2015 we will review the Operating Principles in the light of changes to our US business, and the progress made on the QCLNG project in Australia in 2014. We will publish on our website in July an assessment of our approach to our unconventional gas operations with reference to the 2012 Operating Principles. R  ead our Operating Principles for Unconventional Gas BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING INDEX 45 WHY IT MATTERS This index cross-references our reporting against the IPIECA/ API/IOGP sector-specific guidelines with the GRI G3.1 indicators and the UN Global Compact (UNGC) ten principles. UNGC 2014 Sustainability IPIECA indicator GRI G3.1 indicator Principle Report (page) bg-group.com/sustainability ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS E1: Greenhouse gas emissions EC2, EN16, EN17, EN18 8 18, 19, data Climate change E2: Energy use EN3, EN4, EN5, EN7 8 18, 19, data Climate change E3: Alternative energy sources n/a n/a n/a n/a E4: Flared gas OG6 8 18, 19, data Climate change EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14, E5: Biodiversity and ecosystem services EN15, OG4, EN25 7, 8 24, 25 Environment E6: Fresh water EN8, EN9, EN10, EN25 8 22, 23, data Environment E7: Other air emissions EN20 8 20, data Environment E8: Spills to the environment EN23 8 21, data Environment E9: Discharges to water EN21, OG5 8 23, data Environment E10: Waste EN2, EN22, OG7, EN24 8 20, data Environment HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS Safety HS1: Workforce participation LA6 6, 7, 8, 14 Health HS2: Workforce health LA7 7, data Health HS3: Occupational injury and illness incidents LA7 6, 7, 33 Safety Step forward HS4: Product stewardship EN26, PR1 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 21 Health HS5: Process safety OG13 7 Safety SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INDICATORS SE1: Local community impacts and engagement SO1, SO9, SO10, OG10 12, 27, 28, 29 Social performance SE2: Indigenous peoples HR9, OG9 27 Social performance SE3: Involuntary resettlement DMA – Social performance SE4: Social investment EC8 28, 29 Social performance SE5: Local content practices EC6 31 Supply chain SE6: Local hiring practices EC7, EC9 13, 29 People SE7: Local procurement and supplier development EC6 31 Supply chain SE8: Human rights due diligence HR1, HR3, HR10 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 11, 12, 14 Human rights Human rights SE9: Human rights and suppliers HR2, HR6, HR7 1, 2 30 Supply chain Security SE10: Security and human rights HR8 1, 2 8, 11 Human rights Ethical conduct SE11: Preventing corruption EN28, SO2, SO3, SO4, SO8 10 9, 10 New countries & governments SE12: Preventing corruption involving business partners SO4 10 10 Ethical conduct SE13: Transparency of payments to host governments EC1 10 29 Transparency People SE14: Public advocacy and lobbying SO5, SO6 10 – New countries & governments SE15: Workforce diversity and inclusion EC5, LA1, LA2, LA13 6 13, 14, data People SE16: Workforce engagement LA5, LA9 3, 5 14 People SE17: Workforce training and development LA10, LA11 14 People Social performance SE18: Non-retaliation and grievance system HR4 9, 10, 27 Speak Up BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 46 OUR SCOPE •• Review of the current sustainability issues that could BG International Limited (“BG Group”) commissioned affect BG Group and are of interest to stakeholders DNV GL Business Assurance Services UK Limited (“DNV •• Review of BG Group’s approach to stakeholder GL”) to undertake independent assurance of its engagement and information provided to us on Sustainability Report 2014 (the “Report”) as published at its reporting and management processes relating www.bg-group.com. Our scope included all sustainability to the Principles performance data for the year ended 31 December 2014, as published in the Data section of the PDF report and •• Interviews with senior management responsible the website, and claims related to these data included for management of sustainability issues and reviews in the Report. The scope of our work did not cover other of selected evidence to support the issues discussed types of data that are included in the Report but are not in relation to the Principles listed in the Data section. The review of financial data from the Annual Report and Accounts was not within •• Reviews of controls around the collation of the scope of our work. data through interviews with staff members at headquarters who are responsible for oversight OUR APPROACH and implementation of data gathering, aggregation We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance and quality control for the disclosures included within methodology VeriSustain™, which is based on our the scope of this assurance professional experience and international assurance •• Reviews and sample checks on the sustainability best practice, including reference to the International performance data measurement, collection and Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised), reporting processes at Group level ‘Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. •• Reviews of supporting evidence for key claims and data in the report. Our checking processes were prioritised We evaluated the report for adherence to the VeriSustain™ according to materiality and we based our prioritisation Principles (the “Principles”) of stakeholder inclusiveness, on the materiality of issues at a consolidated group level materiality, responsiveness, completeness, neutrality •• Visits to BG Bolivia and Karachaganak Petroleum and reliability. We evaluated the performance data Operating B.V. in Kazakhstan to review process as published in the Data section of its Sustainability and systems at operational head office level for Report 2014 using the reliability principle together with preparing sustainability data and implementation BG Group’s Data Methodology which sets out how the of sustainability strategy. sustainability performance data are measured, recorded and reported. OPINION We planned and performed our work to obtain the On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to evidence we considered necessary to provide a basis for our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly our assurance opinion. We are providing a ‘limited level’ of describe BG Group’s adherence to the Principles. In terms assurance. A ‘high level’ of assurance would have required of reliability of the performance data, nothing came to additional work at Group and site level to gain further our attention to suggest that these data have not been evidence to support the basis of our assurance opinion. properly collated from information reported at operational level, nor that the assumptions used were inappropriate. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS OF BG GROUP AND OF THE ASSURANCE PROVIDERS OUR KEY OBSERVATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS The Directors of BG Group have sole responsibility Without affecting our assurance opinion, our key for the preparation of the Report. In performing our observations and recommendations are summarised assurance work, our responsibility is to the management below. We have provided a confidential Management of BG Group; however our statement represents our Letter containing additional detail on these observations independent opinion and is intended to inform all of and recommendations to BG Group management. BG Group’s stakeholders including its management. We were not involved in the preparation of any part Materiality of the Report. However, having reviewed and provided The process for determining the issues that are most feedback on drafts of the Sustainability Report 2014, relevant to an organisation and its stakeholders. in a number of instances changes were made to the final version. We observed that BG Group has endeavoured to focus its report and KPIs on issues that represent the most DNV GL provides a range of other services to BG Group, material for the Group. As part of this, we have noted none of which constitute a conflict of interest with this that data peripheral to the Group’s sustainability strategy assurance work. have been removed in order to provide more focused data and information. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on While we welcome the new indicators in the people section this Assurance Statement. for graduates, we recommend reviewing the effectiveness and design of the graduate retention indicator. BASIS OF OUR OPINION A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed work at BG Group headquarters and at two of BG Group’s operations. We undertook the following activities: BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE VALUING OUR ENVIRONMENT POSITIVE SOCIODATA AND ABOUT OUR OPERATOR AND CLIMATE ECONOMIC IMPACT TARGETS REPORTING INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 47 CONTINUED Reliability Stakeholder inclusiveness The accuracy and comparability of information presented The participation of stakeholders in developing in the report, as well as the quality of underlying data and achieving an accountable and strategic response management systems. to sustainability. BG Group has well-established processes for submission We observed a continuation of BG Group’s response to and approval of data from its operations to Group level issues raised through its 2013 stakeholder engagement systems. We found a limited number of errors and and materiality review. For example, we saw a high degree omissions at Group level and these were corrected prior of transparency in relation to social and environmental to inclusion in the Sustainability Report 2014. considerations in areas considered of high risk by stakeholders, including the Group’s activities in Canada We recommend that BG Group strengthens the controls and Kazakhstan. We have also observed BG Group’s in relation to participation in mandated training as part continuing progress in communications around the of their induction programme. For example, when we areas of water and methane emissions. To keep the assessed the fraud and bribery e-learning, we found that Group’s understanding of stakeholder views current, only one third of new joiners from 2014 had completed this we understand that the stakeholder engagement training, despite all new employees and contractors being and materiality review will be repeated during 2015. required to complete the training within 90 days of joining. There are other mandatory e-learning courses for which Neutrality we did not assess as they fell outside our assurance scope. The extent to which a report provides a balanced account of an organisation’s performance, delivered We also restate last year’s recommendation to improve in a neutral tone. the processes for entering ‘People’ data from countries not using the central HR system. We also restate our BG Group reports on the challenges faced during the recommendation from last year that BG Group improves year throughout the report. The social performance the system for classifying safety incidents. and people sections in particular outline a number of initiatives underway or taken to address the most Responsiveness material challenges. The extent to which an organisation responds to stakeholder issues. We noted the reduction in indicators related to employee diversity. Last year we observed an increased focus on We understand that BG Group has seen an increase diversity information, including the appointment of a in stakeholder requests for sustainability performance new Head of Diversity and the launch of BG Group’s Pride information, in particular from investors and local network. We restate our recommendation to consider communities. The Group’s increased external visibility ways to measure and report progress to further in several areas, including its participation in a number demonstrate implementation. of external climate change initiatives, as well as a review of supporting internal documentation, has helped We note that BG Group saw an 8% rise in their greenhouse increase stakeholder’s confidence that issues are gas emissions intensity for 2014 against their five-year given appropriate attention by Group management. reduction target of 10%. We encourage the Group to continue to monitor their progress in order to meet this We have also noted BG Group’s increase in targeted social target in the coming years. investment, leading to a larger proportion of investments in the areas of STEM education, vocational training and For and on behalf of DNV GL Business Assurance Services livelihood and enterprise developments. We recognise UK Limited London, UK this increase in investment in these three areas aligns 31 March 2015 with BG Group’s targeted social investment strategy. Completeness Whether the report contains sufficient information on the material issues identified by the organisation within KATE BRUINTJES the defined reporting boundaries and period. PRINCIPAL CONSULTANT AND LEAD ASSURER UK SUSTAINABILITY, DNV GL – BUSINESS ASSURANCE BG Group’s reporting of performance including the disclosure of data is comprehensive. We recommend that BG Group should consider reviewing the design of indicators in order to allow for meaningful JON WOODHEAD comparison and analysis. In particular, we noted the REGIONAL ASSESSMENT SERVICES MANAGER removal of the regional breakdown for health and safety AND REVIEWER UK SUSTAINABILITY, DNV GL – indicators, with only consolidated Group totals disclosed BUSINESS ASSURANCE for 2014. We recommend that for the year ahead, BG Group should consider disclosing breakdowns of health and safety indicators to reflect of the Group’s activities in DNV GL – Business Assurance is a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers a more representative manner. to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com BG GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 BG Group plc 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT United Kingdom www.bg-group.com Registered in England & Wales No. 3690065 Designed and produced by Addison Group www.addison-group.net
