Principle Mellon Application (in brief) Mellon Application (extensively) 2014 Annual CSR Report Page 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 1. NewComer's Guide Mellon respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and holds the protection of human rights of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. CSR Charter its employees as a high priority in the context of it's CSR and HR written company policies, which are 3. Code of Conduct summed up in the Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of Conduct, and diffused in the 4. ISO 26000 company's everyday practices and interactions. The company also makes sure all its' suppliers and manufacturers represented support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights with the completion of an evaluation questionnaire administered by the Procurement department (applicable to all principles) To atest the effectiveness of our approach, in 2015 we have applied and successfully received confirmation for the proper application of the international guidance EN ISO26000:2010 from TUV Hellas, which we plan to renew annually. 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit 1. NewComer's Guide Mellon makes a point to ensure the company is not complicit with human rights abuse, through written in human rights abuses. 2. CSR Charter company policies included in the Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of Conduct. 2-4 3. Code of Conduct 4. ISO 26000 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 1.Mellon syndicate Mellon respects the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and upholds the and the effective recognition of the right to collective 2. Collective Agreements freedom of association. This respect is also exemplified by the presence of an employees' syndicate bargaining 3. Local Labour Law within the company. Mellon also recognizes the right to collective bargaining by adopting the collective agreements and local labour law in the countries of its presence. 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour by denouncing such forced and compulsory labour 2. CSR Charter practices and complying to local labour law in the countries of its presence. 3. ISO 26000 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the effective abolition of child of all forms of forced and compulsory labour by denouncing labour 2. CSR Charter such practices and complying to local labour law in the countries of its presence. 3. ISO 26000 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of 1. Selection Policy Mellon upholds the elimination of discrimination regarding employment and occupation with written discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 2. CSR Charter company policies (e.g. Selection Policy) at all levels by applying an equal opportunities policy in its day3. Newcomer's Guide to-day practices, at all phases of personnel management (recruitment and selection, payments and 4. ISO Procedures (ISO 9001) promotions). 2-4 5. Equal Opportunities EU In addition, the company follows ISO procedures that ensure an objective recruitment process and has program also participated in an EU program for the improvement of work-life balance of its employees. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 1. RoHS Direcive Mellon as a VAR (value added reseller) it not in the manufacturing industry, however the company environmental challenges 2. WEEE Directive makes sure all suppliers adhere to environmentally friendly guidelines. More specifically, Mellon ensures 3. CSR Charter its suppliers are in full compliance with RoHS and WEEE directives. Moreover, the majority of our 4. Green CSR initiatives partners have received the international certification for the environmental management system ISO (Recycling, Park cleaning, Tree 140001. Finally, our suppliers have explicit to their activity certifications from the corresponding local planting,etc.) and international carriers. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote 1. WEEE Directive Mellon believes businesses should support initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility as greater environmental responsibility 2. CSR Charter demonstrated in the relevant policies the company adopts and adheres to, its CSR Charter and the 3. Company energy WEEE directive. Moreover, the company monitors its environmental footprint and undertakes initiatives 6 consumption monitoring policy to counterbalance it. 4. ISO 26000 9 Businesses should encourage the development and 1. Supplier evaluation & Mellon has undertaken a number of green initiatives, such as recycling, park cleaning, tree planting etc. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies selection process In addition, an effort is made to create environmental awareness among personnel through training and 2. Green CSR initiatives participation in such initiatives. (Recycling, Park cleaning, Tree Mellon also evaluates its suppliers' policies towards the protection of the environment, through its planting,etc.) supplier evaluation and selection process. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its 1. Code of Conduct Mellon believes in working against corruption in all its forms, as stated in the Code of Conduct and forms, including extortion and bribery 2. ISO 9001 Procedures demonstrated in its ISO policies, such as vendor management and evaluation process, official and 3. Chart of Authority registered contract approval process and by the company's annual customer satisfaction survey. Finally, 4. ISO 26000 a chart of authority is applied to simplify the authorization process, while ensuring transparent processes. Mellon's CSR Charter, CSR reports and other related materials are available at http://mellongroup.com/corporate-social-responsibility Glossary: RoHS: The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) EU Directive bans the placing on the EU market of new electrical and electronic equipment (containing more than agreed levels of lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybromiated bipheny).The aim is to increase the amount of e-waste that is appropriately treated and reduce the number that go to the final disposal. WEEE Directive: The WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) directive imposes the responsibility for the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment on the manufacturers of such equipment. ISO 14001 is a standard for environmental management systems to be implemented in any business, regardless of size, location or income. The aim of the standard is to reduce the environmental footprint of a business and to decrease the pollution and waste a business produces. The ISO 14001 environmental management standards esixt to help organizations minimize how their operations negatively affect the environment. ISO 9001 specifies requirements for a quality management system where an organization needs to demonstrate its ability to consistently provide product that meets customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, and aims to enhance customer satisfaction through the effective application of the system, including processes for continual improvement of the system and the assurance of conformity to customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. ISO 26000 provides guidance on how businesses and organizations can operate in a socially responsible way. This means acting in an ethical and transparent way that contributes to the health and welfare of society.
