UN GLOBAL COMPACT Below is Cermaq's Communication on Progress (COP) on implementing the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Cermaq’s approach and response for each of the ten Principles are summarized in the table below with links to relevant sections in our integrated report 2014. Principle Approach Response Human rights 1. Businesses should support Cermaq supports the UN Cermaq ethical and and respect the protection of Declaration of Human Rights corporate responsibility internationally proclaimed and has made a commitment guidelines human rights. to respecting human rights Human rights performance: throughout its operations, HR 5 including in the supply chain. HR 8 HR 9 2. Businesses should ensure Cermaq has focused on Cermaq ethical and that they are not complicit in integrating human rights corporate responsibility human rights abuses requirements in its supply guidelines chain through the development Human rights performance: of a Supplier Code of Conduct LA 5 in 2014. The Code poses LA 6 requirements to Cermaq’s LA 7 suppliers and sub­suppliers LA 8 regarding the adherence to LA 9 internationally recognized HR 5 human rights. Work to HR 8 implement the Code is ongoing EC 5 in 2015. In Canada, the Group has mutually beneficial agreements with indigenous peoples in Canada and sees this as strong foundation for its operations in areas where indigenous peoples’ rights are affected by Cermaq's operations. Cermaq works actively to ensure that we are compliant with laws and regulations, including that we are not complicit in any human rights abuses in our operations. Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold Cermaq is committed to Cermaq ethical and the freedom of association and dialogue with employees and corporate responsibility the effective recognition of the their unions, and respect guidelines right to collective bargaining. collective agreements at all G4­11 levels. 4. Businesses should uphold Cermaq will not tolerate any Cermaq ethical and the elimination of all forms of form of forced and compulsory corporate responsibility forced and compulsory labour. labour in its operations or in guidelines the operations of its business Human rights performance: partners. HR 9 5. Businesses should uphold Cermaq does not permit child Cermaq ethical and the effective abolition of child labor at any of the company’s corporate responsibility labor. sites or among its suppliers. guidelines Human rights performance; HR 5 6. Businesses should uphold Cermaq does not tolerate any Cermaq ethical and the elimination of form of discrimination or corporate responsibility discrimination in respect to harassment. guidelines employment and occupation. Labour standard and human rights performance: G4­10 G4­11 EC 5 EC 6 Environment 7. Businesses should support Cermaq is committed to Cermaq ethical and a precautionary approach to minimize the environmental corporate responsibility environmental challenges. impacts of its operations. The guidelines operating companies shall Environmental have management systems performance: certified according to the ISO G4­14 14001 standard. Cermaq has EN 11 developed own environmental EN 12 indicators relevant for its EN 14 farming operations, which come in addition to established GRI indicators. 8. Business should undertake Cermaq is one of the founders Cermaq ethical and initiatives to promote greater of Global Salmon Initiative corporate responsibility environmental responsibility. (GSI), an organisation guidelines gathering 70 percent of global Environmental performance salmon farming committed to EN 3 make significant improvements EN 4 in terms of industry EN 5 sustainability and EN 6 environmental excellence EN 15 including aiming for ACS EN 16 certification of all its operations EN 17 by 2020. EN 18 EN 29 CEQ 02 CEQ 04 CEQ 06 Acquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) Global Salmon Initiative 9. Business should encourage Cermaq has an established Cermaq ethical and the development and diffusion research unit, a global team corporate responsibility of environmentally friendly including experts from guidelines technologies. operating companies, and EN27 collaboration with external research groups and institutions. Based on new technology and firm operating procedures, Cermaq obtained six Green Licenses in 2014 in Norway, which requires strict environmental targets and performance. Anti­corruption 10. Businesses should work Cermaq is a member of Cermaq ethical and against corruption in all its Transparency International corporate responsibility forms, including extortion and (Norway), and the company guidelines bribery does not tolerate any forms of Cermaq whistle blowing corruption including extortion or bribes. In 2014, Cermaq guidelines focused on strengthening its Anti­corruption work on anti­corruption in its performance: supply chain through the CEQ 15 establishment of a Supplier SO4 Code of Conduct. In 2013, TI CEQ 12 made an assessment of the largest companies at OSE on their communication about measures against corruption, rating Cermaq at #3.
