UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Over 100 aspiring professionals, mostly from disadvantaged communities, are currently benefitting from the Extended Internship Programme, a pioneering industry-academia partnership initiative by Pakistan Petroleum Limited and NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi Principle 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) respects the dignity and rights of its human resource. Through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme, we also support the right to education, healthcare and basic civic amenities for communities. 3 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Strategic System for Organizational and Human Development ACTIONS 4 The company’s monthly newsletter Progress, now in its 59th year of publication regularly reports on company activities and industry related news. The Urdu version of Progress was initiated in January 2011 to Organizational Surveys increase reach and update staff and stakeholders who were Performance otherwise not able to get firstPPL conducts and participates regularly in organizational hand information due to surveys, enabling the company management to review and language barrier. adopt best practices from benchmark companies. 4 PPL was adjudged ‘Employer of 4 The company participates in various countrywide Human the Year Award 2013’ in the Resource (HR) benchmarking surveys to assess prevailing and Human Resource Development emergent trends. The findings enable PPL to align its HR category as a large public limited system with leading companies and consolidate best practices company by Employers’ already followed by the company. Federation of Pakistan (EFP). The achievement demonstrates the company’s commitment for Pakistan Petroleum Limited providing a conducive work Capacity Building environment for staff while maintaining the highest Performance professional standards. The company regularly organizes training workshops on technical and soft skills to fill-in the capacity gaps and equip employees with current business trends. Besides, informal learning through staff rotation is also streamlined. 4 Based on identified needs, by employees and supervisors, annual staff capacity building plans are devised and implemented through in-house training programmes. 2 Industrial Relations and Employees 4 The company sends its head office staff on regular field visits to seek their opinion and suggestions for work-related improvements. Posting of staff between fields and head office, ACTIONS on a rolling-basis, has been streamlined during the last few years. Also, regular lateral staff rotation within head office has Fair Investigation assisted employees in diversifying their learning and helping the Procedures company to benefit from their experiences. 4 PPL initiated Extended Internship Programme (EIP) in Performance collaboration with NED University of Engineering and PPL protects employee rights, Technology, Karachi (NED) for capacity building of young ensuring equitable treatment and professionals from a cross section of society with special opportunity for all to voice their consideration for marginalized communities, including those views. living around PPL-and partner-operated assets. Over 100 4 The company has an effective enrolled internees attended the first cycle of professional policy for redressal of staff academic sessions at NED. Currently, they are posted at the grievances, if any. head office and fields to get hands-on-experience while 4 Based on laws relevant to its working. various locations, PPL follows 4 PPL has a dedicated Exploration Library that subscribes to leading the Standing (Orders) industry journals to keep staff updated with the latest trends and Ordinance 1968 for official use of technology in the Exploration and Production sector. reprimand of staff. 4 The company has established Data Management Centre to 4 The company organizes town facilitate technical staff for easy access to information. hall meetings for staff to share 4 4 Current reading material, including newspapers, magazines and concern and issues in an open periodicals, are provided to keep staff updated on latest trends communication with the and information. management. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Benefits Healthy Performance Entertainment PPL provides its staff with competitive remuneration for Employees packages as well as strives to facilitate enabling working environment with ample capacity development and career Performance progression opportunities. PPL attaches great importance to 4 In line with the Companies Profits (Worker’s Participation) Act providing sports facilities and 1968, PPL contributes five percent of its net profit to the entertainment for staff. Workers Participation Fund. 4 PPL encourages sports among 4 PPL follows the Employees Old Age Benefits (EOB) Act 1976, head office and field employees contributing five percent of minimum basic salary to EOB such as Annual Inter-location institutions with employees’ participation of 1 percent. Cricket Tournaments. Besides, the company has teams for 4 The company pays Statutory Bonus under Section 10-C of the various sports such as cricket West Pakistan Industrial and Commercial Employment and table tennis that participate (Standing Order) Ordinance 1968 as well as Annual in contests/ matches with other Settlement Bonus to non-management staff. organizations. 4 Annual Leave Fare Assistance is given to non-management 4 The company maintains a fullystaff in addition to monthly remuneration. Pakistan Petroleum Limited equipped health and fitness 4 PPL also extends loans to staff for house construction/ facility to keep its employees renovation and purchase of vehicle. mentally and physically fit. Head 4 The company offers 13 annual scholarships to children of Office Sports Club remains permanent non-management staff, with four scholarships for available for staff recreation post-intermediate and professional and 9 for post-matriculation during lunch break and after education. working hours. The club at Sui 4 Free bachelor accommodation along with necessary utilities is Gas Field (SGF) also has a given to field-stationed staff. jogging track, badminton, tennis and squash courts and a 4 Gratis Hajj and Umrah facilities are provided to workers. swimming pool for staff use. 4 PPL provides pick-and-drop transport facility to women staff. Besides, the company has 4 The company provides a nutritious and balanced lunch facility proper indoor games/ recreation for management staff and women employees at the head facilities at all field locations. PPL office. also organizes indoor games competition among head office and field employees. Employee Recognition 4 PPL organizes musical and other cultural programmes for Performance employees. PPL follows fair and transparent policies and procedures to 4 Company management and staff recognize and reward high standards of performance and celebrate religious and cultural enhance staff motivation. festivals as well as national days. 4 Performance Excellence Awards are given on an annual basis to employees in recognition of their outstanding achievements in both tangible and intangible categories, including innovation, creativity, cost savings, productivity gains and complexity reduction. The scheme also sets out to establish role models within the organization that other employees can emulate. 4 PPL considers human capital its premium asset and acknowledges longevity of service, ranging from 15 to 40 years, through annual long service awards. 4 The company arranges farewells for retiring staff in appreciation 5 of their services. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress are in use at Kandhkot, Preventing Forcible Displacement Mazarani, Adhi and Hala fields as well as regional office in of Individuals Islamabad. Performance 4 To ensure safe operations at plants together with proactively Due to its strict adherence to prescribed laws, PPL has never avoiding incidental environmental had a case of forcible displacement of employees. releases, ‘Process Safety Management’ project based on Employment Policy for Handicapped and OSHA (Occupational Safety and Disabled People Health Administration) 3132 principles has been initiated. A 4 PPL follows the Disabled Persons (Employment and regular system is expected to be Rehabilitation) Ordinance 1981 and ensures employment of built up during mid-2015. handicapped personnel. 4 Dry riser system has been 4 In line with the Workmen Compensation Act in matters related to commissioned at the head office disability, alternate job assignments are given to disabled staff. in line with National Fire Protection Association to safely combat major fire incidents at the 3 Employee Safety premises. Pakistan Petroleum Limited and Security ACTIONS Employee Travel Safety Safe Working Conditions Performance PPL regularly arranges training Performance Employee safety and security is one of PPL’s top priorities. programmes on defensive and The company has dedicated Security and Quality, Health, evasive driving and road sense Safety and Environment departments to ensure hazard-free and safety for company staff. working conditions and has taken the following initiatives to help protect its employees from risky situations and 4 Any unsafe driving practices, conditions: travel route issues, vehicle or employee complaints regarding 4 Safety alerts and travel advisories are regularly sent to transport are reported to the employees. Administration Department for 4 Employees are provided personal protective equipment (PPE) necessary countermeasures. and clothing according to the nature of their job. 4 All company vehicles are 4 Safety and fire drills are regularly conducted as per Health, regularly inspected for fitness/ Safety and Environment (HSE) requirements at head office and tuning/ service at designated all field locations. workshops/ garages. 4 HSE awareness and training sessions on firefighting, incident 4 Wearing seat belts is mandatory investigation and reporting and permit-to-work system are for company transport drivers regularly held. Besides, safety talk, highlighting measures for and employees using company common and emerging issues, is regularly shared with staff vehicles. A policy is in place to through local portal. bind staff to wear seat belts. 4 Security passes are compulsory for PPL employees at the head 4 All PPL employees are insured office and field locations. while travelling locally, 4 ‘Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Management’ domestically or internationally. processes are shared with staff, particularly on fields, for 4 Use of mobile phones is compliance. Field-based HSE representatives provide training to prohibited while driving company all concerned for conducting risk assessment of routine and vehicles. project activities at PPL locations. 4 First aid boxes and fire 6 4 Head Count System in the form of T-Card is implemented at extinguishers are placed in all PPL fields and drilling sites. As a quick and accurate estimation company vehicles. of personnel’s location at various field sites, the T-Card boards UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 ACTIONS Health Basic Health Facilities Performance PPL extends a comprehensive health plan and medical policy to employees and their families. The company has qualified doctors for providing medical consultation Healthy Environment for Employees Performance and treatment in the head office PPL supports a safe and healthy workplace by enhancing and field locations. staff health and well-being. 4 The company provides medical 4 Periodic check-ups at all field locations are carried out for fire assistance to all employees, extinguishers, fire alarms and sprinklers. including their immediate family, 4 Assessment of Occupational Health, Safety and Environment and pensioners as per medical (OHSE) performance against identified Key Performance policy. Indicators, including Loss Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) for the 4 PPL maintains a city clinic in year, PPE compliance by employees and contract staff in Karachi, providing services in two routine and project activities and implementation of annual shifts, to ensure easy access for work plans, is undertaken through regular monitoring and employees and their families. conducting awareness sessions. As a result, the company Besides, PPL has a full-fledged Pakistan Petroleum Limited achieved remarkable milestone of zero LTIF in 2014. hospital located within SGF. At 4 The company has developed an Occupational Health other company fields and Surveillance Programme (OHSP) to ensure healthy locations, Kandhkot, Adhi, environment for employees by keeping a check on workMazarani, Hala and Gambat related illness/ diseases. OHSP was reviewed to bring it par South, proper arrangements for with International Association of Oil & Gas Producers’ emergency medical care are in Guidelines on Health Management and would soon be place. implemented. Meanwhile, midterm strategic plan is in place for 4 PPL follows the Factories Act – conducting gap analysis across the fields against the revised 1934, Mines Act – 1923 and Oil procedure. and Gas (Safety in Drilling and Production) Regulations –1974, which include employee personal hygiene, environment, emergency medical assistance and periodic medical check-ups. 4 Health awareness sessions are regularly conducted by company doctors and guest consultants for informing and updating staff on preventive measures and treatment of common diseases and outbreaks. 4 Ex-gratia payments are made to staff in case of prolonged sickness. 4 Clean drinking water is provided to staff at all locations. 7 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 5 Corporate Social Responsibility PPL stands committed to community development • which 18 have completed their degree programmes. Four-year scholarship programme offers 30 annual scholarships for grade IX to XII through provision of education, healthcare, students from Balochistan to study at reputed educational institutions across the country. infrastructure, livelihood generation and post-disaster rehabilitation support and has allocated minimum 1.5 Starting 2011-2012, 100 percent of its pre-tax profit for CSR activities. students have so far benefitted from the scheme. • The company regularly The company spent around Rs. 1,226 million for supports Balochistan Public CSR initiatives during July 2013 to June 2014 and about Rs. 415 million during July 2014 to March School (BPS), Sui which provides quality secondary education to local boys from 2015, which is over and above its minimum commitment. grade VII to XII through a residential facility. Earlier, PPL ACTIONS contributed nearly Rs. 20 million for renovation of school building and construction of hostel and Pakistan Petroleum Limited Education messing facility. In 2009, PPL’s Board of Directors approved 12 Performance annual scholarships for six years for deserving local As its key CSR priority, PPL promotes educational facilities students to study at BPS. The for rural communities, especially around the company’s last tranche of scholarship was operational areas, to improve their quality of life. provided during 2014-2015, 4 The company has been providing quality education to children bringing the total number of of employees and local communities at Sui Model School beneficiaries to 72. (SMS) since1957. SMS was upgraded to girls’ college in 2009. • PPL signed a MoU with Lahore Currently, the college offers education to 50 girls and the University of Management school caters to nearly 2900 students both boys and girls. Sciences (LUMS) to create an 4 The company constructed and later operationalized Computer endowment fund for its Training Centre and Library (CTCL) at Sui in 2010 for general National Outreach Programme public and engaged Kalsoft, an Information Technology to finance two deserving company, to operate the centre. So far, 730 locals have been students from PPL’s trained through three-month basic computer courses, offered operational areas each year initially, and, later replaced with, six-month Certificate in for a period of four years. Two Information Technology. Besides, over 650 residents are students from Balochistan registered as regular library visitors. have so far been inducted at 4 The company provides free-of-cost transport facility to LUMS. The scholarship covers students of Taaleem Foundation Grammar School (TFGS) and admission and tuition fee, Federal Government Public School (FGPS), Sui. Besides, PPL accommodation and messing has extended infrastructure and in-kind support to both facility with an annual cost of schools since inception. Rs. 1.85 million per scholar. 4 PPL regularly provides the following scholarships for local • A scholarship scheme under students residing around its operational fields to enable them the National Talent Hunt to acquire quality education at renowned institutions: Programme of Institute of • Higher Professional Education Scholarship (HPES) scheme Business Administration (IBA), was initiated in 2005 to support both boys and girls in District Karachi was initiated in 2012 Dera Bugti to pursue education at leading universities/ for students of Balochistan and colleges across the country. The scheme was extended to Khyber Pukhtunkhwa who include students living around PPL-operated remaining qualify the entry test and 8 producing assets during 2009. To date, HPES has benefited secure admission at IBA. So more than 115 students in Dera Bugti, among these 82 have far, 6 students have benefitted completed studies, and about 52 in the remaining areas, of from the scheme. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 The company covers operational expenses of its two 4 The company provided Rs. 6 adopted schools in District Kambar Shahdadkot. million to Institute for Special 4 In 2011, PPL constructed and operationalized three Children (ISC) Quetta to purchase primary schools in Kandhkot near its operational field in 100 Frequency Modular (FM) partnership with The Citizen’s Foundation (TCF). The systems. The FM system improves company created an endowment fund of about Rs. 83 hearing for auditory challenged million for establishment and operationalization of these individuals and facilitates learning. schools over a period of 10 years. To date, nearly 600 Earlier, PPL had donated 100 FM students, both girls and boys, are enrolled at these systems, furniture, computers and schools. The company also established PPL-TCF Tando bus to ISC. Mohammad Khan campus on the same lines in March To further its efforts in promoting 2014 which currently enrols 130 students from education, especially in remote kindergarten to grade III. PPL provided Rs. 12 million for areas, PPL has made contribution/ construction and furnishing and Rs. 4.5 million for donations and provided support to operational expenses for three years. the following institutions, including: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2014March 2015 (Rs. in millions) Babaza Foundation Trust for purpose-built school in Korangi, Karachi 6 Pakistan Petroleum Limited Government Girls High School, Miana Mohra, Adhi for Science Lab 9 Government Degree College Kharan for library and Information 5 Technology room Academic Blocks Government Boys Elementary School, Somen, District Barkhan 3.5 Government Boys Primary School Dhok Kayal, District Rawalpindi, Punjab 3 Government Boys High School, Karak, District Khuzdar 2 Government Elementary School, Mashkhel, District Washuk 1.4 Government Elementary School, Palantak, District Washuk 1.4 Government Girls High School, Azizabad, District Kharan 4.5 Government Girls Primary School, Babu Muhallah, District Kharan 1.6 Government Girls Primary School, Sanjer Khan Junejo, District Sanghar 8 Centre for Development and Social Services for academy’s endowment 0.200 fund NED University for annual project conference & dinner 0.125 Department of Geology, University of Karachi for a study visit 0.035 NED University for DICE Energy 2014 0.060 The Lyceum School for inter-school business competition 0.250 Shaheen Karachi Grammar School as annual donation 0.025 NED University, Petroleum Engineering Department to cover travel 0.108 expenses for students’ participation in a conference at Muscat Tabani School of Accountancy for Gold Medal 2014 0.090 SZABIST for Gold Medal sponsorship 0.040 Designing of Roshan Tara High School building 0.350 IBA for Alumni Homecoming Dinner 2015 0.300 Mehran University of Engineering and Technology for National Petro contest 0.050 Society of Economic Geologists & Mineral Technologists for publishing 0.200 International Journal of Economic and Environment Geology 9 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Healthcare Initiatives and Research Centre at Thalassemia Care Centre with an investment of Rs. 13 million for construction, equipment and Performance The company has provided extensive medical facilities in development. The construction in some of the remotest regions of Pakistan through building nearing completion. and assisting hospitals, rural health/ mother and childcare 4 The company is supporting Jinnah centres, mobile dispensaries and medical camps. Postgraduate Medical Centre for 4 PPL runs a fully equipped Sui Field Hospital (SFH) at SGF since treatment of 50 cancer patients the early 1960s. The hospital provides free-of-cost medical annually, belonging to its facilities to a large number of local patients in addition to PPL producing assets in Balochistan field staff. SFH is equipped with latest medical facilities and a 24and Sindh, through CyberKnife hour emergency ward to cater to trauma and accident patients. Robotic Radiosurgery technology, 4 Fully-equipped mobile medical dispensary (MMD) regularly up to a period of three years, visits more than 15 villages/ locations around SGF, Kandhkot starting 2013-2014. Rs. 5 million and Mazarani fields on a weekly/ bimonthly basis to provide was provided during 2014-2015 free healthcare facility to locals residing in the area. as the second tranche of Approximately 100 to 150 patients are reached on a daily donation. basis through each MMD. The dispensary refers cases for 4 PPL has committed to support further investigation and treatment to relevant hospitals. treatment of 50 patients annually, 4 To cater to a large number of unreached local patients, PPL for a period of three years, starting Pakistan Petroleum Limited constructed, furnished and equipped a 50-bed PPL Public 2012-2013, at Model Addiction Welfare Hospital (PPL PWH) in Sui Town with an investment of Treatment and Rehabilitation over Rs. 350 million on land provided by Government of Centre of Anti Narcotic Force. The Balochistan, who also runs the facility. The hospital has third tranche of Rs. 2 million was necessary facilities, including gynaecology and obstetrics, provided during 2014-2015. emergency and operation theatres. The out-patient faculty of 4 Surgical and other related PPL PWH commenced in December 2013 and caters to over equipment and fixtures were 300 patients on a daily basis. provided to Tehsil Headquarter 4 PPL provides free medicines to Rural Health Centre, Sui on a Hospital, Karor, District Layyah at monthly basis. a cost of Rs 6.5 million. 4 The company holds bi-annual free-of-cost surgical eye camps 4 The company constructed a around its operational fields for treatment of ophthalmic surgical ward for women at diseases in partnership with Al-Shifa Trust Eye Hospital District Headquarters Hospital, (ASTEH). Khuzdar at a cost of about 5 4 PPL adopted Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre’s Triple Merger million and a dispensary at Centres at Turbat and Panjgur in Balochistan and Kandhkot in Chutto Khan Waggan, at District Sindh in 2005. Since then, the company has been supporting Naushahro Feroz with an input of operations for these centres with an annual cost of Rs. 3 nearly Rs. 3.5 million. million. The centres extend free-of cost diagnosis and treatment To support viable community for leprosy, blindness and tuberculosis to local communities. healthcare projects and services, 4 To strengthen research for prevention and early diagnosis of PPL has provided donations/ Thalassemia, PPL is supporting the District Government sponsorships to various institutions/ Badin, Sindh to develop Thalassemia Diagnostic, Prevention initiatives, including the following: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2014March 2015 (Rs. in millions) Make-A-Wish Foundation for fundraising dinner 2014 0.010 Dar-ul-Sukun for conference on Disability Sensitization 0.050 Farmers Development Organization for purchase of tri-cycles for 0.300 disabled persons Karawan-e-Hayat, Karachi for annual fundraising event 0.200 ASTEH for purchase of portable phacoemulsification machines 7.50 10 Sheikh Zayed Hospital for liver transplant facility 4 Basic Health Unit, Budhapur, District Jamshoro for an ambulance 0.200 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Enhancing Livelihood Opportunities Infrastructure Performance Development PPL realizes that changing the fate of marginalized communities is better addressed through creating livelihood Performance options on a sustainable basis. The company has invested PPL recognizes that provision of substantially in engaging people, both men and women, in meaningful, durable earning livelihoods through sustained sources of income. infrastructure is a key to 4 The company has set-up a Women Welfare Centre (WWC) in development and sustained Sui since 2006 in FGPS’s premises to provide skill learning economic growth, especially in opportunities for local women. So far, over 400 women have the far-flung areas. The company benefitted from the centre, which is currently run by Pakistan has focused on developing Army. Later, PPL constructed and furnished a purpose-built infrastructure and civic amenities facility for WWC at a cost of over Rs. 32 million within the not only for its own use but also TFGS premises and provided equipment and material. The for local communities. new facility will be run by Taaleem Foundation, a renowned 4 PPL has initiated construction civil society organization working in Balochistan. and renovation of 8.5 km long 4 PPL is extending infrastructure and maintenance support for road from Indus Highway to Technical Training Centre, Sui since the 1990s. Starting 2009, Punhal Khan Golo village, the company also provides annual scholarships to top 15 District Kashmore, expected to Pakistan Petroleum Limited graduating students to pursue diploma level studies in be completed by mid-2015, at a recognized polytechnics across the country. To date, 46 cost of Rs. 60 million. students have benefitted from the scheme. 4 Two water supply schemes are 4 The company established Women Vocational Training Centre being built in District Jamshoro (WVTC) in Mastala near its Adhi Field in 2011 to facilitate local surrounding company-operated women in increasing their income potential. The centre is run Kotri North Block for Budhapur by Behbud Association of Pakistan, a non-governmental and Manjhand towns at a cost of organization. PPL constructed and furnished the facility and Rs. 6 million. provides resource material and operational expenses at a cost 4 Five water supply schemes have of Rs. 7 million. WVTC trains women in embroidery, tailoring been initiated in remote villages and basic literacy skills. To date, over 400 women from of District Washuk, Balochistan surrounding communities have benefitted. at a cost of over Rs. 6 million. 4 Women Vocational and Skills Development Center, Kotri, 4 To address power outrages District Jamshoro is being constructed by PPL at a cost of Rs. affecting public water supply 9 million to enable local women from Kotri town to increase scheme at District Jherai, District their livelihood generation options. Lasbela, Balochistan, PPL installed a 15 kilowatts solar Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2014March 2015 energy system at a cost of Rs. 3 (Rs. in millions) million to ensure uninterrupted water supply to local residents. EFP for organizing Employer of the Year Award 2013 0.050 Pakistan Society of Training and Development (PSTD) 0.100 4 PPL provides free-of-cost gas for Annual Learning Conference 2014 and water supplies to over 40000 residents of Sui town and Pakistan Association of Petroleum Geoscientists 1.250 for Annual Technical Conference 2014 villages around SGF. An average of 4 to 5 MMscfd free gas and more than two million gallons of drinking water is pumped daily to Sui town at an annual cost of about Rs. 500 million and Rs. 200 million, respectively. 4 PPL in partnership with GoB has undertaken a new water supply system for Sui town to address line losses and pilferages on the 11 existing PPL water supply line. With a contribution of Rs. 135 million, the company has UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress constructed trunk lines, overhead and storage tanks and pump communities on a long term houses and provided pumping machinery with independent basis. The rehabilitation electrification system. programme is being implemented 4 To provide free-of-cost potable water to over 3000 resident of at three union councils in District Ghaibi Dero (GD) town and its surrounding villages near Kashmore near PPL’s producing Mazarani Gas Field, PPL runs a water supply scheme using a field in partnership with a local bowzer facility since 2010 at an annual cost of about Rs. 4 civil society organization, focusing million. Potable water is brought from a safe source and stored on infrastructure development/ in two storage tanks at GD from where it is collected by repair of educational, healthcare, communities. agricultural and water supply facilities together with training of locals. So far, over 30 schemes have been completed in 25 villages at a cost of nearly Post-disaster Relief Rs. 15 million. 4 The company’s Board of Directors approved Rs. 40 million Performance In times of national emergencies, PPL has always provided for donation to the Prime support to victims of disaster-hit areas through substantial Minister’s Relief Fund for donations in cash and kind. Moreover, the company also Internally Displaced Persons invests in long-term rehabilitation of affected communities. (IDPs) of North Waziristan Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 PPL established and operationalized a Rehabilitation Centre in Agency as a result of Zarb-i-Azb Bagh in 2006 for the October 8, 2005 Earthquake victims, operation by the Pakistan Army. needing prostheses and orthoses treatment. The centre is 4 A special mobile medical service managed by Chal Foundation and extends physiotherapy and was run by PPL during counselling services for physical and psychological September 2014 to provide freemanagement of the disability besides provision of limbs to of-cost consultation and affectees. PPL has created an endowment fund worth Rs. 24 treatment to approximately 1800 million since 2010 to support the centre’s operational cost. patients from flood affected 4 During 2010 floods, PPL not only provided relief to affectees but areas and IDPs at District also allocated Rs. 50 million for rehabilitation of affected Kashmore. 12 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Social Welfare Performance The company has a diverse, need-based social welfare policy. With a minimum pre-tax profit of 1.5 percent, PPL’s CSR initiatives go well beyond obligatory requirements to support the disadvantage communities. To ensure optimum onground implementation and impact, PPL works through government, local civil society organizations and local communities. 4 The company won the Pakistan Corporate Philanthropy Award instituted by the Pakistan Centre for Philanthropy for nine consecutive years from 2004 to 2012. 4 To support organizations providing welfare services, enabling neglected societal segments to prosper and promoting environmental and cultural values, PPL has given generous donations to the following: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2014March 2015 (Rs. in millions) World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Pakistan for Earth Hour (EH) 2015 0.150 WWF Pakistan for tree plantation campaign 0.100 TCF for Golf Tournament 2014 0.125 Pakistan Petroleum Limited National Academy of Performing Arts for fundraising dinner and performance 0.150 Distinguished Secretaries Society of Pakistan for 22 Association of Secretaries nd 0.030 and Administrative Professionals’ Congress Islamabad Cricket Club of the Blind for 2nd Prime Minister National T20 Tournament 0.100 Karachi Boat Club for Inter-school Regatta 0.125 Petroleum Institute of Pakistan for exhibition at 21st World Petroleum Congress 0.200 New World Concepts for Women Leaders Conference 0.200 PSTD for Women Business and Leadership Conference 2015 0.150 The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan for CFO Conferences 2015 0.350 District Football Association Kashmore for All Pakistan Football Tournament 2014 0.300 Project Management Institute Karachi, Pakistan Chapter for a seminar 0.010 Karachi Cricket Association of the Deaf for cricket festival 0.025 Khurram Printing Press for printing of Javed Saba's book on poetry 0.040 EFP for organizing 9th OSHE Awards 0.100 Ali Hasan Mangi Memorial Trust as donation 0.300 Tarz Group for a musical event 0.200 PSTD for 2nd National HSE and Sustainable Development Summit 0.100 Sindh Rural Support Organization for Sartyoon Sang Craft Festival 0.100 National Forum for Environment & Health for 7 International CSR Summit th 0.150 Karwan-e-Hayat for a fund raising play 0.200 Inner Wheel Club, Karachi Metropolitan for fund raising event 0.030 All Pakistan Music Conference for Annual Musical Festival 2015 0.150 St. Patrick's College for fund raising event 0.150 Pakistan Foundation for Fighting Blindness for fund raising event 0.100 13 Principle 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is highly committed to conducting its business in accordance with the highest ethical and legal standards. 14 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 4 In compliance with Oil & Gas Regulatory Authority’s directives ETHICS to implement ‘Protection Against Harassment of Women at Workplace (PAHWW) Act 2010’, ACTIONS the company took the following measures: • Circulated brochures on salient Adherence to Highest Corporate Values features of the Act, including instructions on compliance, to Performance all employees. PPL’s vision, mission and values are testament to the • Company’s harassment policy importance the company places on corporate ethics. As was prominently placed on the such, the company expects its employees to adhere to the PPL website and portal. following core values: • A three-member committee, 4 Promote leadership, empowerment and accountability including a women staff, was 4 Pursue highest standards of integrity constituted to address staff grievances. 4 Value people as the most important resource • Awareness sessions for staff 4 Promote innovation and value creation were organized on PAHWW 4 Ensure excellence in all spheres of performance Pakistan Petroleum Limited Act 2010 and PPL’s 4 Advocate teamwork aligned with business objectives harassment policy. 4 Conserve environment by minimizing carbon footprint 4 Any suspected violations or actions that create hostile or offensive work environment such as sexual harassment or Code of Conduct insensitive comments concerning gender, religion, Performance race, disability or age are promptly reported to Ethical commitments and values remain the centre piece of management that ensures PPL’s Code of Conduct, compliance to which is mandatory appropriate actions in line with for all employees. Standard Operating 4 The Code of Conduct for directors and employees were Procedures. revisited by the Board of Directors in line with the changes in 4 Violations of the Code of the Code of Corporate Governance of Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. The revised Code of Conduct are viewed seriously Conduct, which was disseminated across PPL for compliance, and have often resulted in further stresses on professionalism from directors and disciplinary actions and, in some employees. cases, led to termination of service. 4 All incoming employees and trainees sign and submit an undertaking to ensure clear understanding and acceptance and uphold the company’s Code of Conduct. 4 PPL requires its employees to maintain an environment free from prejudice, harassment and disruptive activities. 15 Principle 3 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT We acknowledge and respect rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We are committed to addressing issues, problems and grievances proactively to regulate the company’s operations with dignity of labour, minimization of animosity and fostering a relationship of trust between management and workers. 16 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Industrial Relations ACTIONS 4 The office bearers of the trade union enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilities without any interference from management. 4 All terms and conditions of employment of workers are Freedom of Association reviewed bi-annually and discussed in a friendly Performance environment with CBA. After bilateral negotiations, a The company believes in the freedom of opinion and handsome increase in wages expression of all stakeholders and seeks to ensure a and other allowances are paid congenial and equitable working environment as per law. through settlement. 4 The company complies with the Industrial Relations Act, wherein 4 Policies on salaries and employees are free to join any trade union of their choice. allowances as well as other 4 PPL has a registered trade union, Pakistan Petroleum Workers benefits such as medical, leave Union, of which most workers are members. and travel are duly discussed and finalized with the CBA every two years. 4 The company has not witnessed Pakistan Petroleum Limited Collective Bargaining any strike, legal or illegal, or Performance lockout during the last five years. The company management and Collective Bargaining Agent 4 No cases of unfair labour (CBA) work towards creating a cordial working environment practices have been filed by the for workers at all field locations. union. 4 The CBA together with stewards and union members, 4 The company provides special coordinates with management to improve working conditions leave to CBA union/employees and redress job-related issues. for appearance in court cases, if it is party to disputes. 4 Negotiations of the Charter of Demands are always settled amicably with CBA representatives. 4 Initiatives for change are undertaken by incorporating the union’s suggestions to ensure hassle-free implementation. 17 Principle 4 Business should support the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL supports abolition of child labour and elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its areas of operations or by any of its business partners and contractors. 18 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Employees 4 Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period. 4 Exit notice period for workers is 30 days and for management, ACTIONS professional and technical staff is 90 days. Procedure for Preventing 4 Exit interviews are taken to solicit feedback and institute corrective Under-age Employment measures, if necessary. Performance The company strictly forbids child labour and actively prevents hiring under-age workers. Record of Checking 4 All PPL permanent workers are in the adult person (18 years Minimum Wage Rate and above) category, in accordance with the law. 4 To prevent under-age hiring, the ages of all workers are Against Regulated confirmed through national identity cards, birth certificates, Amount educational certificates or Form ‘B’ issued by the National Database and Registration Authority. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Performance The company keeps its wage policy in line with governmental directives to ensure fair corporate governance. Procedure for Preventing Forced Labour 4 All workers in the company (both permanent and contract) are Performance employed above the minimum The company follows strict procedures to prevent forced wage rate as specified by the labour. government and paid competitively in accordance with 4 Employment agreement clearly states terms and conditions of market norms. service, voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and any conditions associated with departure or cessation of work. 4 Employment agreements do not violate any human rights or labour laws. 19 Principle 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to providing equal opportunities for employment as well as growth without any discrimination on the basis of race, gender, religion, language, social origin, birth or other status. 20 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTION Recruitment 2 ACTIONS Employees Equal Employment Opportunity Enabling working conditions for Performance diversified workforce PPL’s employment policy provides equal opportunities for employment and discourages all forms of employee Performance discrimination. As a leading employer and 4 PPL is an equal opportunity employer and provides equal responsible corporate citizen, opportunity to women employees. PPL provides an enabling 4 Women employees are placed at various levels in the environment for professional organization, ranging from non-management to senior growth, with equity, security and management positions. human dignity, irrespective of 4 The company employs men and women employees under gender or religion. Pakistan Petroleum Limited standard screening processes based on merit and job 4 PPL has a diversified workforce suitability. and does not discriminate on the 4 There are equitable career paths and opportunities for women basis of race, colour, gender, employees. religion, disability or family status in recruitment, training or 4 To further emphasize equitable participation of working women advancement of its employees. and address their issues at workplace, the company celebrates International Women’s Day and Working Women’s 4 Minorities are given special Day. Dedicated sessions are organized for women employees holidays in accordance with their to increase awareness about their role and responsibilities and religious festivals to ensure an address their issues. open and moderate culture and environment across the company. Career Plan: No Discrimination in Staff Promotions Performance 4 Hiring and promotions are done on merit, professional performance and qualification. 21 Principle 7 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to environmental conservation by complying with National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). 22 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Environmental Management environmental issues while meeting stakeholders’ expectations. 4 All PPL-operated fields are registered with Federal EPA under Self Monitoring and Reporting Programme for Health, Safety and Environment monthly testing through external laboratory and reporting against emission parameters prescribed by NEQS. Performance 4 PPL’s HSE Policy recognizes management’s commitment to the health and safety of its employees, contractors and visitors and ensuring environmental conservation in company operations. The policy was revised in 2014 as Environmental Aspect QHSE policy to ensure quality in operations with further emphasis on ‘embedding green practices, proactive risk Impact Analysis management, complying with relevant laws and maintaining communication with stakeholders to promote sustainability. Performance The policy is displayed prominently at all locations and can 4 The company has devised be accessed through the company’s website: Environmental Aspect Impact Pakistan Petroleum Limited http://www.ppl.com.pk/content/policies Analysis (EAIA) procedure for all 4 Environmental management has been given a top priority in operational activities at its fields/ running business operations. PPL has a well-defined HSE exploration blocks in line with Management System developed in line with internationally international EMS and OHSAS recognized ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standards. EAIA helps in (EMS) and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment proactively identifying and Series (OHSAS) 18001. The system provides continuous evaluating potential assessment and monitoring against standard parameters to environmental hazards and taking ensure the highest level of safety and minimal damage to appropriate precautionary control surrounding natural environment. measures to mitigate impacts. 4 PPL is an active member of Pakistan Petroleum Exploration and Production Companies Association and participates in its HSE committee meetings. These meetings provide a forum to discuss latest industry practices, use of technology Precautionary and benchmarking in HSE management system. Measures Performance Environmental Studies 4 Noise monitoring and abatement is ensured for safe working Performance environment in high noise areas. For this, enclosures, sound 4 Initial Environment Examination (IEE) and Environment barriers and PPE are provided, Impact Assessment (EIA) studies are consistently as appropriate. undertaken for all development initiatives, including drilling, 4 To control accidental leakage, seismic operations and projects, in compliance with adequate control arrangements Pakistan Environmental Protection Act, 1997. IEE/ EIA aim such as barriers and spill control to identify potential environmental impacts at development kits are available at all sites and advise mitigation measures accordingly. The operational areas. Besides, studies are submitted to relevant provincial Environmental designated teams are trained to Protection Agencies (EPA) for approval. Once approved, handle incidental spills. IEE/ EIA provide a benchmark for regular internal and external monitoring against suggested mitigation measures. 4 Independent Environmental Monitoring is carried out for seismic and drilling operations in environmentally sensitive 23 areas through reputed specialized consultants to ensure compliance with recommended methodologies, legal requirements and company’s HSE standards to address Principle 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL ensures proactive acceptance of its responsibility and accountability for environmental imperatives. The company recognizes that operational excellence cannot be achieved without embedding HSE considerations in business decision making processes. PPL remains committed to raising environmental awareness among staff, suppliers and dealers for encouraging eco-friendly practices. 24 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Awareness Raising 2 Environmental Responsibility ACTION ACTIONS Enhancing Environmental Awareness Eco-friendly practices Performance Performance 4 Awareness raising sessions and training, focusing on PPL is adopting eco-friendly environment and sustainability, are regularly held to apprise practices to minimize damage to staff on emerging issues. HSE safety talk, alerts and bulletin natural resources through its boards are effectively utilized to promote conservation. operations in line with its Besides, HSE weeks and international days such as World commitment towards Environment Day are regularly celebrated through special sustainability. The following green sessions and activities to foster conservation efforts, green practices are adopted by PPL: practices and safe working culture. 4 Light-Emitting Diode (LED) 4 ‘Sustainable Energy Management’ was introduced in 2011 to technology is used in several promote energy conservation at all fields. Initially, baseline existing projects and promoted Pakistan Petroleum Limited data for consumption pattern at each field was collected. Since for all new projects and then, significant improvement has been achieved against each expansion activities. LEDs has year’s bench mark in conserving electricity, gas, fuel and water many advantages over traditional as well as waste generation. incandescent light sources, 4 PPL offices and fields have been declared ‘No Smoking Zone’ including lower energy and separate smoking areas are designated for smokers. The consumption, longer lifetime, non-smoking policy is displayed in all departments and improved physical robustness, locations. smaller size and faster switching. 4 PPL is a corporate member of the Pakistan Chapter of World 4 Tree cutting is avoided during Business Council for Sustainable Development. The company seismic activities and site works with partners to encourage local organizations to adopt restoration is simultaneously business practices based on sustainable development carried out for even minor principles. removal of flora/ vegetation through green teams. 4 PPL is a corporate member of leading environmental organizations, including WWF, and participates in relevant 4 Tree plantation campaigns are events and campaigns. The company observes as well as undertaken at company-operated sponsors EH since its inception in Pakistan in 2010. PPL is an fields and exploration assets to associate of Karachi Water Partnership and supports similar off-set emissions and improve initiatives led by key civil society organizations, including ambience. Hissar Foundation. 4 Water-based mud, which is 4 The company is currently sponsoring an afforestation drive known for compatibility with over 400-acre forest area in District Kashmore with 300000 natural soil, is preferred over oilsapling to be planted during two years, starting 2014. based mud that requires special treatment for disposal for all drilling operations. 4 Biodegradable explosives are used during seismic surveys. 4 Electronic communication together with duplex printing is promoted to reduce paper usage. 25 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Evaluation of HSE Performance Performance 4 The HSE Executive committees at field and head office, comprising senior management and field staff, regularly evaluates activities at various company locations, provides feedback and monitors compliance. 4 Internal audits of departments/ fields are carried out in line with annual audit plans to assess implementation of HSE Management System and performance. Inspections, spot checks and suggestion forms are used during the process with participation of all staff. In addition, external audits are also carried out to verify compliance to ISO 14001 EMS and OHSAS 18001 certifications. 4 14 fields and facilities, including Kandhkot, Adhi, Mazarani and Chachar fields, Sui Field Gas Compressor Station, Sui Production, Sui Field Engineering, Sui Stores, Sui Hospital together with Drilling and Well Engineering, Design and Construction, HSE, Exploration and Projects departments Pakistan Petroleum Limited have been certified for ISO 14001 EMS and OHSAS 18001. While Sui Purification is also certified for OHSAS18001. 4 PPL received the Occupational Safety, Health and Environment Best Practices Awards 2014 conferred by EFP. 26 Principle 9 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL believes in the use of emerging environmentfriendly technologies, especially for new projects, to reduce its carbon footprint. 27 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Environment-friendly Technologies composting of food waste is also carried out. 4 Emissions from all equipment at company facilities are controlled through in-house maintenance ACTION programmes and end of pipeline solutions. 4 Process water is contained in Waste management and emission control ponds lined with pit line for evaporation. Alternatively, Performance wastewater evaporator and forced draft evaporation systems are The company seeks to minimize adverse environmental also utilized for treating effluent impact of its operations through the use of innovative water in order to eliminate soil technology. Besides, PPL is focussing on adopting/ and ground-water contamination. embedding environment-friendly technology in all new project designs. 4 A pilot project for waste water treatment using an 4 PPL has a well-defined waste disposal and management unconventional method procedure, which is effectively implemented across the ‘Constructed Wetland Technology’ company. This includes minimization, segregation at source, for the first time in Pakistan was recycling and reuse, safe handling and disposal of hazardous successfully run at Mazarani Gas Pakistan Petroleum Limited waste as per standard environment-friendly procedures. Field. The project was closely 4 Effective arrangements such as landfill and incinerators are monitored for possible employed for safe disposal of waste, besides acquiring implementation on a larger scale. services of specialized contractors for disposal of hazardous waste and oily sludge recovered from operations. Moreover, 28 Principle 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to eliminating corruption through implementation of ethical codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders. 29 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Employees 2 ACTION External Interface Code of Conduct Credible Disclosure of Information to Performance Investors and The company has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, including bribery and extortion. Stakeholders 4 All employees are required to sign the Code of Conduct at the time of joining. Performance 4 All employees are forbidden to give or receive any bribes or 4 PPL ensures transparency in other payments intended to influence business decision or business transactions and rejects compromise fair judgment. any business practice, which may deem improper. 4 No employee can give money to obtain business for the company or receive money for giving company business to an 4 All financial reports are properly external agency. audited by external auditors. Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 All employees are forbidden to accept gifts from suppliers, 4 Quarterly briefing on financial contractors, dealers or competitors, who have or wish to have a statements is given to business relationship with the company. management. 4 Rumour mongering and gossiping is strictly prohibited. 4 Meeting of PPL’s Board of Directors is held on a quarterly basis. 4 All employees are required to declare their assets on a yearly basis. 4 Media/ press briefings and interviews are given on demand. 4 Consultative meetings with CSR partners are held for social development initiatives. Corporate Governance 4 The company ensures timely Performance payment of taxes. 4 Checks such as annual declaration 4 PPL promotes fair business practices and ensures compliance of assets, notifying the company in with regulatory and legal requirements. case of receipt of gifts above a 4 The company uses internationally acceptable accounting certain value, hospitality and standards to maintain transparency. potential conflicts of interest are in4 All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly built into the system to preempt recorded in the books of the company. corruption. 4 The company complies with regulations of the Security and 4 Similar checks and balances are Exchange Commission of Pakistan. built into organizational processes, 4 Signed statement of compliance is included in the company’s governing procurement, materials annual reports. and personnel in accordance with the Manual on Delegation of 4 No incident of corruption has been reported in the company. Authority and Public Procurement 4 All business units are analyzed for risks related to corruption. Regulatory Authority, a public sector 4 Regular checks by Internal Audit Department are carried out for entity to monitor procurement in a all departments to ensure compliance with company procedures transparent manner. and ensure course correction, if required. 30 4th Floor, PIDC House Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road P. O. Box 3942, Karachi-75530 UAN: +92-21-111-568-568 Tel. Nos: +92-21-35651480-89 Fax Nos: +92-21-35680005 & 35682125 Email: info@ppl.com.pk Website: www.ppl.com.pk
