IN SIGH Sustainability report 2013/2014 TS Page Is sustainability worthwhile? 04 L e a d IN G a r t i c l e F. J. Radermacher on the economic benefits Page Quality of life before standard of living 42 Guest commentary Helga Komp-Kolb on the need for action to protect the climate Page We invest in responsibility 08 INTER V IE W Telekom Austria Group’s management board on corporate responsibility Key Figures Telekom Austria Group Economy (in EUR mn) 2013 Change in % 2012 Revenues 4,183.9 -3.4 4,329.7 E B ITDA com parabl e ¹ 1,287.4 -11.6 1,455.7 EBITDA including effects from restructuring and impairment tests 1,242.2 -12.6 1,421.1 O pe rati n g i n com e 377.6 -17.4 457.1 N e t r e s u lt 109.7 5.5 104.0 Eq uit y 1,512.6 84.7 819.1 Mar k e t c a pita li satio n as o f 31 Dec. 20 12 ( in EU R bn) 2.4 -4.1 2.5 1 Defined as EBITDA, excluding effects from restructuring and impairment tests P r o du c t s : P r o v i d i n g R e s p o n s i b l e P r o du c t s 2013 CH a n g e i n % 2012 Mobi l e Com mu n i catio n C ustome rs ( in ' 0 0 0 ) ¹ 20,117.4 2.5 19,625.6 Fi x e d Acce ss Li n e s ( in ' 0 0 0 ) ¹ 2,636.9 1.3 2,602.9 CUSTOMER CON TAC TS I N CUSTOMER SERVICE ( IN ’0 0 0 ) ¹ 40,640 -11 45,569 EMPLOYEES I N CUSTOMER SERVICE ( IN FTE ) ¹ 3,627 -1 3,650 1 In Q4 the methodology for counting mobile and fixed-line subscribers in Austria and Bulgaria was changed Previous quarters of 2012 and 2013 were adjusted retrospectively E NVI R ONM E N T : L i v i n g Gree n ¹,² 2013 CHANG E i n % 2012 Tota l CO e m i ss i on s ( S co pe 1 + 2 i n to n n es ) ² 222,722 1 219,571 CO i n t e n s it y ( i n ton n e s per F T E) ² 14 n.m. 13 Tota l e n e rgy co n s ump tio n (i n MWh ) 695,493 0 697,937 Ene rgy e f f i ci e n cy i n de x ( i n Mw h / teraby te ) 1.1 n.m. 2.1 S h ar e of re n e wab l e e n e rgy ( in %) 45 n.m. 56 TOTA L Pa p er co n s ump tio n (in to n n e s ) 1,777 -6 1,890 R ec yc l i n g q u ota (i n % ) 71 n.m. 55 Ol d mo bi l e p hon e s co ll ec t ed (i n pcs ) 107,353 45 73,877 Ebi l l i n g s h ar e ( i n % ) 64 n.m. 29 1 Figures for 2012 were adjusted 2 For definitions of the individual KPI and further explanations please refer to to the Data Appendix on page 78 ff E m p l o y ee s : E m p o w er i n g P e o p l e 2013 CHANG E i n % 2012 E m p loy e e s ( i n F T E ) 16,045 -2 16,446 S h ar e o f f e m a l e e m ployee s ( in %) 37 n.m. 38 S h ar e o f f e m a l e e xecu ti ve s ( in % ) )¹ 31 n.m. 32 S h ar e o f loc a l m anage rs ( in %) ¹ 98 n.m. 98 E x p e n s e s fo r p rof e ss io nal train i n g an d fu rth er educati on 492 -19 604 pe r F T E ( i n EUR ) In te r na l ly h ired p ositio n s 631 -5 666 e ng age m e n t i n d e x (% s h are o f satis fie d e mployees) 79 n.m. 79 1 Of total Headcount (HC) SOCI E T Y : Cre a t i n g equ a l o pp o rtu n i t i e s 2013 CHANG E i n % 2012 parti c i pa n ts i n train in g o n me dia lite racy 24,483 1 24,292 ( vi sitor s ) t he r eo f A 1 ( A 1 I n te rn e t fo r all ) 19,397 4 18,592 t he r eo f Si . mo bi l 4,926 -14 5,700 The r eo f v i p mo bi le ¹ 60 n.m. The r eo f v i p op e rator ¹ 100 n.m. Lo ca l e d u catio nal p ro jects over 30 over 30 1 Initiatives started in 2013 Telekom Austria group geographical presence (G4.6, 4.8, 4.9) A1 Figures as of 31.12.2013 aUsTRia scope 1 includes direct emissiRevenues: 2,658.6 EUR mn ons from combustion of fossil Employees: 8,804 fuels for heating, electricity CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 80,657 Tonnes production and mobility but not including cooling agents Mobiltel scope 2 measures indirect emissions from electric energy BUlgaRia and district heating Revenues: 399.4 EUR mn BLR Employees: 2,647 CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 42,349 Tonnes Vipnet cRoaTia Revenues: 389.2 EUR mn Employees: 1,138 CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 19,434 Tonnes AUT velcom LIE BElaRUs SLO Revenues: 331.7 EUR mn CRO Employees: 1,749 CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 31,356 Tonnes SRB SRB Si.mobil BUL Vip operator slovEnia MKD REPUBlic oF macEDonia Providing Responsible Products Revenues: 198.9 EUR mn Revenue: 64.9 EUR mn Employees: 396 Employees: 214 CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 10,231 Tonnes CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 10,273 Tonnes Providing Responsible Products Vip mobile Telecom Liechtenstein REPUBlic oF sERBia liEchTEnsTEin Revenues: 182.6 EUR mn Revenues: 6.5 EUR mn* Employees: 918 Employees: 15* CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 28,421 Tonnes * mobilkom liechtenstein 2013 Empowering People The fouR sTRATegIc coRpoRATe susTAInABIlITy AReAs of AcTIvITy Empowering People in 2012 the Telekom austria group carried out an extensive and multi-stage materiality analysis to identify focal points that are key to the company's sustainability activities from both an internal and external perspective. The priority focal points that were identified on the basis of the materiality matrix were then grouped into four areas of activity: pRoDucTs: pRovIDIng envIRonmenT: ResponsIBle pRoDucTs lIvIng gReen DEvEloP PRoDUc T s in a FU T UREmanagE REsoURcEs in an Providing Responsible Productso R i E n T E D a n D R E s P o n s i B l E way E F F i c i E n T a n D s U s Ta i n a B l E way Living Green Providing Responsible Products employees: Living Green socIeTy: cReATIng empoWeRIng people equAl oppoRTunITIes s y s T E m a T i c a l ly P R o m o T E E m P l o y E E s ’ cREaTing EQUal oPPoR TUniTiEs in sKills anD UTilisE ThEm ThE DigiTal sociE T y Empowering People Creating Equal Opportunities The structure of the present sustainability report is based on these areas of activity, which are symbolised by the icons. Empowering for further People details on the materiality analysis, please refer to page 12ff. Creating Equal Opportunities EDITORIAL Insights I t takes profound insight – particularly for a listed company – to move away from the primacy of purely economic performance towards more broadly defined measures of success. This insight must be established across all interest groups, from the management to the shareholders to the employees. Namely, the insight that companies like the Telekom Austria Group have a multi-faceted role to play at a social and environmental level. And it takes the farsightedness to recognise that a company's own chances of economic success can only be secured in the long term by making an active and valuable social contribution. The Telekom Austria Group already identified the action areas in which it can make a specific contribution of this kind in a materiality analysis back in 2012. The initiatives currently under way and the progress being made are described in the Insights and views from an external perspective relevant main chapters of this sustainability report, are provided by specialists such as the renowned produced in the style of a magazine (“Providing meteorologist and climate researcher Helga Responsible Products”: page 24; “Living Green”: Kromp-Kolb in her expert commentary on global page 36; “Empowering People”: page 50; “Creating challenges and approaches for climate protection Equal Opportunities”: page 60). (page 42). And in his editorial (page 4), Franz Josef Radermacher, Member of the Club of Rome, Director As such, this publication also offers you, of the Research Institute for Applied Knowledge its readers, insights in terms of the transparent Processing and Professor of Informatics at Ulm disclosure of the Telekom Austria Group's University, explains why sustainability is not only sustainability concept and management (page 12). worthwhile for companies but is also increasingly In the interview with the management board on necessary to gain legitimacy for participation on the page 8, you can find out which beliefs and objectives markets. motivate the management. Whether and to what extent a company can Because observations from different percreate and maintain value in the longer term – spectives often lead to inspiring insights, we not “sustainably”, so to speak – is therefore becoming an only let voices from within the company have a increasing focus of corporate reporting. A possible say – such as Compliance Officer Martin Walter reorientation with a uniform global framework for on the successful certification of the Telekom end-to-end – but also simplified and streamlined – Austria Group's compliance management system reporting in this sense (“integrated reporting”) is and his next objectives (page 19). Or Group Chief discussed by the auditor and Senior Partner of PwC HR Officer Silvia Buchinger on equal development Austria, Aslan Milla, in his guest article on page 22. opportunities for employees and other aspects of diversity in action within the Group (page 57). We hope this “sustainability magazine” will encourage you to delve into the the “colourful” world of sustainability at the Telekom Austria Group, and wish you many interesting insights. The editorial team 1 the Content at a glance S us tainabili t y: a must or an optional ex tra? 08 Is sus tainabilit y wor thwhile for companies ? 04 An interview with the Telekom Austria Group’s management board on actively embracing entrepreneurial responsibility Franz Josef Radermacher, University of Ulm, on the economic benefits of, and the need for, sustainability Climate change – what do we need to do? 42 Carbon-neutral net work 46 Helga Kromp-Kolb calls for a greater emphasis on the quality of life instead of on living standards for the sake of climate protection A1 is the first and only provider to operate a 100% carbon-neutral network in Austria Empowering People EN V I RONMENT Products Living Green Providing Responsible 38 Active contribution in the fight Products Living Green Providing Responsible Products against climate change 0 1 EDi t o r i a l 04 Leading article: 26 Because it makes our subject How the Telekom Austria Group F . J . R a d e r m a c h e r lives easier Creating Equal Opportunities perceives its ecological responsibility 0 8 I n t e r vi e w management board subject Communication technologies 19 Commentary: Empowering People are a vital basis for the digital knowl42 Climate change – what do we compliance edge society need to do? M a r t i n W a l t e r guest commentary Climate scientist 22 Guest commentary: R e p o r t i n g A s l a n Mi l l a 31 The future of data protection: Helga Kromp-Kolb on the need for action Living Green Cloud computing to protect the climate guest commentary Sustainability Udo Helmbrecht, ENISA, on the current 43 Si.mobil: top of the class for Management Creating Equal Opportunities challenges of data protection environmental protection In focus The Slovenian subsidiary 1 2 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y strategy 32 Mobile communication Si.mobil actively drives environmental 20 Sustainable and health protection with its “Re.misli” programme S u p p l y C h a i n Q&A Questions and answers on 23 Roadmap electromagnetic fields and their impact 44 Valuing raw materials – mobile phone recycling 34 Roadmap – Products In focus Why old mobile phones O V ER V I EW Targets and measures of still have a value the Telekom Austria Group in the action area products 46 A1 is Austria’s first carbonneutral network 35 Flagship projects In focuS A1 offers climate-friendly 31 SELECT I ON Highlights in the telephone, Internet and TV action area products 48 Roadmap – Environment Providing Responsible Products o v e r vi e w Targets and measures of the Employees Providing Responsible Products Telekom Austria Group in the action area Empowering People environment Empowering People 52 Employees make the difference 49 Flagship projects 44 subject Modern HR management Empowering People selection Highlights in the action area environment promotes employees, a positive corporate culture and values Living Green Society 56 Healthy management creates Living Green passion to perform Creating Equal Creating Equal Opportunities guest commentary Opportunities 56 Neurobiologist Bernd Hufnagl on Creating Equal Opportunities the right leadership style in a healthy 62 More opportunities performance culture for everyone subject Equal opportunities to use 57 A balanced give and take new media to overcome social and commentary Group Chief HR Officer economic barriers Silvia Buchinger on attractive working 66 conditions and equal development 66 Children and young people opportunities on the Internet guest commentary 58 Roadmap – Employees Bernhard Jungwirth, saferinternet.at, GRI Table and o v e r vi e w Targets and measures of the on risk in the digital world Key Figures Telekom Austria Group in the action area employees 68 Roadmap – Society 70 GR I CONTENT T a b l e o v e r vi e w Targets and measures of 78 data appendix 59 Flagship projects 85 Assurance Statement the Telekom Austria Group in the action 87 Report Details selection Highlights in the action area society 88 I MPRi n t area employees 69 Flagship projects selection Highlights in the action area society L eadi n g arti c le Is sustainability worthwhile for companies? A U THO R Photography F. J. Radermacher Thomas Klink (bild der wissenschaft) PREFACE Can companies use their core processes to contribute to greater sustainability? And is such a focus on sustainability really worthwhile? Or is it just another megatrend? According to Franz Josef Radermacher from the University of Ulm, sustainability is not only worthwhile, it is increasingly becoming a precondition for the “licence to operate”. 4 L eadi n g arti c le T he world in 2014 is in a difficult situation. Globalisation means that the world’s economic system is inveloped world, but very much also elsewhere. Or the surprising closing of ranks among the OECD and G20 member states countries, by exacerbating the climate problem, by tolerating child slave labour at suppliers within their value chains, by creasingly free to pursue its own path against aggressive tax planning and tax circumventing the ILO’s social standards without being subject to the old boundahavens in the wake of the latest financial in this way, or by using globalisation as ries and restrictions. The situation is becrisis. Hope is also provided by consuma means of aggressively reducing their ing exacerbated by the rapid growth in ers and investors, who are increasingly tax bill. Many international corporathe global population towards 10 billion, reflecting global developments, focusing tions have done this with great success, and the hundreds of millions of people on more than just financial benefit and with national budgets and the SME secwho are joining those already pursuing applying ethical standards in evaluating tor suffering further as a result – an enresource-intensive lifestyles. economic activity (so-called “moralisatirely counterproductive development. tion of the markets”). The latter developStarting to make a difference in this area, Sustainable solutions for the forement is closely linked to the serious efi.e. by introducing innovations in global seeable challenges need to address the forts undertaken by many companies in governance, is a difficult task – but cerquestion of limiting the consumption the area of corporate social responsibility tainly not a hopeless one. And it is sucof non-renewable resources and reduc(CSR). cessful companies in particular, that can, ing the environmental impact while and should, take up a position and go on seeking a parallel solution to the globThe main difficulty, however, is satisthe offensive. al climate and energy problems from a fying all of the demands that are emergworldwide perspective. At the same time, ing around the world within the existing The starting point for commitment they should also tackle the social asglobal regulatory framework (the “rules on the part of companies is the wholly pects of these issues in their global form. of the game”, so to speak). This will reunsatisfactory situation in terms of the Although technical progress alone can quire strong global growth over a numglobal development of sustainability. substantially reduce the environmental ber of decades – but, as we know already, This situation means that companies are impact per unit produced (dematerialisathis growth must be green and inclusive. subject to growing pressure to make a tion/increased eco-efficiency) and help In other words, growth that does not inmajor contribution to the development to increase prosperity in absolute terms, volve a further rise in the consumption of sustainability in their own right. This the so called “boomerang effect” means of critical resources, that allows the 2°C is shaped by the main theorem of busithat it often leads to a greater overall imclimate limit to be upheld while enabling ness ethics: “the systematic place of pact on ecological systems and more, not a move towards global social balance morality in a market economy is the less, inequality. We find ourselves in the rather than a two-tier society. framework”, and of corporate ethics: “in same predicament as the sorcerer’s apthe case of deficits in the framework, reprentice, lamenting: “The spirits I have Although this is a complex objective, sponsibility for legitimation falls upon cited my commands ignore”. the situation is far from hopeless. The the companies”. As a result, companies goal is a challenging one, but one that we are coming under ever-greater pressure. If starting from this situation we can still attain. However, this requires Their “licence to operate” is put under look ahead to the next 50 years, we can harnessing the best past experience in question. Something needs to be done. identify three potential scenarios. Two terms of what innovative technology and There is undeniable pressure on them are extremely threatening and cannot be organisation can achieve. We need drato act. One illustration of the potential reconciled with the principles of sustainmatic technical progress to produce betconsequences is provided by investors in ability, namely ecological collapse or alter solutions, particularly in the area of prestigious properties who are seeking ternatively the emergence of a two-tier green technology. More specifically, we to attract DAX companies in Germany as global society. The only way to achieve need to increase the availability of entenants. Nowadays, these investors only sustainable development and a balanced ergy throughout the world while using construct “green buildings”, irrespecworld would appear to be tight-knit infewer resources, and in particular while tive of whether this is worthwhile from ternational cooperation with the aims of significantly reducing the use of fossil an energy efficiency perspective or not. prosperity and sustainability in the form fuels – and we need to achieve this at a They are motivated by a simple percepof a global ecosocial market economy reasonable cost in order to facilitate sotion that no DAX company would be able (i.e. a green and inclusive capitalism) as cial inclusion globally. This is the key to move into a new property that is not a a viable alternative to today’s turbo and task in terms of technical innovation. green building. In other words, offering casino capitalism. However, the realisation of this progreen buildings is a question of elemengramme requires the right price signals tary business economics: any investor One key question is how likely it within the markets. None of this can be that fails to do so will also fail to find a is that such a balance can be achieved. achieved if, all around the world, it pays tenant. Are there hopeful signs? Certainly! For to act in a manner that is incompatible example, take the wide-ranging social with sustainability. It should not be posAs a result of these developments, progress that has been made since the sible for companies to earn good money companies are responding to market Second World War, primarily in the deby destroying the environment in other conditions by intensifying their 5 L eadi n g arti c le commitment to sustainability. In some tion of a “roadworthiness test” for new for further improvement on the part of cases, their actions are also driven by an financial products, to prevent our society companies.” Since late 2013, the website inherent motivation or because of what from being surprised again by opaque, of the German Council for Sustainable their owners want. This applies in pardangerous structures with consequences Development has contained the followticular to brand companies and familywe are unable to comprehend.It is essening news item: “Sustainability managers owned enterprises. Among other things, tial that, in their role as clients, compacall for political action: Pioneers from this is due to the name recognition and nies support other companies that are the world of business are largely disilintrinsic value of brand companies and seeking to adopt a focus on sustainabillusioned by the lack of speed when it the corresponding expectations of cusity, even if this could result in somewhat comes to sustainable development and tomers and lenders, employees and higher costs. Achieving a balance is what would like to see clearer guidelines on suppliers, NGOs and the public – but matters. As the buyers of new products, it the political front.” self-motivation is often also a reason. is also important that they support those Consumer behaviour is also directly nocompanies that are developing technoloAll in all, then, the findings when it ticeable. One particularly important congies that help to ensure a better future comes to the question in the title of this sumer group in this respect is “LOHAS”, for all humanity. The aim should be to editorial can be summed up as follows. which describes a group of the populaachieve all of this in a manner that is ecoToday, a certain degree of commitment tion that is committed to a “lifestyle of nomically adequate for the companies to sustainability is a matter of course health and sustainability”. Members of concerned, as operating within adequate for premium companies, companies in this group are generally well-educated, economic parameters is the only way to the public eye and companies with high economically well-positioned people enable companies to act sustainably in standards: corporate social responsibilwho like to consume but seek to avoid the long term and on a broad basis while ity is a megatrend. Being a part of this causing damage through their consumpalso improving their own future. trend is not only worthwhile; that would tion. They want to be part of the solution, be too little. In fact, being a part of it is an not part of the problem. Where problems In a competitive environment, then, essential condition for having a “licence are not resolved at a political level, they the aforementioned can only apply to to operate”. These days, a brand company expect companies to step in (as per the the extent that companies have or can would be unable to survive on the marmain theorem of business ethics cited develop an appropriate business model ket in the long term without positioning above). or other parties act in a similar manner itself accordingly. This is also one of the (e.g. on the basis of agreements), for exbasic theses of sustainable marketing All of this explains why companies ample by observing industry codes. If management. are increasingly becoming involved in premium providers are subject to equal sustainability, whether as part of the UN pressure, conditions will move in the But how will things proceed from Global Compact, the Global Reporting Inright direction and exceptions will relate here? Companies must become active itiative or their own CSR strategies. Comto “no-names”, both as competitors and within the possibilities available to them. panies around the world are becoming as suppliers along (global) value chains. They must talk publicly about the sysactive in the fight against poverty and for Scandals often take place along these temic barriers to what they can achieve. environmental protection, reducing and chains, with one example being the seThey must also seek to pass the presreporting on their carbon footprint, and rious incidents involving numerous fasure along the value chain. Above, it was striving to make a varied contribution to talities at textile factories in Bangladesh described how DAX-listed corporations protecting the climate and the environand Pakistan in recent times. Problems in Germany can shift many of the chalment. like this keep occurring and there are allenges relating to their carbon footprint ways calls for action in the aftermath, but onto their upstream suppliers, e.g. in the Companies can also make a considthe situation is difficult. The regulatory case of green buildings, logistics or busierable difference in their core processes framework the rules of the game also ness flights. This is changing the world. in order to ensure greater sustainability, imposes limits on well-intentioned comIt means that the changes in terms of e.g. in selecting technologies and primapanies. the “demand” for sustainability are also ry products and the way in which they reaching companies in the supply chain, deal with customers, suppliers and emAt the ceremony for the 2013 German whose “no-name” status prevents them ployees. Companies can ensure that they Sustainability Award, Björn Stigson, forfrom being subject to direct pressure are climate-neutral, by, for example, supmerly President of the World Business from watchful consumers – but who are porting major global reforestation proCouncil for Sustainable Development, now increasingly coming under pressure jects so that their net carbon emissions had some words to say on the matter: from brand companies insofar as they are zero. By exercising an influence over “We do what we can to promote sustainare their suppliers. This is a good thing. public opinion and the political process, ability, but we have reached a limit. We And it is even better if brand companies companies can help to ensure that susare reaching a point where the regulatory discuss these relationships publicly and tainability is enshrined in the financial conditions will need to improve in order help politicians to change the economsystem to a greater extent than it is tofor us to continue – which is something ic conditions in order to promote the day, by means, among other things, of a that is urgently required. Without structrend towards behaviour that is compatfinancial transaction tax or the introductural change, there will be little room ible with sustainability among all com6 LEADIng ARTIcLE panies. Encouragingly, this process has now begun. Employee loyalty is another important aspect. The pressure on companies, the measures that have Good employees are vital for any company seeking been initiated, competition from “no-names” that to position itself successfully on the market in the are not subject to scrutiny on the market – all of these long term. The central question is how to attract factors are encouraging commitment at a meta-level. and retain ambitious employees. Another question The relevant topics are being discussed. Something is how to find such employees in a world where is happening in the triangle of informed consumers, demographic problems are becoming increasingly brand companies and politicians. This is important relevant. There will be attempts to find employees and should be welcomed. around the world under the mottos of global recruiting, diversity and diversity management. IncidenAt the same time, however, sustainability as a tally, this also touches on an important component whole is becoming ever more of a hot topic around of the social side of sustainability. But the limited the world. One of the main sources of motivation local pool of talent will naturally remain an issue. for good entrepreneurs is reputational risk and the Succeeding in this environment and attracting and risk of scandals arising from business activity – inretaining good employees requires a credible focus cluding along global value chains. After all, in addion the major social and ecological topics, both totion to the aforementioned LOHAS, there are many day and with a view to the future. This is particularly critical NGOs who play a watchdog role, closely obrelevant when it comes to encouraging employees serving proceedings along corporate value chains, to do more than just work by the rulebook. Tapping analysing companies’ behaviour in detail and pubinto this potential can be vital for companies seeklicising anything that they consider to be wrong ing to enjoy success in future markets. Here, too, enfrom measures that fail to comply with the relevant suring that corporate policy is geared towards suslegislation to company announcements that they tainability criteria is important, just as it is for modispute. The same tivating existing applies for global employees. value chains. If people within the “Sustainability as a To answer the quesvalue chain die or tion as to whether are poisoned, if whole is becoming ever sustainability is products become worthwhile, it is associated with more of a hot topic true that – as disfaults affecting cussed above – the consumers in the around the world.” certain degree of rich world, if even focus on sustainwide-scale prodability that has beuct recalls are neccome part of the essary, things can get expensive for companies. process of equilibrium at brand companies is not This can place a heavy burden on them, diminish only worthwhile, but absolutely necessary for a their internal value or potentially lead to insolvency. company to act on the market and retain its “licence In this way, the “moralisation of markets” is comto operate”. bining with globalisation in a favourable manner to become a driver of sustainable development. Going above and beyond this requirement is a different matter, and one that depends on the adMany companies have learned that becoming equacy of the company’s business model and the prof. dr. dr. franz involved in supposedly low-cost operations somelong-term nature of their approach. Of course, comjosef radermacher, director of the research where on the “other side” of the world, or using suppanies cannot be expected to do everything that obInstitute for applied pliers who primarily work in such environments, servers and other stakeholders might wish them to knowledge processing (faw/n) and professor can end up being an expensive endeavour. This afdo in order to secure sustainability for the world. of Informatics, ulm fects their reputation, market value, customer and But there is a great deal they can do – and they are university, president of senat der wirtschaft supplier relationships and more besides, and hence increasingly acknowledging their responsibility and e.V., bonn, Vice presihas become an explicit element of corporate risk doing exactly that. One company displaying such a dent of the ecosocial forum europe, Vienna, management that is regularly discussed at managecommitment is the Telekom Austria Group, as this and member of the club ment board and supervisory board meetings. report demonstrates once again. of rome. 7 I N T E R V I E W wit h t h e m a n a g e m e n t b oard Sustainability: a must or an optional extra? Photography Klaus Vyhnalek The Management Board explains why the Telekom Austria Group’s commitment to sustainability is not following a fashionable megatrend, but rather is based on well-founded principles of corporate responsibility. The word “sustainability” is on everybody’s lips. Does its A M ETS R E I TE R The truth is that there is no such thing increasing ubiquity undermine the credibility of related as too much serious sustainability work – regardless of activities? whether you are taking on responsibility for the environment and society as a private individual or as a company. Rather, it’s about whether your words are also followed by actions. And actions with a clear plan and comprehensible benefits. What is the aim of the A MET SR E I T ER On one hand, our sustainability strategy results from the wishes and Telekom Austria Group’s plan? requirements of our stakeholders, for example our customers, employees, suppliers and shareholders. We systematically collected their ideas about key sustainability aspects and incorporated these in our four associated action areas.¹ At the same time, we have explicitly undertaken to comply with global principles such as those of the UN Global Compact. Secondly, the objectives are of course geared towards our core business. How can the Telekom Austria Group A M ET SR EI T ER We see responsibility as meaning that we organise our core create social or ecological benefits with business in a way that creates the greatest possible benefit for society, customers, its products and services? employees and the environment. Specifically, this means investing in the central infrastructure of the knowledge society, advancing energy-efficient technologies, supporting safe media use, and contributing to equal access to information, education and knowledge. And last but not least, promoting employee development and active diversity within the Group as a fundamental basis for success. 1 For further information on sustainability management please refer to page 12ff, for action areas please refer to pages 24ff, 36ff, 50ff and 60ff. 8 I N T E R V I E W wit h t h e m a n a g e m e n t b oard Who benefits from such M ayr ho fe r It is not as though the Telekom Austria Group is just any company. We investments in sustainability? hold significant positions in our markets, and in our opinion this also brings responsibilities. We are therefore making investments in Austria and beyond to give people access to new technologies, including outside major urban areas. Of course, these are ostensibly investments in our own future, but they also bring huge benefits for the business locations and the people who live there – for example, with the associated added value and employment effects. OTTEND O R FER The expansion of forward-looking technologies with high bandwidth such as fibre-optic cables and LTE promotes future prosperity at an economic and social level. They are an enormous catalyser for innovative solutions in the key areas of education, health, energy and the environment. And it is for precisely these reasons that the expansion of fibre-optic networks – which is very cost-intensive in rural or mountainous regions in particular – should not only be advanced by companies like ours, but also supported by the public sector. This is currently referred to as “broadband network promotion”. What are the benefits at A M ETSR E I TE R In addition to an individual level? development potential for business and society in general, our information and communication technologies also open up opportunities for individual success. In an increasingly digital world, the key to education and the associated career opportunities, exchange of information and democratic participation lies in free and equal access to the Internet – irrespective of a person’s age, gender and social, regional, cultural or ethnic background. And how do you promote A M ETSR E I TE R Firstly, we aim equal opportunities for the for “technical” equal opportunities use of new media? by advancing broadband expansion everywhere in our markets. However, in this respect – as Günther Ottendorfer quite rightly said earlier – it is essential that government and European institutions also provide support. At the same time, since autumn 2011 we have been running an Internet initiative in Austria that can indisputably be declared a success story and which will therefore in future be extended to other countries where we have operations: “A1 Internet for All” implements a wide range of activities including free workshops at its own campus in Vienna, Klagenfurt and Salzburg, education programmes at social institutions and nationwide information tours. These provide equal opportunities for participation for people who were previously excluded from the digital knowledge society and help develop their media literacy skills. The fact that more than 50,000 people throughout Austria have participated in over 4,000 courses speaks for itself as regards the demand for and acceptance of such courses. 9 I N T E R V I E W wit h t h e m a n a g e m e n t b oard M ayr ho fe r “A1 Internet for All” is a particularly pertinent example of how we are investing in more than just infrastructure expansion and attractive product portfolios. We also see involvement in social issues as a good investment. Our brands are associated with authentic responsibility and value, which is increasingly positively noticed by employees as well as customers. Is your environmental positioning guided by the same conviction? A M ETS R E I TE R Yes, as a pioneer and innovation leader in many areas, we want to take up a position like this in an environmental context, too. For example, since the beginning of 2014 we have been the first and only communications operator in Austria to operate a “green”, 100% carbon-neutral network. Our aim is not only to offer customers the best network, but we are also explicitly committed to sustainable and sparing use of resources. OTTEND O R FER At communication companies like the Telekom Austria Group, the majority of their environmental impact is attributable to the energy consumption of the infrastructure. And the extremely dynamic development of data communication points to the utilisation that is to be expected in the future. This makes it all the more important to focus on the efficient use of resources and renewable energies in the energy supply strategy. In this way, we plan to reduce our CO² emissions by 25 percent by 2020 despite rising data volumes. “We are willing to invest in responsibility” Can you give some more examples? A M ETSR E I TE R Our photovoltaic farm at the earth station in Aflenz also makes a major contribution. It supplies solar energy for data transmission at the speed of light by satellite. With our second expansion phase here, we have achieved something that normally takes around 7,000 trees: a reduction in the environmental impact of 90 tonnes of CO² per year. OTTEND O R FER As a network operator, we also set clear requirements for our suppliers with regard to reducing the energy consumption of network components. We expect that energy per bit must decrease dramatically overall. In addition, the upcoming network virtualisation can be considered another important step towards such goals. It involves a key paradigm shift, in the sense that network elements can be completely redesigned. It will bring about an increase in energy efficiency by means of a higher level of utilisation and demand-based activation and deactivation. 10 I n T E RV I E W W I T h T h E m A n A g E m E n T b O A R D M ayR ho fe R The exclusive use of electricity from renewable energy sources for our “green network” in Austria – like the photovoltaic farm in Aflenz and, for example, the hybrid, 99.9 percent self-sufficient energy supply of Vipnet’s mobile base stations in croatia – should be seen as a component of an overall concept. It comes under the heading, “We are willing to invest in responsibility”. And where does the environmental a M e tSR e It e R In the area potential lie as far as products of machine-to-machine and solutions are concerned? communication, for example. networking machines and devices by means of Internet technologies holds huge potential for making processes more efficient – and therefore also more environmentally friendly. ot t e n D o R fe R Exactly, m2m opens up a new world of potential applications. And it also serves as an “enabler” for more sparing use of energy and other valuable resources – just think of water consumption monitoring or intelligent energy management with smart metering. The environmental contribution that we can make as a communication company is not insignificant. Firstly, there is the obvious fact that phone calls and video conferences help avoid journeys. And there’s better to come: for example hD video streaming. Do you also associate the Telekom ot t e n D o R fe R my personal sense of connection with nature arises not only Austria Group’s sustainability from my background growing up in a rural region of Austria, the “Waldviertel”. I initiatives with personal matters? also find many fascinating aspects from the perspective of a technician in terms of how the apparent discrepancy between the concepts of “innovation” and “sustainability” is overturned: energy efficiency can be enhanced with every new network generation. For instance, LTE already has significantly lower values for energy requirements – and thus also costs – per bit in comparison to 3g. And the next evolutionary step, 5g, is already being described as the “5th generation towards green networks”. M ayR ho fe R It is often the case that the cFO is expected to have a generally reserved attitude towards sustainability initiatives. After all, projects of this kind often entail costs, at least to begin with. but when – as in the case of A1’s “green network” – the measures are well thought-out and fit authentically into a coherent overall concept that combines corporate responsibility with high-quality brand positioning, then the cFO also supports them. a M e tSR e I t e R In this respect, I would agree with Professor Radermacher’s opinion when he writes in his leading article for the current sustainability report that – for brand companies at least – a certain focus on sustainability is increasingly becoming a prerequisite for what he calls a “licence to operate”. companies that do not think and act in a “green” and socially responsible way will not be able to survive in the future. And this insight makes it clear once and for all that sustainability must be seen not just as an “optional extra” but rather as an essential part of business. (G4.1, 4.2) 11 Managing sustainability If sustainability is to be more than just a buzzword, the issue needs the full support of the management and a firmly established sustainability management system. 12 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N AG E M E N T Strategic conditions Leveraging strategic opportunities The Telekom Austria Group, based in Vienna, is a leading provider of fixed and mobile telecommunication with almost Take steps to further in-market consolidation and expand our convergent offerings, while maintaining 23 million customers in eight countries across Central and a conservative financial strategy. Eastern Europe. These markets are characterised by fierce competition, regulatory effects and rapid technological change. In this challenging environment, the top strategic priority is to bring the Group back onto a growth path, improving both revenues and earnings. The Telekom Austria Group’s strategy is Operational excellence based on the four key pillars on the right. When pursuing these strategic objectives, it is essential to Continue to improve every aspect of our operational efficiency. maintain a conservative financial strategy in which ensuring an investment grade rating of at least BBB (stable outlook) is the top priority. For 2014 as a whole, the Telekom Austria Group anticipates a decline in revenues of around 3,5%�. Capital expenditures, excluding investments in licenses, product range Convergence and acquisitions, are expected to amount to approximately EUR 700 million. Based on these forecasts, the management Provide cusotmers with both mobile and fixed-line services, wherever feasible. of the Telekom Austria Group aims to distribute a dividend of EUR 0.05 per share for the 2014 financial year. (G4.2 – 4.6, 4.9) Detailed information on the Telekom Austria Group’s operational and economic performance can be found in the 2013 Optimisation of the core business annual report (at http://ar2013.telekomaustria.com). Fully leverage the potential of each of the markets in which we operate. KEY FINANCIAL DATA – TELEKOM AUS TRIA GROUP EBITDA OPERATING NET MARKET (IN EUR MN) REVENUES COMPARABLE* EBITDA** INCOME RESULT EQUITY CAPITALISATION*** 2013 4,183.9 1,287.4 1,242.2 377.6 109.7 1,512.6 2.4 2012 4,329.7 1,455.7 1,421.1 457.1 104.0 819.1 2.5 CH A N G E (I N %) -3.4 -11.6 -12.6 -17.4 5.5 84.7 -4.1 * Defined as EBITDA, excluding effects from restructuring and impairment tests ** Including effects from restructuring and impairment tests *** As of 31 Dec. 2013 (in EUR bn) Sustainability strategy: It starts with questions It does this so that it can use the answers to develop a sustainability strategy with defined action areas and targets based “Yes, of course. New media are a good thing. The question is just on specific suggestions made by customers, employees, supfor whom. From the point of view of communication companies, pliers and other stakeholders. To this end, an ongoing dialogue certainly. But do they really also promote equality of opportuand exchange takes place at three different levels: Firstly, innity in society in the long-term? And is ‘society’ even interested formation is systematically obtained via a number of different in this?” Or: “What is the Telekom Austria Group’s stance on encommunication channels. Secondly, discussions are held and ergy efficiency or a quota for women at the company?” This is surveys conducted. And thirdly, the Telekom Austria Group the kind of dialogue that can happen when you ask people about helps shape developments in organisations of which it is a sustainability. And the Telekom Austria Group is asking. member and with which it collaborates. 1 Correction of the decline in revenues by approximately 3.5%, compared to approximately 3.0% in the print version. Adjusted on 13/08/2014. www.telekomaustria.com/en/ir/outlook 13 S u S TA I n A b I L I T Y m A n Ag E m E n T SELECTION OF At every organisation, there is an internal and an external point of view. The latter is VOLUNTARY often uncomfortable, since it does not make any allowance for organisational peculiariMEMBERSHIPS ties or constraints. The external perception voices expectations bluntly. While it perhaps fails to address what the organisation considers to be the real issues, it is nonetheless telekom aus trIa group helpful as it gives an impression of how the organisation comes across to others – or fails • un global compact (since 2012) to come across. • respact (since 2008) At large companies, there is even an external perception within the organisation • etno (since 1996) itself, since each department has an external perception of all others. This can also be • transparency International uncomfortable – after all, it comes from colleagues who, as experts in a wide range of • gsma disciplines, bring a particular quality of sometimes critical evaluation to the discussion. a1 However, since “uncomfortable” is not an evaluation criterion for sustainability, this “in• uN Global Compact (since 2012) ternal external perception” gains a special significance. • klima:aktiv (since 2005) • austrian mobile power (since 2010) For this reason, surveys of the employees and the management play a key role in gathering information to develop a sustainability strategy for the Telekom Austria Group. • electric mobility model region Vienna (since 2010) Expectations, questions, opportunities, risks and critical perspectives are recorded in this process so that they can subsequently be taken into account in specific measures. • code of conduct on data centres energy efficiency (since 2009) Most of the opinions are gathered in the departments so as to ensure intensive and ef• respact (since 2008) ficient dialogue with the specific stakeholder groups (see illustration below). Depending m o b I lt e l on the topic and the group, different formats are used here, such as information events, • csr academy (since 2008) idea competitions • bulgarian red cross (since 2010) telekom aus trIa group s takeholder groups or surveys – and • bulgarian charities aid foundation of course face-to(since 2009) face discussions • bulgarian donor forum a re a lso held. (since 2009) There is a similar Indirect VIpnet Direct Stakeholders situation when it Internal Stakeholders • un global compact (since 2007) comes to surveys Stakeholders of customers, supsI.mobIl pliers and other • un global compact (since 2008) Rating agencies stakeholders such • ems forum (since 2008) Customers NGOs Employees as NGOs – meet• founder of the independent ”si.voda” Suppliers Industry Management ings, conferences fund (since 2009) associations Legislators/ Owners and roadshows, authorities Interest groups • green network (since 2001) Media etc. also provide VIp mobIle a suitable frame• un global compact (since 2008) work for t his. (G4.26, 4.37) • co-founder of the business leaders forum (since 2008) (G4.15, 4.16) (G4.24) Step by step to the material aspects In 2012 the Telekom Austria Group decided to radically revise its sustainability strategy. This was determined in the internal strategy programme “RE.THINK”. The sustainability strategy stipulates a focus on the essentials and an increased orientation towards the company’s core business. How does this work? What are the essentials when it comes to sustainability at a company? And how can it best be applied to the core business? Answers to these questions are provided in a matrix based on a materiality analysis. How can a materiality matrix like this be envisaged? Its content results from the analysis steps described below. As mentioned above, people inside and outside the company were surveyed to begin with. But what exactly were they asked? 14 S u S TA I n A b I L I T Y m A n Ag E m E n T t e l e k o m a u s t r I a g r o u p – m a t e r I a l I t y a n a ly s I s very high Data security and data protection Network structure and infrastructure Energy efficiency Customer satisfaction Recycling and disposal Transparent customer contracts and expense control RELEVANCE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Renewable energies Sustainable procurement Equal development opportunities for employees Health and life balance Corporate governance/compliance and human rights Media protection for children and young people Mobility of our employees Media literacy skills for children and young people Products with added value for society Raising awareness of environmental issues Environmentally friendly products Mobile communication and health Media literacy skills for older people Social cooperation Corporate culture of respect Open discussion on the digital world Sponsorship of arts, culture and sports Low BUSINESS RELEVANCE very high To figure this out, the first step was of priorities. This first step therefore inas the sustainability activities of other to determine and assess social and envolved both gathering the internal views telecommunication companies were also vironmental issues in the individual of the management and creating a sound incorporated in the survey. stages of the value-added chain. This basis for the questions. was done with the management of the In the third step of the materiality Telekom Austria Group, thereby enIn the second step, additional stakeanalysis, which is ultimately intended suring that the materiality analysis is holder groups were involved. That is, to specify the main requirements for a consistent with the company’s buthe questions prepared were presented sustainability strategy, the material colsiness and capital market strategy and that to them – online. Over 300 customers, lected was analysed. The results of the inopportunities and risks are taken into employees, interest group representernal and external priorities were comaccount appropriately. In addition, an astatives, suppliers and NGOs assessed the bined, resulting in the materiality matrix sessment of the relevance of all aspects relevance of various social and environ(see illustration above) as the basis for and topics within and outside the commental topics from their perspective. The the content of the sustainability strategy. pany was performed internally and was requirements of international standards, This matrix provides focal points from reflected accordingly in the evaluation rankings and rating agencies as well which specific action areas were derived. (G4.2, 4.18 – 4.21, 4.24, 4.25) The material results The materiality matrix shows at a glance the topics that were attributed the most importance by all stakeholders. Unsurprisingly for a telecommunication company, the issue of “Data protection and data security” and “Network and Infrastructure” are among those that come right at the top of the list. Viewed in terms of the individual stakeholder groups, relevance varies slightly: For customers of the Telekom Austria Group, for example, “network and infrastructure” and “customer satisfaction” are important (second and third place). These two topics were also cited by the employees – albeit only in third and fourth place. Customer satisfaction is the mantra of every service provider, but of course “network and infrastructure” is the basis of Telekom Austria Group’s core business. It is also noteworthy that what is important to the suppliers is “recycling and disposal” – probably because this has a significant impact on their business opportunities with a company that operates sustainably. But there are also topics that generally seem less important to all parties, such as sponsorship and open discussion on the digital world. 15 S u S TA I n A b I L I T Y m A n Ag E m E n T sus taInabIlIt y as a dynamIc process Based on the topics in the materiality matrix, four action Stakeholder Strategic dialogue issues areas were derived. These constitute the operational focal points of the Telekom Austria Group’s sustainability strategy, and measurable targets and key indicators have been determined for each action area. They make it possible to clearly control the Monitoring Targets development of sustainability at the company and to ascertain Evaluation whether it is on track to achieve its targets. Details on the specific targets, measures and key figures can be found in the respective chapters on the action areas. (G4.27) Stakeholder feedback Cooperation with Coordination NGOs, Control interest groups Measures An overview of the four action areas: PRoV ID I ng What does this term actually mean? Products per se are generally neutral. Responsibility Re S P onSI b le for their use ultimately always lies with people. However, this also means that a company PRoDUCtS like the Telekom Austria Group must examine what social or ecological disadvantages its products and services could bring. Or conversely, what added value or benefits products from its portfolio could create for people and the environment – for instance by enabling mobile working or improved medical care. For example, video conferences can help cut down on flights to meetings, thereby contributing to environmental and climate protection. Data protection and security, provision of a failsafe network infrastructure and investment in innovative technologies are also at the heart of this action area. lIVIng This action area relates to a topic for which a group of scientists at Graz University of gReen Technology headed by Michael Narodoslawsky developed the “Sustainable Process Index” (SPI) in the 1990s. The SPI determines the environmental impact of regions, as well as of business and services. Because it maps every part of the earth that is needed to make an activity possible on a long-term basis, it has led to the common expression “environmental footprint”, for which an individual “footprint calculator” has also been developed. There are now a large number of other such calculators, including ones that show the efficiency of travel, food and agriculture. Companies also leave an environmental footprint. The Telekom Austria Group’s declared objective in this action area is to keep this footprint as small as possible. Extensive and sustainable environmental procedures are therefore intended to further reduce the resources used in the company’s business activities. Energy-efficient technologies, the use of renewable energies, climate-friendly mobility and preservation of raw materials through optimised recycling and disposal processes all help to achieve this. e M P oW e R I n g This action area focuses on respect for and development of employees and their perPeoPle formance. Targeted programmes are used to make them aware of their own strengths, to systematically develop their skills and to enable these skills to be used for the benefit of the company. In this context, health promotion and a good life balance are given high priority at the Telekom Austria Group. The same applies to maintaining and increasing employees’ personal satisfaction at work by means of in-depth further education and professional training, targeted use of diversity at the company and a corporate culture of respect. C R e at I n g One of the key features of European identity is the attempt to make conditions in politics e Q Ua l and business as fair as possible for all people. But particularly in our current service and o P P o Rt U n I t I e S knowledge society, many people are not given the same fair conditions for their social and professional life. Technological and economic changes are taking place extremely rapidly in the modern world, and social development cannot keep pace with this equally beneficially everywhere and for everyone. The Telekom Austria Group firmly believes that equal opportunities for participation in the knowledge society play a key role in individual opportunities and must therefore be open to all people, both today and in the future. On the basis of this belief, the Group uses local initiatives to systematically promote the skills that are necessary for active and responsible participation in an increasingly digital world. Such initiatives aim to ensure equal access to information, education and knowledge, as Internet use is no longer just a technical issue but also a social one. 16 S u S TA I n A b I L I T Y m A n Ag E m E n T How sustainability is managed How sustainable are a company’s sustainare also included in the Group strategy and ability efforts really? This depends not least the brand strategy. The members of the Group on the commitment of its top management. Sustainability Board also assume responsibilIf, for example, the management relies on ity for all sustainability aspects in their respecmountaintop removal mining, as in the case of tive field, and promote international exchange coal mining companies in the Appalachians, within the Telekom Austria Group. this will change the landscape on a sustained basis. However, this is a sustainable procedure To emphasise the importance of the topic that conflicts with the environmentally refor the Management Board even more clearly, sponsible form of sustainability to which a separate corporate sustainability team that the Management Board of the Telekom forms part of the “Group Communications and AWARDS 2013 Austria Group is committed. This commitment Sustainability” unit reports directly to CEO is also clear from the fact that a Group-wide, Hannes Ametsreiter. This team controls and • austrian sustainability reporting award (2013); integrated sustainability management system coordinates implementation of the sustainwinner in the ”large was set up in 2010 and has been enhanced in ability strategy with the relevant officers in companies” category stages ever since. The principal and patron the subsidiaries. The cross-border approach • positive certification of the sustainability agenda is CEO Hannes ensures compliance with the overriding group of the compliance Ametsreiter, supported by CFO Siegfried targets. At the same time, this organisational management system in Mayrhofer and CTO Günther Ottendorfer. Repstructure creates the necessary flexibility for accordance with Idw ps resentatives of top management meet at least taking regional differences into account. 980 three times a year in the Group Sustainabil(G4.34 – 4.36,4.42, 4.43, 4.46 – 4.48) • communication exity Board to discuss the focal points and the cellence award from the Verband für Integrierte enhancement of the sustainability strategy kommunikation (VIkom) and to decide on new measures. The Managefor sustainable commument Board and top management themselves nication in the area of therefore ensure that sustainability aspects compliance • winner of the global telecom business organIsatIonal s truc ture of the sus taInabIlIt y management Innovation award 2013 and capacity global carrier award 2013 in Supervisory Board the ”campaign of the year” category for sIm box detection service for CONTROL Report Monitor fraud prevention Management Board Reporting Set targets Dialogue with working groups Group Sustainability Board Group Sustainability Team Group Chief Officers, (Part of Group Communications executive departments, Regular dialogue & Sustainability) heads of divisions IMPLEMENTATION Reporting Control/ internal/external coordination Sustainability network at the subsidiaries Dialogue with working groups Contribute Implement Group Sustainability Team (Part of Group Communications & Sustainability) KPI tracking/ Implementation Employees performance measurement 17 S u S TA I n A b I L I T Y m A n Ag E m E n T Commitment to social and environmental standards The Telekom Austria Group is a signatory of the Purposeful sustainability is not an abstract UN Global Compact. As such, it has voluntarconcept, but rather a strategy for action that reily undertaken to comply with the ten princilates to the respective context. At a company ples of this memorandum. An environmental like the Telekom Austria Group, it must therepolicy also provides clear orientation with refore be ensured that sustainability aspects are gard to climate and environmental protection. incorporated and advanced within the various But how is compliance with such guidelines topic areas. This is the task of the sustainabilensured? By implementing international enity experts. To this end, they maintain regular vironmental management systems such as dialogue with the individual departments inISO 14001, ISO 50001 and EMAS, the Telekom ternally, raise employees’ awareness in trainAustria Group ensures that all environmental ing courses and get them directly involved in aspects are monitored, the planned measures sustainable organisation by means of idea platare systematically implemented and potential forms. Risks are evaluated together and subsefor improvements is highlighted. Responsiquently analysed by the relevant departments bility for managing these processes lies with with the Telekom Austria Group’s risk manthe sustainability departments of the subagement organisation. The risk management sidiaries of the Telekom Austria Group. Measorganisation assesses the company’s overall ured in terms of headcount, around 64% of all risk situation and implements corresponding business units are certified in line with an enmeasures to minimise this. A detailed descripvironmental management system. tion of the risk management system and the risks identified as material can be found in the management report and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the 2013 annual report at http://ar2013.telekomaustria. CERTIFIED com (G4.2, 4.15) MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS austrIa Clear requirements for conduct: honest, fair and transparent • Iso 14001 for environmental management (since 2004) As a responsible company, the Telekom measures and training courses, the helpdesk • Iso 50001 for energy Austria Group has committed itself to a code “ask.me” and audits and the anonymous management (since 2008) of conduct that is intended to ensure integrity whistleblowing platform “tell.me”. In 2013, • emas (since 2013) and corporate management in compliance the compliance management system was also with the law and all relevant regulations as the certified in line with the standard IDW PS 980 sloVenIa basis for all activities of the Telekom Austria by an external auditor. Further information • Iso 14001 (since 2007) Group. This mandatory code of conduct is on this can be found at: www.telekomaustria. • emas (since 2013) available to all employees on the website in com/en/group/compliance republIc of serbIa the respective local language at all times. • oekoprofit Guidelines on topics that are particularly Sustainability in this area goes to the heart important for the company, the employees of every company, since acting in compliance and external stakeholders – such as fighting with regulations secures its existence just corruption and anti-trust law, or avoiding like far-sighted economic management. Seen conflicts of interest – and processes and in this light, the question of a company’s controls that support compliance ensure sustainability is always a question of its that the corporate value of integrity is a selfeconomic performance, too – and this evident part of day-to-day work. The annual can certainly benefit from doing business compliance risk assessment aims to ensure socially, ecologically and in compliance with that the Telekom Austria Group’s compliance regulations. (G4.2, 4.14, 4.56 4.58) programme contains the right measures to guarantee correct conduct. Furthermore, the effectiveness of the compliance management system is supported by regular communication 18 c O m m E n TA RY Mission accomplished? aUthoR PhotogRaPhy martin Walter Klaus Vyhnalek preface Compliance Officer Martin Walter about the successful certification of Telekom Austria Group's compliance management system and the new targets of his “Mission Compliance”. S o are you out of a job now?” could be a pointed question to a Compliance Officer after successful external certification of his compliance management system. And we did in fact achieve a key objective when we were issued a positive audit report without proposals for improvement by the auditing and consultancy company PwC (in accordance with the standard IDW PS 980 of the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany). The Telekom Austria Group is thus one of the first Austrian companies with a Group-wide certified compliance management system. This certification involved auditing the appropriate design and implementation of the associated structures and processes. All “critical” topic areas – such as anti-corruption/integrity, capital market compliance and anti-trust law – were taken into account in this process. In addition, the effectiveness of the system in normal operations in Austria was evaluated in a six-month auditing period. But even after the establishment of a state-of-the-art system like this on an internadr. martin walter graduated from the tional level, there is still plenty of work to do for “Mission Compliance”. After the great university of erlangen-nürnberg with a major in physics. his appointment as effort involved in obtaining certification, it is now a matter of continuing to send clear compliance officer at the telekom signals both internally and externally. The focus will now be on optimising normal opaustria group in november 2011 was the starting signal for the introduction erations and continuing to embed the principle of integrity in day-to-day business on a of a clearly defined and professional sustainable basis. This firstly means evaluating the efficiency of the processes that have group-wide compliance management system. a new group-wide code of conalready been implemented and simplifying them where necessary. Secondly, ongoing duct, the implementation of a whistlecontinuation of normal operations – for example with compliance training – and tarblowing platform and the successful completion of a certification process in geted internal communication activities will ensure that the level achieved is also main2013 are just some of his achievements. tained. In general, active communication on compliance activities and results (such as since july 2013 he has also held the position of data protection officer at a1, those of the whistleblower system) should contribute to maintaining and increasing the austrian subsidiary. awareness of how important this issue is. before joining the telekom austria group, walter was employed for 18 In terms of the internal impact, what is ultimately decisive is that the standards set years at deutsche telekom, where he held various management positions, are actively put into practice and integrity becomes natural attitude in all corporate divimost recently that of chief compliance sions and hierarchies. In terms of the external impact, the high compliance standards officer. In this position he was responalso have a beneficial effect on the Telekom Austria Group’s reputation. It has thereby sible for building a compliance system with an appropriate organisational credibly demonstrated that it has dealt with a “historical” problem area with the approstructure for the group as a whole. priate seriousness and consistency and ensured that this really is a thing of the past. 19 I n F O c u S – S u P P LY c h A I n Sustainability does not start (and end) with the product S ustainable activity on the part of companies is measured by more than just the direct economic, environmental and social impact of their business processes. As a link in supply REQUIREMENTS OF THE SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT AT A1 (AUSTRIA) chains, some of which are global, they are now increasingly also taking responsibility for the actions of their suppliers and business • requirements on employee protection and working partners. This is reflected to a growing extent in corresponding conditions in accordance with the provisions of the customer requirements and various international guidelines and International labour organization (Ilo) directives, such as the UN Global Compact, International Labour Organization and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). • requirements on environmental protection and resource efficiency based on established releVance to the telecommunIcatIons Industry environmental management systems (such as emas, In recent years, aspects of sustainability in the supply chain Iso 14001) have become increasingly important in the telecommunications industry. According to a 2013 study by GreenBiz.com that was • social and environmental requirements for products conducted in cooperation with Trucost, upstream processes such and services (with a lifecycle perspective) as the mining of raw materials, manufacturing, transportation and packaging account for 85% of all effects on the environment and society.¹ Technology companies are increasingly also dealing with “conflict minerals” such as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, which are often mined in China or in Central African nations where they are frequently linked with armed conflicts. Since minerals. A public consultation held in March 2013 is now being 2010, listed US companies have been subject to the “Dodd-Frank used by the EU as the basis for its decision on the strategy and Act”, Title 15 (Section 1502) of which requires that companies features of a European initiative on conflict materials. using certain conflict materials make corresponding disclosures Alongside these risks, however, supply chains also offer in their annual financial statements. This is intended to ensure great opportunities. For example, leading telecommunications that no raw materials are used that could help finance armed companies use sustainable purchasing practices to reduce their conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or neighbouring energy consumption – and hence also their costs – and to optimise countries. At a European level, too, there are growing discussions processes while saving resources and even realising product concerning a mandatory proof of origin requirement for conflict innovations by working in closer cooperation with suppliers. Raw Materials Transport Usage SHOP Production Sale Recycling 1 the state of green business 2013, greenbiz and trucost 20 I n F O c u S – S u P P LY c h A I n USEFUL INFORMATION FOR GRI EXPERTS • G4.14: the telekom austria Group observes the precautionary principle in its actions by taking potential ImplementatIon at the telekom aus trIa group ’ s subsIdIarIes future developments and findings into account when making decisions In 2012, the Telekom Austria Group launched a long-term project aimed at promoting sustainability in the supply chain. This project focuses on • g4.22, g4.23: changes in comparison to the previous year’s report result from the changeover from grI selected key aspects of Group-wide purchasing (particularly devices, net3.1 to grI g4. restatement of information provided work technology and IT) and purchasing at the Austrian subsidiary A1. in pervious reports have not taken place Considerable progress has been made since the project was launched, • g4.25: the selection of stakeholders is based on particularly at the largest operating subsidiary, A1. In addition to defining prioritisation using internal databases a Supplier Code of Conduct, A1 has advanced the environmental and social • g4.26: a stakeholder dialogue is held on an ongoing criteria for the regular vendor rating of its major suppliers. In 2013, the basis and the results are also incorporated in the voluntary information provided by suppliers was also extended to include preparation of reports social and environmental topics, and sustainability criteria have been de• g4.49: critical concerns are communicated to the veloped and implemented for certain tender categories. Another imporsupervisory board at meetings, which are also held tant step in shaping a sustainable supply chain is the amendment of A1’s on an ad hoc basis when necessary energy procurement to purchase only electricity from renewable sources • g4.50: there were no critical concerns with regard to from 2014 as part of the “carbon-neutral network” initiative (please see sustainability in the year under review page 46 for further details). • g4.52: no remuneration consultants were involved The Telekom Austria Group is also currently examining the possibility in the year under review of joining the international Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), an association • g4.53: the remuneration of the supervisory board is of telecommunication companies that works to promote sustainability at determined at the annual general meeting, where stakeholders can express their opinions suppliers in Asia and Latin America and conducts audits based on uniform procedures. (G4.12, 4.13) • ec1: net-value added 2013: eur 852 million to employees, eur 1,799 million investments, eur 250 million to investors, eur 2,942 million to public bodies • so3: 100% (18) of the consolidated operating companies were evaluated internally with regard to corruption risks in 2013, also taking account of risks relating to non-operating companies. an external IMPLEMENTED MEASURES IN review was performed for eight companies that THE PROCUREMENT OF TELEKOM generate 98% of the telekom austria group’s external revenue. as part of the risk analysis, 17 different AUSTRIA GROUP AND A1 corruption scenarios were assessed and mitigating measures were defined. taking account of the measures already implemented, no significant sustainability code of conduct for a1 suppliers developed residual risks were identified Internal purchasing guidelines for purchasing • so4: Information on compliance and antiemployees updated corruption is made available to 100% of the Ilo provisions integrated into code of conduct, general employees and all business partners (see online at purchasing conditions and master agreements www.telekomaustria.com). the entire supervisory environmental and social criteria enhanced for regular board is informed about corruption at least once vendor rating at a1 a year and the entire management board is given annual training. a total of 3,406 employees have been Voluntary information from suppliers extended trained in corruption prevention sustainability criteria integrated into tenders to a greater extent energy procurement at a1 altered to include only electricity from renewable sources business partner compliance (SO4) 21 g u E S T c O m m E n TA RY Who’s expected to read it all anyway? aUthoR preface Aslan milla A critical appraisal of the flood of reporting – PhotogRaPhy and a proposal for an alternative model. Pwc h undreds of pages long, sometimes confusing, often redundant: corporate reports take up a great deal of time for their authors and their readers alike. When faced with this flood of information, the question inevitably arises as to how extensive a report really needs to be. Which data is required by which target group? And what does the law say? According to the statutory requirements, companies are currently required to prepare various reports: single-entity financial statements and a management report, consolidated financial statements and a Group management report as well as a corporate governance report. In future, these will be supplemented by a remuneration report, as well as country-bycountry reporting in certain cases. Companies can also prepare additional reports on a voluntary basis, such as a sustainability report. For the auditor, the single-entity and consolidated financial statements, including the notes, are what is most important. This is the part that is audited and signed. Most reports are aimed, among other things, at capital market participants who track a company’s development or may be interested in investing in the company. Other recipients include unions, NGOs, legislators and other organisations. The best way to determine whether a report is informative (enough) is to put yourself in the place of an investor. My basic rule is that 20 pages of reading should be enough for you to tell how a company is positioned within society, what objectives it pursues and what risks and opportunities it is confronted with. This is the benchmark by which corporate reports should be measured. Transparency is another important factor. If the reader of a dr. aslan milla is senior 600-page report has to read between the lines and perform a semantic analysis just to find out whether partner at pwc austria and a key player among a company is doing well or not, the aim of transparency has been well and truly missed. austrian auditors. he has The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) has placed a global reorientation of corporbeen chairman of the ate reporting on the agenda. In December 2013, the IIRC published “The International <IR> Frameprofessional guild of the auditors of the austrian work” with the aim of establishing a uniform global framework for end-to-end corporate reporting. chamber of auditors since The IIRC defines integrated reporting as reporting on a company’s business model, business strategy 2010 and is a member of various national and and performance in such a way as to allow shareholders and stakeholders to assess whether the cominternational committees. pany can create and maintain value in the longer term. The objective is a considerably smaller report milla has played an active role in the development that still contains exactly the relevant key financial and non-financial information. of the austrian corporate Speed is also an issue when it comes to corporate reporting: the quicker a report is required to governance codex and in the development of be submitted after the end of the financial year, the more it may be necessary to use estimated data, several standards which with the consequence that the content becomes less accurate. A further (internal) consequence is are relevant for accounting and financial reporting for that reporting processes are becoming shorter and shorter. Companies have to set priorities and listed austrian companies. make value judgements if certain key figures are not yet available at the annual report publication date: how relevant is the corresponding information for corporate management? Sustainability represents a particular challenge when it comes to reporting. Companies which have integrated sustainability into their business model require valid KPIs as a basis for decisionmaking. These figures must be available at the end of the financial year and included in the report. But be careful: Steer clear of artificially generated KPIs! Performance indicators that are solely intended to fulfil a certain assumed reporting requirement without actually being used in decision22 ROADmAP making are dispensable. The only way for a company to have a This is where integrated reporting comes full circle. The real chance of setting change in motion and reporting authenticoncept is ready; however, ensuring its systematic implemencally on this process is if sustainability parameters are integrattation and orientation will require clear guidelines in order for ed into the daily processes and carried down from the overarchintegrated reporting to become a central medium of corporate ing corporate strategy to the operational level. This is closely communication alongside streamlined regulatory (financial) linked to the question of credibility: the public is more likely reports at some point in the future. It is time not just for legislato trust a report if it has been independently audited. At pretors and regulators but also for companies and their stakeholdsent, however, this only works if companies voluntarily choose ers to step up: if the statutory and market-driven conditions do to commission an auditor – there is no statutory requirement not move away from highly regulated corporate reporting in fafor them to do so. vour of streamlining and simplification, there is little hope of things improving in the long term. Roadmap – Sustainability Management facts, measures and targets In the following you will find an overview of selected targets and measures. Further details can be found at: www.telekomaustria.com • Improvement of reporting systems • Expansion of the audit include an independent auditor • Development of a supply chain strategy • Completion of the certification of the Group-wide compliance management system • Expansion of training on the topic of sustainability SAID In 2012 • Improvement of the internal reporting systems, adaption to GRI G4, successful shifting of publication to the middle of the year • Improvement in international ratings, for example in the case of CDP: C, 74/100 points • Extension of the scope of the review to include further indicators in the 2013 report • Development and step-by-step implementation of social and ecological criteria in the supply chain of the Telekom Austria Group and A1 • Successful completion of the review of the compliance management system in accordance with IDW PS 980 DOnE In 2013 • Integration of training courses on sustainability at the Telekom Austria Group Business School • Successful audit of environmental management systems, introduction of EMAS in Slovenia and Austria • Further adaption and improvement of reporting systems with a focus on publication dates and reporting quality • Establishment of a focus group for human rights • Continuation of the step-by-step implementation of sustainability aspects in the Telekom Austria Group’s supply chain • Carrying out another stakeholder survey in the context of updating the sustainability strategy (end of 2014/start of 2015) PLAnnED FOR 2014 • Continuation of external audit of environmental management systems and introduction in the Republic of Serbia (2014/2015) 23 PROVIDING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS Action area: products Providing Responsible Products Empowering People Living Green Creating Equal Opportunities State-of-the-art communication infrastructure, highest standards of data protection, fail-safe systems as well as ICT products and solutions with a clear value added for customers, society and the environment are core elements of today's digital knowledge society. 24 25 S u b je c t – P rod u c ts Providing Responsible Products Because it makes Empowering People our lives easier Living Green PREFACE Creating Equal Opportunities Developments in communication technology are constantly giving rise to new products that create simplifications and new opportunities for virtually all areas of life. This is also the objective pursued by the Telekom Austria Group with the products and services it offers. S o, do you still have to fly as much?” The headhunter from a study by the consultancy Strategy& (formerly Booz & Co.) asVienna shakes his head. “No, we do a lot by video confercribes additional global added value of USD 193 billion to digitience now.” His conversational partner, a retired manager of a sation. And refers to the fact that it created some 6 million jobs company from Lower Austria that manufactures solar systems, worldwide in 2011. According to the World Economic Forum, comments: “Well, in my day they were rather unreliable.” – the more rapid expansion of broadband in Europe has created a “That's changed a lot,” says the headhunter. “It works very well million new jobs.1 This is not on a scale with the Industrial Revnow. Of course, the airlines aren't particularly pleased about it, olution, but on the other hand the new communication techthey have lost a lot of business passengers. But for me, life has nologies also have less of a negative impact on society and inbecome much easier.” dividuals. They too are changing the world permanently but in Business people value reliability and confidentiality in a much more environmentally and socially acceptable way. And their professional communication. They want to be able to rely unlike the beginnings of the Industrial Revolution, they are not on telephones, e-mail and other electronic media working secreating a low-grade workforce but rather are contributing to curely. Communication infrastructure has taken on a key role the development of a middle class in countries where this has in shaping our day-to-day lives – in fact, it has become practiso far been lacking. They also promote values such as stability cally indispensable. The headhunter's online video conferences and legal compliance as well as reliable institutions and politiwith partners in Europe, the USA, Australia and India replace cal participation. (EC8) face-to-face meetings and save him from having to waste time at airports and in aeroplanes. He can also Network Readiness Index send negotiation documents to his business part2013 2012 ners quickly by by electronic means. New forms of country Score/Ranking Ranking communication are thus radically changing busiAustria 5.25 / 19 19 ness life. When he is on business trips, the headhunter B ulgaria 3.87 / 71 70 communicates with his children via social media. Croatia 4.17 / 51 45 But they have since given up their Facebook pages – B elarus n.a. n.a. after all, their dad doesn't need to know everything Slovenia 4.53 / 37 37 they share with their friends. Now they use another social media platform. Republic of Serbia 3.70 / 87 85 Republic of M acedonia 3.89 / 67 66 Wi l l I CT a l s o c r e a t e j o b s o n a s u s t a i n a b l e The Networked Readiness Index measures, on a scale from 1 (worst) to 7 (best), the performance of basis in the future? 148 economies in leveraging information and communications technologies to boost competitiveThe investor Peter Thiel, born in Frankfurt, whose ness and well-being. Source: World Economic Forum, The Global Information Technology Report 2013 early investment in Facebook made him rich and famous, expressed his disappointment at the development of Of course, communication companies are also constantly the software sector in the magazine “The New Yorker”. Unlike facing new challenges as a result of the changes triggered by the nineteenth-century Industrial Revolution, he wrote, it is their own technologies. The effects this can have are demonnot creating enough jobs. Nonetheless, it cannot be denied that strated by several prominent examples of technology compasoftware and information and communication technologies nies that failed to pick up on trends and consequently not only are significant drivers of economic development. For example, lost their leading market positions within a few years but in 26 S u b je c t – P rod u c ts Repeater enable mobile communication in remote areas. The signal from a distant mobile communication station i s r e c e iv e d , a m p l i f i e d a n d r e t r a n s m i t t e d vi a a n a n t e n n A . some cases even disappeared from the market. Existing communication infrastructure is coming under pressure as a result of increasingly complex applications and more and more intensive use. Telecommunication companies must react to this fast and efficiently in order to continue ensuring connectivity in the future and remain on the market. Meanwhile, the volume of data transported is growing rapidly: In 2013 alone, global mobile data traffic increased by 81%. Anyone who has ever travelled on the underground and seen half of the passengers hunched over their smartphones will know that mobile data services are extremely popular and fulfil a need for many Mobile communication station Repeater  Sufficient mobile reception people: the need for ever faster and Receiving antenna Transmitting antenna Radio signal more extensive electronic commuCable connection nication. This need means that the current mobile data volume can be expected to increase by a factor of eleven by 2018. and, in the case of communication technologies, connectivity. When the growing need for communication meets with a For this reason, in the 2013 financial year alone the Telekom new, high-performance technology such as LTE, the developAustria Group invested EUR 650 million in regular operations, ment accelerates enormously since both factors encourage more than EUR 400 million in acquisitions and EUR 1.03 bilmore intensive use of mobile devices. In 2013, LTE already aclion in the Austrian mobile spectrum. Demand-driven network counted for 30% of total global traffic – with a share of 2.9% of expansion, optimisation of copper and fibre-optic networks customers. The average transmission rate of the networks aland investments in new fixed line and mobile communication most doubled in the same year and is expected to double again technologies ensure the quality, availability and connectivity of by 2018.² the networks in the future, too. (IO1, EC7) So the question is how the communication infrastructure In contrast to the laissez-faire situation during the Induswill continue to deal with these rapidly increasing data volumes trial Revolution, the development of communication technoland speeds in the future. The key to this lies in the convergence ogies is taking place under highly regulated conditions. Each of mobile communication and fixed line technologies. Fibreexpansion must take into account the legal provisions of a optic and copper cables alongside state-of-the-art mobile comcountry, and also of the EU where relevant, and very different munication technologies such as LTE provide a solid foundaapproval procedures. Although the responsible institutions are tion for this – and thus also form the basis for the gigantic data at least verbally striving for deregulation and simplification, stream of the future. every company that supposedly operates on free markets, such as the Telekom Austria Group, must deal with regulatory asThe future costs money – and a lot of it pects in relation to pricing (e.g. roaming) as well as neighbours' Every type of infrastructure – not just in the field of communirights, physical stability, land use planning, landscape presercations – is constantly evolving and needs to be modernised, vation and compliance with the WHO's limits for emissions. requiring high investments. Those who fail to recognise this These constitute strict conditions and tasks for core business fact risk stifling economic and social development. On this but also clear indicators of sustainable business. basis, we can conclude that only investments in existing and The requirements for companies in today's communication new infrastructure can ensure a thriving future development – sector and their investors are fundamentally different 1 2 Booz&Co, Digitalization for Cisco Visual Networking Economic Growth and Job Index, 2014 Creation, 2013 27 SubJEcT – PRODucTS Providing Responsible Products from those of the Industrial Revolution. They demand much This is also worthy of media attention in that rural regions will more of the kind of thing that is only inadequately covered by benefit in particular from it. the term “sustainability”. For example, public participation – Why? Is that where the money is going? Indirectly, at least Empowering People a completely unknown concept back then is now a key aspect. part of it is, as the newly acquired spectrum makes it possible The Telekom Austria Group thus voluntarily informs the popto use LTE nationwide. And, in line with the communication ulation about the construction of mobile communication statechnology doctrine of convergence of mobile communication tions and provides extensive information on planned mobile and fixed lines, new technologies are also called for in the communication stations to the communities affected. In adlatter. The Telekom Austria Group uses methods such as vectorLiving Green dition, it is applying new expansion concepts in rural regions. ing here. This minimises bandwidth loss due to interferences Digitisation is also being advanced here by supplying repeaters in copper cable by up to 90%. Another speed-increasing trans(see illustration page 27). (EC7, IO1) mission technology for copper cable, known as “G.fast”, is used Creating Equal Opportunities Such activities are rarely covered by media reports on the in the last mile. In addition, the fibre-optic network is becommunication sector. However, it does hit the headlines when ing expanded further so that all channels will be available for there is a lot of money involved, for example at the frequency convergence in the future, too, and the growing demand for auction in autumn 2013. At this auction, A1, the Austrian subconnectivity and data communication can be satisfied on a sidiary of the Telekom Austria Group, acquired two thirds of sustainable basis. (PA1) the spectrum in the new 800 MHz range (“digital dividend”). many securIt y Issues All of those hunched over their favourite mobile devices on public transport or elsewhere (in cars, common sense and traffic regulations limit the driver to making calls using a hands-free system) rely on their communication needs always EU CYBERSECURITY being met perfectly and securely wherever they happen to be. PLAN TO PROTECT And with the Telekom Austria Group, they are in good hands OPEN INTERNET AND in this respect. After all, it had set itself the target of ensuring ONLINE FREEDOM AND coverage for 99% of the population with the 2G network and for OPPORTUNITY 90% with the 3G network everywhere its services are offered. And both of these target were achieved in 2013. In technical • achieving cyber resilience terms, this means that, with the exception of Liechtenstein, mobile communication achieves a transmission rate of up to • drastically reducing cybercrime 42 Mbit/s via 3G/HSPA+. With regard to the fixed line network, next-generation access (NGA) infrastructure enables coverage • developing cyber defence policy and of 60% of households in Austria with speeds of up to 16 Mbit/s, capabilities related to the common security and in some places even up to 100 Mbit/s at the end of 2013. and defence policy (csdp) (PA4) The conversion of the fixed line network to the voice-over-IP • developing the industrial and technological (VoIP) network in Austria was also completed in 2013. In the same resources for cybersecurity year, the Croatian subsidiary Vipnet achieved a transmission rate of 5 Gbit/s with a hybrid fibre-coaxial network – the world record • establishing a coherent international cyberfor fixed line data transmission, although customers are more space strategy for the eu and promoting core interested in reliability than world records in this area. And of eu values course in security. Two names come up in this context: Julian Assange and Edward Snowden. They are among the most famous people in the world. They owe their fame to what some call betrayal of secrets and others call whistle-blowing. People like them are a nightmare not only for government agencies but also for companies in the communication sector. These companies have a great deal to SUBSIDIARIES AUDITED safeguard namely, their customers’ data. Only if they do this IN LINE WITH ISO 27001 well can they earn the trust of their customers. (INFORMATION SECURITY) Trust and security are seen as core elements of a healthy digital society. It’s not just anybody who says this but the EU in its a1 “Digital Agenda”. Among other goals, it aims to make the online m o b I lt e l environment in the EU states the most secure in the world. VIpnet This is facilitated by a cybersecurity plan and a Commission proposal with measures that ensure a high level of common network and information security. The cybersecurity plan sets out specific points for increasing the resilience of information 28 SubJEcT – PRODucTS systems in cyberspace. The aim here of the US armed forces in his own Another aspect of security is the is to drastically reduce cybercrime and institution, while Snowden hacked his secure availability of communication strengthen international cybersecurity institution himself. As you can see, the networks in crisis situations. At the policy – and not least the cyber defence human factor in a security system plays a Telekom Austria Group, specially trained of the EU.3 As shown by the leaks by role that is difficult to control. So how do crisis management teams are used Assange and Snowden, cyber defence the employees see data protection? Are for this purpose. They have technical (or the lack of it) plays a decisive role in they ready to ensure it in the interests equipment such as emergency power emergency situations. (PA3) of customers? Since 2013, one of the generators and satellite phones, and Cyber defence by “civil institutions” Telekom Austria Group's key campaigns the Austrian subsidiary A1 even has a such as the Telekom Austria Group means has been to raise awareness of and mobile, satellite-linked base station in a repelling attacks on their sensitive data provide training in data protection at shipping container for emergencies. This or not allowing such attacks to happen all subsidiaries. So far, more than 2,700 enables the Telekom Austria Group to in the first place. Data protection is employees have completed specially ensure a professional and rapid response the top priority; this is facilitated at designed training using an e-learning in emergency situations. Phone calls to all subsidiaries by the “Information tool (Austria) or in workshops or official emergency numbers are free at Security Policy” developed specially individual training sessions. all subsidiaries. (PA6, 7) for this purpose and its supplementary To provide clarity for customers “Information Security Standards”. To regarding how their data is used, s m a r t e r 2 . 0! demonstrate its high security standards information on the storage duration The headhunter from Vienna experiences and thereby strengthen trust, A1, the and the type of stored data forms part of the purpose of telecommunication prodAustrian subsidiary of the Telekom the Telekom Austria Group's customer ucts in a very practical way in his everyAustria Group, plans to publish a data contracts. Customer portals and websites day life: simplification. Whether it's for protection report for the first time in make further information available. At business or private use, “smart devices” 2014/2015. Because hackers pose a threat the Austrian subsidiary A1, a Data Privacy in a reliable infrastructure allow him to to this security, the company itself also unit headed by Group Compliance run different applications more or less employs professional hackers to identify Officer Martin Walter was set up in midsimultaneously wherever he happens to any weak spots in the Telekom Austria 2013. Walter and his team developed be. Of course, he owns more than a smartGroup's network. a data protection policy and an inphone specifically, he also has a tablet, The most famous hackers in the house e-learning tool. (Information a notebook and a Kindle and as such he world are Assange and Snowden. on safe Internet use at Creating Equal is in line with the trend. Studies indicate Assange used data hacked by a member Opportunities page 60ff). that by 2018, the share of smart devices will have increased to over 54%.⁴ This also means that such products are increasdeVelopment of the global co₂ emIssIons ingly replacing physical objects. Overall, and yearly saVIngs drIVen by Ict In 2020 this development contributes to reducing co₂ emissions (gigatonnes) environmental effects such as CO² emissions (see also Living Green page 36ff) and 60 paper consumption. “Smart” solutions 16.5% (9.1 gtco₂) p.a. saVIngs have the potential to save seven times 50 drIVen by Ict In 2020 their own greenhouse gas emissions by 40 2020.� Positive side effects include cost re30 duction, enhanced efficiency and an improved quality of life. 20 44.6 gtco₂ p.a. In 2020 caused by Looking at the world's major cities other sectors than Ict 10 and their constant expansion seems to confirm the assumption that by 2050, 2000 70% of the world's population will be living in cities. This will require new 2010 concepts for administration, transport 2.3% (1.3 gtco₂) p.a. caused by and facilities for the inhabitants. Today, Ict In 2020 (Ict footprInt) between 60% and 80% of energy worldsource: gesI, smarter 2020 2020 year wide is already consumed in cities. They produce roughly 70% of greenhouse gas emissions. Communication technologies offer solutions here. For example, 3 4 5 new business areas such as the Telekom www.europa.eu cisco Visual networking gesI, smarter 2020 Austria Group's M2M can optimise transIndex 2014 port systems and water, energy 29 SubJEcT – PRODucTS Providing Responsible Products and waste management so as to preserve resources and thereby All of these smart technologies are clearly aimed at customreduce the environmental impact.� Electronic signature sysers and their satisfaction. So – are they satisfied with them? Empowering People tems, contracts and archives allow for faster and more efficient To measure the satisfaction of its subsidiaries' customers, the processing. They also provide support for people with disabiliTelekom Austria Group has launched a project that uses the ties and allow for a better quality of care, security and individutools “Net Promoter Score”(NPS) and “Touchpoint Net Promoter al support for patients and older people.� (TA1, 2, EN27) Score” (tpNPS). Starting from 2014, an external survey on this M2M, the Telekom Austria Group's division for machinewill be conducted twice a year. NPS determines the loyalty of Living Green to-machine communication, also supports efforts to create customer relationships and provides information on customclimate-friendly products and added value for society. In 2013, ers' attitudes to the subsidiary in question. tpNPS measures significant progress was made in machine communication, customer loyalty via various channels such as telephone, onCreating Equal Opportunities and a range of services were made available to the energy sector, line and sales. If necessary, more in-depth surveys are conductsuch as the cloud-based smart metering platform “SMARTify”. ed in addition to this. Qualitative interviews, analysis of onServices for industrial automation technology and fleet manline platforms and external studies are also used. Based on the agement were expanded further. With real-time communicaresults, potential improvements for products and services are tion systems such as unified communications and collaboraderived and implemented on an ongoing basis. So that it's not just tion solutions, previously physical activities can be performed Viennese headhunters whose (working) lives are made easier. virtually, considerably reducing CO² emissions. In addition (PR5) to their product-specific benefits, the cloud services and the housing and hosting services offered by the Telekom Austria Group also create positive side effects such as energy efficiency USEFUL INFORMATION FOR and reduced emissions in both a private and a business conGRI EXPERTS text. (For further information see Online Measures Programme at www.telekomaustria.com and Living Green page 36ff and Creating Equal Opportunties page 60ff). (PA5, EN27, TA1) • Pr3: the telekom austria Group is not subject to any special labelling requirements • pr8: In 2013, a1 reported one complaint to the austrian data protection commission. the disruption, which was caused by a defective customer contacts system component, affected 25 customers and In customer serVIce 2013 2012 was rectified within 45 minutes • Io8: 70% exclusive use of transmitter locations, AUST R I A 22,300 26,545 30% shared use B U LGA R I A 4,375 5,656 • so7: the companies of the telekom austria group are committed to fair competition and C ROAT I A 3,412 3,147 follow the competition law provisions of the B E L A R US 5,125 5,382 applicable legislation S LOV E N I A 907 999 • pa10: each subsidiary of the telekom austria group offers different cost-control tools. these R E P U B L I C O F S ERBIA 3,091 1,817 range from text messages to special apps or the throttling of data rates. further measures can R E P U B L I C O F MACEDO N IA 1,429 2,023 be found online at www.telekomaustria.com t e le koM aUStR Ia g Ro UP 40,640 45,569 6 7 Itu, focus group on smart world economic forum, sustainable cities global Information technology report 2013 30 g u E S T c O m m E n TA RY The future of data protection: to be processed without being able to read them (“homomorCloud computing phic encryption”) are planned. Cryptographic solutions must also constantly be adapted to current technological standards. The mechanisms used (protocols, algorithms, parameters) are therefore monitored and evaluated by ENISA at regular interaUthoR PhotogRaPhy vals with regard to their security features². udo helmbrecht EnISA In addition to technical requirements, service level agreements should also include data protection aspects. Furthermore, current legislation must be adapted to reflect new techpreface nologies and business models. ENISA supports the amendment process for the Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC of the EuroUdo Helmbrecht, ENISA, on the data pean Community to protect the privacy of individuals when protection challenges and expectations processing personal data. In this context, it is involved with the European telecommunications providers “Article 29 Working Party”, which gives particular attention to are currently facing. user rights (data minimisation, right to access and deletion). However, it has also become clear that it is almost impossible to integrate these rights in existing systems. They must therefore be included in the design stage already, and new IT systems T must be supplied with privacy-enhancing factory settings (“prihe debate regarding security, privacy and confidentiality vacy by design and default”) in the interests of the users. in cyberspace has been rekindled by recent reports on surveillance scandals. As a result of this debate, a loss of trust Cloud computing may currently be perceived as involving in information technology can be observed. In addition, it must risks in relation to data protection law, but it can also be part of be noted that effective protection under national law is not posthe solution. Small and medium-sized companies in particusible due to the multinational nature of Internet services. Ullar are increasingly unable to protect their IT infrastructure adtimately, this has created the impression that intelligence serequately, as the staff resources for the required protection are vices can easily circumvent technical protection mechanisms not available in practical terms. Infrastructure providers can whenever they like. provide privacy-enhancing “plug and play” solutions for this purpose. However, neither technical methods nor laws alone There is a risk that this debate may negatively impact the are sufficient to restore lost trust. Rather, the legislator must business model of cloud computing providers. ENISA therecreate incentives for using technologically sophisticated solufore considers it to be its retions. ENISA plays an intermesponsibility to overcome diary and advisory role in this the mistrust that has arisen. context. Sound risk analysis¹ can support cloud providers and consumers in selecting suitable data protection strategies. Furthermore, the increased demand for secure solutions will encourage the develenIsa safeguards europe's information societies by supporting and opment of new protective advising legal authorities, european mechanisms and speed up institutions and companies on network and information security isthe implementation of existsues and, where necessary, by acting ing cryptographic procedures as a mediator. with different methods of prof. udo helmbrecht is a physicist generating, storing and transwho has been working in the It sector for 30 years. before becoming the ferring the codes required executive director of the european for authorised data access. agency enIsa in october 2009, he was president of the federal office In addition, mechanisms for Information security in bonn, a that allow encrypted data position he held from 2003 onward. 1 2 good practice guide for recommended cryptographic measures – securing personal data https:// securely deploying governwww.enisa.europa.eu/activities/identity-and-trust/library/deliverables/ mental clouds recommended-cryptographic-measures-securing-personal-data 31 I n F O c u S – m O b I L E c O m m u n I c AT I O n & h E A LT h Q&A: Mobile communication and health eVerythIng you always wanted to know about electromagnetIc fIelds. FREQUENCY (HZ) 1 0 22 Gamma radiation IONISING RANGE how do radIo waVes 1 0 20 does usIng mobIle phones damage 1 affect the organIsm? 2 your health? X-ray radiation Electromagnetic waves are used 1 0 18 No, no harmful effects or health risks have been identiin many different areas of life, UV light fied as yet. “A large number of studies have been persuch as medicine and television 1 0 16 formed over the last two decades to assess whether Visible and radio reception. So there are light mobile phones pose a potential health risk. To date, no radio waves practically every1 0 14 adverse health effects have been established as being where – with different effects deInfrared caused by mobile phone use,” stated the WHO (World light pending on their frequency. In Health Organisation) in an information sheet.¹ 1 0 12 the high-frequency range, electromagnetic waves lead to a mini* 1 0 10 NON-IONISING RANGE mal, barely measurable increase in the temperature of the human 108 WHO LIMITS body. In the case of mobile comVHF munication, the level of energy SW is so low that even long conver106 MW For 800 MHZ (LTE) 4 W/m2 For 1.800 MHZ (GSM) 9 W/m2 sations on a mobile phone cause LW For 900 MHZ (GSM) 4.5 W/m2 Over 2.000 MHZ (UMTS, LTE) 10 W/m2 the human body to heat up by 104 High frequency only less than 0.1 degrees Celsius. 1 By comparison, human body tem102 who fact sheet no. 193, june 2011 perature rises by up to 2 degrees 1 Low frequency Celsius when doing sport. * Frequency ranges 800, 900 1800, 2100 und 2600 MHz of mobile base stations 4 what Is the sar? 3 are there legal lImIts for use? The specific absorption rate (SAR) shows To protect our health, the International Comhow much of the momission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection bile phone’s trans(ICNIRP) reviews scientific studies and makes Low mitting power is abImmissions recommendations for limits. Many national sorbed by the body and international expert committees, includwhen making a phone High ing those of the WHO, the EU and in the respecImmissions call. The SAR rate entive countries, use these limits as a basis. In sures that the heating the Telekom Austria Group, the limits recomAS THE DISTANCE BETWEEN THE MOBILE PHONE AND THE MOBILE effect caused by radio mended by the ICNIRP/WHO for base stations COMMUNICATION STATION INCREASES, THE IMMISSIONS ALSO INCREASE waves in the head area and mobile devices are adhered to and the does not exceed 0.1 deactual levels are even several times lower in day-to-day operations. In addition, gree Celsius. The SAR of a mobile phone is dethe various national laws and guidelines in the countries where the Telekom termined based on its maximum technically Austria Group operates are strictly observed. (IO4, 5, 6) possible transmitting power and is included in the description for all mobiles. However, low SAR rates do not automatically mean EU recommendation 1999/519/EC more safety when using the phone. Rather, LIMITS FOR it depends how far away the closest base staAustrian Ministry for Transport, A SAFE Innovation and Technology (BMVIT) European standards for the tion is from the mobile phone. The better the ENVIRONMENT implements the recommendation protection of people: IN AUSTRIA EN 50360 – SAR rates (mobile connection between a mobile phone and a phones), EN 50385 and EN 50401 TelecommuniMonitoring by the telecommunications – mobile communication stations base station, the less energy the mobile phone cations law authority needs. A well-developed mobile network therefore means a lower level of exposure Austrian standard ÖVE/ÖNORM E 8850 for the protection of people when making phone calls. (IO6) 32 I n F O c u S – m O b I L E c O m m u n I c AT I O n & h E A LT h 0.1°C 0.7°C Warming due to Warming due to radio waves 5 why does my ear get hot when I make phone calls? phone electronics The ear heats up mostly due to the outer ear being covered. The WARMING OF THE EAR AREA AFTER electronics in the phone (e.g. the battery) also contribute to A 30-MINUTE heating up the ear when the phone is used. Only a small part of PHONE CALL the heating effect is caused by the radio waves. 1.6°C Warming due to covering the ear 6 are base statIons harmful to people and the enVIronment ? In this context, emissions are understood to mean the exposure to radio waves at a particular location. This can already be calculated precisely when a base station is installed. As an installer of these transmitters, the Telekom Austria Group performs emission calculations as a free service. This ensures that the applicable limits of the World Health Organisation are not exceeded. In general, the emissions already fall below these limits from a distance of around 2 – 8 metres. In any case, there is no public access to the areas directly around the base station. Furthermore, local EMF teams engage in dialogue with the local residents to answer any questions and they perform emission measurements free of charge on request. (IO7) DISPERSAL BEHAVIOUR OF RADIO WAVES 10 1 W/m² 1 0,1 W/m² 0,01 0,001 W/m² 0,00001 0,0000001 W/m² 60 50 METRES ABOVE GROUND LEVEL 40 30 20 10 DISTANCE IN METRES 10 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 what Is the telekom austrIa group doIng to adhere further InformatIon 7 to the guIdelInes? The Telekom Austria Group maintains cooperation • A Group-wide EMF (electromagnetic fields) policy ensures that all subsidiand intensive dialogue with local industry associaaries without exception adhere to the guidelines on health and safety with tions and holds talks with regional administrative auregard to electromagnetic fields. thorities, interest group representatives and citizens’ initiatives in order to advance research in the field of • Information is exchanged between the regional companies on a regular EMF. Brochures and further information are available basis in the context of the Group EMF Board. This ensures a consistently in the local language on the websites of the respective high standard of adherence to the limits even when expanding the local subsidiaries. Information material is also available in networks. Telekom Austria Group shops and the EMF team can be contacted at any time at emf@a1.net. (PA8, IO7) • Only devices that adhere to national and international guidelines can be included in the Telekom Austria Group’s product portfolio. Continuous testing ensures reliable adherence to the limits issued by the World Health Organisation (WHO). • The emission levels of the mobile base stations are tested by the authorities in the respective countries on an ongoing basis. In Austria, for examUSEFUL INFORMATION ple, a test was performed by TÜV in 2012 and showed levels considerably FOR GRI EXPERTS below the limits. (IO6, 7) • Pr1: 100% of products have been tested • pr2: no incidents in the reporting period 33 ROADmAP Roadmap – Products facts, measures and targets beIng maIntaIned achIeVed In the following you will find of overview of selected targets and measures. In plannIng Further details can be found at: www.telekomaustria.com In ImplementatIon T A R G E T S 2 0 1 5 • ensurIng group-wIde network coVerage of at least 99% wIth 2g and at least 90% wIth 3g .......... • maIntaInIng the hIghest possIble data protectIon and data securIty standards In all countrIes ... • publIshIng an annual data protectIon report for a1 (startIng In 2014/2015) ............................. • maIntenance of Iso 27001 certIfIcatIon ...................................................................................... • deVelopment of InnoVatIVe solutIons In the healthcare, educatIon and admInIstratIon sectors ... • promotIon of clImate-frIendly products and solutIons ............................................................. • Increase In customer satIsfactIon ............................................................................................. baselIne for targets Is 2012. • Demand-driven expansion of infrastructure in the Telekom Austria Group • Publication of a data protection report in 2014 (A1) • Implementation of measures to raise awareness among employees, with a focus on data protection • Maintenance of ISO 27001 certification • Promotion of green ICT products and development of key figures for reporting SAID 2012 • Capital expenditure of EUR 650 million, more than EUR 400 million for acquisitions and EUR 1.03 billion for mobile spectrum in Austria • Data protection and data security: o Maintenance of ISO 27001 certification in Austria, Bulgaria and Croatia o Awareness-raising campaigns for employees o Development of an e-learning tool in Austria o New data protection policy at A1 • Implementation of a uniform tool for measuring customer satisfaction • Green ICT product portfolio expanded further, collection of green ICT key figures for DOnE 2013 reporting begun in the year under review For further measures, please refer to the measures programme online at www.telekomaustria.com • Demand-driven expansion of network infrastructure using new technologies • Publishing an annual data protection report for A1 (starting in 2014/2015) • Increased integration of environmental aspects in the Telekom Austria Group's product portfolio • Further development of green ICT products with focus on M2M solutions (e.g. special solutions in the field of energy efficiency, eco-driving, e-mobility and smart-ﬂeet) PLAnnED 2014 34 FLAgShIP PROJEcTS Flagship Projects 1 The Bulgarian subsidiary Mobiltel launched the 1 self-service app “My Mtel”, which allows for fast and convenient administration of tarifs, cost etc. Cost-control tools and apps are available at all subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria Group, and Vodafone Consumer Services is offered in Austria, Bulgaria and Croatia. The SMARTify application from Telekom 2 Austria Group M2M enables efficient meter data management. In addition to automated meter reading, it also offers extensive business management and alarm functions. Vipnet initiated the crowdsourcing platform 3 “Vip forum”, where anyone interested can engage in dialogue about issues in the telecommunication sector, give tips and share their experiences. This project focuses on forming 2 an online community and a publicly available source of information. With G.fast, the Austrian subsidiary A1 can 4 achieve data rates of over 1 Gbit/s in the existing copper wire network for the first time, allowing for a new expansion option in the fibreoptic network. A1’s network was named the overall winner for 5 the best network in German-speaking countries by the specialist magazine connect in early 2014. In 2013, the Bulgarian subsidiary Mobiltel achieved the highest 3G network coverage and the Serbian subsidiary Vip mobile received 4 an award for its network coverage. With the pilot project “eCall”, the Bulgarian 6 subsidiary Mobiltel has introduced a safety system for the whole of Europe. “eCall” is an additional service to supplement the emergency number 122. In the event of a car accident, an 5 automatic connection is established in order to transmit location and vehicle data via MNO networks to the 122 emergency centre. 35 LIVING Providing Responsible Products GREEN Empowering People A c t i o n a r e a : E n vi r o n m e n t Living Green Creating Equal Opportunities The Telekom Austria Group actively embraces its ecological responsibility with an energy-efficient infrastructure, greater use of renewable energies, climate-friendly mobility and the protection of raw materials by means of optimised recycling and waste management systems. 36 37 s u b je c t – E n viro n m e n t Empowering People Living Green Active contribution in the Creating Equal Opportunities fight against climate change PREFACE The Telekom Austria Group uses targeted steps and programmes to continuously reduce its environmental footprint. C limate change is considered the biggest global challenge of our time. In this context, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) confirms the causal link between C l i m a t e f r i e n d ly c o m m u n i c a t i o n t e c h n o l o g i e s Innovative technologies like those developed by the telecommunication sector offer encouraging approaches for climate released greenhouse gases, such as CO², and global warming. protection. Advancing digitisation and smart solutions can increasingly replace physical products and services and contribThe consequences of the accumulation of CO² are an acidiute to a 16% reduction in global CO² emissions³ (see also Profication of the world's oceans, and also an increase in extreme viding Responsible Products, page 24ff). They therefore have weather such as droughts and flooding also results. The ecoan important role to play in the development of a “low-carbon nomic damage is estimated to total trillions of US dollars. Aceconomy”. cording to the IPCC, a rise in temperature of two degrees Celsius could wipe out up to 2% of global economic output.¹ However, the huge rise in the volume of data transported via network infrastructure and the expansion of new technoloWhat can be done to combat climate change? gies also contribute to an increase in the networks’ energy conNew energy and climate targets for reducing such greenhouse sumption. According to current studies, approximately 2% of gas emissions were also presented by the European Commisglobal energy requirements are attributable to ICT companies.⁴ sion in January 2014: Emissions are to be reduced by 40% by At the Telekom Austria Group, an estimated 80% of its energy 2030 in comparison to their level in 1990. No new specific use is attributable to its networks. Networks are therefore also targets have been set with regard to energy efficiency. Howa key aspect when it comes to the question of how a communiever, the EU Energy Efficiency Directive already stipulates that, cation company can become energy-efficient and contribute to starting from 2014, utility companies must generate savings of protecting the environment and the climate. 1.5% of the quantity of energy sold to end customers each year.² The Telekom Austria Group aims to generate further opWith regard to the share of renewable energies in power erating growth without a rise in CO² emissions to the greatconsumption, the European Commission will aim for a level est extent possible. It has therefore set itself the Group-wide of 27% throughout the EU by 2030. This is intended to replace target of reducing its CO² emissions by 25% by 2020 and has mandatory individual targets for the EU member states. In the taken corresponding measures in all of the countries where it online version of the weekly newspaper “Die Zeit”, the EU enoperates. These include environmental management systems, a ergy policy expert Severin Fischer comments on this as follows: Group-wide environmental policy, clear environmental targets “An explicit EU-wide target creates an incentive for closer coand measures and the collection of environmental key figures operation on energy policy within Europe – and for a stronger throughout the Group. These are to be used to measure, control European focus in the (…) change in energy policy. (…) In this and ultimately reduce the Telekom Austria Group's environway, fluctuations in the system and varying local conditions for mental impact in the respective countries. energy generation can be balanced out better and the conversion of the energy system can be made more cost-efficient for In line with the principle “avoid and reduce”, the Europe as a whole.” Telekom Austria Group already set itself specific targets in 2012 for effectively reducing its environmental footprint. Starting from 2012, energy efficiency throughout the Group 1 2 is to be increased by 20% by 2015. In order to achieve this, a Fifth Assessment Report of European Commission, press range of measures have been and will be implemented to opthe IPCC, Part 2, March 2014 release dated 22 January 2014 timise energy efficiency with regard to network infrastructure 38 SubJEcT – EnVIROnmEnT (see also Online Measures Programme at the key method for reducing CO² emisapproximately 90 tonnes. In addition, www.telekomaustria.com). For examsions. Whereas burning fossil fuels repstarting from 2014 A1 will be sending a ple, energy savings of around 10% can resents one of the biggest sources of CO² clear signal with regard to climate probe achieved at mobile base stations by emissions worldwide, the use of electection by using 100% electricity from means of utilisation-dependent activatricity from renewable energy sources renewable energy sources. tion and deactivation of GSM resources is considered to be climate-neutral. For for each activated location. (EN6 , 7) this reason, the Telekom Austria Group has, for some years, been constructing There are also possibilities for reducits own facilities for the production of COOPERATIONS ing consumption at data centres with renewable energy that work with photoenergy-intensive cooling. The Telekom voltaics – the conversion of sunlight into • etNo (telekom austria Group) Austria Group uses innovative cooling electricity. Furthermore, the company • klima:aktiv (a1) systems such as cold aisle containment, chooses to purchase electricity from re• austrian mobile power (a1) hot spot suction extraction, hybrid ventinewable energy sources where possible. • code of conduct on data centers lation systems and heat recovery systems energy efficiency (a1) for this purpose. Such systems allow for In 2013, a photovoltaic farm measur• green network (si.mobil) energy consumption to be reduced by up ing 2,800 square metres with 462 pho• ecologists without borders to 75% compared to conventional cooling tovoltaic modules was constructed for (si.mobil) systems. In this way, the Group managed the Austrian subsidiary A1 at the earth (G4.15) to reduce power consumption by 1% in station in Aflenz. This ground-mounted 2013 despite rising data volumes and to photovoltaic farm feeds the electricity increase efficiency accordingly. (EN6 , 7) generated directly into the Aflenz satellite station, produces a peak output of use of renewable 113 kilowatts (kWp) annually in the first energy sources expansion phase and enables CO² to be In addition to measures to reduce enreduced by up to 50 tonnes. In the first ergy needs and to optimise energy efhalf of 2014, there was an expansion to 3, 4 ficiency, the use of renewable energy is 195 kWp, increasing the CO² savings to smarter 2020 39 SubJEcT – EnVIROnmEnT Empowering People Living Green SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT IN THE ANNUAL CDP ASSESSMENT WITH REGARD TO CLIMATE PROTECTION FOR THE SECOND TIME IN A ROW Creating Equal Opportunities 2013: dIsclosure score of 74 (out of 100) poInts, performance score c (2012:54 poInts, score e) The company also chooses alternative energy sources for its Telekom Austria Group has specified a number of measures for mobile base stations, where hybrid ventilation systems operachieving its environmental targets. For example, the recycling ated by wind power and hybrid energy supply systems are used. rate in the Group amounted to 55% in 2012 and was increased to In the sunny areas of Croatia and in some cases also in Slove71% in 2013. It is to be raised by 10% by 2015. nia, more than 50 mobile base stations are now operated using solar and wind energy or, as some of them, are almost energy At the same time, the Group also intends to reduce its own self-sufficient thanks to the use of hydrogen fuel cells. paper consumption by 10% by 2015. In 2013, the amount of paper used was cut by 1% to 313,000 tonnes, a reduction of almost An important milestone was achieved in 2014 with regard to 4 tonnes compared to 2012 equivalent to an 80-metre-high reducing the Telekom Austria Group's environmental footprint: stack of paper. This was primarily attributable to the decreasA1 became the first Austrian company and the first company in es in paper consumption in Austria, Slovenia and the Republic the Telekom Austria Group to operate its entire telecommuniof Macedonia. To reduce customers' paper consumption, too, cation network on a carbon-neutral basis. (Further details on a target has been set for reducing paper invoices: In 2013, 64% page 46f). of all invoices were issued in the form of e-bills, already well above the 50% target set for 2015. e n V I r o n m e n t a l lyf r I e n d ly V e h I c l e flee t and preserVat Ion of resources In the process of technological change, new technical comEmployee mobility plays a not inconsiderable role in the ponents are continuously being used to optimise efficiency Group's commitment to reducing energy consumption and and performance. The Telekom Austria Group uses efficient life thus also CO² emissions. Due to ongoing maintenance of the cycle management to ensure that the best possible use is made network infrastructure and on-site customer support, many of technical devices over the course of their life cycle and that of them have to travel a great deal to service customers. A total they are also reused or recycled where possible. At the end of fleet of almost 5,000 vehicles of different types in all countries their life cycle, devices are removed, separated into printed is available to Telekom Austria Group employees for this purcircuit boards, copper, iron, sheet metal and recycled appropose. priately. Most Telekom Austria Group subsidiaries offer their customers free take-back and specialist disposal of old personal Increased use of hybrid and electric cars and natural gas– mobile phones as well as batteries and chargers. (For further powered vehicles enabled a reduction in fossil fuel consumpdetails on mobile phone recycling, see page 44f). tion of approximately 110,000 litres in 2013 despite an almost constant mileage in comparison to the previous year. For examenVIronmental programmes at the subsIdIarIes ple, the subsidiary A1 uses almost 50 vehicles with alternative Some subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria Group have develdrive technologies throughout Austria, in Slovenia almost the oped their own environmental programmes on the basis of inentire vehicle fleet environmentally friendly. ternational environmental management systems. For example, the Re.misli environmental programme has been running at However, the first step must be to achieve the best possiSi.mobil in Slovenia since 2008 (see also page 43) and the “Vip ble reduction in the number of kilometres driven. Travel routes Ecomotivation” programme at Vip mobile in Serbia has been in are therefore optimised using innovative logistics concepts. place since 2012. These programmes group together all environThis can save around 1 million kilometres or 200 tonnes of CO² mental measures while also ensuring active involvement and emissions per year. Another option for reducing the number motivation of the employees. of kilometres driven is available to employees in the form of 38 video conference rooms. These were used more than 16,200 These measures underscore and demonstrate the Telekom times in 2013. (EN30) Austria Group's clear commitment to making its contribution to environmental and climate protection. The challenges that It is not just fossil fuels that the Telekom Austria Group face us all as a result of climate change are formidable. But as endeavours to use sparingly but also other non-renewable reone of the most important commentators on global climate sources. change, Elizabeth Kolbert, puts it: “This only makes the imperative to act that much greater.” For the Group, preservation of resources not only means ensuring appropriate disposal or recycling; it also means avoiding waste wherever possible. In its environmental strategy, the 40 SubJEcT – EnVIROnmEnT Facts about environmental topics energy clImat e-releVan t emIssIons was te management and recyclIng TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (IN MWH) CO2 EMISSIONS (IN T CO₂ EQU.) 697,937 195,246 WASTE VOLUME (IN T) 9,554 695,493 190,652 74,405 72,521 39,002 43,694 22,114 21,499 7,140 2,310 FUEL DISTRICT HEATING 28,919 562,503 557,778 HEATING 27,476 2,804 ENERGY POWER CONSUMPTION 2012 2013 6,234 In 2013, the telekom austria group’s total en3,233 ergy consumption remained stable or declined 2012 2013 modestly in spite of the rising data volume. SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 this was particularly due to a 1% decrease in power consumption. this was followed by an whereas direct emissions¹ were reduced by 1,103 1,010 improvement in the energy efficiency index to 5% in 2013, indirect emissions² climbed by 2%. 2012 2013 1.1 mwh per terabyte. (EN3, 5 ,6) this increase was mainly due to the purchased RESIDUAL WASTE energy mix in 2013. biogenic scope 1 emissions NON-HAZARDOUS HAZARDOUS amount to 1,230 tonnes of co₂. for scope 2 and RENEWABLE ENERGY AS A PROPORTION scope 3, no emissions of this kind are known. OF POWER CONSUMPTION IN 2013 (IN %) (EN15, 16, 19) the total volume of waste grew by 34% in 2013 NONprimarily driven by network renewal proRENEWABLE ENERGY ¹ from the burning of fossil fuels for heating grammes. due to improved recycling processes, 55% 45% RENEWABLE and mobility (scope 1) in particular for technical equipment, the ENERGY ² from power consumption and district heating recylcling rate increased to 71% from 55% in the (scope 2) previous year. (EN23) the proportion of renewable energy of electricity fell from 56% in 2012 to around 45% in 2013. this was driven by the purchased energy mix AWARDS IN 2013 in 2013. suitable countermeasures, such as the purchase of green electricity at a1, have already • eMas Price 2014 for environmental management of a1 awarded been put in place for 2014. by the austrian federal ministry of agriculture, forestry, environment and water management (a1) • the bulgarian ministry of the environment presented the green business award 2013 for the ”mtel eco grant” project (mobiltel) • named the ”greenest company” in the bulgarian telecommunication industry in 2013 by b2b magazine (mobiltel) • ”velocity” project named the best csr project with local involvement in belarus (velcom) • award for the environmentally friendly fleet in slovenia by USEFUL INFORMATION finance magazine (si.mobil) FOR GRI EXPERTS • en4: energy consumption outside the organisation amounted to 41,106 mwh in 2013 and comprises the energy consumption of the mobile phones issued to customers and business trips by taxi, rail or aeroplane at the telekom austria group • en15, 16, 17: 2012 is used as the base year as this is when the targets of the strategy were defined • en23: the telekom austria group is committed to appropriate disposal and complies with the provisions of the respective countries • en25: hazardous waste was disposed of appropriately, mostly within the respective country. • en29: no fines were paid in relation to environmental issues in 2013 • en34: there were no complaints with regard to environmental effects in the year under review 41 g u E S T c O m m E n TA RY Climate change – what do we need to do? aUthoR PhotogRaPhy helga Kromp-Kolb universum magazin/ R. hügli preface That climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions exists is beyond question for climate scientists like Helga Kromp-Kolb. To counter this, there needs to be a greater emphasis on the quality of life instead of life standard. T o an increasing extent, climate researchers are no longer meeting one another in person for project on Climate Change), published at the end of 2013, states that meetings or conferences at scenic but the quantity of greenfar-flung locations – instead, they are house gases that can communicating by telephone or using still be released into webcasts. A pan-European project with the atmosphere – if the the name “Climate-Friendly Climate Rerise in temperature as search” aims to help reduce greenhouse against the pre-indusgas emissions in research. What often trial level is not to exceed 2 degrees – is if the temperature were to rise by more starts with reluctant consent to give it limited to around 750 gigatonnes of CO². than 2 degrees Celsius the climate would a try once, soon wins over supporters. With a global population of 7 to 9 billion, be dangerously destabilised. In geoWhat applies to researchers can also be this does not leave any leeway, for exlogical eras with higher temperatures, applied to business meetings. Of course ample for flights that are not absolutely millions of years ago, the background you want to and should get to know your necessary. A fair level of emissions in conditions – for example, the global disproject partners in person, too, but many industrialised countries would thus be tribution of land and water – were difftrips are simply superfluous. Telephone, around one tonne of CO² per year – the erent. Past eras are no guarantee that video or other forms of teleconferencing average Austrian currently emits around stability can be achieved. This would are easier to organise, as you no longer 10 tonnes per year. mean that the temperature would conhave to set aside a whole day but rather tinue to rise, regardless of any measures just an hour or two. You can communiBut why does it have to be 2 degrees that were then initiated to reduce emcate more often, save any travel time and Celsius, wouldn’t 3 degrees Celsius be issions. We cannot let our children and can spend the evenings with your family. manageable, too? Firstly, 2 degrees Celgrandchildren face a situation like this! The discussions are better prepared and sius is a global average; at a regional are shorter because a great deal of image level, and this includes Austria, the The good news is that most of the cultivation is no longer needed. And last degree of warming might be much higher. measures that we need to take to protect but not least, you save energy and cause The global temperature increase currently the climate – such as those described at less greenhouse gas emissions. amounts to 0.8 degrees Celsius, but in the beginning of this article – are also deAustria we have recorded a rise of almost sirable for other reasons: Instead of just Admittedly, the latter factor was the 2 degrees Celsius in the same period. focussing on the standard of living, they main reason why the Centre for Global Extreme events – heat waves and proboffer a better quality of life. We just need Change and Sustainability at BOKU instiably also heavy precipitation – would to be open enough to change our habits gated this project. It has long been clear to increase at a disproportionate rate, and recognise real benefits that go beclimate researchers that climate change glaciers would melt, forests would die, yond convenience. really does exist and that to a significant agriculture and people would suffer extent it is attributable to the release of from pests and illnesses previously ungreenhouse gases as a result of burning familiar to us, we would no longer be able coal, oil and gas, and to the clearance of to count on there being snow for winter univ. prof. dr. helga kromp-kolb, meteorologist and climate scientist, leads the center for global rainforests. The Fifth Assessment Report tourism, and many more effects would change and sustainability at the university of of the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel materialise. Secondly, there are fears that natural resources and life sciences Vienna. 42 In FOcuS – SLOVEnIA Si.mobil: top of the class for environmental protection preface The Slovenian company Si.mobil is a pioneer of active environmental protection within the Telekom Austria Group. For six years it has been running a multi-award winning project, in which the name says it all: Re.misli (Re.think) calls on us to rethink all actions that have an impact on the environment and to act with greater awareness. b ack in 2008, the Telekom Austria Group’s Slovenian subsidiary, Si.mobil, asked itself how a company can minimise its environmental impact to the greatest extent possible. In 2013 Si.mobil launched the gradual renovation of its entire headquarter. During the course of this the renovation, work spaces were adapted to meet the What started as a small internal project is now a company-wide needs of Si.mobil employees, assuring offices that proflagship programme called “Re.misli”, which has since become vide a friendly and relaxing work environment, iman actively applied standard at Si.mobil and was awarded a prove work efficiency, and promote collaboration benumber of prices, including the ECO Fleet price 2013. tween colleagues. In this almost 3-year long project, Si.mobil followed contemporary trends in the field of Re.misli means “rethink” and is based on three key pillars: interior design and office planning, focusing on ergoreduce, reuse and recycle. As the name indicates, it actively nomics, color scheme, and also natural materials. calls on each individual in the company to reconsider how his or her actions affect the environment and therefore to act with greater awareness. The programme no longer just relates to environmental activities but it now encompasses all of the company’s social and sustainability measures and is firmly embedded in Si.mobil’s corporate strategy. Re.misli particularly focuses on reducing environmental impact – mainly by means of efficient environmental management and recycling systems and a large number of energy efficiency measures in network planning and in office buildings, which have led to energy savings of up to 40%. Si.mobil also successfully implemented a number of additional measures in 2013 in order to achieve the medium-term and long-term goals of its environmental programme. These included introducing low-energy cooling and controlling technologies for the mobile communication stations and new waste recycling stations in the offices. In addition, back in 2009 Si.mobil created the Si.voda Fund, an institution for the protection of clean water, in order to tackle one of Slovenia’s biggest environmental challenges. Support has now been provided for eight different projects with a total volume of more than EUR 150,000. 43 In FOcuS – mObILE PhOnE REcYcLIng Valuing raw materials – mobile phone recycling at the Telekom Austria Group D id you know that an old mobile phone contains many valuable and often rare raw materials such as gold, silver, palladium, copper, aluminium, tin or coltan? 40% of a mobile Instead of ending up in the hazardous waste stream, these valuable resources should phone can be be recovered using expert recycling processes and reused in production. Recycling also recycled cuts down on the energy and resources used in manufacturing new mobile phones, thereby reducing the level of greenhouse gas emissions. An average mobile phone is used for approximately 18 months, but as is the case for Austria for example, only around 15% of old phones are recycled – even though 40% of mobile phone components can be reused. Components of a mobile phone 58% 21% 16% 5% 44 In FOcuS – mObILE PhOnE REcYcLIng Recycling process Although the Telekom Austria Group only sells mobile devices rather than manufacturing them itself, it is still committed to making an active contribution towards conserving resources. In schemes that have, in some Return to shop cases, been in place since 2004, Telekom Austria Group subsidiaries (with the exception of Vip operator in the Republic of Macedonia and velcom in Belarus) give users the opportunity to drop their old devices into collection boxes in their stores free of charge so that the valuable materials can be recycled. The old devices are passed on to specialist recycling firms who check to see whether they still work. Around half of the old devices handed in for recycling are still fully or partially functional and can be reused once they have been tested and any necessary repairs have been performed. Any data that is still stored on them is carefully deleted before the devices are reused. Devices that no longer work are broken up, and the shredded parts Transport are either disposed of or fed back into the material cycle depending on their composition. Recycling takes place locally in the respective countries and proper disposal is ensured. The proceeds from mobile phone recycling are used for climate protection and social projects or passed on directly to the customer. Waste Collected old mobile phones management company in the countries (2013) 7,965 5,544 Special 91,570 disposal of chargers CRO AUT 1,744 Shredding 530 Separation Separation of BLG SLO SRB different materials In 2013, the Telekom Austria Group collected around 110,000 old mobile phones. In Austria, for example, EUR 4 per mobile phone handed in was donated to the non-profit association “Kinderhände”. In Slovenia, the Si.voda fund for water protection receives EUR 1 for every device collected. In the Republic of Serbia, mobile phone collection was part of an incentive campaign for customers. (EN27, 28) 45 In FOcuS – cARbOn-nEuTRAL nETWORK A1 is Austria’s first carbon-neutral network preface You can now make phone calls, surf the net and watch television in a climatefriendly way. A1 is the first and only communication provider in Austria with a 100% carbon-neutral network, thus making a clear contribution to global climate protection. a1 Is a pI oneer In clImat e pr o t ec t I on p h o n I n g , s u r f I n g a n d w o r k I n g s u s t a I n a b ly Buying regional food products, travelling by A1 not only offers its customers excellent reception bicycle, saving electricity – more and more and top-speed internet, but also numerous products people want to do something to reduce their carand solutions that help protect the environment. bon footprint and thereby counter global climate With video conferences, working from home and change. What many of them don’t realise is that teleworking on the move, A1 business customers not communications plays a major role here as it, for only save time but also reduce travel-related CO² example, shifts road traffic to the data highway via emissions. Housing and hosting solutions and the videoconferencing solutions. But to ensure that A1 cloud service are operated on a climate-neutral increasing digitisation does not cause energy use basis at the A1 data centres. The conversion of teland CO² emissions to rise, timely action is required. ephone booths to electricity charging stations helps -40% For over 10 years, A1 has been taking measures to stabilise its energy consumption and has introduced promote e-mobility. Recycling is also made easy for A1 customers, as broken or old mobile phones can c o ₂ -e m Is s Ions the environmental management system according be disposed of at all A1 shops. A1 also concerns its Inc e 2008 to ISO 140001. And it has been successful: in the past self with recycling of valuable raw materials and enyears energy consumption has been reduced in spite vironmentally-friendly disposal. For a better future of increasing data volumes. But it doesn’t stop there: with the best network. since 2014 A1 has been operating a carbon-neutral network. DEVELOPMENT OF A1’S POWER CONSUMPTION AND DATA VOLUME the path to a carbon-neu tral ne t work 450,000 As part of the “carbon-neutral network” initiative, 400,000 A1 is reducing all emissions resulting from network 350,000 operation to zero. The most important step in this 300,000 process is reducing power and fuel consumption, ensuring energy-efficient operation of the data MWH 250,000 centres and mobile base stations and using the 200,000 state-of-the-art technologies. Because power pro150,000 duction from burning fossil fuels represents one of 100,000 the biggest sources of CO² emissions, A1 also uses 50,000 100% power from renewable energy. For instance, at O the A1 earth station in Aflenz, it constructed a photo2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 voltaic farm that saves 90 tonnes of CO² per year. To POWER CONSUMPTION DATA VOLUME offset the remaining 25% of CO² emissions, A1 supports national and international climate protection projects. As a result, A1’s status as a carbon-neutral network has been confirmed by TÜV SÜD (Standard PAS 2060). 46 i n fo c u s – C A R B O N N E U T R A L N E T W O R K Where are CO² emissions generated in the A1 network? Electricity 75% Vehicle fleet 15% Heating 10% 308 GWh – equivalent to the 44 Million driven kilometers – 17.6 GWh – equivalent to the annual electricity consumpthat is 1,100 times around the average consumption of 3,509 total¹ tion of all households in equator households Salzburg city 63,827 t CO²² 47,579 t CO²² 9,529 t CO²² 6,719 t CO²² Data centres Heating base stations office buildings vehicle fleet The way to a carbon-neutral network 1 Avoid emissions & increase efficiency Reduce energy consumption of 2 Use of renewable energy 100% electricity from renewable energy BASE DATA OFF I CE V EH I CLE STAT I ONS CENT r e s BU I LD I NGS FLE e t 3 SUN W I ND WATER Bi o m a s s Compensation Support of climate protection projects 4 The remaining 25% of carbon emissions that cannot be reduced through the measures that have been implemented will be offset by support for high-quality climate protection projects. The Green Network The carbon calculation was confirmed by ” tüv Carbon Neutral SüD”. SOURCE: A1 1 ² Network relevant emissions Figures for 2012 47 ROADmAP Roadmap – Environment facts, measures and targets beIng maIntaIned achIeVed In the following you will find an overview of selected targets and measures. In plannIng Further details can be found at: www.telekomaustria.com In ImplementatIon T A R G E T 2 0 2 0 • 25% reductIon In co₂ emIssIons .................................................................................................... T A R G E T S 2 0 1 5 • 20% Increase In energy effIcIency ............................................................................................... • expansIon of projects relatIng to renewable energy ................................................................. • 10% ImproVement In the recyclIng rate ....................................................................................... • 10% reductIon In the group̒s own paper consumptIon ................................................................. • Increase group-wIde e-bIllIng rate to 50% .................................................................................. baselIne for targets Is 2012. • Continuously improve environmental data collection and performance • Integrate environmental criteria such as the energy efficiency of devices in the supply chain • Build up a new waste system in Austria, Belarus, Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia • Promote photovoltaic projects • Internal campaigns on paper reduction SAID 2012 • Workshops held to improve the quality of data at the subsidiaries, improvement of internal reporting systems • Integration of environmental criteria in the supply chain • Promotion of the use of alternative energy sources, for example by opening photovoltaic farms in Aﬂenz (Austria) and on the roof of the Vipnet office building (Croatia), equipping a mobile phone mast with photovoltaics as a field test, converting telephone booths to photovoltaic electricity charging stations, expanding wind and solar-operated mobile base stations in Croatia and Slovenia • Raising awareness of environmental issues among Telekom Austria Group employees by means of numerous internal campaigns • Reducing internal consumption of resources by introducing “follow me”/smart printers, DOnE 2013 optimising packaging and packaging systems • Implementation of new waste systems and measures to increase the recycling rate at the subsidiaries For further measures, please refer to the measures programme online at www.telekomaustria.com • Successful conversion of A1's network on a 100% carbon-neutral basis (already implemented) • Roll-out of broad energy efficiency measures throughout the Group • Further expansion of photovoltaic projects within the Telekom Austria Group • Increase the number of old mobile phones collected in the Telekom Austria Group • Increased implementation of projects for an eco-friendly vehicle ﬂeet • Promotion of measures to reduce internal paper consumption PLAnnED 2014 • Internal campaigns to improve waste separation 48 FLAgShIP PROJEcTS Flagship Projects Si.mobil received an award for its environmen1 tally friendly fleet in 2013. It is seen as one of the most sustainable companies in Slovenia. The aim of the fleet project is to reduce fuel con2 sumption and CO² emissions. To this end, the company implemented measures such as buying energy-efficient vehicles, forming car pools for business trips and providing environmental training for its employees. In 2013 A1 opened its own photovoltaic farm at 2 the earth station in Aflenz. A total of 462 modules were installed on 2,800 m². This will enable CO² emissions to be reduced by around 50,000 kg each year. A second extension was realised in 2014. As part of the environmental programme “Vip 3 Ecomotivation”, the Serbian subsidiary Vip mobile collected over 91,000 old mobile phones in 2013. For each recycled device, it donated a cer3 tain sum to the regional organisation “Healing Garden”. In 2013, “velocity” was named the best CSR pro4 ject of the year in Belarus. “velocity”, a cycling initiative by velcom, aims to develop cycling infrastructure in the major cities of Belarus, set up functional bicycle parking facilities and organise cycling tours around interesting areas. 5 The croatian Vipnet placed an increased focus 4 on renewable energy again in 2013. Another three base stations were equipped with a hybrid energy supply system consisting of photovoltaics, wind turbines, energy-optimised container ventilation systems and hydrogen fuel cells, allowing for an almost completely self-sufficient energy supply. In addition, another 13 base stations and 50 repeaters were supplied with electricity from wind and solar energy and 145 energy-saving “free cooling” systems were installed. The Bulgarian subsidiary Mobiltel supports 6 local environmental projects with the annual charity programme “Mtel eco-grant”. The fo6 cus areas in 2013 were restoring and conserving natural habitats and promoting ecological agriculture. The Bulgarian Environment Ministry presented Mobiltel with the “Green Business Award” for this project. 49 empowering people Providing Responsible Products action area: Employees Empowering People Living Green Creating Equal Opportunities Dedicated, professional employees who think and act like entrepreneurs are essential for corporate success. That's why focused development, diversity and a respectful corporate culture play a central role. 50 51 SubJEcT – EmPLOYEES Employees make the difference preface When it comes to the success, culture and values of a company like the Telekom Austria Group, employees have a crucial role to play. This is reflected by modern human resources management with a clear agenda. W hen a company is successful in the long term, this is usually due to a variety of factors. Not least of these is forward-looking mant h e ” d e a l” w I t h e m p l o y e e s Companies have a goal. For the Telekom Austria Group, this is to be the most efficient and most agement that recognises risks and opportunities innovative communications provider in Central and in the market environment. Naturally, the comEastern Europe. This is a region with strong local trapany ultimately lives from its products and serditions and different cultures. To achieve its intendvices. But you need the right employees in order ed goal, the company also has to be able to count on to be able to offer these. Because behind every inexpert employees who have an acute knowledge of novative product and every inspired business stratthese differences, and the risks and opportunities egy there is human dedication, creativity and hard they present. work. This makes it all the more important to develop and foster expertise within the company itself. telekom austrIa group Values In addition to development opportunities, fair pay and even-handed, healthy and innovative Innovation Diversity working conditions also play a key role in whether employees with potential come to a company and a1 Responsibility & deliver their optimum performance there. Only a Quality balanced give and take between employees and a Integrity au st r Ia 2013 company allows for both sides to give their best and e m p loyee s create sustainable value added. ( f t e ): 8, 804 It is therefore essential for the human resource w o m e n*: 27% aVe ra g e a g e: 43 Good human resources management is somestrategy of the Telekom Austria Group to discover ac c Ident s: 125 times not easy. In intensive competition, times of and promote talented employees who can identify (LA12) economic turbulence and rising cost pressure, time with the company’s values and who display leaderand the corresponding resources have to be investship and top performance. This can work in the long ed to train and develop one’s staff accordingly. Effiterm only if, in addition to fostering personal talent, cient HR management means ensuring an attractive cultural specificities are also taken into account. working environment, fair pay and equal opportunities for development despite all the challenges. In searching for talented people, the Telekom And an international company must also observe Austria Group looks to school leavers, university mobIltel the legal and cultural differences in its markets. At graduates and apprentices. People with talent are b ulg a r Ia 2013 the same time, it has to create flexible yet uniform expected to become future leaders. Developing this conditions for its employees throughout the entire potential is therefore a highly significant part of the e mp loye e s (f t e): 2, 647 Group. human resources management strategy. wom en*: 50% aVe ra g e a g e: 33 acc Ide nt s: 5 * (LA12) percentage of headcount 52 SubJEcT – EmPLOYEES Talented employees can also take advantage the ”deal” wIth the employees of Group-wide programmes such as the “Group Young Potential Programme” or the “Graduates” OUR EMPLOYEES programmes. Moreover, they are supported by local CONTRIBUTE programmes such as the “A1 Trainee” programme in Austria. In these programmes they get to experience • Performance & commitment different areas of the Telekom Austria Group for a de• responsibility & integrity fined period during or after their studies. At the end • Personal leadership of the programme, it is possible they will be taken on • Curiosity & drive as permanent employees. In Austria and Bulgaria, A1 and Mobiltel offer the opportunity of completing an apprenticeship – in 2013, 57 apprentices at A1 and 56 WE OFFER OUR EMPLOYEES at Mobiltel successfully completed their training. • Career opportunities in an innovative and The Telekom Austria Group’s HR strategy is closeinternational company ly interwoven with its corporate strategy and its busi• development through top performance ness plan. It is therefore a valuable driver in the imple• an innovative, flexible and varied working mentation of the overall strategy of the company. environment elements of human resources strategy at the telekom austrIa group Its content was set out in a human resources ORGANISATION/ agenda. Several key areas were defined and worked EXECUTION on as part of the implementation of this agenda EXCELLENCE in 2013. As already indicated, there was a focus on finding and developing talented staff – for which independent talent & performance management is responsible. The ability of this to recognise and promote talented employees plays a crucial part EMPLOYEE in determining whether they can provide this LEADERSHIP ENGAGEMENT performance for the company in the long term. To support their development sustainably and thereby consolidate their sense of identity with the company, both the individual subsidiaries and the specially created Telekom Austria Group Business VIpnet School offer advanced and further training at a TOTAL national and international level. WORKFORCE c r o a t I a 2013 MANAGEMENT At a local level the focus is on teaching individemployees the establishment of a strong corporate culture with leadership standards will ual skills in the context of a specific area of activity. ( f t e ) : 1, 138 strengthen employee engagement and lead to corporate success. wo m e n *: 41% In turn, the Telekom Austria Group Business School a Ve r a g e a g e : 3 8 focuses on the leadership and innovation skills of a c c I d e n t s : 11 (LA12) The human resources management “driver” above employees and managers. Moreover, it imparts the all sees itself as a value generator within the company. corporate values and culture of the Telekom Austria m Vorjahr einbauen It ultimately guarantees a continuous supply of talented staff, promotes leadership among managers Group and also offers separate modules highlighting sustainability. It advances the international exand employees and ensures well-founded and ongoing change between employees and provides them with development. It sets a suitable framework for a fair, the right tools for a further successful career within responsible and performance-oriented enterprise. the Group. (LA10) Velcom Thanks to the targeted networking of experts within the Telekom Austria Group, it fosters the exchange of expertise and increases knowledge within the b e l a r u s 2013 Group. The goal of these efforts is the steady, ongoing e m p l o y e e s : 1, 74 9 development of innovative and efficient working wo m e n *: 60% a Ve r a g e a g e : 3 2 methods to safeguard the future of the company. accIdents: 0 To this end, a “deal” was struck with employees. (LA12) 53 SubJEcT – EmPLOYEES 18,944 HOURS OF TRAINING AT THE TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP BUSINESS SCHOOL IN 2013 (LA9) 230 APPRENTICES IN 2013 (16% WOMEN) Based on the results of the 2012 employee survey, which identified leadership as an area in which action was needed, Group-wide leadership standards were devised and introduced in 2013. These standards prescribe values for managers who are expected to live up to them both in their team and vis-a-vis customers. Employees and managers were able to gain a better understanding of what these leadership standards entail at a series of 180 APPRENTICES IN 50 APPRENTICES IN events arranged specifically for this purpose. TECHNICAL AREAS COMMERCIAL AREAS leadershIp standards at the telekom austrIa group (9% WOMEN) (38% WOMEN) It’s about me personally 227 APPRENTICES IN 2012 (16% WOMEN) • Is a roLe ModeL due to posItIVe conduct • taKes resPoNsIBILItY • makes decIsIons person It’s about my team • eNaBLes aNd suPPorts deVelopment 176 APPRENTICES IN 51 APPRENTICES IN team • streNGtHeNs CooPeratIoN • INsPIres aNd eNCouraGes TECHNICAL AREAS COMMERCIAL AREAS (7% WOMEN) (49% WOMEN) It’s about our busIness • tHINKs aNd aCts wItH busIness In t ernal mobIlI t y and le ader shIp s tandard s customers In mInd Economic and social developments require flexibil• waNts to wIN aNd ity and mobility from both the workforce and the seeks competItIVe edge company. International operating companies such • MaNaGes dIFFICuLt sItuatIoNs as the Telekom Austria Group, benefit from interand change cultural exchange and experience as well as diverse • Is resuLts-orIeNted teams within the workforce. Therefore the Telekom • tHINKs strateGICaLLY Austria Group encourages talents and high potentials to advance their careers abroad via the expat employee opInIon count s programme, where employees stay for a predefined If you wish to engage employees, you must first know period of time in a different subsidiary. In addition, what they want and what they expect – in order to the “x.change” programme offers employees a short then try to live up to this as much as possible. Once term (one to eight weeks) best-practice sharing pea year, the Telekom Austria Group therefore carries riod within the Telekom Austria Group. In 2013, out a company-wide employee survey entitled “TAG81 employees participated in the “x.change” proisfaction”. In “TAGisfaction”, an online survey in all gramme. But mobility is not only required on an innational languages, employees rated and commented ternational level, but also within the respective subon their job satisfaction, their sense of identity with sidiaries. To offer employees the prospect of further the company, its strategy and their career developdevelopment within their company an internal job ment on a scale of one to five. The survey was open market informs employees about job opportunities. to all employees (including agency staff) currently sI.mobIl In 2013, some 631 vacancies were filled internally in and actively employed at the end of April 2013 with s l oV enIa 2013 2013. This way the diversity of cultures and skills a Telekom Austria Group e-mail account. The results within the Group is consciously and specifically levwere analysed in cooperation with the market ree mp loyee s (f t e): 396 eraged as a valuable resource. search institute CEB Valtera. This guaranteed the inw o m en*: 48% dependence and neutrality of the assessment. aVe ra g e a g e: 36 acc Ident s: 3 (LA12) 54 SubJEcT – EmPLOYEES A total of 12,227 employees took part in TAGParents should also feel that they still have caisfaction. Participation was significantly higher reer opportunities. To guarantee this and to help than in the previous year at around 64% (57%). In them re-enter the workforce after parental leave particular, the findings will be applied with regard in particular, the subsidiaries of the Telekom AusVIp to management requirements, HR work, strategy tria Group offer various forms of support: work planning and implementation and employee comkindergartens like those at Mobiltel, Vipnet and munication. Vip mobile or A1’s “Flying Nanny” day care sermobIle vice for school-free days and holidays. There are republIc of serbIa The company was particularly pleased by the also flexible work time models and support meas2013 relatively high score in the engagement index comures, some of which are financial (see also the e m p l o y e e s ( f t e) : 9 1 8 pared to industry standards. This shows employees’ Online Measures Programme at www.telekom wo m e n *: 54 % a Ve r a g e a g e: 3 3 attachment to the company and, as in the previous austria.com). The result: Around 77% of employees accIdents: 8 year, was at 79%. It was also gratifying that the comreturned to their jobs after taking parental leave in (LA12) pany improved its ratings in the action areas that 2013. (LA3) were identified as being in greatest need of improvement in the previous year: strategy communication eQual opportunItIes and leadership. Measures to improve these areas In its human resources activities, a company like further will be implemented in 2014 as well. Specific the Telekom Austria Group also pursues the goal action plans are being prepared for the individual of equal opportunities for men and women. It has subsidiaries. And a new survey has been conducted therefore committed itself to having 35% of all posiVIp in July 2014. (LA4) tions in the company as a whole and 35% of manageoperator ment positions at all operating subsidiaries filled by republIc of make a contrIbutIon – women by 2016. In 2013 the share throughout the macedonIa 2013 l o c a l ly a n d g r o u p w I d e Group was 37% (in the company) and 31% in mane m p l o y e e s ( f t e) : 2 1 4 In a modern company such as the Telekom Austria agement positions. At A1 in Austria in particular, wo m e n *: 60 % Group, employees have the chance to contribute toflexible working hours, a diversity focus within the a Ve r a g e a g e : 3 4 accIdents: 0 wards the company’s development. talent and recruting process as well as mentoring (LA12) and coaching programmes are helping to increase In Group-wide and local idea contests and the percentage of women. knowledge platforms, every individual employee has the opportunity to put forward ideas or suggest improvements and possibly to implement them as well in coordination with the specialist departments. Interaction between employees and their USEFUL INFORMATION sense of identity with the company are promoted by FOR GRI EXPERTS various corporate volunteering programmes. • G4.11: In austria, 100% of all employees are covered A vital aspect of human resources management by collective bargaining agreements; at the at the Telekom Austria Group is naturally the fair reinternational subsidiaries national regulations muneration and assessment of employees. It is a top are complied with priority to establish a state-of-the-art remuneration • La2: Concessions are available equally to all employees system that defines clear and understandable goals • La4: statutory provisions are complied with, the and that proves flexible enough to reward individcorresponding regulations can be found in the ual performance accordingly. Corresponding percollective bargaining agreement formance-oriented models have been introduced at • La9: training hours at the telekom austria Group all operating subsidiaries. At least once a year, each business school in 2013: men: 11,840, women: 7,104 employee receives feedback and a target agreement for the following year. Furthermore, managers are • La10: where necessary coaching and other supportive measures are offered called on to engage with their employees as often as possible to discuss their working methods and the • Hr3: None known to Group head office in 2013 achievement of their goals. Remuneration is geared • Hr4: No significant incidents reported in 2013 to market levels in compliance with the collective • Io3: employees receive regular training and and master agreements of the subsidiaries, techniappropriate further training in workshops cal qualifications and professional experience to date. No distinction is made on the basis of gender. (LA11, EC5) * percentage of headcount 55 g u E S T c O m m E n TA RY Healthy management creates passion to perform aUthoR PhotogRaPhy bernd hufnagl Fotostudio Wilke, Vienna preface In a healthy, performance-driven culture, leadership dr. bernd hufnagl, neurobiologist, management trainer and consultant, spent 10 years working has to be shaped by interest in other people. They are in the field of brain research. since 2003 he has developed by individual challenges, reassurance and focused on the relationship between health and motivation. work. he is the author of the book ”besser fix als fertig” (molden Verlag). In addition, hufnagl is a sought-after speaker and offers management training programmes both at home and abroad. T oday more than ever before, working – particularly in management roles – means “functioning” filtered form; employees are pushed instead of being reassured and developed. in a permanent “multi-tasking mode”. If you understand the basic prinThis may sound appealing and lead us ciples of how our brains function, you to hope that we will thereby achieve top can recognise the central problem of performance sustainably and efficiently. management: for millions of years, the However, the findings of recent studsatisfying sense of reward and willingness ies and my own observations over many to invest energy (motivation) through years reveal a very different picture. Preeffort have arisen automatically among cisely due to fragmentation and multimammals, provided that in the short term tasking in our work processes, negative we also see what we have put in the effort effects on our performance and on our for. Our memory plays a key role here: if health are becoming increasingly clear. yesterday we felt that our efforts were not Our brains have already adapted to the successful (and therefore not worthwhile), new challenges and are showing the efthen today we will tend to talk negatively are particularly susceptible on account fects: we are increasingly suffering from about this and will thus “overwrite” the of their personality or the situation in impatience, difficulties concentrating memories with increasingly negative their private life. In this context, it is and an inability to “switch off” mentally. emotions. We start to dramatise things. also important for us to be aware that Managers are struggling with the health Negative (threatening) aspects are employees will take on the goals of their effects of being permanently available emphasised, whereas positive aspects are supervisors only if one thing is clear: that and should make sure they are aware of not mentioned. This behaviour affects their boss also wants to achieve these the causes and consequences of constant managers and employees alike, who pass it goals. Only if this precondition is met will distraction and interruption. In multion to one another and set a fatal process in employees make their supervisor’s goals tasking mode, the changed perception motion: suddenly, our reward system no their own, start to feel enthusiastic about makes it almost impossible to help other longer interprets work as worthwhile and them, think proactively and be willing people develop by means of individual only feels it to be strenuous. The purpose to invest energy. They understand the challenges while also reassuring and of the work is no longer “understood” purpose while also staying healthy. motivating them. An “unhealthy” manon an emotional level. In this way, the agement style like this may lead directly culture of complaints, cynicism and A healthy management style requires to individual overwork and collective motivation problems (and consequently interest in other people. Developing demotivation. This management style, symptoms of overwork such as burnout) managers’ ability to take on a “cushioning which is strongly influenced by a culture are demonstrably increasing. role” instead of passing on pressure of success, focuses entirely on the sucunfiltered is equally as important as cess of the system. Unlike in a healthy It is not the quantity of work but rather promoting willingness to identify with performance culture, the daily effort of the sense of heteronomy that can make the defined objectives. Only in this way the individual is almost forgotten. Rathus ill. And demotivation and overworkcan “passion to perform” be ensured on a er than smoothing out and “cushioning” related illnesses particularly affect sustainable basis. pressure, managers pass it on in an unthose employees and colleagues who 56 c O m m E n TA RY A balanced give and take aUthoR PhotogRaPhy Silvia buchinger Daniel hinterramskogler preface The Telekom Austria Group sees attractive working conditions and equal development opportunities as part of a “fair deal” with its employees. D iversity is a valuable resource, but it also entails the challenge of being “fair” to different needs in the literal sense of the word. aim is to identify individual strengths and promote skills in a targeted manner – including, of course, so that they can be optimally utilised for the company. The Telekom Austria Group’s code of values also contains a clear commitment to this principle: our With the relevant goal is to utilise and safeguard the wealth of cultural further education and strengths, traditions and skills in our eight markets professional training in Central and Eastern Europe. opportunities – including at the Telekom Diversity also plays an important role in our Austria Group Business human resources strategy. On the one hand, we School – and a talent encourage an open, cross-market exchange of management programme expertise that allows us to learn from each other aimed at identifying and establish Group-wide synergies. On the other and supporting potenhand, we also focus on ensuring equal development tial managers, human opportunities at an individual level – regardless of resources management cultural background, age or gender. is positioned as a value generator. Ultimately, However, it would be wrong to interpret this these measures and its equality of opportunity as a non-performanceGroup-wide leadership related commitment. And initiatives like this standards help to proare not aimed at fulfilling any kind of quota. For vide the foundations for example, although the Telekom Austria Group has a fair performance-oriundertaken to achieve a proportion of women at ented company. all of its operating subsidiaries throughout the Group, including in management positions – of 35% by 2016, results-oriented criteria are also applied: anyone who wishes to benefit from the equal development opportunities provided must also be prepared to make their contribution to the silvia buchinger studied information technology aforementioned “fair deal”. at the technical university of Vienna. from 2001 to 2010 she worked at hewlett packard where she first held the position of director of human resources In other words, we expect our employees to be and was a member of the austrian management self-motivated, committed, and ready to generate board. as of 2007 she was responsible for international human resources work in central and eastern innovative, creative ideas with a business benefit. europe, and was later given responsibility for north And in return we are happy to offer attractive and western europe. In april 2010 she joined the telekom austria group as group chief human resources development opportunities to anyone who meets officer, a position in which she is responsible for these performance-related criteria. In the end, the human resources throughout the entire group. 57 ROADmAP The Roadmap – Employees facts, measures and targets beIng maIntaIned achIeVed In the following you will find an overview of selected targets and measures. In plannIng Further details can be found at: www.telekomaustria.com In ImplementatIon T A R G E T S 2 0 1 5 • 35% women In the group and In management posItIons (by 2016).................................................. • promotIon of Internal appoIntments ..... ....................................... ............................................. • m a I n t a I n I n g a h I g h e n g a g e m e n t I n d e x . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . • IncreasIng InternatIonal exchanges .......................................................................................... baselIne for targets Is 2012. • Establishment of a leadership framework to promote leadership culture in the Group • Advancing talent management and internal career development • Continuing the Group-wide employee survey “TAGisfaction” • Greater promotion of new working methods in the Telekom Austria Group SAID 2012 • Devising and introduction of a leadership framework in the Telekom Austria Group and local programmes to aid the leadership culture • More than 60 different training programmes at the Telekom Austria Group Business School with more than 1,000 participants in 2013 • Establishing talent management by promoting targeted career talks and designing central development measures • Organising various womens' networking events at the subsidiaries • Performance of another Group-wide “TAGisfaction” employee survey with the participation of 64% of employees DOnE 2013 • Communications focus on new working methods such as mobile office for employees and managers For further measures, please refer to the measures programme online at www.telekomaustria.com • Establishment of the leadership standard within the Telekom Austria Group and promoting the management culture as well as corporate values • Stronger initiatives in Talent Acquisition & Management; including the use of sharedleadership concepts • Further expansion of new working methods in the Telekom Austria Group and creation of expert platforms • Continuation of the Group-wide employee survey “TAGisfaction” • Increased measures in the area of health via the implementation of a workplace health PLAnnED 2014 promotion programme or stressand burnout-prevention workshops • Continuation of Group-wide programmes to promote international exchange • Drive internal mobility 58 FLAgShIP PROJEcTS 1 sfaction TAGi 3 Flagship Projects The Group-wide “x.change” programme ena1 bles employees to spend between one and eight weeks working at a different subsidiary, thereby promoting specialist expertise and intercultural exchange. A total of 81 employees took part in this programme in 2013. More than 60 different training programmes 2 were held at the company’s in-house train4 ing platform Telekom Austria Group Business School with over 1,000 participants in 2013. In addition, the “Business School Impact” event series was launched. 3 The Group-wide “TAGisfaction” employee survey was conducted for the third time with a participation rate of 64%. 4 The Croatian subsidiary Vipnet provides a company nursery school on its premises. A1 offers free childcare during the holidays and on “bridge days” in cooperation with the “Flying Nannies”. 5 5 To promote women’s career development in a targeted manner, A1 has a special mentoring programme for women. Various initiatives are used to provide special support for women in technical professions and to target women when advertising job vacancies. 59 Providing Responsible Products CREATING Empowering People EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Living Green Action area: society Creating Equal Opportunities In the knowledge society of the 21st century, the exchange of information, equal opportunities to education and employment as well as active democratic participation are increasingly linked to the usage of new media. 60 61 s u b je c t – S o c iety Living Green Creating Equal Opportunities More opportunities for everyone PREFACE Free and equal access to information, education and knowledge is the key to overcoming social and economic barriers. F ac t s a b out A 1 Int e rnet A ndrew Ng and Daphne Koller are both on Time magazine’s list of the hundred most influential people in the world. The reason for this tries where the Telekom Austria Group operates. In Austria, more than 80% of people use the Internet, whereas in countries such as Belarus and the Repubf or All is their company Coursera, an education platform lic of Serbia the proportion of people who have never that works with top universities around the world to used the Internet was over 50% in 2012 (see chart). offer online courses – free of charge. “We envision a future where everyone has access to a world-class In addition to the technical infrastructure, education. We aim to empower people with educacriteria such as age, income and education also tion that will improve their lives, the lives of their play a role in determining whether a person uses families, and the communities they live in,” is the the Internet. “Digital exclusion” is caused by a lack More Th a n mission statement of the education platform. of knowledge about how to deal with the Internet 1,500 proficiently. According to a survey by Eurostat, Ng, an associate professor at Stanford, started around 37% of private households in the EU 28 in 2011 with a MOOC (massive open online courses) countries state that they do not have the necessary c o ur se s in 2013 platform of his university that was used by more skills and therefore do not have Internet access.� than 104,000 students worldwide. This enormous success led to the foundation of Coursera, whose So whether or not a person uses the Internet courses are now taken by over three million stuis no longer just a technical issue, but also a social dents. One example of how education can be proone. And where there is a lack of Internet skills, vided worldwide in today’s knowledge society. there is also a risk that social divides could deepen The Internet and new media make this possible. further. Those who are excluded from the digital world also do not have any connection to the online a lm ost Brid g ing t he ”dig i tal g ap” information and education opportunities that are 19,400 In the above example, the Internet progresses from being a medium for exchanging information to actdeveloping all around the world. As a result, they keep falling further behind. Because education is also p ar t i c ip a nt s in 2013 ing as a provider of education as well. But to be able a criterion for democratic participation and of course to take advantage of the emerging education opplays a major role on the employment market, lack portunities, people need access to this medium. Alof Internet access also has a negative impact in these though the Internet is part of everyday life for many areas. The term “digital gap” has become established people, we must not forget that, according to an esto describe these consequences of different levels of timate by the International Telecommunication UnInternet use. ion (ITU), around 4 billion people are currently not yet “online”, 90% of whom are in developing counWhile some people do not have enough access tries. There are also considerable differences in Interto the Internet, others may experience the opposite net use within Europe. This also applies to the counproblem. Children and young people in particular are 62 s u b je c t – S o c iety People who have never used the internet 2012 60% 58% 2011 53% 52% 49% 45% 43% 40% 37% 37% 30% 31% 19% 20% tria ia atia s aru ia bia a oni gar ven Ser Aus Cro Bel ced Bul Slo Ma Source: ITU at risk of losing perspective in the virtual as to ensure that they can handle the young people is to be expanded further in world. As “digital natives”, they surf and opportunities offered by the digital all countries. chat online from an early age and later do society in a sensible and proficient way. the research for their schoolwork on the As such, the Group is not only comInternet. This undoubtedly makes things Promoting digital media literacy skills mitted to setting up and expanding commuch easier when it comes to personal The Telekom Austria Group is tackling munication infrastructure in the eight communication, including over long disboth issues. It wants to make a clear and countries in which it has operations (see tances, and day-to-day (school)work. But active contribution to closing the “digital also Providing Responsible Products page how can they integrate these new techgap” in the countries where it operates. At 24ff). It has also launched several social nologies, which they use as a matter of the same time, it promotes proficient and initiatives that enable people to obtain course, into their daily life in a purposesafe Internet use by children and young more sophisticated access to the digital ful and responsible way? people – the “digital natives”. knowledge society and give them equal opportunities in interacting with the digiIt is therefore important to make Its aim, firmly anchored in its sustal world. sure that children and young people tainability strategy, is to provide trainin particular are adequately prepared ing to promote media literacy skills to for their future with the Internet. a total of 100,000 participants by 2016. 1 The best possible conditions for their In addition, cooperation to promote safe Eurostat, statistics on the information development must be established so and proficient media use by children and society as of April 2014 Di g i t a l s k i l l s , m a r c p r e n s k y 2 0 1 2 Yesterday’s Literate Person Today’s Literate Person Tomorrow’s Literate Person Write a letter Write an E-Mail Work in a virtual community Write a report Write a Powerpoint Make a video Write an essay Write a blog post Write a programme 63 s u b je c t – S o c iety Living Green Creating Equal Opportunities IN t erne t for e veryone tion with the Children Cultural Center in Belgrade. The first and biggest initiative in this area was Furthermore a training programme will be launched launched in Austria in October 2011 with the title “A1 in 2014 which will focus on senior citizens: multiInternet for All”. As of June 2014, more than 50,000 day courses will be held in the form of a roadshow participants have already been given training as part in five different Serbian cities to make a nationwide of this initiative. A1 offers free Internet training contribution. (For details, see Online Measures Procourses for young and old alike at three permanent gramme at www.telekomaustria.com). locations and “on tour” in 40 Austrian municipalities and in social institutions. The programme covOver the course of 2014, the Telekom Austria ers more than 40 different workshop topics from Group plans to expand the individual initiatives “First steps” or “Communicating simply by e-mail” even further and incorporate them in a Group-wide to safety workshops for children and information framework. Based on the experience already gained evenings for parents. Close cooperation with more from the existing local programmes, a Group-wide than 30 different social and educational institutions programme including scientific evaluation is to be ensures that marginal groups are also able to attend established at all subsidiaries (see also the interview these training courses. with the management board on page 8ff). (PA2) The “A1 Internet for All” initiative is supported by Services for safe In t erne t use a corporate volunteering programme in which more To promote the safe use of new media, the Telekom than 700 A1 employees participated in 2013 alone. In Austria Group not only offers brochures such as the addition to profes“A1 Internet Guide for sional media coachParticipation in Media literacy Training Programmes Kids” and its own free es, these employees information events Facts about also pass on their for children, par2011 2012 2013 2014 A1 Internet for All knowledge in the ents and teachers. It training courses. also offers services The success of the Macedonia 100 for safe Internet use initiative is evaluand cost control – esSerbia 60 ated by the NPO pecially for children Competence Centre Slovenia 5,700 4,926 – at a technical level. at the Vienna UniChildren see smart98 % Austria 4,583 18,592 19,397 8,977 versity of Economphones and the Inics and Business ternet as an integral o f vi sit or s on an ongoing ba10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 part of everyday life. w e r e s a t is f ied sis. In this context, Surfing the net, listhe NPO Competence Centre has confirmed that “A1 tening to music, taking photos and sending or sharing Internet for All” is making a key contribution to them, sending text messages and networking on Faceclosing the digital gap in Austria. book, Twitter and other social media sites are activities that they take for granted as part of their daily life. Similar programmes and initiatives are also But they rarely think about the resulting costs or about offered by other subsidiaries of the Telekom protecting their personal data and privacy. To help Austria Group. These range from training courses for avoid unpleasant surprises in this respect, all Telekom school classes of employees’ children in the RepubAustria Group companies offer cost control tools. In 94 % lic of Macedonia, which were held for the first time addition, special tariffs for children and young people in 2013, to cooperation with nationwide initiatives are available at several subsidiaries, as well as the free o f pa r t ic ip a nt s le a r n such as Symbiozia for senior citizens in Slovenia. In Vodafone Guardian app, which provides special safety s o me t h ing new the Republic of Serbia, trainings for children have settings for telephone and Internet (see also Providing been held since 2011 in the course of the cooperaResponsible Products, page 24ff). (PA7) 64 SubJEcT – SOcIETY SELECTED INITIATIVES AND SOCIAL COOPERATIONS • specialisterne (a1) – integration of people on the autism spectrum into employment market • foster a child. create a future (mobiltel) – support for socially disadvantaged children prod u c t s t hat make lIfe e a sIer • ”mobility.communication.life” (Vipnet) – programme for mine clearance in croatia New media and the associated technology can help make everyday life considerably easier. This includes, for example, •”It's so easy to make good things” (velcom) – charity campaign to support children’s medical institutions medical technology solutions that enable doctors to provide long-distance diagnostic or therapeutic assistance. New media • party with a cause (si.mobil) – charity event to support projects that combat youth unemployment are also extremely useful for people with special needs, particularly with regard to communicating with other people – for • new year’s donation (Vip mobile) – fundraising campaign at new year blind and severely visually impaired people, for instance, the Internet plays a major role in making their life and work easier. • university clinic of gynaecology and obstetrics (Vip operator) – donation of special equipment for monitoring Meanwhile, text and chat messages have become an important pregnancy form of communication for deaf people. (G4.15) The subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria Group offer these people tariffs that are specially tailored to their needs, as well as providing free training sessions. The offers range from discounts for socially deprived groups to higher allocations of text messages and/or data. AWARDS IN 2013 • Golden apple for the ”foster a child. create a future” project Innovative solutions for administration and health, such from the bulgarian business leaders forum (mobiltel) as electronic archives, signature systems and medical data net• golden medal in the ”socially responsible brand” category for work systems, save on travel time and optimise healthcare. ”ethical market behaviour” (velcom) These systems also contribute to enhancing efficiency, there• award for the ”sensor room” project from the macedonian by also reducing costs (see also Providing Responsible Prodministry of economic affairs (Vip operator) ucts, page 24ff). And last but not least, Internet access also gives these people the opportunity to participate in education platforms like the one created by Andrew Ng and Daphne Koller. (PA2, 5, 7, EC8) SELECTED COOPERATIONS FOR SAFE INTERNET USE • saferinternet (a1, Mobiltel) 5 TIPS FOR THE SAFE USE • Vienna university Children's office (a1) OF THE INTERNET • stopline.at (a1) • Hrabri telefon (Brave phone) (Vipnet) 1 nothing is for free. If there is anything at a very low price • zavod Y, initiator of the simbioza project (si.mobil) or even for free, be skeptical – even on the Internet no • Faculty of Criminal Justice and security (si.mobil) one gives anything away without wanting something in return. • safe.si (si.mobil) 2 read first, then buy. before placing an order, first read • Children's Cultural Centre Belgrade (Vip mobile) the full product description and details of all costs. (G4.15) 3 be careful about passing on data. treat personal data such as your name, address, phone number etc. with great care on the Internet. never let anyone else have your passwords. 4 protect your privacy. use the privacy settings on social networking sites and use a nickname instead of your real USEFUL INFORMATION name in forums and chats. FOR GRI EXPERTS 5 use secure passwords. strong passwords comprise a minimum of eight letters, numbers and special characters. use a different password for every Internet • Pa5: the telekom austria Group is obliged to provide voice service and change it on a regular basis. telephony services at reduced tariffs for low-income households and other eligible customers in austria for which it receives compensation payments from the republic of austria on a contractual basis 65 g u E S T c O m m E n TA RY Children and young people on the Internet aUthoR PhotogRaPhy bernhard Jungwirth Saferinternet.at preface To help young people become proficient in the use of new media and to raise awareness of the risks in the digital world is the declared aim of the initiative Saferinternet.at. D igital media have become an essential part of everyday life for children and young people. Yet, parSexting, a coinage that combines the words “sex” and “texting”, means exchanging intimate phoents and educators face some challengtos by mobile phone. This is usuing questions: What are the dangers of ally done as a way of demonstrating the digital world and what do I need to love and trust between partners. know about them? How can I ensure my When the relationship ends, it is children’s safety online? How can I teach not uncommon for inappropriate them the necessary skills? What can I use of the photos to occur. There is do to make sure that my children aren’t no such thing as “safer sexting”! are Internet-savvy yourself and talk to overburdened by the Internet, mobile your children about the risks! phones, etc.? And there are many more Keeping control of personal data onquestions that could be added to the list. line and presenting a “digital self” are However, frequently cited “media also perennial issues in our work. literacy skills” cannot be used as an exAs part of the EU initiative Saferincuse to shift responsibility to parents ternet.at, we offer a wide range of inforAt Saferinternet.at, we will also focus and teachers alone. It is also the responmation and support, from workshops on the question “True or false on the Insibility of companies to offer safe prodto teaching material, advice for parents ternet” in the future. In view of the overucts and play a leading role in raising and an extensive information website whelming volume of information on the awareness. The major players in particuthrough to consultations. We want to Internet, the ability to critically assess lar have the expertise and resources to help young people in particular to take sources has become a key skill. This inadequately reach parents, teachers and advantage of the benefits of digital mecludes being able to judge how trustyoung people. And of course the public dia. At the same time, we also pass on worthy information from the Internet is sector must also take the issue seriously – tips and strategies for dealing with risks. and what interests lie behind a publicafrom creating the legal framework to proWe know from our day-to-day work that tion. This is important not only for the moting relevant education measures. particular attention should be paid to the next presentation the child has to give following risks: at school, but also for their development into a responsible citizen. Cyber-Mobbing causes considerable psychological disstress to those affected. Unfortunately, there is no simple soCyberbullying refers to the intentional, lution for a safer Internet. There is no systematic and sustained abuse, embarswitch and no programme we can install rassment and exclusion of other people that can deal with all of the concerns. using digital media. Of course, bullying Media education cannot be outsourced. existed before the Internet too. But in the In the digital world, as with all matters to digital world there is a much larger audido with bringing up children, we need to mag. bernhard jungwirth is managing director of ence, once something has been posted it pay due attention to our children and the the austrian Institute for applied telecommunioften cannot be removed, and the perpeworld they live in and be good role modcations (ÖIat) and an expert for internet safety, media literacy, e-learning and evaluation. he is trators do not have to look the victims in els for them. So take an interest in how project coordinator of the Internet ombudsmann the eye. your children use media, make sure you and saferinternet.at. 66 A1.net/gruenesnetz Austria’s first green network. The Green Network We’re investing in the environment. Simply A1. • A1 is the first and only Austrian communications provider to operate a 100 % carbon neutral network. • Ongoing reductions of energy consumption via modern, environmentally-friendly solutions. • A1 uses 100 % renewable electricity. • Phone, surf and watch TV with a clear conscience in the A1 carbon neutral network. Carbon neutral network, certified by TÜV SÜD, May 2014 ROADmAP The Roadmap – Society facts, measures and targets beIng maIntaIned achIeVed In the following you will find an overview on selected targets and measures. In plannIng Further details can be found at: www.telekomaustria.com In ImplementatIon T A R G E T S 2 0 1 5 • 100,000 people partIcIpatIng In traInIng to promote medIa lIteracy skIlls (by 2016) .............. .... • Increase In cooperatIon projects to promote medIa lIteracy skIlls In the telekom austrIa group ............................................................................................................... • ImplementatIon of socIal projects accordIng to local needs ................................................ .... • ImplementatIon and enhancement of cost control tools .............................................. ........ .... baselIne for targets Is 2012. • Expansion of the training programme on proficient media use • Development of training materials on safe use of media • Continuation of locally adapted social initiatives in all countries • Enhancement of cost-control tools and media protection tools for children and young people SAID 2012 • Development and implementation of a training plan to promote media literacy skills in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia • Expansion of the training programme in Austria and Slovenia • Publication of the “A1 Internet Guide for Kids” and supporting teaching materials for schools (A1) • Implementation of social projects taking local needs into account, for example supporting the Croatian mine clearance programme (Vipnet) or Specialisterne (A1) • Increased support for start-ups and social entrepreneurs within the Telekom Austria Group • Cost-control tools implemented in all countries, expansion of Vodafone Consumer Services to enhance cost-control applications at A1, Mobiltel and Vipnet DOnE 2013 For further measures, please refer to the measures programme online at www.telekomaustria.com • Combining and expanding initiatives to promote media literacy skills in the countries where the Telekom Austria Group operates • Implementation of a uniform Group-wide evaluation scheme for the media literacy initiatives at a local level • Development of a media literacy skills programme in Bulgaria, Croatia and Belarus • Development of information materials aimed specifically at senior citizens • Continuation of social initiatives in line with local needs • Further activities to promote start-ups PLAnnED 2014 • Enhancement of tools and application for cost-control and media protection for children and young people 68 FLAgShIP PROJEcTS 1 Flagship Projects 3 1 The “A1 Internet for All” initiative was expanded with a third permanent training site. In 2013 alone, approximately 19,400 participants attended more than 1,500 training sessions. In cooperation with the Vienna University Children’s Office and Saferinternet.at, A1 issued an Internet Guide on safe Internet use for children and developed supplementary teaching materials for teachers. 2 The Bulgarian company Mobiltel initiates annual fund-raising campaigns to support foster 4 families who are temporarily providing a home for children with the project “Foster a child. Create future”. In 2013, Mobiltel won the “Golden Apple Award” for this project. 3 Vip mobile offers free Internet access and Internet courses for children and their parents at the youth centre in Belgrade. 4 Vip operator launched the initiative “Surf skilfully, surf smart” to teach schoolchildren the first steps for safe Internet use. 5 Si.mobil cooperated with Simbioza, a national 5 initiative for promoting media literacy skills among senior citizens. More than 100 employees volunteered to share their knowledge with participants throughout Slovenia. In addition, “Senior hours” were initiated for the first time. 69 G R I C O N T E N T TA B L E GRI AR: Annual Report 2013 content table A c c o r d i n g t o THE GR I G 4 ” c o m p r e h e n s iv e ” a n d T e l e c o m m u n i c a t i o n s S e c t o r S u p p l e m e n t Pi l o t v e r s i o n 1 . 0 ( G 4 . 3 2 ) In an internal process all aspects were assigned to the topics The aspects covered by the indicators EC9, EN32, EN33, of the materiality matrix and then prioritised (see page 14f). LA14, LA15, SO9 and SO10, are assigned to the topic “SustainDuring this process, the principles upon which the contents able Procurement”. In 2012 the Telekom Austria Group started of the report were defined were incorporated and validata long-term project with the goal of improving Supply Chain ed. The following GRI Content Table lists all material aspects Reporting. It is expected that the relevent indicators will be that are relevant for the Telekom Austria Group as a whole. gradually incorporated in the next few years. The aspects covered by the indicators HR1, HR2, HR5 to The designations O and I represent the relevance of the HR12 are currently being evaluated and reviewed by an interaspect outside (O) and inside (I) the organisation. Icons nal project team subsumed under the heading “Human Rights”. indicate the allocation to the respective area of action. For the They cannot therefore be presented in this report and are thus extent and details of the external verification, we refer you to the not included in the GRI content table below. certification statement on page 85. (G4.18 – 4.20, 4.32) Indicator Page Description Comment Validation Strategy & Analysis G4-1 8ff Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the EXTERNAL AUDIT organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 8ff, 13ff, 18, Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities EXTERNAL AUDIT AR 39ff, 78ff Organisational Profile G4-3 13, AR 116 Report the name of the organisation EXTERNAL AUDIT G4-4 13, 88, Report the primary brands, products, and services EXTERNAL AUDIT AR 116, 129f G4-5 13, AR 116 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters EXTERNAL AUDIT G4-6 Cover, 13, Report the number of countries where the organisation operaEXTERNAL AUDIT AR 116 tes, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 AR 50f, 116 Report the nature of ownership and legal form EXTERNAL AUDIT G4-8 Cover, Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, EXTERNAL AUDIT AR 88ff sectors served, and types of customers andbeneficiaries) G4-9 Cover, 13, Report the scale of the organisation, including total number Due to different reporting systems EXTERNAL AUDIT 88, AR 58f, of employees, of operations, net revenues, total capitalisation a disclosure in line with GRI requi88ff, 170f, broken down in terms of debt and equity, quantity of products rements is currently not possible. 106ff or services provided Disclosure is planned within the next two years G4-10 Report the total number of employees by employment contract EXTERNAL AUDIT and gender and any significant variations in employment numbers 70 G R I C O N T E N T TA B L E G4-11 55 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective EXTERNAL AUDIT bargaining agreements G4-12 20f Describe the organisation’s supply chain EXTERNAL AUDIT G4-13 20f, AR Report any significant changes during the reporting period EXTERNAL AUDIT 26ff, 48ff, regarding the organisation’s size, structure,ownership, or its 127ff, 153f supply chains G4-14 18, 21 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or EXTERNAL AUDIT principle is addressed by the organisation G4-15 14, 18, 39, List externally developed economic, environmental and social EXTERNAL AUDIT 65 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 14 List memberships of associations (such as industry associaEXTERNAL AUDIT tions) and national or international advocacy organisations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 87, AR 170f List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated EXTERNAL AUDIT financial statements or equivalent documents G4-18 14f, 70ff Explain the process for defining the report content and the EXTERNAL AUDIT aspect boundaries. Explain how the organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content G4-19 14f, 70ff List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining EXTERNAL AUDIT report content G4-20 14f, 70ff For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within EXTERNAL AUDIT the organisation G4-21 14f Description of the boundaries of each aspect which is material EXTERNAL AUDIT outside the organisation G4-22 21, 87 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in EXTERNAL AUDIT previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 21, 87 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in EXTERNAL AUDIT the scope and aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 14f Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation EXTERNAL AUDIT G4-25 14f, 21 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders EXTERNAL AUDIT with whom to engage G4-26 13f, 21 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, EXTERNAL AUDIT including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process G4-27 15f Topics, that came up during the stakeholder process and the EXTERNAL AUDIT reactions of the organisation Report Profile G4-28 87 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for EXTERNAL AUDIT information provided G4-29 87 Date of most recent previous report (if any) EXTERNAL AUDIT G4-30 87 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) EXTERNAL AUDIT G4-31 88 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or EXTERNAL AUDIT its contents G4-32 70ff, 87 Report the “in-accordance”-option, GRI-index of the selected EXTERNAL AUDIT option, reference to the external audit report G4-33 87 Policies of the organisation regarding external audit of the EXTERNAL AUDIT report, scope of audit and relationship to audit company Governance G4-34 17, AR 64ff Report the governance structure of the organisation, including EXTERNAL AUDIT committees of the highest governance body G4-35 17 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, EXTERNAL AUDIT environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 17, AR 64ff Report whether the organisation has appointed an executiveEXTERNAL AUDIT level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body 71 G R I C O N T E N T TA B L E G4-37 13f, AR 72ff Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest EXTERNAL AUDIT governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. G4-38 AR 68, 70f, Report the composition of the highest governance body and its Memberships in under-represeted EXTERNAL AUDIT 76 committees social groups are not disclosed, due to personal data privacy G4-39 AR 68ff Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also EXTERNAL AUDIT an executive officer G4-40 AR 68ff Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest Nomination and selection procesEXTERNAL AUDIT governance body and its committees ses for the highest governance body fall within the remit of the owner G4-41 AR 68ff Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure EXTERNAL AUDIT conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders G4-42 17, AR 72ff Report the highest governance body’s and senior executiEXTERNAL AUDIT ves’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organisation’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-43 17, AR 64ff, Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest EXTERNAL AUDIT 72ff governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4-44 Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance Disclosure is not possible due to EXTERNAL AUDIT body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, legal requirements of the Stock environmental and social topics Corporation Act G4-45 AR 68ff Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification Under the terms of the EXTERNAL AUDIT and management of economic, environmental and social imAustrian Stock Corporation Act, pacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance the Supervisory Board has the role body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes of a control body. The application of the indicator is therefore limited G4-46 17, AR 72ff, Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the EXTERNAL AUDIT 101ff effectiveness of the organisation’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 17, AR 72f Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review EXTERNAL AUDIT of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-48 17, 87 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews EXTERNAL AUDIT and approves the organisation’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered G4-49 21, AR 72ff Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the EXTERNAL AUDIT highest governance body G4-50 21, AR 73ff Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that EXTERNAL AUDIT were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-51 AR 66ff, Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance EXTERNAL AUDIT 158ff body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration G4-52 21, AR 66ff Report the process for determining remuneration EXTERNAL AUDIT G4-53 21, Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into EXTERNAL AUDIT AR 69ff account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the The Telekom Austria Group EXTERNAL AUDIT organisation’s highest-paid individual in each country of considers that information about significant operations to the median annual total compensation salaries is strictly confidential. for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the No information will therefore same country be disclosed that exceeds the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compenThe Telekom Austria Group EXTERNAL AUDIT sation for the organisation’s highest-paid individual in each considers that information about country of significant operations to the median percentage salaries is strictly confidential. increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluNo information will therefore ding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. be disclosed that exceeds the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code 72 G R I C O N T E N T TA B L E Ethics and Integrity G4-56 18, Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and EXTERNAL AUDIT AR 23f, 55ff norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 18, Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice EXTERNAL AUDIT AR 23f, 55ff on ethical and lawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 18, Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting EXTERNAL AUDIT AR 23f, 55ff concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Economic Performance (O/I) Providing Responsible Products EC1 21 Report direct economic value generated and distributed EC2 Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change and A disclosure in line with GRI Empowering People other risks and chances for activities of the organisation requirements is currently being developed. For information on risks and opportunities from cliLiving Green mate change, please refer to CDP assessment 2013 EC3 AR 151f Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations Creating Equal Opportunities Providing Responsible Products EC4 AR 131, 142 Financial assistance received from government Market Presence (O/I) Empowering People EC5 55 Ratio of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local The Telekom Austria Group minimum wage at significant locations of operation considers that information about salaries is strictly confidential. No information will therefore Living Green be disclosed that exceeds the Creating Equal Opportunities requirements of the Corporate Governance Code. EC6 83 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operations Indirect Economic Impacts (O/I) Providing Responsible Products EC7 27f, AR Development and impact of infrastructure investments and 18ff, 26ff services supported Empowering People EC8 26, 64f Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Living Green Procurement Practices (O) Providing Responsible Products Providing Responsible Products EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant A presentation in line with GRI is locations of operation currently not possible. Disclosure Creating Equal Opportunities Empowering People Empowering People is planned within 2 years Energy (I) Living Green EN3 41, 79 Energy consumption within the organisation EXTERNAL AUDIT Living Green EN4 41, 79 Energy consumption outside of the organisation Providing Responsible Products Creating Equal Opportunities EN5 41, 79 Energy intensity EXTERNAL AUDIT Creating Equal Opportunities EN6 38f, 41, 79 Reduction of energy consumption Empowering People EN7 38f Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Emissions (O/I) Living Green EN15 41, 78, 80 Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1) EXTERNAL AUDIT EN16 41, 78, 80 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2) EXTERNAL AUDIT Creating Equal Opportunities EN17 41, 78, 80 Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3) EXTERNAL AUDIT EN18 78, 80 Greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity EXTERNAL AUDIT EN19 41, 80 Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods) ODS do not constitute a significant proportion in Telekom Austria Group's greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, they are not reported EN21 78, 81 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions 73 Providing Responsible Products G R I C O N T E N T TA B L E Empowering People Effluents and Waste (I) Living Green EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination The Telekom Austria Group is not a manufacturing company. Creating Equal Opportunities Wastewater is only discharged into public sewer system in the context of office activities. For this reason, the indicator is not considered to be significant EN23 41, 82 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Reporting in line with GRI requireexternal audit ments currently not possible. Disclosure is planned within 2 years EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills EN25 41 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the basel convention, Annex i, ii, iii, and viii, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organisation’s discharges of water and runoff Products and Services (O/I) Providing Responsible Products EN27 29f, 44f Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Providing Responsible Products Empowering People EN28 44f , 81 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Empowering People laws and regulations Living Green Compliance (O/I) Providing Responsible Products Living Green EN29 41 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Creating Equal Opportunities other goods and materials for the organisation’s operations, and Empowering People Creating Equal Opportunities transporting members of the workforce Transport (O/I) Providing Responsible Products Living Green EN30 40 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organisation’s operations, and Empowering People Creating Equal Opportunities transporting members of the workforce Environmental Grievance Mechanisms (I) Living Green EN34 41 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, Providing Responsible Products addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Creating Equal Opportunities Non-discrimination (A/I) Empowering People HR3 55 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective Providing Responsible Products actions taken Living Green Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining (I) Empowering People HR4 55 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to Creating Equal Opportunities exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Living Green Providing Responsible Products Creating Equal Opportunities Employment (I) Empowering People LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee Reporting in line with GRI requireturnover by age group, gender and region ments currently not possible. Disclosure is planned within 2 years Living Green LA2 55, GB 158ff Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by significant locations of Creating Equal Opportunities operation LA3 55, 82 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 74 G R I C O N T E N T TA B L E Providing Responsible Products Labour/Management Relations (O/I) Empowering People LA4 54f Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, incluProviding Responsible Products ding whether these are specified in collective agreements Living Green Training and Education (I) Empowering People LA9 54f Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and Creating Equal Opportunities by employee category LA10 52f, 55 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that Living Green support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Creating Equal Opportunities LA11 55 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Providing Responsible Products career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity (I) Empowering People LA12 52ff, 82f, Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees AR 66ff per employee category according to gender, age group, minority Providing Responsible Products group membership, and other indicators of diversity Living Green Equal Remuneration for Women and Men (I) Empowering People Creating Equal Opportunities LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by The Telekom Austria Group considers employee category, by significant locations of operation that information about salaries is strictly confidential. No information will therefore be disclosed that exceeds Living Green the requirements of the Corporate Creating Responsible Providing Equal Opportunities Products Governance Code. Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms (I) Empowering People LA16 AR 74f Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Living Green Customer Health and Safety (O/I) Providing Responsible Products PR1 33 Percentage of significant product and service categories for Creating Equal Opportunities which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Empowering People PR2 33 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Living Green Product and Service Labelling (O) Providing Responsible Products PR3 30 Type of product and service information required by the Creating Equal Opportunities organisation’s procedures for product and service information Empowering People and labelling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements PR4 AR 169 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations In the course of regular business Living Green and voluntary codes concerning product and service activity, several lawsuits and other information and labeling, by type of outcomes claims are pending against the Telekom AG and its subsidiaries. Creating Equal Opportunities No information can be given on pending procedures PR5 29f, 78 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction A Group-wide measurement system was implemented in 2013 and used for the first time in 2014, therefore no data is available for the reporting year Customer Privacy (O/I) Providing Responsible Products PR8 30 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Anti-corruption (O/I) Empowering People Providing Responsible Products SO3 21 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks EXTERNAL AUDIT Living Green related to corruption and the significant risks identified Empowering People SO4 21, 78, AR Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and EXTERNAL AUDIT 55ff procedures Creating Equal Opportunities Living Green Creating Equal Opportunities 75 G R I C O N T E N T TA B L E SO5 AR 74f Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Public Policy (O/I) Providing Responsible Products SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and As stated in the code of conduct of recipient/beneficiary Telekom Austria Group political Empowering People contributions are not allowed Anti-competitive Behaviour (O/I) Providing Responsible Products Living Green SO7 30, AR Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, In the course of regular business 144f, 169 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes activity, several lawsuits and other Empowering People claims are pending against the Creating Equal Opportunities Telekom AG and its subsidiaries. No information can be given on Living Green pending procedures Compliance (O/I) Creating Responsible Providing Equal Opportunities Products SO8 AR 144f, Monetary value of significant fines and total number of In the course of regular business 169 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws activity, several lawsuits and other Empowering People and regulations claims are pending against the Telekom AG and its subsidiaries. No information can be given on Living Green pending procedures Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society (O/I) Creating Responsible Providing Equal Opportunities Products SO11 AR 74f Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Telecommunications Sector Supplement Technology Applications Empowering People Providing Responsible Products TA1 29f Provide examples of the resource efficiency of Living Green telecommunication products and services delivered Empowering People TA2 29f Provide examples of telecommunication products, services and applications that have the potential to replace physical objects Creating Equal Opportunities (e.g. a telephone book by a database on the web or travel by Living Green video-conferencing) Providing Responsible Products Telecommunications Sector Supplement Providing Access Creating Equal Opportunities Empowering People PA1 27f Policies and practices to enable the deployment of telecommunication infrastructure and access to telecommunication Providing Responsible Products products and services in remote and low population-density Living Green areas. Include an explanation of business models applied Empowering People PA2 64f Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and use of telecommunication products and services including: language, Creating Equal Opportunities culture, illiteracy, and lack of education, income, disabilities, Living Green and age. Include an explanation of business models applied PA3 28f Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of Providing Responsible Products telecommunications products and services and quantify, where Creating Equal Opportunities Providing Responsible Products possible, for specified time periods and locations of down time Empowering People PA4 28f Quantify the level of availability of telecommunication products Empowering People and services in areas where the organisation operates. Examples include: customer numbers/market share, addressable market, percentage of population covered, percentage of land covered Providing Responsible Products Living Green Living Green PA5 29f, 64f Number and types of telecommunication products and services Empowering People provided to and used by low and no income sectors of the Creating Equal Opportunities population. Provide definitions selected Creating Equal Opportunities PA6 28f Programmes to provide and maintain telecommunication proLiving Green ducts and services in emergency situations and for disaster relief Providing Responsible Products PA7 28f, 64f Policies and practices to manage human rights issues relating to access and use of telecommunication products and services Creating Equal Opportunities Empowering People PA8 33 Policies and practices to publicly communicate on EMF related issues PA10 30 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tariffs Living Green Creating Equal Opportunities 76 G R I C O N T E N T TA B L E Telecommunications Sector Supplement Internal Operations IO1 27f, AR 87ff Capital investment in telecommunication network inProviding Responsible Products frastructure broken down by country/region Providing Responsible Products IO3 55 Practices to ensure health and safety of field personnel involved Empowering People in the installation, operation and maintenance of masts, base Empowering People stations, laying cables and other outside plant. Related health and safety issues include working at heights, electric shock, exposure to EMF and radio frequency fields, and exposure to Living Green Living Green hazardous chemicals IO4-5 32 Compliance with ICNIRP standards and guidelines on exposure Creating Equal Opportunities Creating Equal Opportunities to radiofrequency emissions from handsets and base stations Providing Responsible Products IO6 32f Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets Empowering People IO7 33 Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission sites including stakeholder consultation, site sharing, and initiatives to reduce visual impacts. Describe approach to evaluate Living Green consultations and quantify where possible IO8 30 Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites, and Creating Equal Opportunities sites on existing structures 77 data appe n di x data appendix Providing Responsible Products Products C u s t o m e r S e r vi c e Anti Corruption 2013 Empowering People Customer Contacts C u s t o m e r s e r vi c e Training (in tsd.) EMPLOYEES ( i n FTE ) Austria 22,300 2,407 1,002 bulgaria 4,375 371 25 Living Green C roatia 3,412 228 179 Belarus 5,125 373 1,711 S lovenia Creating Equal Opportunities 907 72 359 R epublic of Serbia 3,091 152 126 R epublic of M acedonia 1,429 23 4 T e l e kom Austri a Group 40,640 3,627 3,406 2012 (SO4) Austria 26,545 2,390 9,195 bulgaria 5,656 427 2,722 C roatia 3,147 223 950 Belarus 5,382 373 1,333 S lovenia 999 68 557 R epublic of Serbia 1,817 144 1,081 R epublic of M acedonia 2,023 22 289 T e l e kom Austri a Group 45,569 3,650 16,127 Change (in %) Austria -16 1 -89 bulgaria -23 -13 -99 C roatia 8 2 -81 Belarus -5 0 28 S lovenia -9 6 -36 R epublic of Serbia 70 6 -88 R epublic of M acedonia -29 5 -99 T e l e kom Austri a Group -11 -1 -79 Total Telekom Austria Group includes mobilkom liechtenstein Providing Responsible Products (PR5) Empowering People Environment Living Green Methodology – Emissions The method used by the Telekom Austria Group to calculate direct, indirect and other indirect emissions follows the internationCreating Equal Opportunities ally recognised definition of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the WRI/WBCSD (World Resources Institute und World Business Council for Sustainable Development), in which all greenhouse gases are included in the calculation, i.e. not just those covered by the Kyoto Protocol. The calculation methods are based on the data published by econinvent (AR4 100-year (IPCC 2007 4th Assessment Report)). Figures given as CO² equivalents. The nature of gases reported by energy providers for Scope 2 emissions is not known. (EN15, 16, 17, 18, 21) 78 data appe n di x Methodology – Energy The calculation is — as long as self provision is not concerned­­ ­— based on invoices by the respective energy providers. The factors used by the ecoinvent database were used for the conversion into kilowatt hours. In some cases, estimates were made if no data was available. The energy content of fuels was calculated on the basis of calorific value. (EN3, 4, 6) Di r e c t u n d i n d i r e c t E n e r g y 2013 Heating Di s t r i c t Total energy ( i n MW h ) Electricity* Fuels** heating FuelS *** consumption Austria 307,693 19,424 34,467 52,894 414,478 bulgaria 68,474 123 393 8,122 77,112 Croatia 39,428 67 3,768 3,743 47,007 Belarus 75,832 968 4,007 4.488 85,295 S lovenia 24,028 0 326 340 24,694 R epublic of Serbia 31,757 61 733 2,443 34,994 R epublic of Macedonia 10,566 857 0 490 11,913 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 557,778 21,499 43,694 72,521 695,493 2012 ( i n MW h ) Austria 308,549 17,635 32,097 56,032 414,276 bulgaria 84,938 95 228 5,640 90,901 Croatia 42,279 106 3,758 3,962 50,068 Belarus 67,840 3,255 1,965 4,992 78,052 S lovenia 22,311 5 220 390 22,921 R epublic of Serbia 28,014 28 733 2,886 31,654 R epublic of Macedonia 8,572 989 0 504 10,065 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 562,503 22,114 39,002 74,405 697,937 Change (in %) Austria 0 10 7 -6 0 bulgaria -19 29 73 44 -15 Croatia -7 -37 0 -6 -6 Belarus 12 -70 104 -10 9 S lovenia 8 n.a. 48 -13 8 R epublic of Serbia 13 117 0 -15 11 R epublic of Macedonia 23 13 n.a. -3 18 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up -1 -3 12 -3 0 Table may include rounding differences. 1 joule =2.77777778 × 10-¹⁰ MWh (EN3, 6) * Purchased and in-house production as well as diesel for emergency generators; ** Includes oil and gas; *** Includes diesel, petrol, CNG, LPG and natural gas ener g y – fuel co n s ump t i o n* 2013 from non-renewable from renewable ( i n MW h ) energy energy** T e l e kom Austri a Group 93,633 3,857 * Oil, diesel, petrol, LPG, CNG and natural gas, incl. diesel for emergency generators (EN3) ** Share of biogenic fuels in diesel and petrol e n vi r o n m e n t – R e l a t iv e I n d i c a t o r s 2013 Energy Efficieny Index* S h a r e o f e Bi l l i n g Water consumption ( i n MW h p e r t e r a b y t e ) (in %) ( p r o FTE , i n m ³ ) T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 1.1 64 17 * The Energy Efficiency Index is defined as the total consumption of electrical energy within the Telekom Austria Group, (EN5) divided by the total volume of data transported by fixed and mobile telecommunication networks 79 data appe n di x E n vi r o n m e n t – R e l a t iv e I n d i c a t o r s 2013 Share of renewable Recycling quota** CO ₂ i n t e n s i t y * * * Paper consumption energy* (in %) (in %) ( p e r FTE ) ( k g / FTE ) Austria 68 77 9 15 bulgaria 17 14 16 28 Croatia 45 60 17 15 Belarus 0,3 41 18 23 S lovenia 31 72 26 6 R epublic of Serbia 24 29 31 35 R epublic of Macedonia 21 76 48 88 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 45 71 14 20 2012 Austria 81 60 8 16 bulgaria 15 9 17 24 Croatia 45 61 19 15 Belarus 20 23 17 19 S lovenia 33 90 26 10 R epublic of Serbia 29 21 28 34 R epublic of Macedonia 27 72 41 98 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 56 55 13 19 * Derived from electricity consumption, values of A1 were calculated, the remainder as measured by the standard national grid factor (EN18) ** Fractions (non-hazardous waste, electronic waste and batteries) sent for recycling relative to total waste *** CO₂ intensity includes CO₂ emissions from Scope 1 and Scope 2 divided by the number of FTE at year-end Di r e c t a n d i n d i r e c t g r e e n h o u s e g a s e m i s s i o n s Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2013 Di r e c t Indirect Total 2013 Upsteam Processes ( CO ₂ i n t ) (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 1+2) ( CO ₂ i n t ) (Scope 3) Austria 18,978 61,679 80,657 Austria 39,523 bulgaria 4,125 38,224 42,349 bulgaria 18,279 C roatia 1,043 18,391 19,434 C roatia 8,220 Belarus 1,612 29,744 31,356 Belarus 14,973 S lovenia 96 10,136 10,231 S lovenia 2,374 R epublic of Serbia 1,003 27,418 28,421 Republic of Serbia 12,880 R epublic of Macedonia 619 9,654 10,273 Republic of Macedonia 4,864 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 27,476 195,246 222,722 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 101,113 2012 2012 ( CO ₂ i n t ) ( CO ₂ i n t ) Austria 20,269 56,172 76,441 Austria 25,063 bulgaria 3,738 47,447 51,186 bulgaria 18,223 C roatia 1,171 19,646 20,817 C roatia 6,882 Belarus 1,694 26,213 27,906 Belarus 9,229 S lovenia 112 9,390 9,501 S lovenia 1,596 R epublic of Serbia 1,240 24,035 25,274 Republic of Serbia 8,033 R epublic of Macedonia 695 7,750 8,446 Republic of Macedonia 2,957 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 28,919 190,652 219,571 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 71,984 Change Change (in %) (in %) Austria -6 10 6 Austria 58 bulgaria 10 -19 -17 bulgaria 0 C roatia -11 -6 -7 C roatia 19 Belarus -5 13 14 Belarus 62 S lovenia -14 8 8 S lovenia 49 R epublic of Serbia -19 14 12 Republic of Serbia 60 R epublic of Macedonia -11 25 22 Republic of Macedonia 64 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up -5 2 1 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 40 Scope 1 includes direct emissions from combustion of fossil fuels for heating, electricity Scope 3 includes the costs associated with the upstream emissions from heatproduction and mobility but not including cooling agents ing energy, electricity (not included in Scope 2) and fuels (vehicle fleet) Scope 2 measures indirect emissions from electric energy and district heating and business travel (taxi, plane, train). Upstream emissions were calculated according to ecoinvent. In 2013 emissions from customers’ mobile phones (EN15, 16, 19) were included for the first time in Scope 3 emissions (EN17) 80 data appe n di x V EH I CLE F l e e t 2013 Number of Consumption of Consumption Consumption of Mi l e a g e ( i n MW h ) vehicles petrol (in l) of diesel (in l) a l t e r n a t ive f u e l s (i n l ) (in ’000 km) T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 4,934 531,816 6,710,307 170,224 102,214 2012 ( i n MW h ) T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 4,994 366,821 7,040,635 114,347 102,293 Change (in %) T e l e kom Austri a Gro up -1 45 -5 49 0 Ai r p o l l u t a n t s G e n e r a t e d b y t h e v e h i c l e f l e e t * Was te – water consump tion 2013 2013 (in g/km) NO x SO ₂ PM ₁ ₀ (in m³ ) total T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 0,667 0,193 0,067 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 280,078 2012 2012 (in g/km) (in m³ ) T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 0,690 0,195 0,069 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 292,154 Change Changes (in %) (in %) T e l e kom Austri a Gro up -3 -1 -3 T e l e kom Austria Gro up -4 * The air pollutants were first calculated using data published by ecoinvent in 2012. They include the (EN21) emissions of the vehicle fleet. The above mentioned emissions represent the material air pollutants of Telekom Austria Group Was te – paper consump tion Was te – Mobile phone rec ycling 2013 Printing & Other* Total 2013 Collected old (in kg) copy paper (in Pcs) mobile phones Austria 127,945 804,297 932,242 Austria 5,544 bulgaria 74,830 196,166 270,996 bulgaria 530 Croatia 16,827 130,886 147,713 C roatia 7,965 Belarus 39,966 23,500 63,466 Belarus n.a. S lovenia 2,318 97,593 99,911 S lovenia 1,744 R epublic of Serbia 32,192 167,483 199,675 Republic of Serbia 91,570 R epublic of Macedonia 18,908 43,599 62,507 Republic of Macedonia n.a. T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 312,986 1,463.524 1,776.510 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 107,353 2012 2012 (in kg) (in Pcs) Austria 145,780 809,034 954,814 Austria 6,300 bulgaria 69,525 324,238 393,763 bulgaria 959 Croatia 16,318 147,700 164,018 C roatia 3,746 Belarus 31,220 23,500 54,720 Belarus n.a. S lovenia 3,625 103,472 107,097 S lovenia 2,872 R epublic of Serbia 30,437 120,302 150,739 Republic of Serbia 60,000 R epublic of Macedonia 20,000 45,047 65,047 Republic of Macedonia n.a. T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 316,905 1,573,293 1,890.198 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 73877 Change Change (in %) (in %) Austria -12 -1 -2 Austria -12 bulgaria 8 -39 -31 bulgaria -45 Croatia 3 -11 -10 C roatia 113 Belarus 28 0 16 Belarus n.a. S lovenia -36 -6 -7 S lovenia -39 R epublic of Serbia 6 39 32 Republic of Serbia 53 R epublic of Macedonia -5 -3 -4 Republic of Macedonia n.a. T e l e kom Austri a Gro up -1 -7 -6 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 45 * Other mainly includes paper for customer invoices and paper for packaging (EN28) 81 data appe n di x Was te 2013 (in kg) Recyclable Hazardous waste electronic Residual Paper metal other* WAST e Batteries waste T e l e kom Austri a Group 1,244.480 4,382.349 606,827 630,899 20,151 358,911 2012 (in kg ) T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 1,501.594 1,379.145 352,214 645,973 26,129 430,861 Change (in %) T e l e kom Austri a Gro up -17 218 72 -2 -23 -17 Quantities were calculated on the basis of the invoices of the waste management companies or if this was not possible by the volumina of waste containers and the intervals between waste disposal * Other recyclable waste mainly includes plastic, glass and organic waste Providing Responsible Products Empowering People Employees Re t urn to work and re tention rates af ter parental leave by gender 2013 ( i n HC ) Living Green parental leaves Returned to work MA l e Female MA l e female T e l e kom Austri a Gro up Creating Equal Opportunities 162 631 143 301 (LA3) Composi t ion of t he governance body* (age structure) 2013 total share women below 30 30 50 above 50 ( i n HC ) (in %) (in hc) (in hc) (in hc) T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 10 20 0 2 8 * Capital representatives in the supervisory board (LA12) Age s t ruc t ure Employees* 2013 (in hc) 16-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 over 50 Austria 23 555 1,888 3,967 2,253 bulgaria 4 910 1,219 407 96 Croatia 0 128 600 350 60 Belarus 1 659 837 174 79 S lovenia 0 73 234 91 20 R epublic of Serbia 0 298 518 73 12 R epublic of M acedonia 0 32 145 34 3 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 28 2,658 5,447 5,103 2,522 2012 (in hc) Austria 33 646 2,192 4,301 2,145 bulgaria 1 1,104 1,388 369 95 C roatia 0 94 603 348 59 Belarus 8 773 941 169 76 S lovenia 0 69 219 84 17 R epublic of Serbia 0 346 546 58 11 R epublic of M acedonia 0 48 142 15 0 T e l e kom Austri a Group 42 3,080 6,031 5,344 2,403 Total Telekom Austria Group includes mobilkom liechtenstein (LA12) * Apprentices not included 82 data appe n di x residual waste total 2,310.134 9,553.751 2,804.463 7,140.379 -18 34 (EN23) Accident s tatis tics Share of local management 2013 Accidents Fatal Days lost 2013 (in Working Days) accidents to accidents (in %) Austria 125 0 1,811 Austria 98 bulgaria 5 0 184 bulgaria 98 Croatia 11 0 180 C roatia 98 Belarus 0 0 0 Belarus 99 S lovenia 3 0 76 S lovenia 98 R epublic of Serbia 8 0 250 Republic of Serbia 97 R epublic of Macedonia 0 0 0 Republic of Macedonia 96 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 152 0 2,501 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 98 2012 2012 (in Working Days) (in %) Austria 116 0 641 Austria 98 bulgaria 5 0 107 bulgaria 99 Croatia 10 0 0 C roatia 98 Belarus 0 0 0 Belarus 99 S lovenia 2 0 83 S lovenia 98 R epublic of Serbia 5 0 258 Republic of Serbia 94 R epublic of Macedonia 0 0 0 Republic of Macedonia 94 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 138 0 1,089 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 98 Total Telekom Austria Group includes mobilkom liechtenstein (EC6) g e n d e r d iv e r s i t y E m p l o y e e s i n P a r t-Ti m e E m p l o y m e n t 2013 SHARE OF FEMALE SHARE OF FEMALE 2013 (in %) EXECUT I V ES employees (in hc) Austria 16 27 Austria 650 bulgaria 58 50 bulgaria 52 C roatia 40 41 C roatia 0 Belarus 42 60 Belarus 22 S lovenia 42 48 S lovenia 15 R epublic of Serbia 43 54 Republic of Serbia 0 R epublic of Macedonia 38 60 Republic of Macedonia 0 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 31 37 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 739 2012 2012 (in %) (in hc) Austria 17 25 Austria 618 bulgaria 48 50 bulgaria 36 C roatia 39 39 C roatia 8 Belarus 42 67 Belarus 30 S lovenia 38 48 S lovenia 13 R epublic of Serbia 38 54 Republic of Serbia 0 R epublic of Macedonia 38 55 Republic of Macedonia 0 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 32 38 T e l e kom Austria Gro up 705 Total Telekom Austria Group includes mobilkom liechtenstein (LA12) (LA12) 83 Empowering People data appe n di x Living Green Creating Equal Opportunities Media Literacy Training a1 in t erne t for all 2013 courses Participants Recommendation rate of Supporting Recommendation rate of participants (in %) employees* employees* (in %) Austria 1,505 19,397 98 732 98 2012 Austria 1,395 18,592 98 207 98 Change (in %) Austria 8 4 n.a. 254 n.a. * Employees supporting for the first time in the respective reporting year M e d i a Li t e r a c y T r a i n i n g 2013 participants Austria 19,397 bulgaria n.a. C roatia n.a. Belarus n.a. S lovenia 4,926 R epublic of Serbia 60 R epublic of Macedonia 100 T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 24,483 2012 Austria 18,592 bulgaria n.a. C roatia n.a. Belarus n.a. S lovenia 5,700 R epublic of Serbia n.a. R epublic of Macedonia n.a. T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 24,292 Change (in %) Austria 4 bulgaria n.a. C roatia n.a. Belarus n.a. S lovenia -14 R epublic of Serbia n.a. R epublic of Macedonia n.a. T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 1 economy 2013 EB I TDA operating net market (in eur mn) revenues c o m p a r a b l e * EB I TDA * * income result equity capitalisation*** T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 4,183.9 1,287.4 1,242.2 377.6 109.7 1,512.6 2.4 2012 (in eur mn) T e l e kom Austri a Gro up 4,329.7 1,455.7 1,421.1 457.1 104 819.1 2.5 Change (in %) T e l e kom Austri a Gro up -3.4 -11.6 -12.6 -17.4 5.5 84.7 -4.1 * Defined as EBITDA, excluding effects from restructuring and impairment tests ** Including effects from restructuring and impairment tests *** As of 31 Dec. 2013 (in EUR bn) 84 ass u ra n c e state m e n t Assurance statement 1 W e were requested to perform a limited assurance engagement on Specific Topics of the Sustainability Report 2013 (hereafter “the Report”) of Telekom Austria Group (hereafter “TAG”). The Report and the underlying procedures, systems and structures including subject matters and criteria are the responsibility of the Management of Telekom Austria AG. Our responsibility is to make an assessment based on our review. We conducted our review in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the “Fachgutachten des Fachsenats für UnSubjec t Mat ters ternehmensrecht und Revision über die Durchführung von son– Review of the procedures, systems and structures for stigen Prüfungen (KFS/PG 13)” in order to obtain limited assurdefining the Report Content. ance on the subject matters. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than in a rea– Review, if the disclosed information on General Standard sonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance can Disclosures complies with the disclosure requirements as be obtained. defined in GRI G4. For this engagement the “Allgemeinen Einkaufsbedingungen – Review of the procedures, systems and structures for für Beratungsleistungen und Services der Telekom Austria Group – collecting, gathering, aggregating and validating of the Stand 2/2012” were agreed. Subsidiary the “General Conditions following in the Report disclosed topics: of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions”, as issued by – Environmental Performance Indicators (only the conthe Chamber of Public Accountants and Tax Advisors in Austria tribution of A1, the operative subsidiary of TAG in Austria): on March 8, 2000, revised on February 21, 2011 (“AAB 2011”), Energy consumption within the organization (G4-EN3), are binding. In cases of gross negligence the maximum liability is Energy intensity (G4-EN5), Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) limited to EUR 2,000,000 and in cases of ordinary negligence the emissions – Scope 1 (G4-EN15), Energy indirect greenhouse maximum liability is limited to EUR 5,000. This amount constigas (GHG) emissions – Scope 2 (G4-EN16), Other indirect tutes a total maximum liability cap which may only be utilized up greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions – Scope 3 (G4-EN17), to this maximum amount even if there is more than one claimant Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity (G4-EN18) and or more than one claim has been asserted. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (G4-EN23) – Social Performance Indicators: Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified (G4-SO3) and Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures (G4-SO4) 1 – Disclosed indicators regarding the social initiative “A1 The German text of the signed statement, which refers to Internet for All” the German version of the report, is the only binding one. The English translation is not binding and shall not be used – Disclosed indicators regarding the employee survey for the interpretation of the English version of the report. “TAGisfaction” 85 ass u ra n c e state m e n t Criteria Based on our work described above nothing has come to our Based on an assessment of materiality and risk we have evaluattention that causes us to believe that the procedures, systems ated the obtained information and supporting documents with and structures for collecting, gathering, aggregating and valirespect to the conformity of the subject matters with the Susdating of the: tainability Reporting Guidelines (Version G4) issued by the – Contribution of A1 (the operative subsidiary of TAG in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Austria) to the Environmental Performance Indicators: Energy consumption within the organization (G4-EN3), Proceedings Energy intensity (G4-EN5), Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) Our work included analytical procedures as well as interviews emissions Scope 1 (G4-EN15), Energy indirect greenhouse with employees from the headquarters in Vienna notified by gas (GHG) emissions Scope 2 (G4-EN16), Other indirect the board of directors of Telekom Austria AG. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Scope 3 (G4-EN17), Green house gas (GHG) emissions intensity (G4-EN18) and Total Restriction in use weight of waste by type and disposal method (G4-EN23) Our engagement is limited to the above mentioned Subject – Social Performance Indicators: Total number and percentage Matters. We did not review any other content in the Report. of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the We have not tested comparative data from previous years. The significant risks identified (G4-SO3) and Communication and scope of our review was limited to samples. Our work was pertraining on anti-corruption policies and procedures (G4-SO4) formed on a sample basis as deemed necessary in the particular – Disclosed indicators regarding the social initiative case, but did not include any substantial testing. Therefore, the “A1 Internet for All” assurance that we obtained is limited. – Disclosed indicators regarding the employee survey “TAGisfaction” Conclusion Based on our work described above nothing has come to our Vienna, August 4, 2014 attention that causes us to believe that the procedures, systems and structures for defining the Report Content are not in Deloitte Audit Wirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH conformity with the Principles for Defining Report Content as indicated by GRI G4. Mag. Gerhard Marterbauer, Engagement Partner Based on our work described above nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the disclosed informap.p.a. Dipl.-Ing. Hannes Senft tion respectively the information referred to in the report reEngagement Manager garding the General Standard Disclosures are not in conformity with the disclosure requirements stipulated in GRI G4, with the exception of General Standard Disclosure G4-10 which was omitted due to unavailability of information, even though GRI G4 does not provide any reasons for omission for this General Standard Disclosure. Furthermore, the information regarding General Standard Disclosure G4-2 is not provided in two concise narrative sections but on several places. 86 R E P O RT D E TA I L S Report Details T his sustainability report covers the Group-wide activities and key figures of the Telekom Austria cannot be reported yet). This involved comparing all topics with the aspects of the GRI G4 standard again and evaluating The sustainability report chiefly focuses on environmental and social aspects of the Telekom Austria Group's Group in line with the reporting scope them with regard to their internal and activities. For further information on and reporting period of the 2013 annual external relevance. As a result, the economic development, the organisation report. For selected projects, qualitative scope of the reported indicators has profile and corporate governance, please information on the individual topics was changed in comparison to the previous refer to the 2013 annual report of the included beyond 2013 up to the second year (see also GRI Content Table on Telekom Austria Group (http://ar2013. quarter of 2014 and noted separately in page 70). The transition and selected telekomaustria.com). Data collection the report. (G4.28) topics and indicators were reviewed for the sustainability report is based by an independent auditor as part of on the use of internal reporting as Financial key figures and data on the external certification (for details on well as standardised questionnaires workforce relate to the Group reporting the scope, see page 85). Deloitte Audit, completed in the individual operating segments defined in line with IAS 8, Wirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH, which is subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria while environmental key figures and also the auditor of Telekom Austria AG's Group. This data is assessed centrally other social performance indicators were consolidated financial statements, was and subjected to plausibility checks. collected for the operating subsidiaries commissioned with the certification. The Telekom Austria Group's Corporate of the respective countries (except The aspects and indicators of the GRI Sustainability department evaluates the Liechtenstein). The Telekom Austria Telecommunications Sector Supplement questionnaires annually with regard to Group assumes that owing to their size were also included in the materiality current developments, requirements and or activities (e.g. holding function) the process. Unless otherwise indicated, objectives. not included subsidiaries would only all content, topics, aspects, indicators have made a minimal contribution to the and measures in the report relate to Definitions and calculation methods published key figures. If key figures were the Telekom Austria Group and its on individual indicators and key figures set collected for non-operating subsidiaries subsidiaries. The report has been out in the report are explained in detail by together with the operating subsidiary approved by Hannes Ametsreiter, CEO of means of footnotes either in the respective for organisational reasons, these were the Telekom Austria Group. (G4.17, G4.22, chapter itself or in the data section starting not subsequently differentiated. The 4.23, G4.32, G4.33, G4.48) on page 82. To indicate that references to Telekom Austria Group's sustainability people in the sustainability report refer report is published on an annual T HE REP OR T CONSIS T S OF to both men and women, gender-neutral basis; the report on the 2012/2013 T HREE L ARG E SEC T IONS : formulations (e.g. “he or she”) have been period appeared in September 2013. An introductory chapter explains used in some cases. In the interests (G4.28 – G4.30) the sustainability strategy devised in of readability, the male form alone is connection with the Telekom Austria sometimes used but this still always refers This report meets the requirements Group's core business and the key social to both men and women. of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and environmental trends. The main Guideline G4 for sustainability reports section of the report is dedicated to and complies with the annual United the four major action areas and deals Nations Global Compact Progress with the strategic targets, implemented Report. As part of the changeover from measures and current challenges. In the the standard G3.1 to G4, the Telekom third part of the report, the quantitative Austria Group “comprehensively” geared data and key figures are recapped in the its activities towards the regulations form of a data section. The GRI Content and requirements of version G4 of the Table provides information on the GRI standard in this process (except individual indicators. for the general standard G4-10, which 87 Imprint Contact Owner, editor & publisher: Petra Gallaun Telekom Austria AG Head of Sustainability, Telekom Austria Group G r o up Communi c at i ons & Sus tainabili t y: petra.gallaun@telekomaustria.com Peter Schiefer (G4.31) Projec t team: Irene Jakobi, Petra Gallaun, Maximilian Rabl AD V I CE ON CONTENT : PwC Österreich C r e a t iv e c o n c e p t , d e s i g n a n d p r o d u c t i o n : seso media group gmbh Illus trations, Cover: Alex Walker prin t ed by: This sustainability report was printed on paper (RecyStar® PAUL GERIN GmbH & Co KG Polar) from sustainable forest management. GUEST WR I TERS : Silvia Buchinger, Bernhard Hufnagl, Bernhard Jungwirth, The printing was carried out in accordance with the Low PolHelga Kromp-Kolp, Aslan Milla, Franz Josef Radermacher, lution Printing Products Directive of the Austrian Eco-Label at Martin Walter PAUL GERIN GmbH & Co KG (UZ 24, UW756). Telekom Austria Group TELEKOM AUSTR I A AG Lassallestraße 9 1020 Vienna, Austria Tel. +43 50 664 0 www.telekomaustria.com Operating companies of the Telekom Austria Group A 1 TELEKOM AUSTR I A AG si.mobil d.d. Lassallestraße 9 Šmartinska cesta 134 b 1020 Vienna, Austria 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia Tel. +43 50 664 0 Tel. +386 40 443000 www.a1.net www.simobil.si MOB I LTEL EAD vi p m o b i l e d . o . o . 1 Kukush Street Omladinskih brigada 21 1309 Sofia, Bulgaria 11070 Novi Beograd, Republic of Serbia Tel. +359 88 85000 31 Tel. +381 60 1234 www.mtel.bg www.vipmobile.rs Vipnet d.o.o. Vip operator dooel Vrtni put 1 Vasil Adzilarski bb 10000 Zagreb, Croatia 1000 Skopje, Republic of Macedonia Tel. +385 1 4691 091 Tel. +389 2311000 77 www.vipnet.hr www.vip.mk V ELCOM T e l e c o m Li e c h t e n s t e i n AG 36-2, Internatsionalnaya Schaanerstrasse 1 220030 Minsk, Belarus 9490 Vaduz, Liechtenstein Tel. +375 17 2178494 Tel. +423 237 74 00 www.velcom.by www.telecom.li (G4.4, 4.9) 88 We shape the world of communications in 8 markets. BLR AUT LIE SLO CRO SRB BUL MKD
