Delivering value from discovery and development Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Introduction Delivering value from discovery and development Cairn Energy PLC is an independent oil and gas exploration and development company listed on the London Stock Exchange. Cairn has its headquarters in Edinburgh, Scotland with additional offices in London, Norway and Senegal. Cairn has discovered oil and gas in a variety of locations throughout the world. Today the business holds a balanced portfolio of exploration and development assets and is focused on three geological regions: the Atlantic Margin, North West Europe and the Mediterranean. View more content online: www.cairnenergy.com/ar2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Strategic report 01 Overview of 2014 02 Strategy and business model 04 Highlights of 2014 06 Chairman’s statement 07 CEO’s review 08 Industry overview 10 In discussion with Simon Thomson, CEO and James Smith, CFO 14 2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 18 2015 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 20 Operational review 22 Financial review 30 How we manage risk 34 Working responsibly 42 2014 key story – Read more on page 13 –– CEO’s introduction 42 –– How we operate responsibly 44 Senegal –– People 46 Basin opening –– Mapping CR priorities 48 exploration success Leadership and governance Board of Directors 58 58 Cairn has discovered oil in the first and second wells of its Directors’ report 60 Senegal exploration programme, opening a new basin on Corporate Governance statement 63 the Atlantic Margin. Audit Committee report 73 Directors’ Remuneration report 76 Financial statements 98 Independent Auditors’ Report 98 Cairn’s exploration and appraisal assets in the Atlantic Group Income Statement 104 Margin, North West Europe and the Mediterranean Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 104 are underpinned by its core development assets Group Balance Sheet 105 in the North Sea. Group Statement of Cash Flows 106 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 107 Section 1 – Basis of Preparation 108 Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets North Sea and Related Goodwill 110 Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital 116 Developing a Section 4 – Results for the Year 120 sustainable business Section 5 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures 127 Section 6 – Post Balance Sheet Events 131 Kraken and Catcher, two major North Sea fields, are the Company Balance Sheet 132 Group’s core development projects and will provide free Company Statement of Cash Flows 133 cash flow from 2017. Company Statement of Changes in Equity 134 Section 7 – Notes to the 2014 key story – Read more on page 17 Company Financial Statements 135 Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements 138 Additional information 143 Group booked reserves and resources 143 Licence list 144 Glossary 147 Notes 148 Company information Inside back cover Corporate offices Back cover Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 01 Overview of 2014 Our strategy Our business How we did Our objectives model in 2014 for 2015 Deliver value from To create, add and Key Performance Key Performance discovery and realise value Indicators Indicators development –– Exploration and –– Exploration and appraisal success appraisal success –– Mature exploration –– Mature exploration prospects prospects –– Complete 2014 –– Portfolio optimisation work programmes and acreage protection –– Focus on safety –– Complete 2015 of people and work programme environment –– Focus on safety –– Enhance Health, of people and Safety and environment Environment –– Continue to enhance (HSE) culture HSE culture –– Retain balance –– Retain balance sheet strength sheet strength Read more: Strategy and Read more: Strategy and Read more: 2014 Key Performance Read more: 2015 Key Performance 04 business model on P04-05 04 business model on P04-05 18 Indicators (KPIs) on P18-19 20 Indicators (KPIs) on P20-21 Working Core Values Corporate Responsibility priorities responsibly Building Respect Supply chain and contractors Nurturing Relationships Preventing major accidents Acting Responsibly Preventing major spills Operational environmental footprint Tax transparency Complying with our Business Discover more: Working responsibly Principles in Cap Boujdour 42 on P42-57 Corporate Board of Directors Nomination committee Governance Audit committee Governance committee Remuneration committee Risk management committee Discover more: Leadership and 58 governance on P58-97 02 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information The principal risks “Cairn enters 2015 in a strong position with further we are managing drilling planned in Senegal to evaluate the scale –– Lack of exploration success of this world class asset. We are preparing, along –– Execution of North Sea developments with our joint venture partners, for a multi-well –– Restriction on sale of Cairn India Limited exploration and appraisal programme that has the shareholding ability to add substantial value for the company –– Operational and project performance and all stakeholders. In the last twelve months, we have actively managed the portfolio and streamlined the business to provide the Group with continued financial flexibility to deliver our active exploration, appraisal and development programmes.” Read more: How we manage risk 34 on P34-41 Simon Thomson Chief Executive Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 03 Strategy and business model Delivering value in 2014 Our strategy Cairn’s strategy is to deliver value from discovery and development. Sustainable Operational business excellence Business model Cairn has the following Key Performance Indicators in place to monitor delivery of strategy. Balanced portfolio Delivering a Maintaining a Seeking operational sustainable business balanced portfolio excellence What were our objectives in 2014 What were our objectives in 2014 What were our objectives in 2014 and what will they be in 2015? and what will they be in 2015? and what will they be in 2015? Maintain a self funding business plan. Grow the reserves and resources base to provide Deliver operational excellence in all activities a basis for future growth. and maintain licence to operate. How we delivered in 2014 How we delivered in 2014 How we delivered in 2014 –– Secured a seven-year debt facility –– Discovered oil offshore Senegal in both wells –– Operated drilling programme with two of up to US$575m to part fund core drilled in Senegal exploration programme wells offshore Senegal and one well North Sea developments –– Initiated non-operated well offshore offshore Morocco –– Reduced capital expenditure prior to Western Sahara –– Two operated seismic campaigns offshore delivering free cash flow by ~US$380m –– Progressed the North Sea developments which Malta and Republic of Ireland by selling a 10% interest in Catcher remain on budget and on track for first oil in 2017 –– No spills to the environment development (completed 2015) –– Booked 2P reserves on Catcher development –– Despite focus on safety, one Lost Time Incident –– Reduced ongoing cost base through and 2C resources in Senegal (LTI) occurred; incident was thoroughly group reorganisation –– Matured prospects in Senegal, Morocco and investigated and measures taken to avoid –– Continued to pursue release of restriction Norway to drill-ready status in 2015/2016 similar incidents happening again on Cairn India Limited shareholding –– Participated in UK 28th Licensing Round and Norwegian 2014 APA Licensing Round Discover more: 2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Discover more: 2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Discover more: 2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 18 P18-19 18 P18-19 18 P18-19 04 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 1. Crea te v alu e Our business model Cairn’s business model is to create, add and nd realise value throughout na t tur es Ide Re reinv the oil and gas life-cycle nti fy within a sustainable, self funding business. 1 ealise value Produce Explore R 3 . Throughout this process 2 3 the portfolio is closely managed to ensure assets are delivering De ise optimum value. vel op pra Ap 2. Ad e alu dv 1. Create value 2. Add value 3. Realise value Cairn seeks to create value through the Cairn looks to add value through Cairn has a proven track record of How we delivered in 2014 discovery of hydrocarbon resources. optimising existing assets, seeing realising value for shareholders and –– Sold a 10% interest in the Opportunities are accessed from the hidden value in assets that others then reinvesting in the business as Catcher development project, existing portfolio, from government may have overlooked, and through well as returning cash to shareholders. reducing capital expenditure by licensing rounds and through acquisition. asset swaps and exchanges. Cairn is careful to maintain a strong ~US$380m, whilst importantly balance sheet which can fund the continuing to benefit from the How we delivered in 2014 Group’s exploration programmes remaining 20% stake in the How we delivered in 2014 –– Received approval for the Field which offer growth opportunities. development (completed 2015) –– Made two significant oil Development Plan (FDP) of the –– Continued to pursue release discoveries offshore Senegal Catcher development, a major The success of Cairn’s exploration of restriction on Cairn India –– Applied for and awarded UK North Sea field, from the UK and investment in India allowed Limited shares interests in both the UK and Department of Energy and the company to return a total of Norwegian licensing rounds Climate Change (DECC) US$4.5 billion to shareholders –– Farmed-in to Group’s first –– Catcher and Kraken in the last six years. licence in the Barents Sea, developments remain on track an emerging region for first oil in 2017 –– Applied for Norwegian –– Booked 2P reserves on Catcher operatorship development and 2C resources in Senegal Discover more: Operational review Discover more: Operational review Discover more: Operational review 22 P22-27 22 P22-27 22 P22-27 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05 Highlights of 2014 Financial Atlantic Margin – Western Sahara –– Group net cash at 31 December 2014 of US$869m –– Exploration well in Cap Boujdour contract area completed –– Seven year Reserve Based Lending bank facility of in March 2015 (Kosmos Operator, Cairn 20% WI). Well up to US$575m remains undrawn encountered hydrocarbons but the discovery was noncommercial and the well has been plugged and abandoned –– Cairn is currently unable to access the value of its ~10% residual shareholding in Cairn India Limited (CIL) valued North West Europe at US$703m at 31 December 2014 –– Catcher and Kraken developments in the UK North Sea on –– Completion of a farm out agreement to Dyas track for first oil from 2017; targeted peak net production UK Limited for the sale of 10% interest in the to Cairn of ~22,500 boepd Catcher development in the UK North Sea –– Catcher –– A total of 56.1 mmboe booked as 2P reserves at –– Field Development Plan approved Q2 2014 now in 31 December 2014 and 171.6 mmboe booked as 2C execution phase Contingent Resources on a net working interest basis –– Development drilling scheduled to commence in the middle of 2015 Exploration –– Construction of the FPSO hull started in Q1 2015 Atlantic Margin – Senegal –– Kraken –– FAN-1 discovered high quality, light oil in multiple stacked –– Development drilling scheduled to commence in the deepwater fans, SNE-1 discovered high quality oil in the middle of 2015 upper clastic target of the Shelf Edge prospect; Senegal –– FPSO construction continues in Singapore and evaluation plan to be submitted by Joint Venture (JV), fabrication of main process modules has started Cairn Operator 40% Working Interest (WI), Q2 2015 –– Programme of non-operated wells in North Sea: –– Preliminary estimates of the gross Contingent Resource for –– Three wells completed in 2014, Ensis and Atlas in SNE-1: P50, 330 mmbbls recoverable. Initial gross STOIIP Norway and Aragon in the UK – all three wells were estimates for the FAN-1 well: P50, 950 mmbbls. Resource plugged and abandoned estimates confirmed by ERC Equipoise Ltd audit –– West of Kraken, UK North Sea (EnQuest Operator, –– Based on early evaluation, a programme of three firm and Cairn 25% WI) operations are close to completion three optional exploration and appraisal wells is envisaged –– Crossbill, Norwegian North Sea (Wintershall Operator, to begin in 2015 Cairn 20% WI), operations to commence in Q2 2015 –– Capital Markets Day on Senegal on 11 May 2015 –– Additional non-operated wells for 2015 remain subject to final investment decision within the different partnerships –– UK 28th Licensing Round awards: Cairn was awarded four licences in Q4 2014 –– Norwegian 2014 Licensing Round: Cairn was awarded five licences in Q1 2015 –– Process to pre-qualify as Operator in Norway under way –– Pursuing recent entry into Barents Sea with possible applications in 23rd Licence Round in late 2015 06 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Chairman’s statement Ian Tyler Cairn is well positioned Senegal presents an exciting opportunity which we continue to evaluate. As a result of the reduction in oil prices, Cairn is able to benefit from substantially lower industry costs as we prepare for the 2015 appraisal and exploration programme. In India, we note the comments made by the new BJP Government about the impact of retrospective tax legislation and the negative signal it sends to the international investment community. Our approach to date has been to focus on engagement with the Government of India and resolving this matter clearly continues to be a high priority. Following the 2014 AGM, as part of our long term succession planning, a number of significant changes to the Board took effect: Sir Bill Gammell retired as non-executive Chairman and I succeeded him in this role. Dr Mike Watts, Deputy Chief Executive and Jann Brown, Managing Director and Chief Financial 2014 was a challenging During the second half of the year and continuing Officer stepped down as Executive Directors. James year both for Cairn and into 2015, oil prices have fallen sharply, causing all players in the sector to reassess capital plans and Smith was appointed as Chief Financial Officer. James joined in March 2014 from Rothschild where for the wider E&P industry. focus on cost efficiency. On a more positive front, he had been a longstanding adviser to Cairn. Finally, In January, Cairn was the Senegal discoveries in Cairn’s significant acreage position offshore West Africa provide a material Dr James Buckee retired as a non-executive director. After standing down as Executive Directors, Mike notified of the previous opportunity for the company to create substantial and Jann continued in senior roles for six months Indian Government’s shareholder value from a potentially world class asset. focused entirely on seeking to resolve the tax situation in India. decision to freeze our 10% holding in Cairn During the year, we reconfirmed our strategy to deliver value from discovery and development within I would like to recognise and thank both our employees and our contractors for all their hard India Limited, following a sustainable, self-funding business model. Cairn is work and diligence in getting Cairn through a difficult the introduction well positioned with a strong balance sheet and is well funded through to cash flow sustainability from year in 2014 and into a position of strength as we look forward to 2015. of retrospective our North Sea assets. Furthermore, management’s tax legislation. early action, which included a fundamental rationalisation of the business whilst retaining our core geological and exploration skills, has ensured that the company can operate effectively in the current low oil price environment. Ian Tyler Chairman 9 March 2015 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07 CEO’s review Simon Thomson Two significant discoveries offshore Senegal The combination of balance sheet strength, development stage assets with a clear path to cash flow generation and a balanced exploration and appraisal portfolio allows the Company to fund future exploration activity and to repeat the cycle of creating, adding and realising shareholder value. In 2014, we positioned the Group for future growth by: i. Discovering oil offshore Senegal in both wells drilled in the exploration programme. ii. Participating successfully in the UK 28th Licensing Round and Norwegian 2014 APA Licensing Round. iii. Selective farm-ins and farm-downs, including the sale of a 10% interest in the Catcher development in the North Sea. iv. Accelerating the financing of our development projects. v. Progressing the Catcher and Kraken developments, which remain on track with free cash flow generation anticipated from 2017. Cairn’s strategy is to create and deliver value from vi. Maturing prospects across our portfolio to drill the discovery and development of hydrocarbon ready status for 2015/16. vii. Booking 2P Reserves on the Catcher resources. We achieve this from a balanced development and 2C Resources in Senegal. portfolio and a sustainable, self-funding 2014 was marked by two significant discoveries business model. offshore Senegal, successfully opening a new hydrocarbon basin, with the SNE-1 discovery recognised as potentially the largest global oil discovery in 2014. The discoveries occur in two separate plays and have significant follow on potential within our acreage. The Cairn team planned and executed a safe and Simon Thomson successful two well exploration campaign in less than Chief Executive 20 months following the initial announcement of 9 March 2015 the farm-in to Senegal in early 2013. The strong JV partnership comprising Petrosen, ConocoPhillips and FAR Limited with Cairn as the Operator, has a shared vision of the prospectivity and potential of our large acreage position. 08 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information “We start 2015 in a strong position to deliver an exciting programme across the portfolio, especially in Senegal, which has the potential to add substantial value beyond the discoveries made to date.” We have established an office in Dakar with a local The freezing of our asset in India was an unexpected The above measures strengthened our financial and international team who are working closely with event and measures were swiftly introduced to position and our ability to create and deliver value the Government, suppliers and local communities. ensure that the Company remained able to deliver through a sustainable, repeatable and self-funding I was delighted to lead a country visit in November its work programme and long-term strategy in the business model. 2014 along with executive management from absence of access to these funds. ConocoPhillips to meet with President Macky Sall. Outlook We were encouraged by the support of the First of all, the timetable for bringing in debt We start 2015 in a strong position to deliver an Senegalese authorities, and we all recognise that financing for our North Sea development activities exciting programme across the portfolio, especially these discoveries, in the longer term, are potentially was accelerated. A Reserve Based Lending bank in Senegal, which has the potential to add substantial transformational for Senegal as a country, as well facility of US$575m was put in place in July and value beyond the discoveries made to date. We have as for Cairn. this currently remains undrawn. built a diverse and balanced portfolio and created the financial flexibility to progress our exploration, Cairn’s exploration and appraisal assets in the Atlantic Secondly, the business was re-organised to ensure appraisal and development programmes and ensure Margin, North West Europe and the Mediterranean we had the right size of company for the work ongoing strategic delivery. are underpinned by Kraken and Catcher, two major programme ahead. The priority was to retain and North Sea development projects. The future cash protect the core technical, commercial and financial flows from these projects will support a self-funding, competencies which form the foundation of Cairn sustainable business model over the medium and whilst outsourcing non-core capabilities and long term. From 2017, we anticipate free cash flow reducing costs. The resulting new organisational from these assets with a production estimate of structure was completed in early 2015 with a around 22,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net 40% reduction in the number of employees and to Cairn. We keep a disciplined focus on projects right contractors in the business. across our portfolio to ensure they deliver strong returns even in a lower oil price environment and Thirdly, we looked to re-balance our portfolio. our North Sea development investments are in line In September, we announced a farm out agreement with that strategy. to Dyas UK Limited for the sale of a 10% interest in the Catcher development and adjacent acreage in In early 2014, Cairn received notice from the Income the UK North Sea for a carry of Cairn’s exploration Tax Department of India citing 2012 retrospective and development costs up to a cap of US$182m, legislation and requesting information relating to effective from 1 January 2014. As a result of this a group reorganisation in 2006. At the same time, transaction, which was successfully completed the Income Tax Department restricted Cairn in January 2015, Cairn reduced forward capital from accessing the value of its remaining ~10% expenditure to the end of 2017 by ~US$380m shareholding in Cairn India Limited (CIL), then and also retained a 20% working interest in the valued at ~US$1billion. Catcher licence with first oil expected from 2017. Simon Thomson, CEO and Macky Sall, President of Senegal. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09 Industry overview Dr Julian Fennema and Erkal Ersoy, CEERP, Heriot-Watt University How industry context “Globally the largest oil discovery was in Senegal by Cairn Energy.” drives Cairn’s strategy Uneven fragile growth The main contributor to this supply expansion was Heriot-Watt University is one of the UK’s Global economic recovery, however slow, persisted the US as its oil production, particularly of LTO3, leading universities for business and throughout 2014, but downside risk also left its grew by 1.5 Mb/d overall. However, the key story industry and has a reputation for innovative mark in the overall economic environment. of the oil markets for 2014 was the decision by education, enterprise, and leading edge OPEC to maintain supply instead of reducing research. Energy research is a core activity Amongst the advanced economies, the United their quota of 30 Mb/d crude oil production on within Heriot-Watt University, and the States, the United Kingdom and Canada have all 27 November 2014 despite the tumbling oil price Centre for Energy Economics Research experienced growth rates in excess of 2% year on and continued expectations of excess supply to and Policy (CEERP) is the latest evidence year, but were the select few to buck the trend: the the market into 2015. Whilst creating significant of the University’s commitment to research Eurozone and Japan have grown at less than 1%, short-term pressure within OPEC countries reliant in energy, economics, and policy. CEERP pulling the OECD average growth rate down to on oil revenues, the longer-term strategy behind this is based within the Institute of Petroleum a lacklustre 1.8%1. decision is widely held to be one of “survival of Engineering at Heriot-Watt University, the cheapest”, to pressurise capital investment but forms a key point of support and Within non-OECD countries, China’s economic in higher-cost production such as US shale or collaboration among the University’s structural transformation led to a moderation deep-water so that this supply does not reach Schools with affiliates from the School in growth, slowing to 7.4% year on year through the market and erode the OPEC market share4. of Energy, Geoscience, Infrastructure, 2014, thereby also slowing oil consumption growth. and Society; School of Management and Despite this, China’s imports of oil continued to Strategies and margins under pressure Languages; School of Life Sciences; and increase, and the country remained the secondThe shorter-term effect of the falling crude price, the Energy Academy as well as honorary largest consumer of oil after the US. Elsewhere, evident through 2014, is the squeezing of margins academics outwith the University. slower than expected economic growth in, amongst and pressure on cash flows in the sector. The largest others, Brazil and Russia have restrained oil demand of private sector actors, the supermajors, are, with a This industry overview provides an growth, limiting the previous upwards pressure few exceptions, under pressure to reimpose budget independent view of the industry from the emerging economies. Overall, therefore, discipline due to very large development projects background against which Cairn operates. global demand remained approximately constant absorbing available capital. As a result, and as a as upward movements counteracted downward means to generate cash to return to shareholders, ones elsewhere – aggregate demand for oil products their exploration expenditure is being trimmed back rose by 0.7 Mb/d to 92.4 Mb/d2. and assets divested allowing them to concentrate on a core set of projects already in the pipeline. Oil supply outstrips demand In the presence of this stable demand, the supply Overall, the exploration spend followed a lower-risk side played the pivotal role in price determination strategy, away from the more speculative frontier5 within the crude oil market, and both OPEC activity of recent years to exploration in mature and non-OPEC sources contributed to a supply areas, opening new areas of already proven basins. expansion of 2.1 Mb/d compared to 2013. The Activity has softened in the vibrant offshore areas resulting supply-demand imbalance drove the in Brazil and East Africa as these plays move into an Brent price below $60 per barrel in December 2014, evaluation and development phase, but elsewhere from over $100 per barrel at the start of the year. in Africa significant exploration success was booked in 2014. 10 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information “This fall in exploration and appraisal costs is an outcome of supply and demand interaction.” Whilst, globally, the largest single find was the The price dip Pobeda gas discovery in Russia’s Kara Sea, the largest oil discovery was in Senegal by Cairn Energy, IHS CERA Cost Indices Relative Price Performance with also significant discoveries in West Africa, in Côte d’Ivoire and Gabon. As a result, SubSaharan Africa accounted for three-quarters 250 1.4 of all commercial reserves discovered in 2014. 1.3 1.2 Return of the megadeal 200 7.34 The sector as a whole is adjusting portfolios to 1.1 weather the price dip, creating an active but diverse 5.04 1 market for corporate and asset deals. The overall 150 M&A market grew 21% from 2013, with $185 billion 0.9 of deals announced6 through 2014 in the upstream 0.8 sector. This was driven by two trends, the return of 4/2/2012 7/2/2012 10/2/2012 1/2/2013 4/2/2013 7/2/2013 10/2/2013 1/2/2014 4/2/2014 7/2/2014 10/2/2014 1/2/2015 the megadeal, for those with available capital7, and 100 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 0.7 the return to North America. Deals worth in excess Operating cost of $1 billion accounted for 65% of total upstream FTSE UK Oil and Gas Producer Index Capital costs value and culminated in the announced acquisition FTSE World Oil and Gas Producer Index of Talisman Energy (Canada) by Repsol (Spain) for $13bn in what may be the first of a new round of FTSE 100 sectorial consolidation driven by a falling oil price8. Source: IHS CERA. The North American sector dominated by sheer volume of deals which, whilst generally smaller, Over the last few years the oil and gas sector as a once again, an outcome of supply and demand accounted for 68% of all deals. Here the US and whole underperformed against the stock market, interaction: in the market for deepwater drilling rigs, Canadian actors were retrenching in the buoyant as demonstrated by the graph above. In the shortfor example, new supply has arrived at the same time domestic unconventional arena, constructing term, this trend will persist as the current low as collapsing demand such that the daily rental rate portfolios of exploration and production assets using oil price will benefit oil consumers relative to oil has halved over 2014 and is expected to remain low the secondary market and, where internationally producers, whose output value fell significantly through 2015. active, reducing their overseas exposure. through 2014. Falling crude prices do not spell disaster for all, however: as the significant upward There remains considerable uncertainty about pressure on costs driven by high crude prices how long such a price dip may last, how long it recedes, service sector clients with little or no will take for the “cheapest” to remain, but as oil crude production are enjoying lower costs and demand strengthens and supply tightens, firms with greater input availability. significant developmental portfolios in 2015 could reap a windfall. They can benefit from reduced costs The beginnings of this can be observed in the graph during the appraisal and development phase, but sell above, where the upstream capital cost index is the end product at improved prices as they move flattening off into the third and fourth quarters into a production standing. of 2014. Upstream operating cost index is likely to follow, but with a lag due to cost frictions and legacy effects. This fall in exploration and appraisal costs is, 1. IMF World Economic Outlook (Update), January 2015. 2. IEA Oil Market Report, January 2015. 3. Light Tight Oil, oil extracted from impermeable reservoirs, now available for extraction principally due to the developments in the hydraulic fracturing, “fracking”, of reservoirs. 4. MEES interview with Ali Naimi, 21 December 2014, www.mees.com. 5. Whilst the meaning, and position, of this frontier is continually changing due to technological and commercial evolution in the sector, this kind of activity is likely to be in remote, and often extreme, geographical locations or in deepwater, or from unconventional sources such as tar sands or shale deposits. 6. EY Global Oil and Gas Transactions Review 2014. 7. Notably absent after recent years are the National Oil Companies (NOCs), in particular those from China, who have entered a phase of developing their newly-acquired portfolio. 8. Consolidation did not occur only in the upstream sector: in the oilfield services sector, the acquisition of Baker Hughes by Halliburton for $38bn created a new giant from two top-five companies. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Cajun Express drilling rig, offshore Senegal. 12 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Opening a new Atlantic Margin basin – finding oil in Senegal In 2014 Cairn and its Joint Venture (JV) partners drilled two wells offshore Senegal discovering oil in both and opening a new basin on the Atlantic Margin. These were the first wells drilled offshore Senegal in 20 years and the first ever deepwater wells. Cairn entered the area in March 2013, farming-in The well, drilled on the palaeo-shelf edge, discovered to three blocks offshore Senegal held by JV partners high quality oil in 36 net metres of high quality FAR Limited and Petrosen (the Senegal national oil shelfal reservoirs of similar age to the oil-bearing company). ConocoPhillips subsequently farmed-in sands found in FAN-1. Preliminary P90-P50-P10 to the blocks three months later. contingent resource estimates range from 150 330 670 mmbbls. Cairn, with a 40% interest, operates the licence which covers more than 7,000km2 and contains a In November 2014 Cairn issued Notices of variety of plays, straddling the continental shelf and Discovery for both wells to the Government of into the deeper water. Hydrocarbon systems had Senegal on behalf of the JV. Cairn is currently previously been demonstrated on the Senegal shelf, preparing plans for follow-up activity, which are as in many of the shallow water areas adjacent to anticipated to include appraisal drilling starting Cairn’s acreage around the North West Africa in 2015, to determine the scale and extent of Margin. However, these were the first wells drilled in the discoveries. the deeper water off Senegal where Cairn believed there to be extensive source rocks and Cretaceous Wherever Cairn operates it looks to employ local reservoir systems. people and services where possible and where it is safe to do so. Cairn set up an office in the capital, The FAN-1 exploration well, drilled in 1,427m water Dakar, and a supply base in its international port depth and approximately 100km offshore, encountered and works with local service providers. high quality light oil in 29 net metres of multiple stacked deepwater fan reservoirs within an extensive oil column, Cairn looks to work responsibly with the authorities confirming a working hydrocarbon system. Preliminary and other stakeholders to ensure it understands the STOIIP estimates range from 250 to 2,500 mmbbls. environment and communities where it operates and to provide assurance that it will operate safely. Prior SNE-1, the second exploration well to be drilled, to commencing operations, a Public Consultation was located approximately 24km south east of and Disclosure Plan identified stakeholders and FAN-1 in 1,100m water depth. guided the way in which they were engaged. An Environment and Social Impact Assessment plan was approved by the regulatory authorities and was Thiès successfully implemented. Cairn is pleased to report that all operations to date have been conducted Dakar SENEGAL safely, including the drilling of the two wells and Diourbel the completion of site and environmental surveys. ATLANTIC OCEAN Mbour Cairn looks forward to working closely with the SENEGAL Government of Senegal and its JV partners to realise the full potential from this large acreage Foundiougne Kaolack RUFISQUE position offshore Senegal. Passi 2014 key story FAN-1 Sokone Well Toubakouta SNE-1 Well SANGOMAR SANGOMAR DEEP GAMBIA Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 In discussion with Simon Thomson, CEO and James Smith, CFO Operated exploration programme Success in Senegal India James Smith: 2013/2014 saw us embark upon Simon Thomson: Senegal is a great example of Simon Thomson: We have a great relationship with a focused drilling exploration programme with a Cairn’s business model delivering for shareholders. India. This is a country where we have spent many series of operated exploration wells. Importantly, We had a strong technical belief in the potential of years working, where we have discovered, developed these wells were delivered at appropriate equity the acreage and this belief has been realised with and produced oil, delivering significant value both levels and therefore the right financial exposure success in both wells drilled to date. for Cairn shareholders and for India. We are now for this business. working closely with the authorities in India to seek James Smith: We have made discoveries in two a resolution to the tax issue. Our approach has Simon Thomson: This exploration programme was separate plays, which have the potential to be been to focus on continued engagement with all about play opening wells, in acreage we believe in, transformational for Cairn and Senegal. Right now the Government of India and to that end we are and that is exactly what we have achieved in opening we are focused on working on appraisal and further continuing our programme of targeted, regular a new basin offshore Senegal. exploration programmes to fully establish the value meetings with many stakeholders in India. Resolving in our large acreage position. this issue will continue to be a high priority for us. We are delighted with the success to date offshore Senegal. As part of our strategy we have been building Simon Thomson: James and I were recently in James Smith: The freezing of our asset in India and shaping a balanced portfolio with our North Sea Senegal and we met with our Joint Venture partners was an unexpected event and we moved quickly development and ultimately production assets on the including Petrosen (the national oil company), the to ensure we remained able to deliver our work one side, and exploration on the other side. As you Minister of Energy and the President Macky Sall, programme and longer-term strategy in the absence would expect exploration activity in new basins is who is also a geologist. They are incredibly supportive of those funds. This was principally achieved by higher risk and not every well is going to be successful; and we all recognise that these discoveries, in the accelerating the timetable for bringing in debt however, this delivery of exploration success in longer term, are potentially transformational for financing for our North Sea development activities. Senegal is evidence of our strategy working. Senegal as a country. We are of course hoping for a resolution in India but the important thing is that the business remains funded through to the point of delivering free cash flow from our North Sea projects. Discover more: Operational review Discover more: Opening a new Atlantic margin basin Discover more: Cairn in India 22 P22-27 13 P13 29 P29 14 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information “Right now, maximum value for the business and our shareholders is in Senegal, because it has the potential to add substantial value beyond what we have already discovered.” Shaping the organisation Developments Outlook Simon Thomson: We pride ourselves on being Simon Thomson: Our development activities which James Smith: As we have said before, discipline in an established, proficient, safe and fast operator. form the core of a North Sea portfolio of more than the optimal allocation of capital is critical, even more We have proven ourselves time and time again to be 30 licences are a core element of our long-term so in the current weaker oil price environment. technically, commercially and financially skilled and we sustainable business model. They balance our We will continue to focus on this and on ensuring are focused on protecting those core competencies. portfolio with exploration on the one side and cash that we have the right equity exposure across our and development activity on the other. From 2017 portfolio. We have demonstrated our abilities as At the beginning of this year we recognised that we we anticipate production and free cash flow from prudent managers of our portfolio throughout needed to reorganise the business to ensure that these assets with production estimates of around the year, including our ability to trade and swap Cairn was the right size of company for the work 22,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net to Cairn. assets particularly within our North Sea portfolio. programmes ahead. We were absolutely clear that As a result we start 2015 in a strong position our priority would be to retain and protect all of James Smith: The cash flows from this production to deliver an exciting programme across the those core competencies which means our technical, will be critical to supporting a self funding business portfolio, especially in Senegal. commercial and financial skills; skills which are the model over the medium and long-term. We keep foundation of this business and which have enabled a disciplined focus on projects right across the Simon Thomson: Right now, maximum value for the us to achieve success in previous years. portfolio which deliver strong returns even in business and our shareholders is in Senegal, because a lower oil price environment and this includes it has the potential to add substantial value beyond James Smith: We have a great technical team, but we making sure our North Sea development what we have already discovered. So this is where also have a great commercial and financial team. It is investments are in line with that strategy. we will be focusing our efforts and we do expect this that combination of high quality competencies and opportunity to keep us busy for a considerable time teams which delivers value by marrying technical to come. However, we have built a diverse, balanced beliefs with a clear strategy and business model. and solid portfolio and we will continue to progress In addressing the organisational structure we have our programmes elsewhere, with particular focus retained those core technical skills as well as a strong on our core North Sea developments, and to work leadership team, whilst delivering a reduction in the on our other assets to ensure the entire portfolio central cost base. Following a staff consultation remains balanced and in good shape. process the reorganisation was completed at the end of 2014, with staff and contractor headcount reduced by approximately 40%. Discover more: Working responsibly, People Discover more: North Sea development Discover more: Operational review 46 P46-47 17 P17 22 P22-27 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Kraken FPSO is under construction in the Keppel boat yard, Singapore. 16 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information North Sea development Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and Norway, as part of its North West Europe portfolio, by acquiring exploration, appraisal, development and production assets and participating in licence rounds. Cairn has an experienced team dedicated to the UK Kraken and Catcher, two of the largest new projects in and Norway with offices in London and Stavanger. the UK North Sea, are the Group’s core development More recently Cairn has entered the Barents Sea projects. They are both under development and will and is in the process of applying for operatorship provide free cash flow from 2017 with peak net in Norway, both of which leverage Cairn’s Arctic production to Cairn of ~22,500 boepd. At the peak of operational experience and Norwegian presence. production in 2017/2018 it is anticipated that Kraken and Catcher combined could account for around 7% The UK and Norway region represents a critical of UK total daily boe production1. part of the Group’s strategy of having a balanced and sustainable portfolio. The mature basins 1. Based on Oil and Gas UK Activity Survey 2014. of the North Sea provide balance to the broader exploration portfolio and will deliver the free cash flow to sustain future exploration. The North Sea is an active market for asset transactions enabling Estimated peak net production ~22,500 boepd Cairn to continually optimise its portfolio within the region as well as its wider capital allocation. Catcher Kraken Premier (operator, 50%) EnQuest (operator, 60%) Cairn 20%, MOL 20%, Dyas 10% Cairn 25%, First Oil 15% The Catcher field was discovered in 2010 in block The Kraken field was discovered in 1985 in block 28/9a of the central UK North Sea. Follow-up 9/2b of the UK North Sea, followed by the Kraken wells in the block then discovered the Varadero, North field in 2013. Combined, these two fields Burgman, Carnaby and Bonneville fields. There are make up the Kraken development. The Joint four adjacent licences to the Catcher licence and, Venture is continuing to evaluate additional combined, these make up what is known as the opportunities in the block. Greater Catcher area. The FDP for the Kraken development was In 2014 a Field Development Plan (FDP) for approved by DECC in 2013 and the FPSO vessel, the development of the Catcher, Varadero and which will be capable of processing 80,000 bopd, Burgman fields was approved by DECC and 2P is currently under construction in Singapore. reserves were booked. The development will comprise a Floating Production Storage and The Kraken field is located ~350km north east of Offloading (FPSO) facility which is currently Aberdeen and ~125km east of the Shetland islands under construction in Singapore and will be in water depths of ~115m. capable of processing 60,000 bopd. Development drilling will start in 2015 with 25 The development will be located 170km south wells expected to be drilled over a period of more east of Aberdeen in water depths of ~90m. than four years. Development drilling will start in 2015 with more First oil is anticipated in 2017 with net peak 2014 key story than 20 wells expected to be drilled over a period production to Cairn of ~12,500 boepd. of more than four years. First oil is anticipated in 2017 with net peak production to Cairn of ~10,000 boepd. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Cairn has in place both financial and non-financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which are used to monitor progress in delivering the Group’s strategy. The 2014 KPIs, which were set out on The Group’s 2014 KPIs were reflective of the early Good progress has been made across the 2014 page 28 of the Annual Report and Accounts stage in the value creation cycle, unlike the more KPIs and a brief update on progress is presented 2013, related to delivering a sustainable business, traditional KPIs for oil and gas exploration and in the table below. maintaining a balanced portfolio and achieving production companies (such as production or operational excellence. operating cost targets), which the Board currently The final decision on the overall achievement of the considers are not relevant as a measure of the KPIs was made at the Remuneration Committee Group’s performance. meeting in December 2014. Maintaining a balanced portfolio Purpose Grow the reserves and resources base to provide a basis for future growth KPI Remuneration 2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance Committee decision Achieve exploration and appraisal Mature Basin: The Group successfully discovered potentially commercial Achieved success through the discovery of Invest in exploration and appraisal hydrocarbons in Senegal through the drilling of the shelf commercial hydrocarbons activities in the UK and Norway sectors edge well (SNE-1) and the North fan well (FAN1). of the North Sea which will add net The SNE-1 well added 120 mmbbls of 2C resources. 2C resources in excess of 10 mmboe Further technical evaluation is required to determine the commerciality of the FAN-1 well. Frontier Basin: Elsewhere, the Foum Draa and Cap Juby wells in Morocco Invest in exploration and appraisal and the Ensis and Aragon wells in Norway and the UK activities in Morocco, Senegal and were unsuccessful at the primary exploration target. Republic of Ireland which will add net 2C resources in excess of It was predetermined that a significant discovery 40 mmboe in either of the mature or frontier basins would result in the KPI being achieved. Discover more: Operational review 22 P22-27 Mature high impact exploration Mature a minimum of six new A number of prospects in Senegal, Morocco and Norway Partially prospects ready for drilling in independent “drill-ready” prospects in were matured to “drill-ready” status for 2015 or 2016. achieved 2015 or 2016 each category (mature /frontier basin) Prospectivity in Mauritania and the Republic of Ireland which meets the Group’s investment continues to be assessed. The Group participated in the criteria and which could be considered UK 28th licensing round in 2014, when a “drill-ready” for drilling in 2015 or 2016 prospect was identified and a firm well commitment bid was made. Discover more: Operational review 22 P22-27 18 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Seeking operational excellence Purpose Deliver operational excellence in all 2014 activities and maintain licence to operate KPI Remuneration 2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance Committee decision Successfully complete Deliver all operated and nonCairn, as Operator, acquired 2D seismic offshore Malta and Partially operated and non-operated operated asset projects (technical 3D seismic offshore Republic of Ireland and participated achieved 2014 work programmes studies, surveys, seismic and drilling as non-operator in the acquisition of 3D seismic offshore programmes) on schedule and budget Western Sahara, all of which was successfully completed on (including manpower costs), with full time and budget. Two exploration wells were executed on data recovery or below budget (Foum Draa offshore Morocco and Ensis in the North Sea). Due to some unscheduled maintenance requirements on the Cajun Express rig, the FAN-1 well offshore Senegal and the Cap Juby well offshore Morocco were over budget and schedule. The Aragon well in the North sea was also over budget. Discover more: Operational review 22 P22-27 Progress North Sea development The Catcher and Kraken development projects are Achieved projects, remaining within 10% of progressing well and remain within 10% of capital guidance. capital guidance and first oil dates The Catcher project remains on track for first oil in 2017 scheduled within six months of project and the Kraken project remains on track for first oil in 2017 sanctioned base case estimates subject to the timely delivery of the FPSO. Discover more: Operational review 22 P22-27 Deliver our activities with a strong Minimise injuries and environmental The Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) of 3.88 per million Partially focus on not harming people or incidents in 2014 operated activities: hours remains higher than the target of 2.0 per million hours. achieved damaging the environment –– Total Recordable Injury Rate This compares well with 5.04 in 2013 and the overall trend (TRIR) target of less than of improvement year on year continues. 2.0 TRI/million hours There has been no oil spill to the environment in 2014. –– No oil spills to the environment Discover more: Working responsibly 42 P42-57 Continue to enhance the Group’s HSE Achieve targets for ten HSE leading The 2014 LPIs progressed well. An extensive engagement Partially culture, behaviours and approach performance indicators (LPIs) across programme with contractors was completed to raise achieved the areas of: awareness of the Group’s HSE procedures and to deliver key –– Knowledge of HSE procedures HSE messages through senior management briefings. The HSE risk assessment and management LPI was achieved –– Engagement with contractors through enhancements to the travel risk assessment and regarding safety standards project risk management processes. A programme to raise –– Communication of HSE approach awareness and knowledge of the Group’s HSE procedures and performance was completed with the delivery of workshops on topics –– HSE risk assessment and such as corporate responsibility and human rights. HSE management communications improved with HSE now a standing agenda item at staff meetings and HSE papers presented at all Board meetings. Some further work is required in embedding and enhancing the HSE cultural framework. Discover more: Working responsibly 42 P42-57 Delivering a sustainable business Purpose Maintain a self funding business plan KPI Remuneration 2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance Committee decision Retain balance sheet strength Maintain liquid reserves including The Group remains funded to deliver its firm exploration Achieved undrawn committed banking facilities and the development programme through to free cash flow to meet planned funding commitments from 2017. plus a cushion at all times Discover more: Financial review 30 P30-33 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 2015 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) The 2015 Group KPIs in the table below were set by the Board in December 2014 and are based on the Group’s current portfolio, prospects and objectives set out in the 2015 Business Plan. Maintaining a balanced portfolio Purpose Grow the reserves and resources base to provide a basis for future growth Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Achieve exploration and appraisal Invest in exploration and appraisal activities which will add net –– Lack of exploration success success through discovery or addition 2C resources in excess of 20 mmboe –– Reliance on Joint Venture (JV) operators of commercial hydrocarbons in 2015 for asset performance Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Mature high impact exploration Mature a minimum of four new independent “drill-ready” prospects –– Inability to identify or secure prospective prospects ready for drilling in which meet investment criteria and which could be considered for acreage at prices which can generate 2016 or 2017 drilling in 2016 or 2017 reasonable returns Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Active portfolio optimisation Declaration of Commerciality for Sangomar, Sangomar Deep –– Failure to maximise Senegal acreage position and acreage protection and Rufisque blocks in acceptable timeframe to maximise acreage retention Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 On board the Cajun Express drilling rig, offshore Senegal. 20 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Seeking operational excellence Purpose Deliver operational excellence in all 2015 activities and maintain licence to operate Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Successfully complete operated and Deliver all operated and non-operated asset projects (technical –– Operational and project performance non-operated 2015 work programmes studies, surveys, seismic and drilling programmes) on schedule –– Reliance on JV operators for asset performance and budget (including manpower costs), with full data recovery –– Staff recruitment and retention Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Progress North Sea development projects, remaining within 10% –– Kraken and Catcher development projects not of capital guidance and first oil dates scheduled within six months executed on schedule and budget of Final Investment Decision (FID) base case estimates –– Reliance on JV operators for asset performance Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Secure a suitable rig for further exploration and appraisal –– Operational and project performance in Senegal Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Deliver activities with a focus on the Minimise injuries and environmental incidents in 2015 –– Health, safety, environmental and security safety of people and the environment operated activities: incidents –– TRIR target of less than 2.0 TRIR/million hours Discover more: How we manage risk –– No oil spills to the environment 34 P34-41 Continue to enhance the Group’s HSE Achieve targets for HSE LPIs linked to elements of the –– Health, safety, environmental and security culture, behaviours and approach HSE culture framework incidents Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Delivering a sustainable business Purpose Maintain a self funding business plan Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Retain balance sheet strength Maintain liquid reserves including undrawn committed banking –– Restriction on ability to sell CIL shareholding facilities to meet planned funding commitments plus a cushion –– Potential tax liabilities relating to Indian Income at all times Tax Department enquiry Make tangible progress on Cairn India Limited (CIL) shares freeze –– Uncertainty in fiscal regimes –– Operational and project performance –– Kraken and Catcher development projects not executed on schedule and budget –– Inability to access internal or external funding Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Operational review Richard Heaton, Exploration Director Balanced portfolio of opportunities Where we are focused The Atlantic Margin, formed together with associated rift basins in the break-up of the Pangaea supercontinent millions of years ago, provides a range of underexplored and mature hydrocarbon basins of Mesozoic and Tertiary age with common geologic themes and promising opportunities for organic growth. Focusing on this area enables the creation of a balanced portfolio, aligning the Company’s proven experience in passive margin and rift basin exploration with its operational capability in frontier areas, including Arctic and deepwater capability. Cairn’s mostly operated interests in frontier exploration opportunities lie along the Atlantic Margins offshore North West Africa, Republic of Ireland and Greenland and are balanced by its mainly non-operated exploration and development interests Cairn has built a balanced portfolio of opportunities in in the more mature and emerging basins in the a mixture of frontier, emerging and mature basins which UK and Norway. Cairn’s operated Atlantic Margin exploration drilling programme, which commenced offer the opportunity for sustained organic growth and in Morocco in 2013 and continued in Morocco value delivery. and Senegal throughout 2014, targeted various Mesozoic age passive margin play types at a number of locations. Across the portfolio Cairn seeks to acquire significant acreage positions, at appropriate equity levels, in areas The success of the programme in the discoveries made by the two wells drilled offshore Senegal has we believe have high technical and commercial potential attracted the attention of the industry by opening and where, in the case of initial success, we have financial up a new hydrocarbon basin in the Atlantic Margin. Cairn looks to capitalise on this success in 2015 and capability to leverage our knowledge and create value. 2016 with further exploration and appraisal activity. We continually evaluate the entire portfolio to ensure that our equity is at appropriate levels to offer potential growth opportunities. Eurasia N. America Richard Heaton Director of Exploration Africa S. America 9 March 2015 Illustrative geological reconstruction of the world ~175 million years ago 22 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Focused on three regions Atlantic Margin North West Europe Mediterranean Along the underexplored coast of North West Over the last two years Cairn has built a strong As part of its longer-term frontier exploration Africa, from Senegal to Morocco, Cairn’s acreage position in the UK and Norway with interests in programme, Cairn has also acquired interests position has been created in the deeper water two major UK North Sea developments, Catcher in a number of opportunities in the Mediterranean areas adjacent to shelf acreage where a number of and Kraken, and a third development, Skarfjell, area, most recently completing a seismic survey early wells were drilled during the 1960s and 70s. in the earlier stage of planning in Norway. offshore Malta. The deeper water areas remain Many of these wells encountered petroleum underexplored, yet with hydrocarbons in some form, demonstrating the potential for Around these fields Cairn has continued to build demonstrated in a number of plays and modern a working hydrocarbon system, but without an exploration portfolio to leverage its subsurface 3D data starting to unlock new potential, confirming any commercially viable discoveries. knowledge and operational synergies to access the basin offers a number of opportunities Now, utilising modern 3D seismic data and the the maximum commercial value of each area. for discovery and attractive fiscal terms. drilling capability available through dynamically In parallel, Cairn is applying for operatorship positioned rigs, Cairn’s recent programme and in Norway and has more recently entered the success in Senegal has opened up a new and emerging Barents Sea region, where Cairn’s emerging hydrocarbon basin. Arctic operational expertise can be combined with its geoscience knowledge. A similar exploration theme encompasses the Company’s acreage offshore Republic of The UK and Norwegian continental shelves Ireland, and Greenland where any future plans offer the potential for a balanced portfolio of will require additional partners. opportunities involving a mixture of mature and emerging basins which themselves offer the potential for growth but also benefit from a particularly active and proven market for the efficient trading of assets and associated value creation. GREENLAND Barents Sea UK and Norwegian North Sea NORWAY REPUBLIC OF IRELAND UK FRANCE SPAIN Mediterranean MALTA MOROCCO The Atlantic Margin MAURITANIA SENEGAL Active assets Other assets Atlantic Margin Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Operational review continued “Cairn discovered oil in both wells of its Senegal exploration programme, opening a new hydrocarbon basin on the Atlantic Margin.” Overview Senegal The second exploration well, SNE-1, located in Cairn discovered oil in both wells of its Senegal 1,100m water depth and ~100km offshore in the exploration programme, opening a new hydrocarbon Sangomar Offshore block, was targeting the Shelf Atlantic Margin basin on the Atlantic Margin. Edge Prospect. Wire line logging of SNE-1 confirmed hydrocarbons in the Cretaceous clastics objective Cairn’s frontier Atlantic Margin The first exploration well, FAN-1 located in 1,427m which is of similar age to oil-bearing sands found exploration strategy is focused water depth and ~100km offshore in the Sangomar approximately 24km away in FAN-1. Initial analysis along the multiple play types Deep block, reached a Target Depth of 4,927m and of the SNE-1 well indicates: formed from the break-up of was targeting multiple stacked deepwater fans. –– 95m gross oil bearing column with a gas cap. the supercontinent Pangaea, The well encountered a very substantial oil bearing –– Excellent reservoir sands with net oil pay of 36m. interval that materially upgrades the prospectivity –– Oil of 32° API from samples of gas, oil and water with success most recently of the block with a proven petroleum system and a recovered to surface. achieved offshore Senegal. number of deep fan and shelf prospects established. –– Preliminary estimates of the Contingent Preliminary analysis indicates: Resource range from P90 150 mmbbls, P50 330 –– 29m of net oil-bearing reservoir in Cretaceous mmbbls to P10 670 mmbbls recoverable. Countries sandstones. Senegal 1 licence –– No water contact was encountered in a gross oil Notices of the two discoveries were submitted to the Morocco 3 licences bearing interval of more than 500m. Senegal Government in November 2014. Following Republic of Ireland 3 licences –– Distinct oil types ranging from 28° API up to 41° a six month period to plan a future work programme, Greenland 4 licences API indicated so far from a number of oil samples the JV will submit an evaluation plan in May 2015. Mauritania 1 licence recovered to surface. Based on early evaluation, the JV currently envisages –– Initial gross STOIIP estimates for FAN-1 range three firm and three optional wells to begin in 2015. 2014 activity from P90 250 mmbbls, P50 950 mmbbls to P10 –– 2 operated wells offshore Senegal 2,500 mmbbls and are broadly in line with Cairn has a 40% WI as Operator in three blocks pre-drill STOIIP estimates. offshore Senegal (Sangomar Deep, Sangomar –– 1 operated well offshore Morocco and Offshore and Rufisque); ConocoPhillips has 35% WI, 1 non-operated well (completed 2015) FAR Limited 15% WI and Petrosen, the national oil offshore Western Sahara company of Senegal, 10%. The three blocks cover –– 3D seismic survey offshore Republic of Ireland 7,490km2. Discover more: Our assets www.cairnenergy.com/operations Atlantic Margin 24 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Morocco penetrated 14m of net gas and condensate pay in Greenland Offshore Morocco, we operate two exploration clastic reservoirs over a gross hydrocarbon bearing Cairn remains encouraged by the opportunity in the permits and are also a non-operator partner in one interval of approximately 500m. The discovery was Pitu exploration block (Cairn WI 87.5%, Operator), exploration permit. non-commercial and the well has been plugged and with combined prospects within the 3D area abandoned. The permit is operated by Kosmos and confirming a potential multi-billion barrel of oil Our first well in the programme offshore Morocco, partnered by ONHYM. equivalent prospective resource. Any future drilling FD-1 (Cairn 50% WI, Operator) in the Foum Draa plans would require additional partners in this region. licence, was plugged and abandoned in December Mauritania 2013. The well established a working hydrocarbon Work continues to mature block C-19 (Cairn 35% WI) system with a thermogenic source rock. However, the offshore Mauritania towards drilling. Interpretation anticipated target reservoirs were not encountered. of the proprietary 3D data has been completed, with four drill-ready prospects identified, each with over The JM-1 well (Cairn 37.5% WI, Operator) drilled in 400 mmbbls of gross mean prospective resources the Juby Maritime licence to evaluate Upper Jurassic (Chariot Oil & Gas Operator estimates). and Middle Jurassic objectives reached a total depth of 3,711m TVDSS and was plugged and abandoned Republic of Ireland without testing in March 2014. In the Upper Jurassic A 900km2 3D seismic survey was completed in section, the well confirmed the presence of heavy oil Q3 2014 on acreage adjacent to the Spanish Point over a gross interval of 110m as originally tested in discovery on Frontier Exploration Licence (FEL) the 1968 MO-2 well, some 2km from the JM-1 well. 1/14 (Cairn 38% WI, Operator). A planned appraisal/ Reservoir quality and the oil gravity in the Upper exploration well on FEL 2/04 offshore West of Jurassic across the Cap Juby structure is undergoing Republic of Ireland, has been deferred pending further evaluation by JV partners (Office National discussions with partners and the Government Des Hydrocarbures et Des Mines “ONHYM” and of the Republic of Ireland. Genel Energy). Work is also ongoing to correlate the core and log data from JM-1 with other wells on Cap Juby to evaluate the extent of moveable hydrocarbons and to determine whether any further work should be conducted. The CB-1 well (Cairn 20% WI) commenced drilling in the Cap Boujdour licence offshore Western Sahara in December 2014, targeting the Al Khayr prospect following a 3D seismic survey earlier in the year. It was announced in March 2015 that the CB-1 exploration well encountered hydrocarbons. The well Rob Jones, Cairn Regional Director – Sanco Sword vessel used to acquire 3D Africa, Mamadou Faye, Petrosen General seismic data off West coast of Ireland Manager, Simon Thomson, Cairn CEO and in 2014. Matt Fox, ConocoPhillips Executive Vice President Exploration and Production (left to right). Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Operational review continued Overview Mediterranean Overview As part of our longer term frontier exploration programme, Cairn has acquired interests in a Mediterranean number of opportunities in the Mediterranean area. North West Europe A 2D seismic survey was completed offshore Malta As part of its frontier exploration in April 2014 (Cairn 60% WI, Operator) where Over the last two years Cairn programme Cairn has interests the deeper water areas remain underexplored. has built a strong position in the in the Mediterranean with Hydrocarbons have been demonstrated in a number UK and Norway with interests a seismic survey recently of plays in the area and with modern seismic data in two major UK North Sea completed offshore Malta. starting to unlock new potential; the basin offers a developments, Catcher and number of opportunities for discovery. Cairn has also Kraken, and a third development, made applications for acreage offshore the Gulf of Lion and the Bay of Biscay in Spain. Skarfjell, in the earlier stage of Countries planning in Norway. Malta 1 Exploration Study Agreement Spain 4 licences France 2 licences Countries UK 20 licences 2014 activity Norway 14 licences –– 2D seismic survey offshore Malta 2014 activity Discover more: Our assets –– 4 non-operated wells in UK and www.cairnenergy.com/operations Norwegian North Sea –– Participated in UK 28th Licensing Round and Norwegian 2014 APA Licensing Round –– Entered Barents Sea region –– Applied for Norwegian operatorship Discover more: Our assets www.cairnenergy.com/operations Artemis Atlantic vessel used to acquire 2D seismic data offshore Malta, 2014. 26 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information “Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and Norway by acquiring exploration, appraisal and development assets and participating in licence rounds.” UK and Norwegian North Sea Kraken Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and The Kraken field (EnQuest Operator 60%, Cairn In 2014, the company participated in three Norway by acquiring exploration, appraisal and 25%, First Oil 15%) was discovered in 1985 in block non-operated wells: development assets and participating in licence 9/2b of the UK North Sea, followed by the Kraken –– Aragon exploration well (Cairn 32.5% WI) licence rounds. The mature basins of the North Sea provide North field in 2013. Combined, these two fields make P1763 in UK North Sea plugged and abandoned balance to the broader exploration portfolio and will up the Kraken development. The JV is continuing to in Q4 2014 deliver free cash flow to sustain future exploration. evaluate additional opportunities in the block. –– Ensis prospect (Cairn 25% WI) PL393B in the The North Sea is an active market for asset Barents Sea plugged and abandoned in Q3 2014 transactions enabling Cairn to continually optimise The FDP for the Kraken development was approved –– Atlas prospect (Cairn 20% WI) PL420 in the its position within the region as well as its wider by DECC in 2013 and the FPSO vessel, which will Skarfjell area plugged and abandoned in capital allocation. be capable of processing 80,000 bopd, is currently Q4 2014 under construction in Singapore. The field is located Kraken and Catcher, two of the largest ongoing ~350km north east of Aberdeen and ~125km east In 2015, the current programme of non-operated development projects in the UK North Sea are the of the Shetland Islands in water depths of ~115m. wells in the North Sea is: Group’s core development projects and a third, the Development drilling will start in 2015 with 25 wells –– West of Kraken, UK North Sea (EnQuest Skarfjell discovery in Norway, is in the early stages expected to be drilled over more than four years. Operator, Cairn 25% WI) operations are ongoing of development planning. Kraken and Catcher will First oil is anticipated in 2016/17 with net peak –– Crossbill, Norwegian North Sea (Wintershall provide free cash flow from 2017 with peak net production to Cairn of ~12,500 boepd. Operator, Cairn 20% WI), operations to production to Cairn of ~22,500 boepd. commence in Q2 UK & Norway Exploration More recently, Cairn entered the emerging Barents In 2014, Cairn continued to build the exploration Sea and is in the process of applying for operatorship portfolio in order to leverage our subsurface in Norway, leveraging Cairn’s Arctic operational knowledge and operational synergies and applied experience and Norwegian presence. for and was awarded interests in both the UK and Norwegian licensing rounds. In Q1 2014, we were Catcher awarded interests in all three licences applied for in The Catcher field (Premier Operator 50%, Cairn the Norwegian Awards in Predefined Areas (APA) 20%, MOL 20%, Dyas 10%) was discovered in 2010 2013 Licensing Round and are currently reviewing in block 28/9a of the UK Central North Sea. Follow this acreage, with a view to making drilling decisions in up wells in the block then discovered the Varadero, future years. Cairn was also awarded non-operated Burgman, Carnaby and Bonneville fields. These interests in five licences in the 2014 APA Licensing discoveries together with four adjacent licences Round. These licences do not carry firm well make up what is known as the Greater Catcher area. commitments and are in locations adjacent to current areas of interest in Norway. In the UK 28th Licensing In 2014, a Field Development Plan (FDP) for the Round, Cairn was awarded four licences in Q4 2014. development of the Catcher, Varadero and Burgman fields was approved by DECC and 2P reserves were booked. The development will comprise a Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) facility which is currently under construction in Singapore and will be capable of processing 60,000 bopd. The development will be located 170km south east of Aberdeen in water depths of ~90m. Development drilling will start in 2015 with more than 20 wells expected to be drilled over a period of more than four years. First oil is anticipated in 2017 with net peak production to Cairn of ~10,000 boepd. Kraken FPSO under construction. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Cairn’s operations in Rajasthan, North West India. 28 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Cairn in India Working alongside the Government of India and Joint Venture partners, Cairn has been a long-term investor in India for 20 years and its major oil discovery in Rajasthan created the potential to provide more than 30% of India’s daily crude production. Cairn’s successful exploration and development In 2006, Cairn created Cairn India Limited (CIL) activities have led to long-term job creation in and 100% owned subsidiaries incorporated outside India and the establishment of a legacy asset India were transferred to CIL (also a 100% owned for the country. company). This reorganisation was submitted to the authorities in India and approved. In 2007, In 2004 Rajasthan represented the largest onshore CIL was listed on the Bombay and National Stock oil find in India in more than 30 years. Cairn also Exchanges of India with an independent Board subsequently discovered and developed interests and management team. in Ravva in East India and Cambay Basin in West India. During its involvement in India, Cairn invested Throughout its long history in India, Cairn has been approximately US$5 billion in developing the country’s fully compliant and paid all applicable taxes under the oil and gas resources, making over 40 significant oil legislation in force at the time, including subsequent and gas discoveries, building 12 offshore platforms, sales of shares by the Company in CIL. developing four major processing platforms, laying more than 1,000km of pipeline (giving access to In January 2014, Cairn received notice from 75% of India’s refining capacity) and drilling more the Income Tax Department of India citing than 500 wells. 2012 Retrospective Legislation and requesting information relating to the group reorganisation in Cairn’s investments in India go beyond our 2006. The Income Tax Department provisionally exploration and development projects: we have attached the company’s remaining 10% shareholding created jobs and worked with local suppliers, in CIL, then valued at approximately US$1 billion. added to Rajasthan’s GDP growth and invested in communities for local benefit around our operations. Throughout 2014, Cairn has had a strong focus on For example, the Company, with support from the resolving the tax issue and has taken measures to Government of Rajasthan, set up a partnership protect shareholders’ interests. with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the investment arm of the World Bank, to design, fund and implement sustainable socio-economic development programmes in Rajasthan. Key initiatives established included the Enterprise Centre which has now trained more than 6,000 people in areas including construction, handicrafts and English; the Rural Dairy Development Programme which encourages farmers to pool and sell surplus milk; and Health Awareness Initiatives which, through Cairn’s Mobile Health Vans, have provided more than 100,000 people with health services. 2014 key story Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Financial review James Smith, Chief Financial Officer Fully funded to deliver Overview The Group secured additional funding of up to US$575m during the year through a Reserve Based Lending facility. Together with the sale of a 10% interest in Catcher, completed in January 2015, this provides additional financial flexibility for the Group to successfully achieve its strategy of delivering value from discovery and development through disciplined capital allocation across a balanced portfolio. Exploration assets During 2014, Cairn successfully completed a four-well frontier exploration programme, focussed on the Atlantic Margin offshore Morocco and Senegal. The first exploration well in the programme, located in the Foum Draa block, completed in January 2014, and the second, in the Juby Maritime block, completed in March 2014. The rig then moved to Senegal where the FAN-1 exploration well and the SNE-1 exploration well completed in September and Cairn is fully funded to deliver its core development November 2014 respectively. projects through to anticipated sustainable free cash flow Cairn participated in three unsuccessful wells drilled generation from 2017. in North West Europe during 2014; two in the North Sea and one in the Barents Sea. A further appraisal well planned offshore Ireland was deferred as the contracted rig was delayed beyond an acceptable weather window. Atlantic Margin – Africa Morocco During the year, Cairn operated two exploration wells offshore Morocco, both wells were plugged and abandoned after failing to encounter commercial James Smith hydrocarbon reservoirs. Unsuccessful exploration Chief Financial Officer costs in 2014 include US$53m relating to these 9 March 2015 wells (2013: US$107m). At 31 December 2014, no material balances remain capitalised in relation to the operations in Morocco (2013: US$4m). In January 2014, Cairn completed the farm-in to the Cap Boujdour licence in Western Sahara. The CB-1 non-operated exploration well commenced in December 2014, but was confirmed unsuccessful after the balance sheet date. The total costs incurred on the Cap Boujdour well to 31 December 2014 were US$47m and are included in unsuccessful exploration costs charged in the year. 30 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information “During 2014, Cairn successfully completed a four-well frontier exploration programme, focussed on the Atlantic Margin.” 2014 Movements in Oil and Gas assets In September 2014, Cairn entered into a sales agreement with Dyas UK Limited to farm-down US$m a 10% interest in the Catcher development and 1,100 19 adjacent acreage, for a carry of US$182m on future (107) 100 exploration and/or development expenditure and 109 (95) a refund of exploration and development costs 1,000 (1) (23) incurred from 1 January 2014. Approval for this deal 146 (26) 50 (61) (24) was received subsequent to the year end. Following 900 885 completion, Cairn retains a 20% working interest. 800 798 Costs held in development assets at year end 2014 of US$468m include the Group’s 30% interest in Catcher (including the 10% subsequently sold to 700 Opening Atlantic Atlantic Atlantic Atlantic Atlantic Atlantic North West North West North West North West Mediterranean: Foreign Closing Dyas UK Limited) and the Group’s 25% interest in oil and gas Margin: Margin: Margin: Margin: Margin: Margin: Europe: Europe: Europe: Europe: Exploration exchange oil and gas assets Senegal Morocco Greenland Unsuccessful Impairments Disposals Exploration Unsuccessful Impairments Development Asset assets exploration additions and Republic exploration additions exploration additions Movements the Kraken development. Cairn’s 2014 costs relating additions of Ireland additions to Kraken were carried by the operator EnQuest. Increase in assets Decrease in assets Impairment testing Given recent declines in oil prices, indicating the possibility of impairment of certain Group assets, Senegal The conclusion of Skarfjell appraisal activities Cairn has tested the relevant exploration and Cairn holds a 40% interest in three contiguous following drilling in 2013 led to an additional charge development assets for impairment. Goodwill, blocks offshore Senegal after gaining approval to to the Income Statement. Though the work was allocated to the Group’s North Sea operating farm-down 25% to ConocoPhillips early in 2014. technically successful and confirmed the fair value segment, is tested annually for impairment by Back costs of US$21m were recovered. Following of the asset at the point of acquisition, the appraisal comparing the net carrying value of the goodwill, completion of the Morocco wells, the Cajun Express work did not identify any incremental increase in the North Sea exploration, appraisal and went on to complete the FAN-1 and SNE-1 value and therefore was expensed as unsuccessful development assets and the deferred tax assets exploration wells offshore Senegal. Costs of these costs. An additional charge of US$25m was made and liabilities related to those assets to the fair value two successful wells remain capitalised and are to the Income Statement. of the underlying assets in the segment based on included in the total exploration costs of US$167m recent market transactions or risk-weighted carried in Senegal. Costs remaining capitalised of US$193m include discounted cash flow models. US$159m relating to the Skarfjell discovery and Atlantic Margin – North Atlantic remaining exploration discoveries/prospects in the The Group’s base case short-term oil price Greenland Catcher area that were not included in the FDP. assumption is based on a three-year forward curve, Cairn continues to work to farm-down the Group’s and thereafter a long-term assumption of US$90 per interests in Greenland in advance of any further Norwegian Barents Sea barrel is used. With no free cash flow generation activity and until such a farm-down is concluded, no Cairn entered into the Barents Sea region by farming anticipated until 2017, the impact of the current further exploration activity is planned, an indicator in to the Statoil operated Ensis well, which completed low-price environment on the fair value calculations that the asset may be impaired. After testing for in Q3 2014. The well was unsuccessful and costs of is limited. A comprehensive review of the Group’s impairment in line with Cairn’s accounting policy, US$17m were charged to the Income Statement. assumptions has been undertaken and Cairn believes costs previously capitalised of US$23m were fully these remain appropriate. Impairment tests resulted charged to the Income Statement. Development assets in an impairment of North Sea exploration assets North West Europe of US$24m and the write-off of remaining costs in North West Europe UK North Sea Greenland of US$23m. No impairment arises on the UK and Norwegian North Sea The Catcher area FDP was approved by DECC in Group’s key North Sea development projects or the During the year, Cairn drilled two exploration June 2014. Costs relating to the fields within the goodwill associated with the North Sea business. and appraisal wells in the North Sea. Neither the development area of US$148m were transferred Aragon nor Atlas wells encountered commercial from exploration to development assets. hydrocarbons. Unsuccessful exploration costs of US$50m were charged to the Income Statement. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Financial review continued Available-for-sale financial asset 2014 Net funds movements As at 31 December 2014, Cairn’s remaining ~10% holding in Cairn India Limited was valued US$m at US$703m. 1,400 1,308 376 The current restriction on sale of the financial asset 1,300 does not directly impact its carrying value in the 1,200 Balance Sheet as the restriction applies only to Cairn 63 64 1,100 and is not a wider market restriction. Dividends 66 73 declared by CIL of US$35m during 2014, recognised 1,000 31 77 9 as finance income in the period are also included 900 869 within other receivables. A decrease in the CIL share price over the year to a close of INR241 at 800 31 December 2014, resulted in the recycling of the 700 Opening Exploration and Proceeds on Norway Proceeds Share Repayment Pre-award Foreign Closing net Development farm-down Tax on sale buy-back of borrowings costs, admin exchange net cumulative deficit on valuation of US$194m to the funds spend of assets refund of CIL shares and facility fees and misc expenses movements funds Income Statement where it is disclosed as impairment. Liquidity increase Cash and working capital Liquidity decrease Cairn’s cash resources at the year end are supported by the US$575m Reserve Based Lending facility which the Group entered into during 2014. The Results for the year facility is available to draw down to fund development With no revenue currently recorded in the Income Statement, the Group reported a loss after tax for the year capex in the Catcher and Kraken projects and in the of US$381m, analysed as follows: form of letters of credit or bank guarantees required 2014 2013 for Cairn’s operational activity. The amount available US$m US$m to fund the projects is determined by standard Operational and Pre-award costs (55) (24) reserves based lending calculations and by reaching administrative activities: Unsuccessful well costs (208) (213) certain project milestones. Administrative expenses and The Group’s net funds (cash at bank less bank other income/costs (65) (42) borrowings) were US$869m (31 December 2013: Related tax credits 122 86 US$1.3bn). (206) (193) Bank loans in Norway of US$55m at 31 December 2013 were repaid in full early in 2014 and the Finance income Net finance income 4 48 facility cancelled. Impairments and disposal Impairment (194) (268) The US$575m Reserve-Based Lending Facility was of investment in CIL: Gain on sale 4 – undrawn at the year end. Arrangement and facility Related net tax credit 41 75 fees incurred on entering into the loan agreement are held within prepayments and will be amortised (149) (193) on an effective interest rate basis over the life of the loan, based on drawdown projections. Charges Impairment and loss on sale Impairment of exploration assets (47) (251) incurred while the facility remains undrawn are of oil and gas assets: Impairment of goodwill – (324) charged to the Income Statement. Gain/(loss) on sale of oil and gas assets 2 (25) During the year, Cairn bought back 19m shares Related tax credits 15 382 for US$64m. (30) (218) Total loss after tax (381) (556) 32 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information “The Group continues to seek cost-effective entry into new exploration prospects in the Norwegian Barents Sea and the UK and Norwegian North Sea.” Pre-award costs Impairment The Group continues to seek cost-effective entry Remaining costs of US$23m associated with the into new exploration prospects in the Norwegian Group’s activities in Greenland have been impaired in Barents Sea and the UK and Norwegian North Sea. full as any further activity is subject to a farm-down Pre-award costs include US$22m of seismic data of Cairn’s interests. Impairment tests conducted on acquired in the Barents Sea. Cairn is also active in North West Europe assets identified an impairment new UK and Norwegian Licensing Rounds and in the of US$24m. Norwegian 2014 APA Licensing Round, Cairn was awarded non-operated interests in five licences. Principal Risks and Uncertainties In 2014, Cairn’s strategy was to deliver value from Operational and administrative expenses discovery and development. There are a number of Unsuccessful exploration costs of US$208m include risks associated with the delivery of the strategy and US$100m relating to the Morocco Foum Draa, Juby work programme which the Group actively manage Maritime and Cap Boujdour wells; US$53m relating and mitigate. to North Sea exploration wells drilled including Aragon and Atlas and US$17m of costs relating to The principal risks in relation to the Group’s financial the Ensis well in the Barents Sea. US$25m of costs and operational performance are as follows: relating to the Skarfjell appraisal wells drilled in –– Lack of exploration success. Norway in 2013 were also charged along with –– Restriction on ability to sell CIL shareholding. US$13m of other exploration costs. –– Operational and project performance. –– Kraken and Catcher development projects not During 2014, Cairn implemented a Group executed on schedule and budget. reorganisation and as a result, US$6m has been provided for the costs of redundancy and a further charge of US$2m on associated share-based payments has been recognised. In addition, during 2014, Cairn incurred costs of US$8m in its efforts to seek resolution of the tax issue in India. These additional costs contribute to the rise in net administration costs from US$42m in 2013 to US$67m for the current year. Controlling administrative cost levels remains a priority for the Group and the measures taken by Cairn should ensure that they remain appropriate for the level and nature of business activity in the medium term. Finance income Finance income of US$38m includes US$35m of dividends declared by CIL which currently remain frozen. Impairment and disposal of available-for-sale financial assets Prior to the restriction on sale of the Group’s investment in CIL in January 2014, the Group sold 0.6% of its holding: recognising a gain on sale of US$4m. The cumulative deficit in valuation of the investment of US$194m has been recycled from reserves and is disclosed as impairment. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 How we manage risk Cairn has robust risk management processes to manage its business Managing business risks Risk identification and management Managing the risks and opportunities is essential to Cairn’s long-term success and sustainability. The Group endeavours to pursue investment opportunities which provide the right balance of Overall responsibility for political, commercial and technical risk and seeks setting risk appetite and to maintain exposure to these risks at an acceptable maintaining sound risk level in line with the risk appetite of the organisation. management and internal control systems Cairn Energy PLC Board The Group’s risk management framework supports Cairn’s approach to business and enhances the chances of safely engaging in successful business opportunities and delivering value to shareholders and other stakeholders. Board oversight of framework of internal controls and risk management Audit Committee Monitoring risk management issues throughout the business Risk Management Committee Embedding risk management throughout the organisation Integrated business risk management system, including review by the management team Assurance to management and the Board Corporate Regional New venture functional asset risks risks department Atlantic Margin, and project North West Europe risks and Mediterranean 34 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information “The risks associated with the delivery of the strategy and work programme and the associated mitigation measures and action plans are maintained in a series of risk registers at group, regional, asset, function and project level.” Risk identification and management Risk appetite Cairn’s system for identifying and managing risks is The Group Risk Appetite Statement ensures there embedded from the top down in its organisational is a common understanding between the Board and structure, operations and management systems and senior management as to the quantum and type of accords with the risk management guidelines and risk the organisation is willing to seek and tolerate in principles set out in ISO 31000, the International the pursuit of its strategy and value creation. Cairn’s Standard for Risk Management. The Group’s risk appetite, in line with the strategy and business risk management structure is set out in the plan, is to operate across the whole value chain of structure to the left. the upstream exploration and production business, allocating capital and resources proportionally to The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring opportunities which are assessed for the likelihood the Group’s risk management and internal control and impact of their risk and reward. Risk appetite and frameworks are appropriate and applied across the supplementary risk tolerance levels are reviewed organisation. Principal risks are reviewed at each annually by the Board and these levels determine Board meeting and, at least once a year, the Board the principal parameters for the assessment of risks undertakes a risk workshop to perform a “deep-dive” and opportunities. In 2014, the Board reviewed review of these risks. the tolerance levels across a number of areas, including capital invested, economic thresholds, The Audit Committee, which is chaired by Iain solvency, health and safety, environmental, political, McLaren, monitors and reviews the scope and reputational, and technical. The Board will continue effectiveness of the Company’s internal control to review key risks to ensure they remain within policies and procedures for the identification, the boundaries defined by the Group Risk assessment and reporting of risks to the Board. Appetite Statement. The Audit Committee also monitors the output from each Risk Management Committee (RMC) meeting. Responding to the changing risk The RMC is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, environment in 2014 James Smith, and also includes the Chief Executive, As part of steps to seek continual improvement Chief Operating Officer, Exploration Director, of the risk management process, the following Regional Directors and other senior managers. enhancements were made in 2014: The RMC is responsible for setting the strategic –– the Board completed a risk workshop with the direction for risk management in the Group and objective of identifying key strategic risks to the aims to facilitate continual improvement of the risk Group. Risks identified were analysed against management system. The RMC also considers the the Group Risk Register to ensure there was principal risks to the business. alignment between the Board’s view of risk and the Group identified risks. The workshop The risks associated with the delivery of the strategy was facilitated by Ernst and Young (EY); and work programme and the associated mitigation –– the Group Risk Appetite Statement was reviewed measures and action plans are maintained in a series and approved by the Board. Key changes to the of risk registers at group, regional, asset, function statement included the introduction of specific and project level. Assessment of the potential risks and measurable risk tolerance levels across a plays a fundamental role in the evaluation of each number of categories of risk which set out the new investment opportunity and the ongoing parameters for acceptable risk taking. These management of all projects. The risks and mitigating parameters will be applied by senior management actions from all of these sources are consolidated in key decision making; into the Group risk matrix and presented at the –– the Management Team formally conducted different meetings and committees outlined in a review of the risks, mitigations and actions the structure to the left. identified on the Group Risk Register each quarter to ensure ownership for the risks, mitigations and actions is clearly assigned and implementation dates for actions are tracked; and –– risk reporting to the Board was revised to a “dashboard” format to focus attention on key risks, as measured by their probability, materiality, controllability, new or changing nature and position relative to the Group Risk Appetite Statement. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 How we manage risk continued Principal risks Principal risks to the Group and uncertainties in 2014/2015 As the Group continues to focus on creating value and shareholder returns from disciplined capital allocation across a balance of exploration and development assets, During 2014, we regularly reviewed the risks which the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group at we believed could adversely impact our business at the time. The following table provides an overview of the end of 2014 were as follows: the principal risks to the Group at the end of 2014, the potential impacts, the mitigation measures we have in place and the KPIs the risks impact on. The list is not exhaustive or set out in any order of priority and is Lack of exploration success Operational and project performance continually subject to change. Exploration success is fundamental to the Delivering all operated and non-operated strategy of creating value through the discovery projects in a safe and efficient manner is a key and development of hydrocarbon resources. objective for the Group. In 2014, the Morocco Consequently, a sustained lack of exploration and Senegal drilling campaigns experienced success may lead to limited or no value creation delays as a result of unscheduled maintenance and a loss of investor confidence in the Group’s requirements on the Cajun Express rig. With business model. In 2014, both the Senegal safety being the principal concern, the Group operated wells discovered oil, mitigating this risk to ceased drilling until acceptable mitigation plans a degree. The Group continues to actively evaluate were implemented. Anticipated in 2015, offshore a number of potential new exploration investment wells in Senegal, Western Sahara, the UK and opportunities for 2015 and beyond, which are all Norway will be drilled and the Group will be subject to extensive external and internal peer working with the rig contractors to agree on review. a safe and efficient execution plan. In addition, the Group will work closely with JV partners to Discover more: Operational review ensure the Kraken and Catcher development 22 P22-27 projects are delivered safely and efficiently. Restriction on ability to sell Cairn India Limited Discover more: Operational review 22 P22-27 (CIL) shareholding In January 2014, Cairn received a request from the Indian Income Tax Department to provide Kraken and Catcher development projects information regarding a group reorganisation that not executed on schedule and budget took place during the fiscal year ended 31 March The Kraken and Catcher development projects 2007 and as a result a restriction was applied to will provide future cash flow to sustain the Group’s the sale of the Group’s CIL shares. The restriction business plan and are part of the North West remains in place and the Group continues to Europe portfolio which provides balance to the cooperate with the Indian Income Tax Department Group’s exploration and appraisal activities in investigation. The continued freeze of the Group’s earlier stage hydrocarbon basins. Development CIL shares could restrict the Group’s funding projects of this nature can be susceptible to delays capacity. The Group will take whatever steps and budget increases for a variety of reasons and are necessary to protect its interests. this may lead to increased costs and delays in future cash flow. To mitigate these risks, the Group Discover more: Cairn in India works closely with its JV partners to support and/ 29 P29 or influence key decisions. The Catcher and Kraken developments in the North Sea are progressing, with first oil targeted for 2017. Discover more: Operational review 22 P22-27 36 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Strategic risks Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective Lack of exploration –– Loss of investor –– Active programme for highThis risk decreased in 2014. –– Invest in exploration success confidence grading new areas through Key developments included: and appraisal activities –– Limited or no licence rounds, farm-ins and –– Both Senegal operated wells discovered which will add net 2C value creation other transactions oil. Work is underway with JV partners resources in excess –– Inventory of prospects and to determine follow-up activity which of 20 mmboe –– Failure of the balanced portfolio leads that offer opportunities is targeted for Q4 2015 business model with a balance of geological –– One operated well in Morocco and and technical risks four non-operated wells in North –– Highly competent team West Europe were drilled, none of applying a thorough review which discovered oil process of prospects and development opportunities and a team of geoscientists with a track record of delivering exploration success –– Continue to seek out the right personnel who can add value, knowledge and experience to the Group Kraken and Catcher –– Increased costs –– Actively engage with all our JV This risk remained at the same level in 2014. –– Progress North development projects –– Delay in future partners early to ensure highly Key developments included: Sea development not executed on cash flow effective working relationships –– All major contracts for both projects projects, remaining schedule and budget –– Actively participate in technical have been awarded which support the within 10% of capital –– Reduction in guidance and first debt capacity meetings to challenge, apply target schedule to first oil in 2017 influence and/or support our oil dates scheduled –– The Group continues to work closely within six months partners to establish a cohesive with all JV partners to challenge, apply JV view and ensure operational of Final Investment influence and/or support key decisions Decision (FID) base activity is executed in a safe and secure manner case estimates –– Work closely with the Kraken and Catcher operators to monitor and review progress with key contracts Failure to maximise –– Sub-optimal –– Actively engage with the This risk has been added in 2014. –– Declaration of Senegal acreage position acreage retention Senegalese Government Key developments included: Commerciality for –– Investment and JV partners to agree –– The current Senegal licence requires a Sangomar, Sangomar commitments not the way forward Declaration of Commerciality by February Deep and Rufisque fully optimised –– Production Sharing Contract 2016 and Cairn has the right to extend for blocks in acceptable terms allow for a one-year a further year which has been invoked timeframe to extension to the exploration maximise –– There is a risk that the relatively short acreage retention licence timelines for moving to the exploitation permit will restrict the technical review of the acreage and opportunities may not be fully optimised Inability to identify –– Loss of investor –– Exploration Director, with the This risk remained at the same level in 2014. –– Mature a minimum of or secure prospective confidence support of the technical and Key developments included: four new independent acreage at a cost –– Loss of commercial teams, continues –– Cairn successfully farmed-in to “drill-ready” which can generate competitive edge to identify and review a number opportunities in the North Sea prospects which meet reasonable returns of prospects and the Barents Sea investment criteria –– Experience and knowledge and which could be –– A 2D seismic programme offshore considered for drilling throughout the organisation Malta was completed and the data in recognising prospective in 2016 or 2017 is currently being analysed opportunities –– The Group participated in the 2014 Award in Predefined Areas (APA) licensing round in Norway with five licence awards made to Cairn –– The Group undertook an extensive opportunity screening review which evaluated the technical and commercial prospects of the many opportunities within the Group’s existing portfolio. A number of “drill-ready” prospects were identified Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 How we manage risk continued Strategic risks (continued) Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective Sustained low oil price –– Reduction in –– Sensitivity reports completed This risk has been added in 2014. Key –– Maintain liquid future cash flow to assess robustness of projects developments included: reserves including –– Value impairment and development decisions –– Without current production, lower oil undrawn committed of development prices do not directly impact on the banking facilities to projects Group’s operating cash-flow. Indirectly, meet planned funding the lower oil price environment may commitments plus a –– JV partner capital cushion at all times constraints reduce the amount of debt available under the Group’s reserve based lending facility. In addition, the Group’s JV partners may experience capital constraints leading to a reallocation of capital and a reprioritisation of projects in which the Group has an equity interest –– A sustained low oil price will continue to drive down industry costs so there is an opportunity for achieving cost efficiencies in the Group’s exploration and appraisal projects Health, safety, environment and security risks Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective Health, safety, –– Serious injury –– Effectively managing This risk remained at the same level in 2014. –– Minimise injuries environmental and or death health, safety, security and Key developments include: and environmental security incidents –– Environmental environmental risk exposure is –– The Group’s safety performance incidents in 2015 impacts the first priority for the Board, improved overall in 2014 despite operated activities SLT and MT a Lost Time Injury (LTI) in July –– Achieve targets for –– Reputational damage –– Corporate Responsibility –– Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) seven HSE leading Management System (CRMS) of 3.88 per million hours higher than performance –– Regulatory processes and procedures are indicators penalties and target of 2.0 per million hours. The rate embedded throughout the in 2013 was 5.04 per million hours clean-up costs organisation and all potential health, safety, security, –– Managing health risks was a key environmental and societal consideration given the heightened impacts are proactively health risks in West Africa. A malaria identified, evaluated and management and awareness programme treated during project was implemented in Senegal as well as a screening processes programme to manage and monitor the Ebola situation –– Process in place for assessing an operator’s overall operating and HSE capabilities, including undertaking JV audits to determine the level of oversight required –– Emergency organisation procedures and equipment are maintained and regularly tested to ensure the Group is able to respond to an emergency quickly, safely and effectively –– Ebola virus monitoring and management briefing is issued to all staff travelling to impacted countries 38 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Operational risks Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective Operational and –– Increased –– Comprehensive set of criteria This risk increased in 2014. Key –– Progress North Sea project performance well costs that must be met before developments include: development projects, –– Incomplete well contracting and accepting –– The Cajun Express rig experienced remaining within 10% programme any rig unscheduled maintenance requirements of capital guidance –– Work very closely with the rig which led to considerable non-productive and first oil dates –– HSE incident scheduled within six contractors to exert influence time over the course of the drilling contract –– Reputational and impose our performance months of FID base damage –– The Group worked very closely with case estimates expectations the drilling contractor to establish and –– Management and influence of implement mitigations, with safety being –– Deliver all operated drilling contractors to ensure at the forefront of all considerations, and non-operated Cairn management systems are before operations recommenced asset projects fully embedded in operations (technical studies, –– Cost pressures in the industry have surveys, seismic and –– Positive and regular engagement lessened so there is an opportunity for drilling programmes) with JV operators and partners project cost efficiencies going forward on schedule and to share knowledge and budget (including offer support manpower costs), with full data recovery –– Secure a suitable rig for further exploration and appraisal in Senegal Reliance on JV operators –– Cost/schedule –– Actively engage with all JV This risk remains at the same level as last –– Progress North Sea for asset performance overruns partners early to establish good, year. Key developments include: development projects, –– Poor performance trusting, working relationships –– The low oil price is impacting on a remaining within 10% of assets –– Actively participate in technical number of companies throughout the of capital guidance meetings to challenge, apply industry and there is the potential for and first oil dates –– HSE performance scheduled within six influence and/or support some of the Group’s JV partners to –– Delay in first oil partners to establish a reprioritise projects. At the current months of FID base from development cohesive JV view time, this has not impacted the Group case estimates projects –– Deliver all operated –– Application of the Group risk –– The Group continues to work closely –– Impact on management processes with a number of JV operators in North and non-operated asset value West Europe and the Atlantic Margin asset projects (technical studies, surveys, seismic and drilling programmes) on schedule and budget (including manpower costs), with full data recovery Cajun Express drilling rig. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 How we manage risk continued Financial risks Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective Restriction on ability to –– Restriction in the –– Business plan is fully funded This risk remains at the same level as last –– Make tangible sell CIL shareholding funding capacity in the absence of CIL stake year. Key developments include: progress on CIL of the Group –– Continued engagement with –– The freeze on the CIL shareholding shares freeze the Indian Government remains in place –– Robust legal protection –– The Group continues to cooperate if required with the Income Tax Department investigation –– Engagement with Indian Government continues but the tax issue discussions remain unresolved –– The Group has the option to take legal action to recover the value of the CIL shareholding but this has not been initiated Potential tax liabilities –– Restriction in the –– Business plan is fully funded This risk remains at the same level as last –– Make tangible relating to Indian Income funding capacity in the absence of CIL stake year. Key developments include: progress on CIL Tax Department enquiry of the Group –– Continued engagement with –– The freeze on the CIL shareholding shares freeze the Indian Government remains in place –– Robust legal protection –– The Group continues to cooperate if required with the Income Tax Department investigation –– Engagement with Indian Government continues but the tax issue discussions remain unresolved –– The Group has the option to take legal action to recover the value of the CIL shareholding but this has not been initiated Uncertainty in –– Loss of value –– Engage closely with regulators This risk remains at the same level as last –– Maintain liquid fiscal regimes –– Uncertain financial in all jurisdictions where the year. Key developments include: reserves including outcomes Group has activities –– The Group has assets in a number of undrawn committed –– Legal agreements in place different geographies and is potentially banking facilities to to protect interests exposed to sudden or unplanned meet planned funding changes in tariffs or taxes commitments plus a –– Seek appropriate legal cushion at all times and tax advice Inability to access internal –– Work programme –– Up to US$575m Reserve Based This risk has been added in 2014. Key –– Maintain liquid or external funding restricted by Lending bank facility agreement developments include: reserves including reduced capital concluded in July 2014 –– The restriction on Cairn’s ability to sell undrawn committed availability –– Catcher 10% farm-out to Dyas its shareholding in CIL reduced the banking facilities to agreed which will reduce capital Group’s access to capital meet planned funding expenditure by ~US$380m commitments plus a –– Debt facilities were secured to ensure cushion at all times committed work programme was fully funded –– Cairn farmed-out part of its interest in Catcher and amended longer-term budget plans to ensure the Group was fully funded through to generating free cash flow –– The fall in the oil price has reduced the market for external funding 40 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Reputational risks Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective Negative stakeholder –– Reputational –– Comprehensive stakeholder This risk remains at the same level as last –– Minimise injuries reaction to our operations damage management and communication year. Key developments include: and environmental –– Loss of investor plans have been developed and –– The Group has assets in a number incidents in 2015 confidence executed for all operations of different geographies, which has operated activities –– Loss of licence –– Actively monitor steps being increased the number of stakeholders to operate taken by regulators and industry and, therefore the potential for through participation in industry stakeholder opposition bodies such as the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers and Oil & Gas UK Organisational risks Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective Staff recruitment –– Inadequate –– The organisational restructure This risk was heightened in 2014 as a result –– No specific and retention resource to deliver consultation process identified of the voluntary redundancy process but has KPI objective work programme the skills required to deliver lessened due to current resource availability –– Loss of key the work programme and in the market. Key developments include: knowledge and the Group worked to ensure –– The Group underwent a reorganisation experience key people were retained to ensure the organisation remained –– Regional Directors and appropriate to the future activity levels Departmental Heads agree and work programme resource requirements as part –– Group reorganisation was implemented, of the annual work programme following a staff consultation process, and budget processes to retain core technical skills with a –– As an accredited Investor in strong leadership team. Total staff and People, we support continuous contractor headcount reduced by ~40% professional development –– The low oil price has led to a number of through technical, professional, employee cuts across the industry and management and behavioural therefore, the market for experienced skills courses as well as workers is strong mentoring and educational assistance schemes –– The Group is confident that the right people with the right skills have been –– Succession planning is in place retained through the process in order for all areas of the business to be adequately resourced to successfully deliver the work programme going forward Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Working responsibly CEO’s introduction At the heart of our business Dakar port, Senegal. Corporate Responsibility remains at the heart Cairn looks to deliver value through discovery and of our business to deliver and protect value development of hydrocarbons and our challenge is to do so in a safe, secure and environmentally and for all our stakeholders. socially responsible manner. Corporate Responsibility (CR) is at the heart of our business and is based on our core values of building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly. These are central to delivering our business objectives. We use our CR Management System (CRMS) to help us achieve these objectives Simon Thomson and demonstrate transparency to our stakeholders. Chief Executive 9 March 2015 We have Business Principles and CR Policies in place which are regularly updated, most recently in September 2014 to reflect changes in our business including our increased focus on risk management and the importance of the role of contractors and our non-operating partners within our business. Our Business Principles and CR policies are available on our website at www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility. 42 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information “Corporate Responsibility (CR) is at the heart of our business and is based on our core values of building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly.” The 3Rs 2014 Plans for 2015 Our Business 2014 has been a busy year operationally for Cairn with In 2015, as operator, we are delighted to be wells completed in Morocco and Senegal and seismic developing an appraisal and exploration programme Principles are based data acquired in Malta and the Republic of Ireland, in offshore Senegal, as well as continued participation addition to our significant non-operated activities. in non-operated wells in the UK and Norwegian on the core values sectors. We are also taking steps to become an Engaging with our contractors, who play an important approved operator in Norway. The completion of the 3Rs role in the delivery of our business, has been and of the Cap Boujdour well in early 2015 will also remains of great importance to us, especially with such be evaluated to identify the next steps. a diverse workforce. In our operated activities we rely heavily on our contractors’ performance which we We will ensure our CRMS remains fit for purpose in influence directly through day-to-day contact and 2015, especially in light of the Group reorganisation specific CR engagement programmes. Where we are a non-operating partner, we influence performance completed in 2014. We will continue to set CR objectives each year guided by the most important Respect through our relationship with the operating company material issues which take into account our We act with respect for people, which includes routine meetings and engaging on stakeholders’ concerns. their communities, the environment, specific topics where necessary. During 2015, we will continue to prioritise the human rights and the law. I am pleased to report that our safety performance has health, safety, security and wellbeing of people improved overall in 2014. However it is disappointing to report a Lost Time Incident (LTI) in July when a while continuing to promote safe behaviours of our contractors. We remain committed to protecting Relationships member of the rig crew on the Cajun Express was the environment in the areas in which we operate. injured following a fall whilst carrying out planned Good governance will also continue with our We act honestly, transparently and preventative maintenance on the drilling top drive commitment to meeting all of our tax obligations with integrity to develop strong, system. A thorough accident investigation was in a transparent manner. lasting relationships with all completed and corrective measures were taken to our stakeholders. avoid recurrence. We continue to strive to eliminate We continue to uphold and support the ten principles such incidents. of the United Nations Global Compact and we remain With significant activity during the year in West a Participating Company of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). Responsibility Africa managing health risks has been important and We behave fairly, ethically and we successfully implemented a malaria management In this way CR remains at the heart of our business to are accountable for our actions. and awareness programme whilst monitoring and deliver and protect value for all our stakeholders. We believe in, and act on, our implementing management procedures associated with the developing Ebola situation. responsibility to care for people, society and the environment. Our significant non-operated portfolio has continued to develop during the year and we play an active role in monitoring and engaging with our partners on associated CR requirements. Our Catcher and Kraken developments in the UK North Sea continue to progress. Kosmos voluntarily conducted the first Social Impact Assessment in the region prior to commencing drilling of the first well in the Cap Boujdour block. On board the Cajun Express drilling rig, offshore Senegal. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Working responsibly continued How we operate responsibly Protecting people, the environment and communities Cairn looks to create, add and realise value for stakeholders, but not at the expense of the safety and well-being of people and the environment. We manage the risks associated with our business The oil and gas business is, by nature, long-term and responsibly for all our activities and wherever we our approach covers every stage of the oil and gas operate. This means we aim to behave professionally life-cycle and is outlined below. in our dealings with people and in the environment from the very start of any project or activity. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Due Prequalification Exploration Site Exploration Diligence Seismic Survey Drilling Before making an When we apply for an Once Cairn has been Before we commence any Exploration wells are drilled acquisition or investment, exploration licence, the awarded the right to drilling activity, site surveys to determine whether applying for an exploration necessary documents are explore in a certain area, are carried out to gain hydro-carbons are present. licence or farming-in to submitted to the relevant we may carry out seismic more detailed information This phase can be accompanied an existing project, Cairn authorities. Typically this surveys to develop a on the area where an by a step-change in activity undertakes an extensive includes information about picture of geological exploration well may be and visibility to local people screening process which our legal status, financial structures below the drilled and to confirm as exploration can involve a includes assessing whether capability, technical surface. This helps identify that the selected drilling drilling rig, supply vessels and there are potential health competence and plans to the likelihood of an area location is safe and that any helicopters for transporting and safety, social, human manage health, safety and containing hydrocarbons sensitive environments can personnel. Exploration drilling rights, political, corruption, environmental risks and and helps optimise where be avoided. The process is preceded by various security or environmental contributions to local to drill. Seismic surveys are normally involves taking assessments to understand risks and opportunities. economic development. preceded by an assessment geological samples from potential health, safety, The findings from these of environmental, social the seabed and carrying environmental, social, security assessments are used or human rights impacts out shallow seismic and human rights impacts. in decision making on which are managed surveys. These activities These assessments identify whether or not to proceed, through our Project have low social or appropriate steps to reduce and if investment goes Delivery Process (PDP). environmental impacts impacts, manage risks and ahead, it informs and, therefore, usually assist in operating responsibly. approaches to risk do not require a separate Limited community management environmental or social development programmes going forward. impact assessment. may also be put into place at this time depending on the nature of the programme. Creating value In 2014 we conducted In 2014 Cairn participated During 2014 Cairn Pre and post drilling surveys In 2014 we continued our due diligence on farm-in in the recent licensing round successfully completed were completed for wells exploration drilling campaign opportunities including the in the Barents Sea, Norway. seismic surveys offshore offshore Senegal and offshore Morocco, and Mesana blocks in Spain. the Republic of Ireland and following drilling initiated and completed We farmed-in to the PL420 Malta. As non-operator, offshore Morocco. an exploration drilling block and drilling project we also participated in campaign offshore Senegal. operated by Statoil in seismic operations offshore We were also involved, as the Norwegian sector Western Sahara. Application non-operator, in exploration of the North Sea. We also for seismic surveys is drilling in the UK and farmed-out of UK sector pending offshore in Norwegian North Sea. blocks P2040 and P2086, the Gulf of Valencia. Drilling in the Cap Boujdour reducing our interests block, offshore Western south of Catcher. Sahara, commenced in December 2014. Discover more: Operational Discover more: Operational Discover more: Operational Discover more: Operational 22 review on P22-27 22 review on P22-27 22 review on P22-27 22 review on P22-27 44 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Bourbon Topaz, supply vessel On board the Cajun Express drilling rig offshore Senegal. offshore Senegal. 6. 7. 8. 9. Appraisal Development Production Decommissioning Drilling If promising amounts of If appraisal wells show The plan will also detail A variety of options are This phase occurs oil and gas are confirmed technically and commercially projected benefits to local available for the production when hydrocarbons during the exploration viable quantities of oil and communities, for example of oil and gas. During this can no longer be phase, appraisal drilling gas, a development plan is employment and supplier phase, which can last extracted safely or is then conducted. This prepared and submitted to opportunities, as well as many decades, regular economically at the end establishes the size and the relevant authorities for proposing how to manage reviews are made of of any field life-cycle. characteristics of the approval. This includes a potential impacts such as social and environmental Decommissioning discovery and provides rigorous assessment of an influx of workers from performance to ensure that consists of closing technical information to all the potential risks and outside the local community. impacts identified in the operations in a manner determine if the discovery a long-term assessment At this stage good design assessments are mitigated. that protects people is commercial and of environmental and is important to remove Changes in the risks and the environment subsequently optimise the social impacts covering and mitigate risks to an associated with activities to avoid unacceptable method for recovery of the a timeframe of between acceptable level, as well as are assessed throughout legacy issues for oil and gas. The potential 10 and 30 years. managing construction and the production period. local stakeholders impacts associated with installation in a manner to Safe operations remain and the Company. appraisal drilling are likewise minimise impacts. an ongoing requirement comparable to exploration at this stage, which means drilling and similar personnel are competent assessments are and good HSE behaviours carried out in advance. are in place, and equipment is properly maintained and operated. Adding value Realising value Due to the delay in We are participating We currently have no We are not engaged in refurbishment of the as non-operator in two operated production, but any decommissioning Blackford Dolphin rig, the development projects, historically had significant activities at this time. proposed Spanish Point the Kraken and Catcher production through our appraisal well, offshore fields, in the UK North Sea. Indian business which we Republic of Ireland, could not subsequently exited, Cairn be drilled in 2014 during the India Limited (CIL). Our safe weather window and involvement in exploration was therefore postponed. and latterly production in Preparation for anticipated India brought social and appraisal drilling in Senegal economic development is underway. to a number of regions. We anticipate production from our non-operated Catcher and Kraken fields from 2017. Discover more: Operational Discover more: North Sea Discover more: Cairn 22 review on P22-27 17 development on P17 29 in India on P29 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Working responsibly continued People Recognising that good people management is key to a high performing organisation Core to Cairn’s business are its people and we We achieved this through a variety of different activities. One such teambuilding event during the understand that our success depends upon the communication mediums including regular company year was undertaken by our team of Executive wholehearted support and commitment of our meetings involving our overseas offices, email Assistants in our Edinburgh headquarters. The employees. During 2014 we looked very closely at updates from senior management and teambuilding “Cairn terriers” set up a market stall event in the our organisation to ensure we had the right people events. Our Executive Directors also host regular office building in support of the children’s charity in place to meet the future activity levels and work “coffee and chat” sessions with small groups of staff Barnado’s, raising over £5,000 in the process. programme of the business. This resulted in a from across the business to facilitate two-way In addition to raising money for a local charity, reorganisation of the business to ensure forward conversations about strategy, operations and the which is part of our wider corporate charitable business objectives could be met. Attracting, working environment. giving programme, the event helped to develop developing and retaining the capability required team working skills and engagement throughout to deliver our business objectives remained a key To measure engagement levels amongst our people the business by generating widespread support consideration throughout the year. as part of our commitment to understanding how our amongst employees. people feel about working at Cairn, we conducted Organisational effectiveness an internal employee survey in December 2013. Performance management The Group reorganisation was announced and The survey demonstrated a good participation rate Recognising that good people management is key to a implemented during 2014. It was important that this with 76% of staff responding. The survey identified high performing organisation, in 2014 we introduced process resulted in the retention of core technical a number of areas of strength at Cairn including how a revised performance management process across skills and a strong leadership team, whilst allowing employees feel about their job and the Company; the group, designed to be simpler for staff and for certain non-core capabilities to be outsourced. the perception that Cairn has a positive impact on management, and to connect staff performance to society; and high levels of satisfaction with the pay business performance, creating a more cohesive After the reorganisation was announced to all and benefits offered at Cairn. The survey also performance measurement process. This enables our employees in June 2014, we commenced an identified a number of areas for development, staff to monitor their personal progress against the extensive collective and individual consultation which we will continue to focus on. progress of the business, mirroring the objectives of process with elected employee representatives the business, and understanding why and how their and all members of staff across the Group. During As part of this engagement strategy and our objectives are set. In practice, our strategic objectives the consultation process, we were able to minimise wider commitment to corporate responsibility, and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) provide the the need for compulsory redundancies through we encourage staff to support worthwhile causes starting point for setting business objectives at the the identification and acceptance of voluntary and allow all our staff up to three days’ paid leave per highest level of the organisation. These goals are then redundancy applications. In total by June 2015, year to enable them to participate in volunteering cascaded to department and individual objectives. we will have reduced our staff and contractor headcount by around 40% and have recruited fewer external candidates than in previous years. It was critical that throughout this process people “I have found the regular monthly one-to-one meetings with were treated with respect, with the needs of the my manager a useful routine to adopt. It has helped me future business in mind, and that the process to know where I am in relation to achieving my objectives, was conducted transparently. To support those keeps me focused and ensures that I commit to my own who were displaced, we held a successful career management day which included a number of personal development. The new approach to Performance workshops designed to provide individuals with Management at Cairn has further enabled me to clarify the skills and knowledge required to make the what my manager expects of me and to seek feedback transition to a new career. The option to accept on my strengths and areas for development. I now have further formal outplacement support or receive a training allowance to develop new skills was also so much more clarity on my role and responsibilities and offered to those leaving to provide essential support how I contribute to the performance of my department.” at a difficult time. To support all our staff impacted Quote from team member (those staying and those leaving) we held a number of change management workshops to help develop resilience and coping strategies. Engagement Throughout the year, during a period of transition and uncertainty, we continued to focus on engaging our employees with the business, ensuring that our people were informed and engaged in our strategic and business progress. 46 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information “The Group reorganisation was announced and implemented in 2014. It was important that this process resulted in the retention of core technical skills and a strong leadership team, whilst allowing for certain non-core capabilities to be outsourced.” “Our new performance management system The new process was designed following an extensive Diversity has helped me to focus on the output of my consultation process across the organisation and Diversity is about valuing everyone as an individual: in collaboration with a group of internal “People everyone is unique. Diversity can add varied ideas team members through regular one-to-one Champions”, and is intended to reinforce our and perspectives to a workplace and helps to develop conversations about progress. It has further identified high performing behaviours and values an open and inclusive working culture. A diverse ensured that my team and I have a better which are based on our core business values of workforce is important to Cairn and in 2014: understanding about how our objectives fit respect, relationships and responsibility. Employees –– 49% of Cairn staff were women are encouraged to actively seek feedback which –– 12% of Cairn staff worked part-time with the company’s overall business aims.” should be provided in a positive and constructive –– 76% of parents returned to work following Quote from line manager way. In addition, a number of People Management maternity/adoption/paternity leave Accountabilities were introduced, which outline what –– 14 different nationalities were employed at Cairn we expect from all our managers in encouraging, –– 2.8% of the workforce had a disability supporting and motivating their teams. The process is –– Average age at Cairn was 43 supported during the year through regular monthly –– 25% of management roles were held by women one-to-one meetings with line management in –– 14% of PLC Board were women. addition to the year-end annual performance review. In 2014, Cairn continued to roll out equality and Our new approach to performance management diversity training to staff and contractors. The was designed to ensure that: training is designed to further increase awareness –– our people understand their accountability for of Cairn’s commitment to equality of opportunity, delivering personal performance objectives; and the behaviours expected of everyone when it –– assets, functions, teams and personal comes to treating others with dignity and respect. performance objectives are connected to business goals; –– key behaviours which underpin high performance and which help us work together in a matrix organisation are clearly communicated and understood; and –– performance management becomes an ongoing process and not a once-a-year event. p Staff in Edinburgh headquarters. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Working responsibly continued Mapping CR priorities Twice per year we identify CR priorities to guide our CR activities as the business develops How we identify our key CR priorities These improvements were made in response In 2014 the identification of our CR priorities Our CR priorities reflect the topics that matter most to recommendations from both an internal CR was carried out during a ‘materiality’ workshop to our business and our stakeholders. The process Management System (CRMS) audit and an external attended by senior management and facilitated by which we identify these priorities is known as review of our 2013 CR report. The revised process by a third party. a materiality assessment process. We improved was trialled for the 2014 interim report, then refined the materiality assessment process in 2014, and rerun for the 2014 Annual Report. As part of the improved materiality assessment by introducing a more objective methodology process corporate and operational risks, identified with defined criteria, more closely linked to our Our ‘CR Materiality Methodology’ is based on during the business risk management procedure, business risk management procedure. the AccountAbility APS model (an internationally are grouped into clear CR topics. These topics are recognised framework developed by AccountAbility) then assessed against criteria aligned with the risk and helps us conform to the latest Global Reporting management procedure. This gives a rating for Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines ‘Probability and Impact Adjusted Importance to known as G4, which Cairn adopted in 2014. G4 is Cairn’ for each topic. superseding the GRI G3.1 guideline against which we have reported since 2011. GRI is a leading organization in the sustainability field. 2014 Year end materiality matrix Probability and impact adjusted importance to Cairn • Tax transparency High • Supply chain and contractors • Non-operated JV and overseas investments Complying with our Business • Significant Principles in Cap Boujdour • Security of people and operations • Succession planning • Workplace health and safety • Operational and Project Performance • New approaches • Political uncertainty • Sustainable project funding and technologies (host governments) • Corporate Governance Preventing major accidents • • Equality and diversity Medium • Workforce planning Preventing major spills • • Human rights Operational environmental footprint • • Business ethics • Operational and Process Safety • Net social and economic benefit • Climate change Low • Resource use • Biodiversity Insignificant • Product stewardship Importance to Cairn’s stakeholders Insignificant Low Medium Significant High 48 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information CR priorities Six material issues The topics were then assessed in relation to fixed Six material issues were identified to be of criteria for ‘Importance to Stakeholders’ and mapped onto a materiality matrix (as shown below) with final ‘high’ importance to both our stakeholders broad classifications of ‘high’, ‘medium’ or ‘low’ and to Cairn and these are described on for each topic. Those receiving a ‘high’ rating are regarded as material in the reporting process and the following pages. Further information also used to focus attention for objective setting. on how we identify, assess and manage these CR topics as well as the majority of those identified as ‘medium’ is also available on the Cairn website at www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility. Understanding Supply chain the matrix: and contractors The importance to Cairn is plotted on the vertical Read more on page 50 axis of the materiality matrix. The importance to stakeholders is plotted on the horizontal axis. The importance to Cairn reflects the probability and impact of a topic in line with Preventing major our risk assessment criteria. The importance accidents to stakeholders uses a number of criteria with Read more on page 51 increasing impact. In this way ‘Preventing major accidents’ has a low probability but high impact when using Cairn’s risk criteria, giving a medium rating: however, it is classified as high against Preventing major spills the stakeholder concern criteria therefore when Read more on page 52 plotted in the matrix it is a ‘high’ material issue. Operational environmental footprint Read more on page 54 Tax transparency Read more on page 55 Complying with our Business Principles in Cap Boujdour Read more on page 57 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Working responsibly continued Mapping CR priorities continued CR priorities Supply chain and contractors With up to 78% of the hours worked in connection crew was injured following a fall whilst carrying out already a developed oil and gas industry can be difficult. with Cairn’s business contracted out to various planned preventative maintenance on the drilling top In 2014, contracts were awarded to local supply parties at times of significant operational activity drive system. A detailed accident investigation was base logistics providers in Morocco, Senegal and the we place a particular emphasis on selecting the right completed and corrective measures were taken Republic of Ireland. Particular attention was paid to service providers, communicating expectations, to avoid recurrence. Overall our Lost Time Injury developing health and safety performance among ensuring effective policies and management Frequency (LTIF) and Total Recordable Injury Rate local contractors through locating experienced HSE processes, monitoring performance and sharing (TRIR) are lower than experienced in 2013. advisers at our shore bases in Agadir, Morocco; Dakar, lessons learned. Senegal; and Foynes, Republic of Ireland. These HSE Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF)** advisors provided, amongst other activities, training, All our contractors are required to work within (Lost time injuries per million hours worked) ongoing coaching and supervision, defensive driving industry good practice frameworks and they must courses, and training on waste handling. Specialist have clear Health Safety and Environment (HSE) 4.0 heavy lifting training was provided in all locations as 3.67 management systems in place to understand risks these contractors had limited experience of some associated with their activities and implement of the specific equipment used by the industry. 3.0 appropriate measures in a manner to control them. 2.52 We have a rigorous selection process to assess the Anti-Bribery and Corruption suitability of contractors, which includes assessing 2.0 Our Group Code of Business Ethics and Anti-Bribery their ability to conduct operations in line with and Corruption (ABC) System not only guides our our Business Principles and Group policies and own behaviour but also clarifies our expectations of 1.0 procedures. In 2014 we revised our Contractor 0.60 0.48 0.65 partners and suppliers. Before entering into a business 0.42 0.43 0.45 Selection and Management Procedure improving 0 relationship, we undertake a process of information integration of our CR requirements from contractors, 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 gathering and risk identification, with the option to as well as refining our tender selection criteria for undertake further third party checks if any concerns Cairn total for employees and contractors both drilling rigs and seismic vessels. Following do arise. To assist with the risk assessment process, IOGP* benchmark appointment, we link our contractors’ HSE or CR we use various due diligence tools which enable us systems to our CRMS using a bridging document to identify potential ‘red flags’ and establish whether *  IOGP is the International Association of Oil & Gas which lays out responsibilities and clarifies areas of Producers. We have included overall IOGP benchmark potential issues are manageable and if any resulting potential uncertainty. This is supplemented by project figures (average of onshore and offshore). risks lie within our risk appetite statement. As an specific procedures which must be adhered to. For example of this, we conducted third party due diligence example, in Senegal specialist contractors were used As part of our commitment to generate a positive checks on over 20 suppliers and business partners. for management of hazardous waste to ensure that net social and economic benefit we recognise the good ‘Duty of Care’ practices were followed and importance of developing local contractors to support During H1 2014 we updated our procedures to that the treatment and disposal was undertaken our activities wherever we can. However, sourcing further minimise the risk of bribery and corruption in at suitable facilities by fit and proper persons. skilled, local contractors in areas where there is not the supply chain. In Senegal Cairn worked closely with Lost Time Injury In 2013 we initiated a Strategic Contractor Case study Engagement Campaign marked by our Chief Executive visiting the Cajun Express rig during operations offshore Morocco in November 2013, following two Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) experienced shortly after drilling commenced that same month. Managing waste This Campaign was intensified in 2014. All key contractors were engaged by senior personnel on the importance of maintaining HSE and CR Cairn pays particular attention to Duty of Care requires prevention of escape the waste management capabilities of waste; appropriate handling, treatment standards as the key priority for our 2014 projects and disposal; and, handing such waste by offshore Senegal, Republic of Ireland and Malta. of our host countries and wherever ‘fit and proper’ persons. A total of 13 major contractors were engaged we operate, we aim to conform in this way prior to activities commencing. Senior to EU based approaches to In both Senegal and the Republic of Ireland, management continued to visit operational locations waste management. local contractor capabilities and options for with 14 rig visits attended by personnel of Project disposal of hazardous wastes are restricted. Manager level or above. These visits served This includes not only the application of In the case of the Republic of Ireland, as part of to reinforce our commitment to HSE amongst a waste management hierarchy (avoid, the EU, long established methods are available both our own personnel and our contractors. reuse, recycle, recover, dispose) but also to meet ‘Duty of Care’ requirements including requirements of ‘Duty of Care’. treatment in the UK where necessary. Despite our efforts, during 2014 we experienced one LTI on the Cajun Express rig. A member of the rig 50 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information CR priorities Preventing major accidents Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)**  The prevention of any accident remains commenced. All contingency plans, equipment (Total recordable injuries per million hours worked) a key focus for Cairn and the wider oil and and trained staff were in place prior to starting gas industry and is recognised as a material the first well. As required under Senegalese 8.0 CR topic for Cairn which requires significant legislation the rig and supply base were inspected 7.34 ongoing vigilance and attention. We apply and authorised by the Senegalese regulator rigorous procedures to identify, assess and before and during the drilling process. 6.0 5.04 manage potential risks and impacts in line with the As Low As Reasonably Practicable In respect of our non-operated activities Cairn 3.88 4.0 (ALARP) principle. continued to work closely with EnQuest and Premier Oil on our United Kingdom Continental 1.81 1.68 Our drilling operations, both operated and Shelf (UKCS) development assets, the operators 2.0 1.76 1.74 1.60 non-operated, are the key focus of our drive of Kraken and Catcher respectively. This included 0 to prevent major accidents. understanding the HSE risks associated with the 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 projects to ensure robust mitigation plans are The exploration wells offshore Morocco and implemented throughout the design, construction, Cairn total for employees and contractors Senegal were designed in accordance with the commissioning and operational phases. In addition, IOGP* benchmark requirements of the Cairn Well Engineering and as in previous years, we continued to fulfil our ‘see Construction (WEC) Department and CRMS. to’ obligations in our Norwegian activities. This is a *  IOGP is the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers. We have included overall IOGP benchmark These requirements include various well requirement that non-operating partners must figures (average of onshore and offshore). engineering and control barriers applied during assess HSE arrangements of the block operator well design and operation (see ‘Preventing major prior to approval of activities being given by the **  Cairn TRIR and LTIF statistics can be higher than the IOGP spills’). All Cairn well designs are assessed by an Norwegian regulator. This ensures all non-operating benchmark after only one incident, or a small number of incidents, because our exploration activities often last for independent external expert well examiner who parties assure the planned activities being and take only a short time period, so there are relatively few hours verifies that the design complies with defined responsibility for them. In line with our objective worked compared with ongoing production and other longstandards based on UK best practice. of becoming an operator in the Barents Sea we term operations. are furthering our efforts to demonstrate our In Senegal, the exploration drilling programme operational capabilities in both Norway and the UK. the business ethics specialist Good Corporation to only commenced once the well risk assessment, undertake a detailed risk assessment of the business major accident safety study, and emergency/oil In conjunction with our partners and industry environment, with a specific focus on potential bribery spill response plans had received approval from bodies we continue to monitor potential legislation and corruption risks. The local presence and knowledge the Senegalese regulators. An operational changes in the UK and other EU jurisdictions of the Good Corporation helped guide and shape readiness audit was also conducted including due to the introduction of the new EU Offshore our approach to managing the potential risks and an independent expert assessment of critical Safety Directive. implementing mitigations. This included developing equipment and systems before drilling a local ABC Management System and preparing training in both English and French. By contrast, in Senegal such methods are limited especially in relation to wastes generated from the offshore oil and gas industry given this is largely a new industry in the country. Consequently, Cairn conducted a specialist review of waste disposal options in and around Dakar, Senegal and engaged a specialist experienced contractor with both expert knowledge of local capabilities and ability to develop sound Duty of Care programmes for the project. Base supply provider contractors, Bolloré Africa Logistics, Senegal. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Working responsibly continued Mapping CR priorities continued CR priorities Preventing major spills The prevention of major hydrocarbon spills and To prevent a major accident and oil spill we take a number of steps: preparation for response in the unlikely event of a major spill event remain of critical importance Design remains functional. In the event of unsuccessful to the oil and gas industry and to Cairn and Our wells are designed and independently assured tests we make safe the well and cease drilling until our stakeholders. to a level that exceeds requirements for the expected resolution of any problem, which can result in characteristics of the geological formations to be substantial lost time and cost. Despite this we During the year we continued to focus on ensuring encountered. We apply our well design standards do not recommence drilling until completion of the integrity of the exploration wells drilled offshore to ensure the appropriate materials are used and work and if necessary specialist support to assure Morocco and Senegal as described in ‘Preventing installation methods conform to recognised good function. We do not compromise in this area. major accidents’ and to adopt industry good practice industry standards. A qualified external well examiner in assessing the risks of oil spills and in oil spill independently assesses the well design and proposed Secondary well control response planning. development methods. This gives us assurance that This includes measures to prevent the wellbore fluids the well development will meet safety standards. escaping from the well, using a BOP. The BOP installed We select drilling fluids to maintain well integrity on the wellhead at the seabed is made up of a series of and also to minimise impact on the environment hydraulically operated rams and can be operated in an (see also ‘Preventing major accidents’). emergency from the rig or via the backup Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) on board the standby vessel Primary well control which remains with the rig. The BOP is rated for We apply a dual barrier approach during drilling pressures greatly in excess of those expected to activities. This involves control measures designed be encountered in the exploration well. to maintain fluids in the wellbore, including drillinghole pressure evaluation and management, Tertiary well control kick detection, kick tolerance management, These measures provide a third line of defence fluid management, cementing practices, blow-out when formations cannot be controlled by primary preventer (BOP) system testing and assurance. and secondary measures and cover well control Testing of a BOP is rigorous and is conducted options such as drilling of a relief well and use of routinely on a defined schedule to ensure it a capping device. Case study Working with stakeholders on oil spill planning In Senegal we held an emergency and We shared a video of this exercise with the oil spill management seminar with a authorities and local contractors. variety of stakeholders in late 2013. During early May 2014, in the Republic of Ireland, Cairn participated in the successful This assisted in establishing our 2014 response Shannon Estuary Anti-Pollution Team (SEA-PT) capability and interfaces with in-country oil spill exercise in County Galway. This was response capability. In addition, a field equipment helpful in developing our Oil Spill Contingency deployment exercise was conducted in Senegal Plan and in understanding local capabilities. It which used our offshore vessel contractors and was well attended and gave us the opportunity shore base personnel. to work directly with stakeholders including local council representatives, local environmental experts, the Irish Coast Guard and other civil authorities. 52 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Additionally, in the unlikely event of an oil spill we are –– Subsea cap and secure capability – Cairn As shown in the tables below, in 2014 we maintained able to provide an effective oil spill response. We have maintained access to the Subsea Well Incident our record of no oil spills to the environment in the last applied the latest good practice in all of our recent and System (SWIS) which includes the Capping Stack five years. future drilling programmes. System (CSS), the Subsea Incident Response –– Planning – applying the IOGP Joint Industry Toolkit (SIRT) and the Global Dispersant Total spills to the environment (number) Project (JIP) new approach to oil spill risk Stockpile, all of which are managed by OSRL. We 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 assessment and response planning which includes ran logistics workshops and continued improving a structured and detailed analysis of oil spill risk, our ability to mobilise and deploy this equipment; Oil 0 0 0 0 0 including: development of potential spill scenarios; –– Oil Spill Contingency Plans (OSCPs) – these Fuel 1 1 0 0 0 likelihood and consequence analysis; detailed were developed using latest IOGP practices and Chemical 3 0 1 0 0 modeling; development of a credible response approved in Senegal before drilling commenced. capability; and plans submitted and approved by We consulted a number of stakeholders including Waste 0 0 0 0 0 the authorities in Senegal and in preparation for government departments, non-government Other 0 2 0 0 0 future drilling in the Republic of Ireland; organisations (NGOs), local response organisations –– Surface response capability – maintaining tiered and subject experts for development of our OSCP oil spill response capability including Associate in preparation for drilling an appraisal well in the Membership of Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) Republic of Ireland; and Total spills to the environment (barrels) for access to established Tier 3 oil spill response –– Preparedness – training and emergency exercises 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 equipment. We also enhanced our Tier 2 were held at our Edinburgh headquarters and capability in Senegal through membership of operational sites in Senegal during 2014 and Oil 0 0 0 0 0 Western and Central Africa Aerial Surveillance preparations made for the Republic of Ireland. Fuel 28.30 0.06 0 0 0 and Dispersant Spraying Services (WACAF). These helped to embed roles and responsibilities Chemical 56.85 0 2.20 0 0 OSRL membership also gave us access to highly and rehearsed application of the oil spill plans and experienced consultants who assisted in the emergency response plans in our field locations. Waste 0 0 0 0 0 development of the oil spill response plans and Other 0 9.44 0 0 0 who could assist in the event of an oil spill; Oil spill response exercise, Senegal. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Working responsibly continued Mapping CR priorities continued CR priorities Operational environmental footprint In many parts of the world we operate under –– Malta – an environmental review in line with and set meaningful targets for total GHG reduction specific regulatory requirements in order to Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) good over time. We have therefore chosen to adopt prevent or minimise any impact of our activities. practices was conducted prior to commencing a methodology for calculating GHG emissions and completing the 2D seismic campaign intensity with reference to the number of hours However, where regulatory requirements are offshore in late March/early April. Though not a worked, as this provides a direct relationship with not in place or are limited, we always carry out an regulatory requirement the review was used to the levels of activity and provides a mechanism for environmental assessment of the local area prior to identify and apply mitigation measures during engaging with our contractors on energy efficiency. undertaking any significant operational activity. These the seismic acquisition process. GHG intensity levels in 2014 are slightly higher assessments allow us to understand how our activities than in 2013 largely as a consequence of an may impact the environment and local activities and CR plans, which include environmental requirements, extended stay on one of the Senegal wells resulting how we can avoid or minimise any impact. They also and compliance registers are put in place for all our from operational delays. In addition, the figures for provide important background information. operational programmes and these have been Scope 3 GHGs (business travel) have all increased, adhered to with no issue of non-conformance including historic data, due to changes in calculation During 2014 the following environmental or non-compliance during 2014. factors in line with DEFRA 2014 updates. assessments were completed: –– Senegal – an Environmental and Social Impact Greenhouse gases Water, wastewater and waste Assessment (ESIA) and Environmental and Greenhouse gases (GHGs) form a part of our Water use in our 2014 activities was not regarded Social Management Plan ahead of our offshore operational environmental footprint. We monitor as a significant or material issue due to the nature drilling operations; and manage the GHGs emitted during our activities of our offshore activities and abundance of local –– Republic of Ireland – an Environmental Area and disclose them in accordance with industry supply. Wastewater discharges and waste disposals Assessment (EAA) in planning for the drilling of requirements and standards. We disclose on an consisted of typical vessel sanitary discharges an appraisal well. During the planning process ‘operational control’ basis which means we report and discharge and disposal of drilling wastes. it became clear that the refurbishment of the emissions from those assets which are operated Cairn used water based drilling fluids in the Blackford Dolphin would not complete in time to by us and not from those controlled by our partners. 2014 drill campaigns and these were discharged meet the safe weather window. Consequently With no operated production facilities, our in line with good industry practice following an the Spanish Point appraisal well was postponed; direct GHG emissions occur primarily from the exercise to minimise less benign substances. –– Republic of Ireland – submission of an EAA combustion of fuel on rigs and vessels during Waste management in Senegal received particular ahead of a 3D seismic campaign conducted the drilling of wells or acquisition of seismic. attention in order to ensure a ‘Duty of Care’ offshore in Q3 2014. Approval to proceed was was maintained in line with European practice received in July. The survey was conducted The graph below indicates that our GHG emissions (see Supply chain and contractors). successfully and we applied the new ‘Guidance over the last five years are heavily dependent on the to Manage the Risk to Marine Mammals from level of operational activity in any given year. This Man-made Sound Sources in Irish Waters’; and makes it difficult to identify baseline information Total and normalised GHG emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3) 200,000 88 100 Tonnes CO2e per 1,000 hours worked 150,000 75 151,181 166,266 Tonnes CO2e 46 41 100,000 36 50 9 25,030 50,000 25 59,465 479 1,005 289 746 1,589 280 1,350 420 2,793 402 3,127 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Tonnes CO2e per 1,000 hours worked (all scopes GHG) Notes: We calculate our GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition). 1. For calculating Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions we use emission factors from the API Compendium 2009 and also from EEMS 2008 (UK Environmental and Emissions Monitoring System for the Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC)). 2. For calculating Scope 2 (purchased electricity) GHG emissions we use emission factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) report ‘CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights‘ (2013 Edition). 3. In 2014 we updated our methodology for calculating Scope 3 (business travel) emissions in line with DEFRA 2014, including its recommendation to include an uplift for the influence of radiative forcing in air travel emissions. This uplift ensures that the maximum climate impact of an organisations’ travel habits is captured. We have re-baselined our historic data in line with DEFRA 2014. All of our Scope 3 emissions figures have increased considerably because of these updates. (DEFRA 2014 methodology and conversion factors can be found at http://www.ukconversionfactorscarbonsmart.co.uk/) For further details about our GHG emissions’ data and calculations, please see our website. 54 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Artemis Atlantic vessel used CR priorities to acquire 2D seismic data offshore Malta, 2014. Tax transparency Cairn operates in various different territories with diverse tax obligations and requirements and we are committed to ensuring that in every territory we comply fully with local tax rules and regulations. We support transparency of tax contributions and other payments to Governments and as such became a Participating Company in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Case study (EITI) in September 2013. As in previous years, we have disclosed our payments to governments as shown below. Minimising the impact of noise during Total Payments to Governments (US$’000) 3D seismic operations offshore 60,000 Republic of Ireland and Malta 50,000 40,402 40,000 we reach maximum power. Operations In 2014 we undertook a 3D would be delayed until any marine mammals 30,000 seismic survey in the Porcupine sighted are observed to be at a safe distance 20,000 Basin, offshore west Republic of of 1,000 metres for 60 minutes. Should 7,544 11,730 6,103 Ireland. The survey was conducted the air guns be shut down in the hours of 10,000 139 5,439 9,875 4,569 in August and September and darkness, they would not be restarted until 2010 2011 3,098 2012 2013 2014 daylight which enables the MMOs to carry 0 resulted in the acquisition of nearly out a pre-survey watch. Note: 1,000km2 of 3D seismic data. In addition Cairn receives a tax refund on qualifying exploration There is a significant marine Summary reports on marine mammal and administrative expenditure in Norway. mammal presence in the area and observations were sent to the Irish regulator Payments to Corporation tax as such it was important to minimise daily and a comprehensive report was compiled central government Profit oil and gas Other taxes the impact of noise generated by detailing the marine mammal interactions and seismic air guns on the marine the mitigation measures employed. mammal population during By contrast no specific environmental the survey. assessment was required or noise restrictions imposed for shooting seismic offshore Malta. The Irish National Parks and Wildlife Service However, in accordance with our internal provided new guidelines on minimising the standards we conducted an environmental impact of man-made noise in 2014 and these, review using Environmental Impact along with the findings of the Environmental Assessment (EIA) practices and ensured that Area Assessment (EAA) undertaken by Cairn, we applied the approach described under the formed the basis for our mitigation measures. Agreement on the Conservation of Cetaceans As with all our seismic operations, Cairn of the Black Sea, Mediterranean Sea and employed two Marine Mammal Observers Contiguous Atlantic Area (ACCOBAMS). (MMOs) who worked on board the seismic vessel for the duration of the campaign. The impact of noise was primarily minimised by using a process called ‘soft start’, in which we slowly increase the power of acoustic sources over a minimum of 40 minutes, giving marine mammals time to leave the area before Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 Atwood Achiever drillship operating CB-1 well. 56 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Working responsibly continued Mapping CR priorities continued CR priorities Complying with our Business Principles in Cap Boujdour Cairn has a farm-in agreement with Kosmos Energy for a 20% non-operated interest in “Both Cairn and the operator, Kosmos, believe that the Cap Boujdour exploration block. responsible resource exploration and, if successful, The farm-in builds on Cairn’s presence in three development in Western Sahara can occur in parallel countries in Morocco, Senegal and Mauritania. with the UN-led discussion on the region’s future.” The CB-1 exploration well commenced operations on the Al Khayr prospect in December 2014 Responsible resource development can proceed in In 2014, an Environmental Impact Assessment following the successful completion of a 3D parallel with the UN-led discussions on the region’s (EIA) was delivered and approved in accordance seismic survey by Kosmos in the late summer. future, as long as any such resource development with Moroccan legal requirements. In addition is conducted for the benefit of the people of and in accordance with international best practice, Western Sahara has been classified since 1961 as the territory. Kosmos also conducted a voluntary social impact a ‘Non-Self-Governing Territory’. Both Morocco assessment (SIA), the first in the region, to present and the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic Applying our Business Principles the project to local stakeholders and address claim Western Sahara as their sovereign territory. Prior to finalising the decision to farm-in to concerns. These helped to improve understanding Hydrocarbon exploration offshore of the territory Cap Boujdour Offshore, an extensive due and assist in developing open lines of communication is consistent with international law. Resolution of diligence management process was undertaken with local communities and will help shape social the territorial status is not required for exploration to fully understand any risks associated with investment and capacity building programmes as the UN views Morocco as the territory’s the project. going forward. administering authority and as such it can issue permits for resource development. In late 2013, Kosmos made a joint declaration with the Government of Morocco setting out The UN continues to mediate a process to resolve shared commitments regarding exploration the dispute between Morocco and the Saharawi activities and the key principles under which Arab Democratic Republic. In 2013, Morocco’s hydrocarbon development would proceed1. Economic, Social and Environmental Council, an As part of the ongoing engagement programme, independent constitutional body launched intensive governments and international governance and consultations in the region on how to properly economic experts have been engaged to contribute manage the development of the region. to a framework for hydrocarbon development in the region. During 2014 Cairn also participated Initial oil and gas industry activities in the area are and supported Kosmos in discussion to address and focused solely on exploration and do not involve apply the Joint Declaration of Principles, in particular, the removal of resources. The region remains in monitoring and promoting human rights. economically underdeveloped. Cairn believes that the exploration for hydrocarbon resources will enhance economic development prospects for all people of the territory, with the possibility of greater private sector investment and job creation. This Strategic report has been approved by the Board. Simon Thomson Chief Executive 9 March 2015 1. www.kosmosenergy.com/pdfs/ONHYM-Kosmos-Joint-Declaration-of-Principles-English.pdf Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Simon Thomson James Smith Ian Tyler Chief Executive (50) Chief Financial Officer (38) Non-Executive Chairman (54) Biography Simon Thomson was appointed Chief James Smith joined Cairn in March Ian Tyler was chief executive of Executive in July 2011 having been 2014 from Rothschild where he was a Balfour Beatty plc from 2005 until Legal and Commercial Director since director of the energy & power team March 2013. During this time he took 2006 and holding various posts across with 15 years’ experience advising E&P the company from being primarily a the organisation including head of companies, oil majors and national oil UK construction business, to a global assets. Simon originally joined Cairn companies on their M&A transactions infrastructure services business. in 1995 and holds an LLB (Hons) from and equity and debt market financing. Ian graduated with a first class degree Aberdeen University and a Diploma in During his investment banking career, in Commerce from Birmingham Legal Practice from Glasgow University. James was a long-standing adviser to University. He then qualified as a Cairn on every major transaction and chartered accountant with Arthur financing from the IPO of Cairn India Andersen in 1987. Ian subsequently until he joined the Company. James held a number of senior finance holds a BA (Hons) from the University and operational positions within of Oxford. listed companies. Term of Office Simon was appointed to the Board James was appointed to the Board in Ian was appointed as an independent in November 2006 as Legal and May 2014 as Chief Financial Officer. non-executive director in June 2013 Commercial Director and became and became non-executive Chairman Chief Executive in July 2011. in May 2014. Independent Not applicable Not applicable Yes External Appointments Simon is a non-executive director of Ian is non-executive chairman Graham’s The Family Dairy Limited of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, and a member of the advisory Board a non-executive director and of the Winning Scotland Foundation. chairman of the audit committee of Cable & Wireless Communications plc, a non-executive director of BAE Systems plc and non-executive chairman of Bovis Homes Group Plc. Committee Membership Simon chairs the Senior Leadership James chairs the Risk Management Ian chairs the nomination committee Team. He is a member of the Committee and is a member of the and is a member of the audit committee, nomination committee and attends Senior Leadership Team. He is a the governance committee and the meetings of the remuneration member of the governance committee remuneration committee. committee by invitation and part and attends meetings of the audit of each audit committee meeting committee by invitation. by invitation. 58 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Todd Hunt Iain McLaren M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Alexander Berger Non-Executive Director (62) Non-Executive Director (64) Non-Executive Director (59) Non-Executive Director (49) Todd Hunt has 40 years’ experience in Iain McLaren has significant M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC (Jackie Alexander Berger is chief executive the oil and gas industry. He is president experience in the oil and gas sector. Sheppard) was previously executive officer of Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., and joint owner of Atropos Exploration He is a chartered accountant and vice president, corporate and legal at a private Dutch exploration and Company and Atropos Production was formerly senior partner for Talisman Energy Inc., a post she held production company based in Company based in Dallas, Texas. KPMG in Scotland. for 15 years from 1993 to 2008. Amsterdam. Alexander holds a masters She holds a BA from the Memorial degree in Petroleum Engineering from University of Newfoundland, BA and Delft University and an MBA from MA in Jurisprudence from Oxford Rotterdam School of Management. University and LLB from McGill University. Jackie was admitted to the Law Society of Alberta (Canada) in 1982 and was appointed Queen’s Counsel for the Province of Alberta in 2008. Todd was appointed as an Iain was appointed as an independent Jackie was appointed as an Alexander was appointed as an independent non-executive director non-executive director in July 2008. independent non-executive independent non-executive in May 2003. However, given his director in May 2010. director in May 2010. length of tenure he can no longer technically be considered to be an independent non-executive director in terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code. No Yes Yes Yes Todd is president and joint owner of Iain is chairman of Investors Capital Jackie is non-executive chairperson Alexander is chief executive officer Atropos Exploration Company and Trust plc and a non-executive director of Emera Inc., a public Canada-based of Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., and Atropos Production Company. of Afren plc, Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon international energy generation, a director of Oranje-Nassau Energie plc, Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and transportation and distribution UK Limited and Oranje-Nassau Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities company. She is also a director of the Energy Petroleum Limited. plc. He is also a past president of the general partner of Pacific NorthWest Institute of Chartered Accountants LNG LP, which was formed for the of Scotland. purpose of constructing, owning and operating an LNG facility in British Colombia. She is a founder of two upstream oil and gas companies and is the lead director and chair of the audit committee of one of those companies, Black Swan Energy Inc., a Canadabased private equity financed company. Jackie is also the former chairperson of the Research and Development Corporation of Newfoundland and Labrador, a Crown Corporation. Todd is a member of the remuneration Iain chairs the audit committee and is a Jackie chairs both the Alexander is a member of committee, the nomination committee member of the nomination committee remuneration committee and the audit committee, the and the governance committee. and the remuneration committee. the governance committee. nomination committee and the governance committee. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 Directors’ report The directors of Cairn Energy PLC (registered in Scotland with Company Directors Number SC226712) present their Annual Report and Accounts for the year The names and biographical details of the current directors of the Company ended 31 December 2014 together with the audited consolidated financial are given in the Board of directors section on pages 58 and 59. The beneficial statements of the Group and Company for the year. These will be laid before interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below: the shareholders at the AGM to be held on Thursday 14 May 2015. As at As at As at 31 December 31 December 9 March Results and dividend 2013 2014 2015 The Group made a loss after tax of US$381.1 million (2013 loss of Simon Thomson 387,383 457,567 457,567 US$555.9 million). James Smith* 0 2,688 2,688 The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year Ian Tyler 0 0 0 ended 31 December 2014. Todd Hunt 72,012 72,012 72,012 Iain McLaren 7,878 7,878 7,878 Subsequent events that have occurred after the balance sheet date as at 31 December 2014 are included in Section 6 of the Notes to the Jackie Sheppard 0 7,000 7,000 Financial Statements. Alexander Berger 10,979 40,008 40,008 Strategic report Details of the Group’s strategy and business model during the year and the Former directors information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic report can be found Dr Mike Watts** 1,164,932 – – in the Strategic report section on pages 1 to 57 of this document, which are Jann Brown** 295,550 – – deemed to form part of this report by reference. Sir Bill Gammell** 596,331 – – Details of Cairn’s offices and Cairn’s advisers are given at the end of this report. Dr James Buckee** 37,788 – – Change of control * James Smith was appointed as an executive director of the Company on 15 May 2014. All of the Company’s share incentive plans contain provisions relating to ** As set out in the Company’s Corporate Governance statement on pages 63 to 72, on 15 May a change of control and further details of these plans are provided in the 2014, Dr Mike Watts stood down as the Deputy Chief Executive of the Company, Jann Brown Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97. Generally, outstanding stood down as the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, Dr James Buckee stood down as a non-executive director of the Company and Sir Bill Gammell stood options and awards will vest and become exercisable on a change of control, down as the non-executive Chairman of the Company. subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time. Details of outstanding awards over ordinary shares in the Company held by On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his the directors (or any members of their families) are set out in the Directors’ employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation pursuant Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97. to his service contract. Further details of the relevant provisions are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report on page 84. There are no agreements None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service providing for compensation to the Chief Financial Officer or to employees on contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings. Details of the a change of control and no such provision will be included in the contracts of directors’ service contracts are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report other future appointees to the Board. on pages 76 to 97. Other than the Senior Secured Borrowing Base Facility Agreement entered Share capital into by the Company with BNP Paribas and other syndicated banks dated The issued share capital of the Company is shown in Note 5.1 of the Notes to 18 July 2014 (the “Facility Agreement”), there are no significant agreements the Financial Statements. As at 9 March 2015, 576,343,551 ordinary shares to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate in the of 231/169 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the event of a change of control of the Company. In terms of clause 9.2 of the London Stock Exchange. The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set Facility Agreement, if there is a change of control of the Company, any lender out in the Company’s Articles of Association. There are no special control may cancel its commitment and declare its participation in all outstanding rights in relation to the Company’s shares and the Company is not aware of utilisations, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions immediately due and payable. on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. Corporate governance Voting rights The Company’s Corporate Governance statement is set out on pages 63 to 72 The following paragraph details the position in relation to voting rights set out and is deemed to form part of this report by reference. in the Company’s Articles of Association. However, the Company recognises that best practice is now to hold a poll on all shareholder resolutions. It is the Company’s current practice, therefore, to hold a poll and it is committed to doing so going forward. Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every share held by him/her. In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding. Under the Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to 60 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting. A member The directors may also refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class Company has a lien. meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member. A corporation which is a The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason member of the Company may authorise one or more individuals to act as its therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated form unless the representative or representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, is duly separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares. A person so authorised stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable to stamp duty, is lodged shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as at the transfer office or at such other place as the directors may determine, the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company. is accompanied by the relevant share certificate(s) and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to Restrictions on voting make the transfer and is in favour of not more than four transferees jointly. If the No member shall, unless the directors of the Company otherwise determine, directors refuse to register a transfer, they shall, as soon as practicable and in any be entitled in respect of any share held by him/her to attend or vote at a event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with general meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy if any call or other the Company (in the case of a share in certificated form) or the date on which sum presently payable by him/her to the Company in respect of shares in the the operator instruction (as defined in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations Company remains unpaid. Further, if a member has been served with a notice 2001) was received by the Company (in the case of a share in uncertificated by the Company under the Companies Act 2006 requesting information form) (or in either case such longer or shorter period (if any) as the Listing Rules concerning interests in shares and has failed in relation to any shares to provide may from time to time permit or require), send to the transferee notice of the Company, within 14 days of the notice, with such information, the directors the refusal. of the Company may determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect of such shares to attend or vote (either in person or by proxy) at any general Major interests in share capital meeting or at any separate general or class meeting of the holders of that class As at 31 December 2014 and 2 March 2015 (being the latest practicable date of shares. Proxy forms must be submitted not less than 48 hours (or such shorter prior to the date of this report), the Company had received notification that time as the Board may determine) (excluding, at the Board’s discretion, any part shareholdings of 3% and over were as set out in the table below. of any day that is not a working day) before the time appointed for the holding As at As at of the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 31 December % Share 2 March % Share hours after it was demanded, not less than 24 hours (or such shorter time as the 2014 Capital 2015 Capital Board may determine) before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at MFS Investment which it is to be used. Management 75,181,585 13.05 79,803,779 13.85 BlackRock 54,755,256 9.50 63,854,899 11.08 Variation of rights Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of Greenlight Capital 32,309,120 5.61 32,305,959 5.61 shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class may, subject to statute Schroder Investment and unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to the shares of Management 29,313,125 5.09 24,146,564 4.19 that class, be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders Franklin Templeton 24,248,713 4.21 26,621,773 4.62 of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting Aviva Investors 21,994,682 3.82 24,098,192 4.18 of the holders of the shares of that class. At every such separate general meeting, Hotchkis & Wiley 19,534,233 3.39 26,889,183 4.67 the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least Legal & General one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class. These provisions also Investment Management 17,270,219 3.00 – – apply to the variation or abrogation of the special rights attached to some only of the shares of any class as if the shares concerned and the remaining shares of such class formed separate classes. The rights attached to any class of shares Political donations shall, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of such shares No political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred or the terms upon which such shares are for the time being held, be deemed not during the year. to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with, or subsequent to, the first mentioned shares or by the purchase by Greenhouse gas emissions the Company of its own shares. Details of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the Strategic report section on pages 1 to 57 of this document, which are deemed to form Transfer of shares part of this report by reference. Subject to any procedures set out by the directors in accordance with the Articles of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by instrument in writing Financial instruments in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors of The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are the Company. The instrument of transfer shall be executed by, or on behalf of, detailed in Appendix 2 of the Financial Statements. the transferor and (except in the case of fully paid shares) by, or on behalf of, the transferee. The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the shares Acquisition of own shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members On 25 October 2013, with its focus on capital discipline, the Company initiated of the Company. a share buy-back programme with a view to maximising shareholder value and optimising capital allocation. The Board considered that the share buy-back The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason programme would maximise shareholder value by increasing the capital gain per therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share share that would be expected in the event of a successful hydrocarbon discovery unless such share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and and that it would be in the best interests of shareholders generally. Therefore, traded on the London Stock Exchange’s main market for listed securities. The the Company entered into an irrevocable and non-discretionary agreement directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form with its brokers, Morgan Stanley and Jefferies, to repurchase on the Company’s where the Company is entitled to refuse (or is excepted from the requirement) behalf and within certain pre-set parameters up to US$300m of ordinary shares under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer in the Company for cancellation. and they may refuse any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Directors’ report continued Acquisition of own shares (continued) The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that The Board decided to suspend the share buy-back programme as of 21 March are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose 2014 and therefore no further shares have been repurchased by the Company with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and since that date. In the period from the start of the year to 21 March 2014, Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the 18,887,604 ordinary shares were repurchased and cancelled, which represents Directors’ Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 3.28% of the called-up share capital of the Company as at that date and as at as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 31 December 2014. The nominal value of the shares purchased from the start They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and of the year to 21 March 2014 is US$427,529 and the aggregate amount of Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection consideration paid by the Company for those shares is US$63,682,702. of fraud and other irregularities. Appointment and replacement of directors The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the The Company’s Articles of Association provide that directors can be appointed Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the by the Company by ordinary resolution, or by the Board. The nomination preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and legislation in other jurisdictions. replacement of directors. Further details of the rules governing the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance statement The directors consider the Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts on pages 63 to 72 and in the Company’s Articles of Association. 2014, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, Directors’ indemnities business model and strategy. As permitted by the Company’s Articles of Association, the directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of defined in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 (a “Qualifying Third Party directors section on pages 58 and 59, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Indemnity Provision”). The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial –– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with year and is currently in force. In May 2014, the Company entered into standalone IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, deeds of indemnity with each of the directors, pursuant to which the directors financial position and profit or loss of the Group and Company; and have the benefit of an indemnity which is a Qualifying Third Party Indemnity –– the Strategic report section on pages 1 to 57 of this document includes Provision. The indemnities came into force upon execution of the deeds a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the of indemnity and are currently in force. The Company also purchased and position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and maintained throughout the financial year directors’ and officers’ liability uncertainties that it faces. insurance in respect of itself and its directors. Disclosure of information to auditors Powers of the directors The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2014 confirm Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, UK legislation and any that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed the Company’s auditors are unaware. In making this confirmation, the directors by the Board. The directors currently have powers both in relation to the issuing have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of the relevant and buying back of the Company’s shares and are seeking renewal of these audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware powers at the forthcoming AGM. of this information. Articles of Association AGM 2015 Unless expressly specified to the contrary therein, the Company’s The AGM of the Company will be held in the Castle Suite of The Caledonian, Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the a Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB at 12 noon (BST) Company’s shareholders. on Thursday 14 May 2015. The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out and fully explained in the Circular containing the Notice of AGM which has Directors’ responsibility statement been posted to shareholders together with this Annual Report and Accounts. The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors’ Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance Recommendation with applicable laws and regulations. The Board considers that all of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of all of the proposed financial year. Under that law, the directors have prepared the Group and resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings. parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) issued by the International Accounting Standards By order of the Board Board (IASB) and as adopted by the European Union (EU). Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Duncan Wood Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period. Company Secretary In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: 9 March 2015 –– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; –– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; –– state whether applicable IFRSs issued by the IASB and adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and –– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. 62 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate Governance statement All of these changes took effect immediately following the Company’s Annual Dear shareholder General Meeting (AGM) in May 2014 and I am pleased to report that the Board has continued to function efficiently and effectively since those changes. James I would like to assure shareholders Smith joined the Company in March 2014 and there was a smooth handover of responsibilities from Jann Brown to James Smith prior to his appointment as that since taking over as non-executive CFO in May 2014. Chairman in May 2014, corporate Since standing down as executive directors in May 2014, Dr Mike Watts and governance remains a matter of Jann Brown continued in senior roles with the Company for a proportion of their high importance for the Company. one-year notice period with their time dedicated solely to seeking to resolve the tax issue in India. Mike and Jann held no executive director responsibilities during Maintaining and promoting high this period. The Board agreed in October 2014 to bring Mike and Jann’s notice standards of corporate governance period to an end and day-to-day responsibility for the Indian tax issue was passed to James Smith at that time. is central to my role as Chairman and I firmly believe that this is an essential Following these changes, the Board currently comprises myself as Chairman; two executive directors (the Chief Executive and the CFO); and four non-executive prerequisite to delivering sustainable directors, all but one of whom are independent. The Company recognises that business performance. as Todd Hunt has served on the Board for more than nine years he can no longer technically be considered to be an independent non-executive director. As such At Cairn we operate with integrity at all times, recognising that in the composition of the Board continues to comply with the provisions of the UK doing so the Company will maintain the trust of its many stakeholders. Corporate Governance Code, other than in respect of Mr Hunt’s independence. Despite this technical non-compliance with the Code, the Board are however The Cairn Board is committed to promoting high standards confident that Mr Hunt’s judgement remains independent and that he continues of corporate governance and understands that an effective, to display all of the behaviours expected of our independent non-executive challenging and diverse Board is essential to enable the Company directors (see page 65). to deliver its strategy and shareholders’ long-term interests, whilst also generating investor confidence that the business is conducting Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code itself in a responsible manner. Further information on our strategy, As a company incorporated in the UK with a Premium Listing on the London Stock business model and approach to operating responsibly can be found Exchange, Cairn is required to report against the UK Corporate Governance in the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report and Accounts. Code (as published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website at www.frc.org.uk). Cairn is fully committed to achieving compliance with the The Board were delighted when, in November 2014, the Company principles and provisions set out in the Code. received two awards in respect of its 2013 annual report, winning Best Strategic Report in the FTSE 250 category at the ICSA The Board continually reviews the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance (Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators) Excellence Code and has amended or enhanced the Company’s governance framework in Governance Awards and Best Annual Report in the FTSE 250 to ensure that the Company complies with the Code (other than as detailed on category at the Investor Relations Society Awards. The Company page 72). Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles was also highly commended for its corporate governance reporting in sections A to E of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year ended in the PwC Building Public Trust awards in December 2014. I would 31 December 2014. This statement reports compliance with the version of the personally like to take this opportunity to thank the team involved Code published in September 2012. The Company recognises that the UK in annual reporting at Cairn for their continuous effort in producing Corporate Governance Code was amended in September 2014 and intends such an exemplary standard of reporting. to report against the revised version of the Code in next year’s annual report. The Board Cairn’s business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and technical risks. Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the industry and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates, and appropriate financial, operational and risk management skills. In each Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, ability and diversity, assist the Board in its key functions, and are prerequisites for appointment. This also applies to senior management appointments below Board level and to our succession planning. Following the changes described above, the Board currently comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and four non-executive directors. The current There have been a number of significant changes to the Cairn Board during 2014: directors’ biographies are on pages 58 and 59. –– Sir Bill Gammell retired as non-executive Chairman and I succeeded him in this role; The Company considers the significant refreshment of the Board during 2014 –– Dr Mike Watts (Deputy Chief Executive) stepped down as an executive to be positive as it brings new thinking to the Company as well as ensuring that director; the Board’s collective experiences equip it to direct the Company’s strategy and –– Jann Brown (Managing Director & CFO) stepped down as an executive meet its business needs as they evolve over time. The Board is also mindful that director; an appropriate balance between directors who can bring a new perspective and –– James Smith was appointed Chief Financial Officer (CFO); and those who provide continuity is essential for a business like Cairn’s. –– Dr James Buckee retired as a non-executive director. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 Corporate Governance statement continued The Board (continued) of the previous Chairman and the new Chairman has continued to follow Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed not only on up on these. gender but also on nationality and experience. Following the retirement of Jann Brown as Managing Director & CFO in May 2014 the number of women on the This year, given the significant changes to the Board during the review period, Cairn Board has reduced from two to one. The Board does however continue to it was agreed at the August 2014 Board meeting that an internal rather than demonstrate diversity in the broader sense, with 14% female representation and external board performance evaluation would once again be most beneficial to directors from the Netherlands, the USA and Canada, as well as the UK, bringing the Company. The Chairman and Company Secretary subsequently discussed gender diversity and international experience to the Board. The Board’s diverse how best to facilitate this and it was decided that the Company Secretary should range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of experience of prepare a questionnaire for this purpose. operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise. Further information on The questionnaire was approved by the Chairman and this was subsequently diversity within Cairn is included in the report of the Nomination Committee on completed by all directors to evaluate the performance of the Board, each of page 68 and in the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report and Accounts. its committees, individual Board members and the Chairman. Division of responsibilities between Chairman Following completion of the questionnaires, the Chairman held a series of and Chief Executive one-to-one meetings with each of the directors in December 2014 in order The Company has a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and to discuss the answers to the questionnaires. The Chairman’s own appraisal the Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board. was conducted by the senior independent director who did this through a series of one-to-one meetings with the other directors before meeting The Chairman’s responsibilities include: with the Chairman to present feedback. –– the leadership and effective running of the Board; –– ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the determination The findings of the internal evaluation were then discussed with the Board at and development of the Group’s strategy; the March 2015 Board meeting and a number of action points agreed, including –– acting as guardian and facilitator of the Board’s decision-making process; the following: –– ensuring effective implementation of the Board’s decisions; and –– ensuring open communications with shareholders and, in particular, Key actions Progress understanding their issues and concerns with regard to governance. The Chairman’s other significant commitments out-with the Company are included Strategy: in view of market The Board will conduct an in in his biography on page 58 and there were no changes to these during 2014. influences impacting on the sector depth strategy session during in which the Company operates, 2015 in addition to their the Board recognises that strategy regular discussions of strategy The Chief Executive’s responsibilities include: is a dynamic issue and as such must at scheduled Board meetings. –– managing the Group’s business and proposing and developing the Company’s be kept under regular review. strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board; –– leading the Senior Leadership Team in implementing the decisions of the Board and its committees; Succession planning: it was The Chairman has requested –– ensuring the successful and efficient achievement of the Company’s Key identified that the Board require that a session on succession Performance Indicators (KPIs) and objectives; and a clearer process for fully planning be built in to the –– providing coherent leadership of the Company in representing the Company understanding succession planning Board agenda during 2015. to its stakeholders. beneath Board level, including The Board recognise that this assessing the strength of executive matter should be a topic in management, succession planning which all directors participate Senior independent director risks and the organisation structure going forward rather than Iain McLaren continues to be Cairn’s senior independent non-executive director. within which the executive delegated to a Board The main responsibilities of the senior independent non-executive director are team works. committee. as follows: –– to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary with other directors when necessary; Board composition: following A recruitment process is –– to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the changes to the Board during underway with a number the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive 2014 the Board have committed of interviews scheduled to appoint up to two new for H1 2015. directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate; and non-executive directors. –– to meet with the other non-executive directors without the Chairman present, at least annually, in order to appraise the Chairman’s performance. Re-election of directors Following the internal performance evaluation process conducted in 2014, the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Company’s Board and the Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. As such, each of and that each director has performed well in respect of their roles on the Board the directors will seek re-election at the AGM to be held on 14 May 2015. and its committees. Full biographical details of the current directors can be found in the Board of Directors section on pages 58 and 59. As explained above, some improvements have been identified and have already been or will be addressed during 2015. Following the results of the individual Performance evaluation performance evaluations, the Board believes that all of the directors’ The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and recognises that performance continues to be effective and that they each demonstrate the performance evaluation process represents an annual opportunity to commitment to their role. enhance overall Board effectiveness. The Company conducted an externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2012 and an internal evaluation in 2013. The executive directors also have their performance individually reviewed by the remuneration committee against KPIs which are set annually (further details of The 2013 evaluation resulted in some important recommendations for improving the KPIs can be found in the KPI section on pages 18 to 21). The bonuses payable the Board’s effectiveness which were set out in last year’s corporate governance to the executive directors under the Company’s cash bonus scheme (described statement. The majority of these were addressed in Q1 2014 under the leadership further in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 97) are linked 64 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 directly to the results of these reviews. Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Independence of non-executive directors The Company also provides on an ongoing basis the necessary resources The Board evaluation and review process covered the independence of for developing and updating its directors’ knowledge and capabilities. In each of the non-executive directors, taking into account their integrity, their particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional objectivity and their contribution to the Board and its committees. The Board development training to its directors. In 2014, the Company continued with is of the view that the following behaviours are essential for a director to be its practice of providing a directors’ education programme consisting of a considered independent: number of seminars for Board members, which are presented by the Company’s –– provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the assumptions, external advisers/guest speakers/members of senior management, on subjects beliefs and views of senior management and the other directors; appropriate to the Company’s business, including changes to legislation, –– questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges rigorously regulation and market practice. During 2014, the subjects covered by and dispassionately; these seminars included: –– acts at all times in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders; –– Cairn and the Scottish independence referendum; –– has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Company’s business and of the –– a Board risk workshop facilitated by the Company’s internal auditor which market as a whole which provides a solid background against which they can included a “deep dive” and discussion of the Company’s top risks; consider the Company’s strategy objectively and help the executive directors –– a corporate governance update; develop proposals on strategy; and –– a cyber security briefing; and –– has no close ties or material relationships with the Company, either directly –– asset presentations by senior managers at pre-Board meetings. or indirectly. These seminars are held prior to Board meetings and are attended by all directors Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive directors present at such meetings (the Company keeps a record of attendance). Any director against these criteria, the Board concluded that all non-executive directors may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar. In addition, all media demonstrated each of the required competencies to a high level and are, articles relating to the Company and all analyst reports relating to the Company are therefore, each considered independent by the Board. The Board does distributed to all directors. however recognise that, in view of the characteristics of independence set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, Todd Hunt cannot Information and support technically be deemed independent given his length of service. The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to perform its duties. The Company Secretary ensures the presentation of high Induction and development quality information to the Board and its committees and that all papers and New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board. information are delivered in a timely fashion. Board and committee papers This involves meetings with other Board members (in particular the Chairman), are delivered securely through an electronic platform. senior management and the Company’s principal advisers. In addition, any new director is provided with a comprehensive induction pack which contains a wide The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary are responsible range of materials including: for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance matters, and each director has access to the advice and services of the Company –– Board Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary. There is also a procedure agreed Directors’ and Company Secretary’s contact details; list of Board and by the Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent committee members and dates of appointment; schedule of matters reserved professional advice if necessary, at the Company’s expense. to the Board; financial delegations of authority; Board papers and minutes of previous meetings; schedule of dates for Board and committee meetings; Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance current directors’ education programme. The Company has directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in place. –– Committees Terms of reference for all Board committees. Conflicts of interest –– Risk The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation Terms of reference for Risk Management Committee and minutes of last of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Company’s interests. All directors are meeting; current Group Risk Matrix and Risk Appetite Statement; FRC aware of the requirement to submit details to the Company Secretary or Deputy Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Company Secretary of any current situations (appointments or otherwise) which and Business Reporting. may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest. There are no conflict –– Key policies matters which require to be authorised for the current directors. The Board will Group Corporate Responsibility Business Principles; Group Code of Business continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis. Ethics; Anti-Bribery-and-Corruption (ABC) Management System; ABC Business Partner Due Diligence Procedure; Dealing Rules and Model Code; Matters reserved to the Board and delegation of authority Procedures, Systems and Controls for Compliance with the Listing Rules and The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for Disclosure Rules. decision. These reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy –– Organisation of the Company and approval of the annual report and accounts; the Company’s Group Structure Chart; latest Annual Report and Accounts. annual budget and amendments to that budget over a particular amount; –– Governance borrowing and security; acquisitions and disposals; capital expenditure over UK Corporate Governance Code; FRC Guidance on Board Effectiveness and a specified amount; amendments to the organisational structure of the Company Audit Committees; ICSA Guidance on Liability of non-executive directors; and Board; approval of significant changes to accounting policies; and approval GC100 Directors’ Remuneration Reporting Guidance. of management incentive schemes and Company policy on pensions. –– Legal/regulatory Memorandum for directors on their responsibilities and obligations By way of example, some of the matters which the Board considered and as directors. approved during 2014 were: –– Insurance –– the Company’s strategy, business plan and annual budget; Full details of directors’ and officers’ liability cover. –– the Group KPIs for 2014; –– suspension of the Company’s share buy-back programme; –– the Company’s 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and 2014 half-year accounts; –– the Company’s 2013 Effectiveness of Internal Control Assessment Report; –– the Company’s 2014 AGM circular; Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Corporate Governance statement continued Matters reserved to the Board and delegation of authority The previously existing HSE Leadership Team has been disbanded with (continued) responsibility for Group level HSE/Corporate Responsibility (CR) leadership –– the appropriateness of the Group going concern sign-off for the 2013 being undertaken by the SLT. Day-to-day specific operational HSE/CR issues will full year accounts and 2014 half-year accounts; be managed by the relevant department managers who in turn report to the MT. –– the Company’s Risk Appetite Statement; –– the Company’s strategy for seeking resolution of the Indian tax issue; Finally, the Company has also created an Exploration Leadership Team (ELT) –– exploration drilling in Morocco and Senegal; which is chaired by the Director of Exploration and currently comprises the –– approval of Field Development Plan for the Catcher development in the Group Geoscience Manager, the Chief Geologist, the Chief Geophysicist, UK North Sea; three regional Exploration Managers and a representative from new ventures/ –– the US$575 million Reserve Based Lending bank facility agreement; new business. –– strategic entry into the Barents Sea and related planning and resourcing; –– divestment of 10% in the Catcher development and adjacent acreage; The ELT meets every two weeks to facilitate alignment, consistency, best practice –– Kraken development FPSO and detailed engineering; and and team work in the following areas: –– participation in the Norwegian APA 2014 licensing round. –– ensuring exploration, appraisal and new venture opportunities align with the Company’s Business Plan; The Board also has an approved set of financial delegations of authority to –– ensuring consistent screening and ranking of exploration opportunities prior ensure clarity throughout the business concerning the distinction between to detailed assessment, thereby utilising the significant knowledge and financial matters which require Board approval and those that can be delegated experience of the ELT; to senior management. –– developing and implementing new geosciences technology and techniques where appropriate for application within the Company to reduce subsurface Following changes made to the organisation structure of the Company during uncertainty and/or risks; and 2014 there were also a number of changes made to the senior management –– ensuring appropriate representation at resource assessment reviews and committee structure beneath Board level. other internal subsurface peer reviews. The main change has been the creation of a Senior Leadership Team (SLT) Board meetings which has replaced the Executive Team and which combines input from all During 2014, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, with all of these senior management. The Executive Team previously comprised the executive meetings taking place over two consecutive days. The Company’s Board directors in office prior to the AGM. The new SLT comprises the Chief Executive, meetings are held over two days to allow for a pre-Board discussion and Board the CFO, the Chief Operating Officer (COO), the Director of Exploration and dinner on the first day followed by the Board and relevant committee meetings the Company’s Regional Directors. The SLT is chaired by the Chief Executive on the second day. and meets six times per year with those meetings scheduled in advance of Board meetings. All of the Board meetings during 2014 were held at the Company’s registered office in Edinburgh except for one meeting which was held at the Company’s Key elements of the SLT’s role include the following: office in London. Details of attendance at each of those Board meetings, and –– formulate strategy for finding, developing and producing oil and gas, to be at meetings of each of the Board committees, are set out below. approved by the Board; –– assess and review (and amend as required) the Business Plan in line Given the level of operational activity undertaken by the Company during with strategy; the year, a number of other meetings took place to deal with specific matters –– generate, consider and direct acquisitions and disposals; and that required to be considered at short notice. When a specific matter requires –– determine the requirement for, objective and authors of, Board papers consideration at short notice, there is a procedure that sets out when those to ensure timely consideration and approval by the Board. matters must be considered at a short-notice Board meeting and when they may be dealt with by a duly authorised committee of the Board. The members of the SLT also form the RMC, which identifies and reviews key business risks – further information with regard to the role of the RMC is Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings contained in the internal control section of this statement on page 70 and 71. is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing. Video and telephone conferencing facilities are used The Management Team (MT) has continued in existence during 2014 but with when directors are not able to attend meetings in person. a revised mandate to allow it to support the new SLT. The MT currently comprises nine members of the senior management team including the members of the The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly includes SLT as well as the Deputy Finance Director and three functional managers presentations from senior management, is set by the Chairman in consultation (Human Resources (HR) Manager, Legal Manager and Health, Safety and with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary. Formal minutes of Environment (HSE) Manager). The MT continues to be chaired by the COO all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to the and meets formally six to nine times per year with four of those meetings next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting. focusing on a quarterly performance review of the business. In addition, the members of the Board are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Group’s business. The key elements of the MT’s role include the following: –– develop and implement a Business Plan, which will deliver the Company’s The non-executives have a practice of meeting informally before and after strategic objectives (these will be reflected in annual KPIs, including HSE); each Board meeting without executive directors being present. At these –– critically assess and determine the mitigation plans for key business risks and non-executive forums, the non-executive directors are invited to bring forward ensure that all risks are captured and reviewed regularly in the Company’s any matter pertaining to the business of the Board that they believe would risk register; benefit from discussion in such forum. This practice also applies after Board –– co-ordinate operations and licence management along with resource committee meetings (in particular the remuneration and audit committees) allocation and organisational alignment to ensure timely and cost-effective to ensure that non-executive directors can discuss any relevant issues arising delivery against approved budgets; and from those meetings without executive management being present. –– review and approve other day-to-day business requirements, including Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) matters. 66 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Board and committee structure Cairn Energy PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Risk Management Committee Directors’ attendance at Board and committee meetings Board committees The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee, Board and Board committee meetings during 2014: a nomination committee and a governance committee, each of which has formal Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance terms of reference approved by the Board. Copies of the terms of reference are Board Committee Committee Committee Committee available on the Company’s website. Meetings held during 2014 6 5 6 5 4 The terms of reference for each of the Board committees satisfy the requirements Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings of the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of the provision attended attended attended attended attended that the Chairman should not be a member of the audit committee. The Board Executive Directors decided in May 2014 that, notwithstanding this provision, it was appropriate for Ian Tyler to remain a member of the audit committee following his appointment Simon Thomson as Chairman in order to provide continuity given that Dr James Buckee was (Chief Executive) 6 n/a3 n/a3 n/a n/a retiring from the committee at that time. This has also allowed the committee James Smith (CFO) 6 n/a 4 n/a n/a 3 to continue to benefit from Mr Tyler’s extensive financial experience. Dr Mike Watts (former Deputy Chief Executive)5 2 n/a n/a n/a n/a Each of the Board committees is provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner. The Company Jann Brown Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees with the exception of the (former Managing audit committee, where the Deputy Company Secretary undertakes this role. Director & CFO)5 2 n/a6 n/a n/a 2 The minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors. Non-Executive Directors Ian Tyler (Chairman) 6 4 5 37 27 Set out below are reports from each of the Board committees, with the exception of the audit committee report which, in line with best practice, is presented as Iain McLaren (senior a separate report (on pages 73 to 75) rather than including this in the corporate independent director) 6 5 5 4 n/a governance statement. The remuneration committee section on page 68 covers Todd Hunt 6 n/a 6 5 4 only the composition and role of the committee, with full details of the Company’s Alexander Berger 6 5 n/a 5 4 policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments given in the separate Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 97, which has been Jackie Sheppard 6 n/a 6 n/a 4 prepared in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Reporting Regulations Sir Bill Gammell introduced in 2013. (former chairman)8 2 n/a n/a 2 1 Dr James Buckee (former director)9 2 2 4 n/a n/a Notes: n/a not applicable (where a director is not a member of the committee). 1. During 2014, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee, remuneration committee, nomination committee and governance committee by invitation. These details have not been included in the table. 2. Where a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board committees, they reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided their comments to the Board or the Board committees in advance of such meetings. 3. Simon Thomson is not a member of the remuneration committee but attends its meetings by invitation. Mr Thomson also attends part of each audit committee meeting by invitation. 4. James Smith is not a member of the audit committee but attends its meetings by invitation. 5. Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown stepped down as executive directors on 15 May 2014. The number of meetings they attended are stated up to and including that date. 6. Jann Brown was not a member of the audit committee but attended its meetings by invitation prior to stepping down as a director. 7. Ian Tyler was appointed a member of the nomination and governance committees on 15 May 2014. The number of meetings he attended is stated from that date. 8. Sir Bill Gammell retired as non-executive Chairman on 15 May 2014. The number of meetings he attended is stated up to and including that date. 9. Dr James Buckee retired as a non-executive director on 15 May 2014. The number of meetings he attended is stated up to and including that date. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Corporate Governance statement continued Remuneration Committee Report Nomination Committee Report The members of the remuneration The members of the nomination committee during the year were committee during the year were as follows: as follows: –– Jackie Sheppard (Chair); –– Ian Tyler (appointed Chair with effect from 15 May 2014); –– Todd Hunt; –– Iain McLaren; –– Iain McLaren; –– Todd Hunt; –– Ian Tyler; and –– Alexander Berger; –– Dr James Buckee (retired as a director and member of the –– Simon Thomson; and committee on 15 May 2014). –– Sir Bill Gammell (stepped down as chair and member of the committee on 15 May 2014); The remuneration committee met six times during 2014. The Chief Executive The nomination committee met five times in 2014. The Chairman and three of the Company is not a member of the committee but attends its meetings of the Company’s non-executive directors are members of the committee. by invitation. The committee’s remuneration advisers, New Bridge Street, In addition, to ensure continuing executive input on nomination matters, also attended some of the committee’s meetings. None of the members of the Chief Executive is also a member of the committee. the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own remuneration. The committee has The role of the nomination committee includes: established a practice of meeting informally without any executive directors or –– considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making advisers present after each committee meeting to allow the non-executives to recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of discuss any matter which has arisen in the meeting (or relating to the duties of new directors and on the reappointment and orderly succession of existing the committee) which they believe would benefit from discussion in such forum. directors; and –– facilitating an annual performance evaluation to ensure that all members The role of the committee includes: of the Board are effectively discharging and devoting sufficient time to –– determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all the their duties and responsibilities. executive directors, the Chairman, and the Company’s Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities (PDMRs); The committee considers, on an ongoing basis, the balance of skills, experience, –– within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board, its diversity remuneration package for each executive director; (including gender), how the Board works together as a unit, and other factors –– determining the level of awards made under the Company’s long-term relevant to the Board’s effectiveness. incentive plans and share option plans and the performance conditions which are to apply; One of the main recommendations of the 2013 Board evaluation was to consider –– determining bonuses payable under the Company’s annual cash the composition of the Board in light of the changes to the Board during the year. bonus scheme; The committee has commenced a recruitment process with a view to appointing –– determining the vesting of awards under the Company’s long-term incentive up to two new non-executive directors during 2015 and has instructed external plans and exercise of share options; and recruitment consultants Ridgeway Partners to assist with this. –– determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors. 68 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Diversity The nomination committee very much takes into account the benefits of diversity Governance Committee Report on the Board, including gender. As a result of Jann Brown stepping down as an executive director of the Company, the number of women on the Board has reduced from two to one during 2014. The Board does however remain diverse in terms of the range of nationality and international experience of its members. The directors’ diverse range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise. Cairn aspires to diversify its Board further as part of its succession planning policy. In seeking to achieve this aspiration the Company will not appoint an individual to the Board unless they are the best candidate for the role, whether male or female. Beneath Board level, the Company is also seeking to develop and increase The members of the governance the number of women in senior management roles across the Group through a number of measures including succession planning, training and development, committee during the year were and flexible working policies which support diversity at Cairn. The pipeline of as follows: younger talent within the Group is diverse and bodes well for the future. –– Jackie Sheppard (Chair); Succession planning –– Todd Hunt; The nomination committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition –– Alexander Berger; (including the skills, knowledge and experience) required of the Board and makes –– Ian Tyler (appointed a member of the committee with effect recommendations to the Board as appropriate. The Board has satisfied itself that from 15 May 2014); the committee has in place appropriate plans for orderly succession to the Board –– James Smith (appointed a member of the committee with effect and senior management positions as well as procedures to ensure an appropriate from 15 May 2014); balance of skills within the Company and on the Board and its committees. –– Sir Bill Gammell (stepped down as a member of the committee on 15 May 2014); and The Board and the nomination committee have regularly discussed and reviewed –– Jann Brown (stepped down as a member of the committee on Board composition and succession planning throughout 2014 and this will continue 15 May 2014). in 2015 in view of the Board changes which have taken effect during the year and the proposed appointment of up to two new non-executive directors. The Board and the nomination committee are satisfied that the individuals The governance committee met four times in 2014 and is comprised of a majority currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the organisation have of non-executive directors. In addition, to ensure continuing executive input the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience. on governance matters, the CFO was appointed a member of the committee on 15 May 2014. The role of the governance committee includes: –– reviewing and approving changes to the Board’s corporate governance practices and policies; –– monitoring the Company’s compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing requirements; and –– reviewing developments in corporate governance generally and advising the Board periodically with respect to significant developments in the law and practice of corporate governance. Relations with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board. The Company has implemented the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 regarding electronic communication with its shareholders, in order to give shareholders more choice and flexibility in how they receive information from the Company. Cairn responds promptly to correspondence from shareholders and its website contains a wide range of information on the Company, including a dedicated investor relations section. In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings with executive management after the announcement of the year-end and half-yearly results. The Chairman is available to attend a number of these meetings. The Board is kept informed of any issues raised by shareholders both as a standing agenda item in Board papers and through feedback at pre-Board meetings and following results or other significant announcements. In addition, the Company maintains an investor relations database which details all meetings between the Company and its investors or other related stakeholders. All analyst reports relating to the Company are also distributed to the Board. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Corporate Governance statement continued Relations with shareholders (continued) levels with the aim of safeguarding shareholders’ interests and Company A list of the Company’s major shareholders can be found in the Directors’ Report assets. This system of internal control is in accordance with the UK Corporate on page 60. Following his appointment as Chairman in May 2014, Ian Tyler held Governance Code and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of introductory meetings with a number of the Company’s major shareholders at failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not which a broad range of matters were discussed. absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Company recognises that the success of the comply-or-explain approach The framework has been in place for the 2014 financial year and up to the date under the UK Corporate Governance Code depends on an ongoing and open of approval of the annual report and accounts. The Board has carried out a dialogue with shareholders, and remains committed to communicating with review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during 2014 and shareholders, as well as proxy voting agencies, on any matter which they wish will ensure that a similar review is performed in 2015. In so doing, the Board to discuss in relation to the Company’s governance. took into account the assurance provided by the Chief Executive in respect of the effectiveness of the system of internal control within the Company. Annual General Meeting (AGM) The Board is accordingly satisfied that effective controls are in place and that The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors risks have been mitigated to a tolerable level across the Group in 2014. and welcomes their participation. It is policy for all of the Company’s directors to attend the AGM. Whilst this may not always be possible for business or personal The Company is subject to a variety of risks which derive from the nature of the reasons, in normal circumstances the chair of each of the Board committees will oil and gas exploration and production business and some of which relate to the be available to attend the AGM and be prepared to answer questions. countries in which it conducts its activities (see pages 34 to 41 of this Annual Report and Accounts for more information on risks). It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Company’s Cairn seeks to create value through oil and gas exploration and production while activities and prospects. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM at the same time safeguarding the environment and respecting and contributing on 14 May 2015 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which to the communities it is a part of. In order to achieve this, Cairn’s core values of is contained in the shareholder circular posted with this Annual Report and building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly are at the core of Accounts. Further explanation of each of the resolutions can also be found the business, informing how the Company operates. These values are promoted in the circular. to Cairn’s employees, partners and contractors. Cairn’s licence to operate depends on transparent relationships and active stakeholder engagement The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be programmes with our many stakeholders including governments, communities, counted before the AGM and the results will be made available following the partners, shareholders and suppliers globally. The directors believe that this meeting after the shareholders have voted in a poll on each resolution. Both the commitment to strong governance generates trust and ensures consistent Form of Proxy and the poll card for the AGM include a “vote withheld” option in global standards and is critical to the Company’s success. respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular resolution. It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a “vote withheld” is not a vote Particular attention has been placed by the Company’s management during 2014 in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes on ensuring that an effective system of internal control has been maintained “for” or “against” a resolution. during the year in relation to the key risks in the Company’s business activities. Enhancements have been made during 2014 to the following key controls, Information pursuant to the Takeover Directive business processes and procedures: The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR 7.2.6 –– a Standard Operating Manual of core business processes has been developed (directors’ interests in shares; appointment and replacement of directors; powers which outlines “the Cairn way” for executing key processes. The Manual will of the directors; restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control of the be rolled out across the Group in Q1 2015; Company) in the Directors’ Report. –– the Company’s Project Delivery Process was refreshed and rolled out to the business; Going concern –– the suite of policies and procedures which form the Group’s Corporate The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement on Responsibility Management System were developed or refreshed to going concern. They have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate reflect current best practice or Group policy; financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable –– our Business Continuity Plan has been updated to reflect current business future and have therefore continued to use the going concern basis in preparing impacts and recovery strategies. A test of the Business Continuity Plan was the financial statements. In concluding that the going concern assumption is completed in March 2014 with positive results; and appropriate, the Board and Audit Committee considered the Group cash flow –– an extensive “lessons-learned” project was executed which reviewed our forecasts under various scenarios, and concluded that the Group has sufficient drilling campaigns and identified areas for enhancement which are being funding to meet its current commitments as and when they fall due. implemented in future planning. Internal control The following describes the key elements of the framework and the processes The Board is responsible for the Company’s system of internal control and for used by the Board during 2014 to review the effectiveness of the system and regularly reviewing its effectiveness. The Company has in place an Integrated the approach to be taken in 2015. Internal Control and Assurance Framework (the “framework”), which plays a critical role in setting out how the Company manages and assures itself that the 1. Strategic Direction risks relating to the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and objectives are The Company’s strategy and business plan are proposed by the SLT and effectively controlled. The framework is based on the Committee of Sponsoring approved by the Board. The Chief Executive is responsible for managing the Organisations (COSO) framework and its five key components, which is a Company’s business and implementing the Company’s strategy and overall commonly used and recognised framework for considering internal control commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and SLT. The Chief systems. The COSO framework, which was first released in 1992 and updated Executive is also responsible for implementing the decisions of the Board in 2013, seeks to help organisations develop systems of internal control which and its committees and driving performance against the Company’s KPIs. help facilitate the achievement of business objectives and improvements in Company performance. The framework also supports organisations in adapting to increasingly complex business environments and managing risks to acceptable 70 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 2. Operating Management Enhancements to our approach to risk management during 2014 included The Company operates three regional units covering different countries and with the following: various partners on both an operated and non-operated basis. Supporting the –– the Group Risk Appetite statement was reviewed in light of changes to the strategy is a matrix organisation, where the assets are the principal focus, tasked business over the last year to ensure it was still aligned with the business with delivering objectives for their particular asset with functional departments strategy. A series of risk tolerance levels across a number of categories providing support to the assets in delivering their objectives. were identified and agreed with the Board and senior management. –– the Company’s internal auditor facilitated a Board risk identification Following organisational changes which were implemented during 2014 the workshop. The purpose of the workshop was to utilise the collective executive directors are supported by the new SLT as well as by the MT and ELT. knowledge of the Board to consider, in line with the strategy going forward, Further information on the composition of these teams and their remit can be the principal risks to the achievement of the strategy objectives. An analysis found earlier in this statement on page 66. There are also a number of functional against the Group Risk Register was then performed to ensure alignment. department heads whose roles include providing expert input and challenge to the Company’s work programmes, budgets and business plans; and supplying The RMC reports on the Company’s risk profile to both the audit committee the directors with full and accurate information with which to make statements and the Board. Additionally, the audit committee and the Board receive internal on the adequacy of internal control. reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls relative to the key risks. The conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2014 is that the internal A Business Plan with a five-year outlook and annual work programmes and controls in respect of key risks are effective. budgets are prepared annually to help ensure the Company meets its strategy. These start at asset level before being consolidated at regional and Company 4. Assurance levels. The Business Plan sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each asset The “three lines of defence” framework adopted by the Board provides three and supporting functional departments, and is consolidated into the Company’s levels of assurance against the risks facing the Company: first of all at the annual business plan. After an iterative process, the Business Plan and budget operational level; secondly through overview by functional management are presented to the Board for approval. and the RMC; and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits. The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement The integrated internal control and assurance framework document includes the business plan and to deliver the agreed work programmes within the a description of the Company’s business and assurance models and of its approved budget and delegations of authority, and in accordance with the organisation and committee structure, and defines responsibilities. The internal control framework. framework defines the key policies and procedures which govern the way in which Cairn conducts its business and is therefore a core part of its system of 3. Risk Management internal control. Cairn’s internal control and assurance framework document The RMC continues to be responsible for the development of risk management was reviewed by external specialists in 2013 and an updated framework strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation document was finalised and rolled out across the business in Q4 2013. of the requirements of this strategy. It does this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk During 2014, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Company’s system is fit for purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and compliance relation to these risks to bring them within the Risk Appetite Statement agreed controls, risk management and high-level internal control arrangements. The by the Board. Directors derived assurance from the following internal and external controls during 2014: The Company’s Business Risk Management System (BRMS) defines the processes –– a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and by the Board; monitor the business risks faced by the Company. The BRMS also identifies the –– implementation of policies and procedures for key business activities; risk management organisational structure through which business risks are –– an appropriate organisational structure; managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset, country and Company levels. –– control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated The BRMS was updated in 2014 to cover enhancements to the process over the representatives; last few years and to reflect organisational changes. –– specific delegations of authority for all financial transactions and other key technical and commercial decisions; Following the retirement of Jann Brown as Managing Director & CFO in May –– segregation of duties where appropriate and cost-effective; 2014, James Smith, CFO, took over the role of Chair of the RMC. The RMC –– business and financial reporting, including KPIs; currently comprises the executive directors and senior functional management. –– functional management reviews; The internal auditor also attends RMC meetings, in order to ensure internal –– an annual “letters of assurance” process, through which asset and functional audit’s integration with the risk management process. Regular MT risk meetings managers review and confirm the adequacy of internal financial and nonwere also held to manage and facilitate the assessment and treatment of business financial controls and their compliance with Company policies, and report any risks that may affect the Company’s ability to deliver its strategy. control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in respect of weaknesses identified in the prior year; The RMC, which met four times during 2014, continues to focus on ensuring the –– a “letter of assurance” from the Chief Executive confirming the adequacy risk framework and strategies embedded in the organisation are fit for purpose. of internal controls within the Company in line with its policy, and reporting To supplement the role of the RMC, business risks, together with the mitigating of any control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in measures and responsibilities, are identified and managed at an asset, country, respect of weaknesses identified in the prior year; regional and departmental level. Local level risk registers are used to capture, –– an annual internal audit plan, which is approved by the audit committee assess, monitor and review risks before principal risks are consolidated into the and Board and is driven by risks and key controls; Company’s Group risk register, which is regularly reviewed by the SLT, RMC and –– reports from the audit committee and RMC; MT to ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces and that there –– reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its is an embedded risk management approach in place across the Company. statutory audit; –– reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers; –– independent third party reviews; and –– the skills and experience of all employees. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Corporate Governance statement continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout 2014, the Company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2012, except in the following areas: Provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code Company position Explanation B.1.1 – the Board should state its reasons if Todd Hunt has served on the Board for more than The Company accepts that Mr Hunt is not it determines that a director is independent nine years since his initial appointment to the Board independent in terms of his length of service but the notwithstanding the existence of relationships in May 2003. Board is of the view that he is independent in all other or circumstances which may appear relevant respects and has therefore agreed that he should to its determination, including if the director continue as a non-executive director for the time has served on the Board for more than nine being in order to retain his valuable technical skills and years from the date of their first election. experience. The Company recognises that Mr Hunt continues to sit on certain Board committees and as such the composition of those committees do not fully satisfy the Code provisions in relation to the number of independent non-executive directors on each of those committees. C.3.1. – In smaller companies the company The Chairman is a member of, but does not chair, The Company’s recognises that the Code chairman may be a member of, but not chair, the the audit committee. recommends that, except in smaller companies, audit committee in addition to the independent the Chairman should not be a member of the audit non-executive directors, provided he or she was committee. Ian Tyler was not appointed Chairman considered independent on appointment. of the committee until May 2014 and as such the Company complied with this provision prior to the 2014 AGM. Following the 2014 AGM, in view of Dr James Buckee’s retirement from the audit committee and Ian Tyler’s considerable financial experience, the Company considers it appropriate that Mr Tyler continues to be a member of the audit committee. 72 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Audit Committee report The members of the committee have been chosen to provide the wide range Dear shareholder of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil these duties. In addition, both Ian Tyler and I have Chartered Accountant qualifications as well as recent Throughout 2014, our activities and relevant financial experience. continued to focus on the integrity of Main activities of the committee during the year the financial reporting of the Group and The audit committee met five times in 2014, with meetings arranged around the key external reporting dates. Meetings in January and March focused on the appropriateness of internal controls. the 2013 year-end external audit process (reported in the 2013 Annual Report), We continue to evolve our activities in June and August on half-year reporting; and a December meeting on planning for the 2014 year-end cycle and external audit process. and our reporting to you in light of guidance from regulators and emerging At each meeting the committee receives an updated report from the external auditors which either explains their plans and scope for a forthcoming audit best practice. In the current year, or review, or contains the conclusions from that audit or review. The audit we have enhanced our reporting on committee also monitors the Internal Audit process, approving the annual internal audit plan, tracking the progress of internal audits and reviewing their our assessment of the effectiveness output and recommendations. Other business covered by the committee of the external audit process. includes the approval of corporate assumptions and re-approval of the Group’s policy on non-audit services and the Group’s Whistleblowing Policy. Subsequent During the year under review, I served as Chair of the audit to the year-end a further meeting was held in March 2015 to conclude on the committee alongside three of my fellow non-executive directors, 2014 audit and significant issues. all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent. At our request, the Finance Director and senior members of the Finance The members of the committee who served with me during the Department attended each of these meetings. Other relevant people from the year were: business are also invited to attend certain meetings to give us the necessary –– Ian Tyler; insight into their own areas of business, for example in relation to the reporting of –– Alexander Berger; and oil and gas reserves. In addition, these meetings were attended by both internal –– Dr James Buckee (retired as a director and member of the and external auditors. committee on 15 May 2014). The external auditors receive copies of all relevant audit committee papers and minutes of all audit committee meetings. In addition, I regularly meet with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Group. Responsibilities The Terms of Reference of the committee take into account the requirements of the Code and are available for inspection on the Group’s website. These include: –– monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and formal announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them; –– reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial reports; –– reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems and oversight of the Group’s risk management committee; –– monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function; –– overseeing the Group’s relationship with the external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement and engagement for non-audit services, and monitoring the external auditors’ independence, objectivity and effectiveness; and –– reviewing the Group’s whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Audit Committee report continued 2014 year-end and significant accounting issues Key accounting issue Recurring issues Non-recurring issues Impairment testing Impairment testing on Cairn India Limited tax issue Sale of 10% interest in Catcher Recognition on oil and gas assets – goodwill – components of deferred corporate assumptions. of Cash Generating Unit tax assets (“CGU”) and consistency with asset impairment tests Background With the fall in oil prices Goodwill is tested Cairn is subject to enquiries regarding In September 2014, Cairn The approval of through Q4 of 2014, the noted annually for impairment on certain group reorganisation transactions announced the sale of a 10% the Catcher FDP in that the Group’s exploration 31 December, regardless carried out in 2006, as a result of the working interest in Catcher. June confirms the and appraisal assets would of whether indicators exist retrospective tax legislation introduced in The deal completed in eligibility to certain be tested for impairment. or not. Goodwill is tested 2012 and is therefore currently restricted January 2015. tax allowances and against the carrying value from selling its shares in CIL and CIL are creates additional UK of assets and liabilities in restricted from remitting dividends to tax trading losses. the North Sea CGU. Cairn, (see page 29). Audit Committee action The audit committee The inclusion of assets and The audit committee discussed with the The sale of our 10% interest The approval of the review the group corporate liabilities in the CGU both Company’s tax and legal advisers and in Catcher had several impacts FDP triggered the assumption’s proposed by in determining the carrying management whether the Company in the financial statements. recognition of eligible management. The committee value of the unit and its should make any tax provision in relation The valuation of Catcher field allowances and discussed and agreed the use recoverable amount is closely to the transactions subject to Indian implied in the sale was used tax losses in the of short-term and long-term monitored by the audit Income Tax Department enquiries. In as its fair value for the Group’s deferred assumptions and challenged committee. Specifically, addition the audit committee discussed purposes of impairment tax calculations. management on the we challenged management with management and the auditors the test. The audit committee The audit committee appropriateness of these on the inclusion of deferred accounting implications of the restriction challenged management on challenged assumptions. This included tax assets and liabilities in (in the context of the IFRS definition of the appropriateness of this fair management, a review of the benchmarking the CGU and the consistency a restriction on sale) to satisfy ourselves value given changing market ensuring that the exercise that management of this approach with that the restriction did not lead to an conditions. We also considered deferred tax assets had performed and the impairment tests conducted impairment of the financial asset and whether the share of the asset recognised were guidance offered by the on the individual assets related dividend income nor did it require to be sold should be classified reflective of their external auditors. within the CGU. a provision for tax to be recognised in the as held-for-sale at the Balance probable future financial statements. Sheet date. benefit to the Group. Audit Committee conclusions The audit committee After reviewing the The Audit Committee agreed with the After challenge of both We were satisfied concluded that the use impairment tests prepared recommendations of management and the management and auditors we that after challenging of a short-term oil price by management and the Group’s advisers and the opinion of the agreed that it was appropriate management the assumption based on assumptions around auditors that there was no requirement to base the fair value of Catcher increase in the the forward curve was deferred taxation and after to make a tax provision in respect of on the sale and were satisfied deferred tax asset appropriate. After challenge, taking account of the views the transactions subject to Income Tax that the disclosures made was reasonable. the audit committee also of the Group’s auditors, the Department of India enquiries and the in the financial statements determined that the Group’s audit committee approved restriction on sale does not lead to an were appropriate. long-term price assumption management’s proposals on impairment of the asset or a tax provision. Following guidance from our should remain unchanged. the impairment test CGU. auditors, the 10% interest is not disclosed as held-for-sale. Further details in Financial Statements See Section 2. See section 2.5 See section 3.1 See sections 2.1 and 2.3 See section 4.6 Going Concern At each reporting date management consider the factors relevant to support a statement of going concern (see Corporate Governance section on page 70). The audit committee review and challenge management’s conclusions so that we may, in turn, provide comfort to the Board that management’s assessment has been considered and challenged where appropriate. Given the ongoing restriction on the sale of the shareholding in Cairn India Limited and the committed levels of expenditure on exploration and development projects, the audit committee carefully reviewed management’s going concern conclusion based on the Group’s latest net cash position and the forecast spend in the period ending 31 March 2016. This confirmed that the Group is fully funded to meet its work programme and firm commitments. The audit committee subsequently recommended to the Board that the Group continues to use the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements. External audit The current edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code states that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years. Cairn not only adopted this policy but decided to comply with this provision early and completed an external audit re-tendering process in 2013. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) were subsequently appointed as external auditor of the Group, on our recommendation. The 2014 year-end audit therefore represents the second year of PwC’s tenure as Group auditor. 74 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Assessment of external audit process The committee has an established framework to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process. This comprises of: A review of the audit plan including the materiality level set by the auditors and The Committee agreed with the level of materiality set by the auditors. the process they have adopted to identify financial statement risks and key areas of audit focus (summarised in the Independent Auditor’s Report on page 98). A review of the Audit Quality Inspection (AQI) Report published by the Financial There were no matters raised in the AQI report that caused concern for the Reporting Council with particular emphasis on those key messages applicable to Cairn. audit committee. A review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor judgement and the The audit committee reviewed findings on the key audit issues identified. reasoning behind the conclusions reached. The committee were satisfied that appropriate challenge had been made of management and that the audit process was robust. A review of the management letter produced by the auditors and the weighting The management letter was discussed at the August Audit Committee meeting, given to points raised indicating the understanding of the auditor of matters with the Committee noting the actions taken by management. The Committee of significance to the Group. were encouraged by the points that were raised by the Auditors and the wider impact that they have on the business. Regular communications through formal papers submitted and presentations The Audit plan for the year ending 31 December 2014 was presented to the to the committee and meetings between myself as Chair of the Audit Committee Audit Committee in June 2014 and is summarised in the Independent Auditor’s and the lead audit engagement partner. Report on page 98. A formal questionnaire issued to all Audit Committee members and senior Cairn No matters of significance have been reported to the Audit Committee. management who are involved in the audit covering the robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery, the quality of reporting and the quality of the auditor’s people and service. Of particular focus for the Committee is the assessment of the judgement applied by PwC during each stage of the audit process including setting audit materiality, identifying the risks to the financial statements, evaluating audit findings and communicating those areas of judgement to the committee. The audit committee noted the level of planned materiality and agreed on the levels of misstatements to be presented. The final audit report was presented to the audit committee in March 2015. After thorough discussion the committee agreed with the conclusions that the auditors had reached noting the significant areas of judgement. Auditor independence and provision of non-audit services We have a long established policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors. The Group will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third party’s knowledge of the Group and cost. These advisers may include the Group’s external auditors, under a restricted set of circumstances, although, before the engagement commences, Cairn must be satisfied that the auditor’s objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services. The Group’s current policy for approval of non-audit services was reviewed and re-approved by the Audit Committee in December 2014. No changes were made to the existing policy, full details of which can be found on the Group’s website. During the year, PwC provided other services including accounting advice in relation to the tax dispute in India, advice in relation to contracts tax in Republic of Ireland and providing a working capital report on a shareholder circular. A full breakdown of remuneration paid to the Group’s external auditor in respect of both audit and non-audit work is provided in Appendix 4 to the Financial Statements. Internal Audit Following a competitive tender process, Ernst & Young LLP (EY) were appointed as the Group’s internal auditor with effect from July 2013. Prior to the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous year’s internal audits, the outcome of the annual assessment of effectiveness of internal control (refer to page 70), the results of historical audits of fundamental business processes and the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures. The plan is then presented to the audit committee for review and approval. The internal auditor also participates in meetings of the group risk management committee to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks and to update the group risk management committee on the internal audit work plan. The audit committee also receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an ongoing basis. The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Group’s internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work. The external auditors do, however, attend all committee meetings where internal audit updates are given and meet separately with the internal auditors to discuss areas of common focus in developing the audit plan. Whistleblowing and Related Policies The Group updated its Whistleblowing Policy during 2012 and the new policy was reviewed by the audit committee and subsequently rolled out across the organisation. The committee is satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action. The Whistleblowing Policy was reviewed by the committee in December 2014 and re-approved with no changes considered necessary. The Group has in place a comprehensive Anti-Bribery and Corruption Management System and Code of Business Ethics and training has been provided to all staff in relation to these. As Cairn enters new countries, further monitoring is undertaken and training is continued. Further information regarding these policies can be found on the Group’s website. Iain McLaren Chair of the Audit Committee Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 9 March 2015 Directors’ Remuneration report Part 1 – Annual Statement from the Chair of the Committee Dear shareholder –– they would continue to participate in the Company’s annual bonus scheme, with any awards made for 2014 being pro-rated to the date of leaving employment. Following the cessation of their employment on 17 October 2014, no additional payments were made to either individual in lieu of the salary (or pension or other benefits) to which they would have been entitled had they worked the remainder of their notice periods. Finally, the committee concluded that Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts should both be treated as “good leavers” for the purposes of the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan (or “LTIP”) with the result that their outstanding awards under that scheme will continue to vest As the Chair of Cairn’s remuneration committee (the “remuneration on their original terms, subject to application of the performance committee” or the “committee”), I am pleased to present our Directors’ conditions at the end of the normal performance period and a time Remuneration Report for 2014. pro-rating reduction. Last year was the first time that shareholders were asked to vote Further details of the pay arrangements that have been applied to separately on both our “Directors’ Remuneration Policy” and “Annual the above individuals following the cessation of their directorships Report on Remuneration” and the committee was encouraged by the can be found throughout the Annual Report on Remuneration. strong support for both resolutions shown by the Company’s members. –– Board changes – recruitment of James Smith The overall executive remuneration framework that was approved at James Smith joined the Company on 3 March 2014 and became CFO last year’s AGM was intended to operate for the remainder of 2014 and on 15 May 2014. His annual base salary was set at £350,000 and the the following two financial years. It was subsequently applied throughout remaining elements of his remuneration package on appointment were 2014 and the committee continues to believe that it remains fit for consistent with the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. purpose for 2015. As a consequence, shareholders are not being asked As a consequence, during the year he participated in both the existing to approve a new Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the 2015 AGM. LTIP and annual bonus scheme (with awards under the latter However, for ease of reference the substantive provisions of the approved arrangement being pro-rated by reference to the part of the policy are repeated in Part 2 of this report. Part 3, which contains our period that he was employed by the Company). Annual Report on Remuneration, then goes on to explain how these In connection with his recruitment, and as previously announced on provisions were actually applied in 2014 and how they will be operated 10 April 2014, James Smith was also granted an award of £200,000 in 2015. The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an in order to compensate him for bonus forfeited from his previous advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM. employment due to his resignation to join Cairn. 50% of this award was Summary of 2014 business context and key paid in cash on commencement of employment with the remaining 50% remuneration decisions being delivered in the form of an award of shares that was released The work of the committee in 2014 was conducted against a backdrop after the completion of 12 months’ service. The aggregate value of of a year in which the Company fulfilled its objective of operating with this award made to James Smith was less than the amount of bonus a focus on safety, building a business with appropriate exposure to material foregone and the deferral period imposed on the share element was frontier and mature basin exploration whilst maintaining a strong balance comparable to the time horizon applicable to his forfeited entitlements. sheet with financial flexibility. Additional information in relation to James Smith’s pay arrangements Its key decisions relating to remuneration in 2014 are described in more and recruitment “buy-out” award is set out pages 86 and 87 of the detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration contained on pages 85 to 97 Annual Report on Remuneration. and can be summarised as follows: –– Annual bonus –– Base salary increases During the early part of the year, the committee carried out an Each of the individuals that were executive directors of the Company interim review of the 2014 annual bonus scheme in order to determine as at 1 January 2014 (being Simon Thomson, Jann Brown and Dr Mike whether any variations were required to reflect the exceptional Watts) received an increase to base salary of 2.5% with effect from circumstances surrounding the Indian tax issue that had arisen after that date. This was consistent with the level of standard annual salary the original structure had been agreed. The conclusion reached was increase awarded to other employees at that time. that the committee should use its discretionary powers under the Company’s approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy to alter the –– Board changes – departure of Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts weightings ascribed to a number of the Group KPIs in order to On 15 May 2014, Jann Brown, Managing Director & CFO, and increase the relative importance of balance sheet strength. Dr Mike Watts, Deputy CEO, stood down as executive directors of the Company. Both individuals agreed to work a portion of their notice The committee was also required to consider whether the cessation periods, principally in order to help seek a resolution of the tax issue of directorship by Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts necessitated the in India, and subsequently ceased employment on 17 October 2014. making of any variation to the terms of their participation in the bonus It was agreed that, during the time they remained as employees of the scheme over the remainder of the period of their employment with the Group following cessation of directorship: Company. The committee decided that, in order to better reflect their –– a reduction of £75,000 would be applied to both individuals’ base revised roles, the weightings used to calculate their 2014 bonuses salaries; and should be amended to 50% Group KPIs and 50% individual 76 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy Introduction performance, with the latter category being assessed by reference At the AGM held on 15 May 2014, shareholders overwhelmingly approved to specific measures relating to the Indian tax issue. a new Directors’ Remuneration Policy for the Company. This policy, which specifies the various pay structures operated by the Company and summarises The committee is firmly of the view that the amended weightings the approach that the committee will adopt in certain circumstances such as described above (full details of which are set out in page 89 of the the recruitment of new directors and/or the making of any payments for loss of Annual Report on Remuneration) were entirely necessary in order office, became effective immediately on receipt of such approval and was applied to ensure that the 2014 KPIs, and therefore management activity, by the committee during 2014. This policy will be operative throughout 2015. were appropriately aligned with the revised priorities of the business that arose as a result of the occurrence of these Although not required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups unforeseen material events at the beginning of the year. For the (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the “Regulations”), the substantive avoidance of doubt, the committee is also of the opinion that these terms of the above Directors’ Remuneration Policy are repeated in this Part 2 in-year variations to the 2014 bonus scheme did not make it less for ease of reference. However, any details that were specific to 2014 or earlier demanding for any individual than when it was originally set. years (including, for example, any disclosures relating to named directors and the illustrative remuneration scenarios set out on page 83) have, where applicable, Based on an assessment of the extent to which the relevant targets been updated to reflect the current position. The policy as originally approved were achieved during 2014, and taking into account any pro-rating by shareholders can be found on pages 82 to 89 of the 2013 Annual Report and requirements, payments made under the annual bonus scheme Accounts, a copy of which is available on the Company’s website. to individuals who served as executive directors during the year (as a percentage of salary paid during the year) were: 78.5% in the Purpose and role of the remuneration committee case of Simon Thomson; 79.15% for James Smith; and 76.75% for The remuneration committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts. Further details of the way in remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Group’s PDMRs which these awards were determined are set out on pages 89 to 91 (Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities). Within the terms of this of the Annual Report on Remuneration. agreed policy, the committee is also responsible for: –– determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive –– Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) director and PDMR; The performance period applicable to the LTIP awards granted –– determining the level of awards made under the Company’s LTIPs and share in 2011 came to an end during 2014. However, the performance option plans and the performance conditions which are to apply; conditions that required to be satisfied in order for these awards –– determining bonuses payable under the Company’s annual cash bonus scheme; to vest were not achieved, with the result that no shares were –– determining the vesting levels of awards under the Company’s LTIPs and released to participants and the awards lapsed. share option arrangements; and Applying the policy for 2015 –– determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and The ways in which the Company’s remuneration policy will be applied termination payments for executive directors and PDMRs. in 2015 are set out in detail on page 97 in the Annual Report on Remuneration. In particular, salaries for the executive directors in post The committee also reviews and approves the overall remuneration levels at the beginning of the year were increased by 1.5% on 1 January 2015 of employees below senior management level, but does not set individual in line with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees in remuneration amounts for such individuals. This oversight role allows the the Group. The Group KPI measures used for the annual bonus scheme committee to take into account pay policies and employment conditions within (and their respective weightings) have been reformulated for 2015 the Group as a whole when designing the reward structures of the executive in order to appropriately reflect the Company’s strategic goals for directors and PDMRs. For example, the committee considers the standard the period. In addition, and in order to ensure consistency with the increase applied to basic pay across the Group when setting executive directors’ approach first adopted for the Chief Executive in 2014, the proportion base salaries for the same period. of the CFO’s bonus opportunity for the year that will be determined by reference to these Group KPIs has been increased to 100% (from Cairn’s remuneration committee operates within written terms of reference the 90% level that applied in 2014). No material changes have been agreed by the Board. These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the made to the manner in which the LTIP will operate in 2015, although committee remains up-to-date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, its the members of the Total Shareholder Return international oil and gas strategy and the business and regulatory environment in which it operates. comparator group will be slightly changed to take account of delistings The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available on the and the need to ensure there are sufficient companies. Company’s website. Shareholder support and feedback on Directors’ Consultation with relevant stakeholders Remuneration Report The committee is always keen to ensure that, in carrying out its functions, We welcome questions and feedback from all parties on both the it takes into account the views and opinions of all the relevant stakeholders content and style of this report and hope that shareholders are in the business. During 2014, Ian Tyler met with a selection of the Company’s supportive of the resolution to approve our Annual Report on larger institutional investors following his appointment as Chairman in order Remuneration that is to be proposed at the AGM on 14 May 2015. to listen to their views on a range of issues relating to the business, including its remuneration structures and practices. Although the committee does not undertake a formal consultation exercise with employees in relation to the Group’s policy on senior management remuneration, M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC members of staff are regularly given the opportunity to raise issues on a variety Remuneration Committee Chair of matters, including executive pay, via a number of mechanisms including 9 March 2015 employee engagement surveys. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 Directors’ Remuneration report continued Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued) Overview of current remuneration policy Cairn’s current policy on executive directors’ remuneration, which became effective on 15 May 2014 and which is set out below, is to ensure that it appropriately incentivises individuals to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives to create, realise and add value for its shareholders, whilst offering a competitive package against the market. A description of each of the elements comprised in the pay packages for Cairn’s directors under its remuneration policy is as follows: Policy Table – elements of directors’ remuneration package Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Base salary Helps recruit and retain Normally reviewed annually Annual increases will not None employees. (with changes taking effect on exceed the level of standard 1 January) and/or when an increase awarded to other Reflects individual experience individual changes position employees except that more and role. or responsibility. significant increases may be awarded at the discretion Aim is to provide a competitive of the committee in base salary relative to the connection with: market (although the committee – an increase in the scope does not place undue emphasis and responsibility of the on benchmarking data and individual’s role; or exercises its own judgement – the individual’s development in determining pay levels). and performance in the role following appointment; or Decision influenced by: – a re-alignment with – role and experience; market rates. – average change in broader workforce salaries; – individual performance; and – remuneration practices in companies of a broadly similar size and value and relevant oil and gas exploration and production companies. Benefits Helps recruit and Directors are entitled to Company cars up to a value of None retain employees. a competitive package of £70,000 (or, as an alternative, benefits. For UK executives, an annual car allowance of up the major elements include to £8,771) may be provided. a company car, permanent Other benefits will be in line health insurance, private with the market. health insurance, death-inservice benefit and a gym and fitness allowance. 78 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Annual bonus Rewards the achievement Bonuses are awarded by Maximum % of salary: 100%. The measures and targets of annual KPIs and/or other reference to performance applicable to the annual bonus objectives linked to the against specific targets scheme (and the different Company’s strategic goals. measured over a single weightings ascribed to each financial year. of them) are set annually by the committee in order to Any amounts awarded to ensure they are relevant to an individual under this participants and take account arrangement are paid out in full of the most up-to-date shortly after the assessment of business plan and strategy. the performance targets has been completed. However, All, or a significant majority, annual bonuses may be subject of the bonus opportunity will to clawback where, in the period normally be determined by of three years from the end of reference to performance the relevant financial year, the against demanding Group committee becomes aware of KPIs such as: a material misstatement of the – exploration and new Company’s financial results or venture objectives; an error in the calculation of – development and production performance targets. targets; and – HSE. Any remaining part of a director’s bonus will normally be based on the achievement of personal objectives relevant to that individual’s role within the business. A payment scale for different levels of achievement against each KPI and/or other objective is specified by the committee at the outset of each year – these range from 0% for below-threshold performance up to 100% for full satisfaction of the relevant condition. The committee has discretion to vary the measures and weightings during the year if events arise which mean that it would be inappropriate to continue with the originally prescribed structure. The committee expects that this discretion will only be exercised in exceptional circumstances and not to make the bonus scheme for that year less demanding than when it was originally set. In addition, the committee has discretion to ensure that the ultimate bonus payment for a financial year is fair and reasonable and properly reflects performance over that period. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 Directors’ Remuneration report continued Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued) Policy Table – elements of directors’ remuneration package (continued) Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Long Term Incentive Plan Incentivises executive directors Cairn currently operates one Normal maximum % Vesting of all awards granted (or LTIP) to deliver superior levels of LTIP that was approved by of salary: 300%. under the LTIP to date is long-term performance for shareholders in 2009. determined by comparing the the benefit of shareholders, Exceptional circumstances growth in Total Shareholder thereby aligning the interests Awards of conditional shares maximum % of salary: 400%. Return (“TSR”) of Cairn over of the directors with those and/or nil-cost options are a performance period of three of the Company’s investors. made annually with vesting years from grant with the dependent on achievement TSR of a comparator group of performance conditions of international oil and gas chosen by the committee. companies that is selected by Performance is measured the committee prior to each over a three-year period. grant, with 20% vesting at median, 100% at upper decile On vesting of an award, only and on a straight line sliding 50% of the shares to which the scale in between. holder has become entitled are released/become exercisable In order to encourage immediately, with the exceptional performance, remaining 50% normally the above condition provides being released/becoming that, at upper decile levels, exercisable after a further a “multiplier” of up to 1.33 is period of one year. applied if absolute TSR growth is between 50% and 100% The committee reviews the (or more). It also states that quantum of awards annually, no part of any award will vest taking into account factors unless the remuneration such as market rates and committee is satisfied that overall remuneration. there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained Awards may be subject to improvement in the clawback where, in the period performance of the of three years from the end Company as a whole over of the relevant performance the performance period. period, the committee becomes aware of a material Although the committee’s misstatement of the intention is that the above Company’s financial results condition will be applied to or an error in the calculation LTIP awards granted in 2015, of performance conditions. it may decide to impose different (but equally challenging) conditions in future years. The committee will consult with major shareholders prior to making any such decision and will ensure that the vesting of at least 50% of all awards granted under the LTIP continues to be determined by reference to the Company’s TSR performance. 80 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Share Incentive Plan (or SIP) Encourages a broad range The Company established an Participation limits are those None of employees to become HM Revenue and Customs set by the UK tax authorities long-term shareholders. approved share incentive plan from time to time. These limits in April 2010. It allows the are currently as follows: Company to provide eligible – Partnership shares: up to employees, including the £1,800 per tax year can executive directors, with some be deducted from salary. or all of the following benefits: – Matching shares: up to – partnership shares acquired two matching shares for using deductions from salary; every one partnership – matching shares awarded to share purchased. those employees who – Free shares: up to £3,600 purchase partnership shares worth in each tax year. on the basis of a ratio specified by the Company; and – free shares. Matching and free shares awarded under the SIP must normally be held in the plan for a specified period. Pension Rewards sustained The Company operates Company contributes 15% None contribution. a defined contribution of basic salary on behalf of group personal pension plan executive directors or pays in the UK. The scheme is them an equivalent amount non-contributory and all of additional salary. UK permanent employees, including the executive directors, are eligible to participate. The Company contributes a specified percentage of basic annual salary for senior employees, including executive directors. Where an executive director has an individual personal pension plan (or overseas equivalent), the Company pays its contribution to that arrangement. If an executive director’s pension arrangements are fully funded or applicable statutory limits are reached, an amount equal to the Company’s contribution (or the balance thereof) is paid in the form of additional salary. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Directors’ Remuneration report continued Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued) Policy Table – elements of directors’ remuneration package (continued) Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Non-executive Helps recruit and retain Non-executive directors’ fees Company’s Articles of None directors’ fees high-quality, experienced are considered annually and are Association place a limit on individuals. set by the executive members the aggregate annual level of of the Board and the Chairman non-executive directors’ and Reflects time commitment taking into account a range of Chairman’s fees (currently and role. relevant factors including: £900,000). – market practice; – time commitment; and – responsibilities associated with the roles. Additional fees are payable to the Chairs of the audit and remuneration committees. Chairman’s fees Helps recruit and retain the The Chairman’s fee is Company’s Articles of None relevant individual. considered annually and is Association place a limit on determined in light of market the aggregate annual level Reflects time commitment. practice, the time commitment of non-executive directors’ and responsibilities associated and Chairman’s fees with the role and other (currently £900,000). relevant factors. Notes: 1. A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table during the financial year to 31 December 2015 is provided on page 97. 2. The following differences exist between the Company’s above policy for the remuneration of directors and its approach to the payment of employees generally: –– Participation in the LTIP is limited to the executive directors and certain selected senior managers. Other employees are eligible to participate in the Company’s share option schemes, details of which are provided on pages 129 and 130. –– Under the Company’s defined contribution pension scheme, the Company contribution for less senior employees is 10% of basic annual salary. –– A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity applies to employees other than the executive directors and certain PDMRs. –– Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise permanent health insurance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and gym and fitness allowance. In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals. They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the executive directors and PDMRs, a greater emphasis is placed on variable pay. 3. The TSR performance conditions applicable to the LTIP (further details of which are provided on page 91) were selected by the remuneration committee on the basis that they improve shareholder alignment and are consistent with the Company’s objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders. Under the terms of these performance conditions, the committee can specify the basis on which TSR for any company is calculated and has the discretion to make adjustments to this methodology to take account of exceptional circumstances, including share capital variations. Where any company becomes unsuitable as a member of the comparator group as a result of, for example, a change of control or delisting, the committee has the discretion to treat that company in such manner as it deems appropriate (including replacing it with another organisation). 4. Where a nil-cost option award under the LTIP becomes exercisable, it will generally remain so until the tenth anniversary of the date on which it was granted. 5. The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the committee’s belief that any incentive compensation should be tied to appropriately challenging measures of both the overall performance of the Company against its strategic KPIs and (where appropriate) those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence. 6. The legislation applicable to the SIP does not allow performance conditions to be applied in relation to partnership or matching shares and, given that the SIP is an “all-employee” arrangement, the Company has decided that it is not appropriate to apply performance conditions to free shares awarded under it. 7. As highlighted on page 95, the Company has a share ownership policy which requires the executive directors to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of base salary. Until such a holding is achieved, an executive director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Company’s share incentive plans. Details of the extent to which the current executive directors had complied with this policy as at 31 December 2014 are set out on page 95. Committee discretions The committee will operate the annual bonus scheme, LTIP and SIP according to their respective rules and the policy described in this Part 2 of the report. The committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these arrangements. These include (but are not limited to) the following: –– who participates in the plans; –– the timing of grant of award and/or payment; –– the size of an award and/or a payment; –– discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction; –– the weightings, metrics and targets for the annual bonus plan; –– the determination of the annual bonus payment; –– determination of a “good leaver” (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen; –– discretion to disapply time pro-rating in the event of a change of control or good leaver circumstances; –– adjustments or variations required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, change of control, special dividends and other major corporate events); and –– the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events. Legacy awards Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested/unexercised as detailed on page 93 of the Annual Report on Remuneration remain eligible to vest/be exercised based on their original award terms. 82 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration scenarios relating to the above policy Cairn’s pay policy seeks to ensure that the overall package of the executive directors is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, within such variable pay element, that greater emphasis is placed on the delivery of long-term performance through the award of long-term incentives. In the chart below, we show the make-up of remuneration of the current executive directors in 2015 under minimum, on-target and maximum scenarios. £3,379,776 £3.5m £3.0m £2.5m 65% £2,197,565 £2,019,745 £2.0m 49% £1,312,993 65% £1.5m 16% 49% £1.0m £654,253 19% £424,868 19% 16% £0.5m 100% 32% 19% 100% 32% 19% £0 Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum Chief Executive CFO Fixed Elements Annual Variable Long-term Incentives In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: –– The “minimum” columns are intended to show the fixed level of remuneration to which the executive directors are entitled in 2015 irrespective of performance levels, namely base salary (at current rates), benefits (using the annualised details set out in the 2014 single-figure table provided on page 87) and pension (calculated by applying the percentage entitlement set out in the policy table against latest confirmed salary). –– The “on-target” scenario seeks to illustrate the remuneration the executive directors would receive if performance was in line with expectation. In addition to the fixed elements summarised above, it assumes a specified level of payout/vesting under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP. Given that neither of these incentive arrangements explicitly stipulate an “on-target” amount, the assumed levels for this scenario have been calculated by reference to the approximate average annual payouts/vestings for all executive directors over the five years up to and including 2014, being a payout of 70% of salary under the annual bonus scheme and a 60% vesting of LTIP awards originally granted over shares worth 300% of salary. –– The “maximum” columns demonstrate total remuneration levels in circumstances where the variable elements pay out in full (i.e. annual bonus payment of 100% of salary and 133% vesting of LTIP awards originally granted over shares worth 300% of salary). –– For the purposes of valuing the LTIP awards, any post-grant share price movements have been ignored. –– The executive directors are entitled to participate in the SIP on the same basis as other employees. The value that may be received under this arrangement is subject to legislative limits and, for simplicity, has been excluded from the above chart. Recruitment policy Base salaries Salaries for any new director hires (including internal promotions) will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Company’s intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role. Where it is appropriate to offer a below-market salary initially, the committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases over time for newly appointed directors, even though this may involve increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation. Benefits Benefits and pensions for new appointees to the Board will normally be provided in line with those offered to other executive directors and employees taking account of local market practice, with relocation expenses/arrangements provided for if necessary. Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with Cairn. Legal fees and other relevant costs and expenses incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company. Variable pay For external appointments, the committee will ensure that their variable remuneration arrangements are framed in accordance with the terms of, and are subject to the limits contained in, the Company’s existing policy. The committee may however, in connection with an external recruitment, offer additional cash and/or share-based elements intended to compensate the individual for the forfeiture of any awards under variable remuneration schemes with a former employer. The design of these payments would appropriately reflect the value, nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the remuneration foregone. Shareholders will be informed of any such arrangements at the time of appointment. Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the year of joining the Board for the annual bonus, taking into account the individual’s role and responsibilities and the point in the year the executive joined. For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. Non-executive directors On the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual. Where specific cash or share arrangements are delivered to non-executive directors, these will not include share options or other performance-related elements. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Directors’ Remuneration report continued Executive directors’ service contracts The current executive directors’ service contracts contain the key terms shown in the table below: Provision Detailed terms Remuneration – Salary, pension and benefits. – Company car or cash allowance. – Permanent health insurance. – Private health insurance for director and dependants. – Death-in-service benefits. – 30 days’ paid annual leave. – Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules. – Participation in LTIP and SIP, subject to plan rules. Notice period1 – 12 months’ notice by the director or by the Company. Termination payment – See separate disclosure below. Restrictive covenants – During employment and for 12 months after leaving. Note: 1. The committee believes that this policy on notice periods provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals who will benefit the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination. The executive directors’ service contracts are available for inspection, on request, at the Company’s registered office. Exit payment policy for executive directors Executive directors’ contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, at the Company’s discretion. The contracts also allow for phased payments to be made on termination with an obligation on the individual to mitigate loss. Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct. The committee’s approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination and the contractual obligations of both parties as well as the relevant share plan and pension scheme rules. In the event of termination by the Company, an executive director would be entitled to receive an amount representing base salary and the value of benefits and pension contributions due under the individual’s service contract for the notice period. Directors are not entitled to participate in any additional redundancy scheme. On termination of employment, the committee has discretion as to the amount of bonus payable in respect of the current year. The bonus paid would reflect the Company’s and the individual’s performance during that period. However, any bonus payable on termination would not exceed a pro-rated amount to reflect the period for which the individual had worked in the relevant year. As a general rule, if an executive director ceases employment, all unvested awards granted pursuant to the Company’s long-term incentive arrangements will lapse immediately. However, if such cessation occurs by reason of death, injury, permanent disability or redundancy, or because the individual’s employing company or part of the business in which he/she is employed is transferred out of the Group, or in any other exceptional circumstances determined by the committee (in each case, a “good leaver”), those awards will not lapse and will continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied. It is the remuneration committee’s normal policy to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver, although it retains the discretion to refrain from doing so in exceptional circumstances. On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to his annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment. As noted and explained in previous reports, the committee recognises that this provision is no longer in accordance with best practice. It was not included in the contract of the new CFO, and will not be included in the contracts of other future appointees to the Board; however, it continues to apply to the current Chief Executive. Executive director board appointments with other companies The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of executive directors accepting positions as non-executive directors of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments involved are not unduly onerous. The executive directors are permitted to retain any fees paid for such appointments. The appointment of any executive director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the nomination committee. In the case of a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only normally be given if the two companies do not compete in the same geographical area. Non-executive directors’ letters of appointment None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman has a service contract but all have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities, the time commitment expected by the Company, and the basis on which their fees will be paid. These letters of appointment can be terminated with immediate effect by either the director concerned or the Company and are subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, which provide for the annual election or re-election by shareholders of all of the Company’s directors. There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of appointment. None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman participates in any of the Company’s share schemes and they are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions. The non-executive directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection, on request, at the Company’s registered office. 84 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction This Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of the way in which the committee operated during the financial year to 31 December 2014 and explains how Cairn’s approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy that is described on pages 77 to 84 was implemented during that period. It also summarises how that policy will be applied in 2015. In accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM on 14 May 2015. The Company’s auditors are required to report to Cairn’s shareholders on the “auditable parts” of this Annual Report on Remuneration (which have been highlighted as such below) and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations and the Companies Act 2006. Operation of the remuneration committee during 2014 Members of the remuneration committee The members of the remuneration committee during the year (all of whom are independent non-executive directors) were as follows: –– M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC (Chair of the committee); –– Dr James Buckee (retired as a non-executive director and member of the committee on 15 May 2014); –– Todd Hunt; –– Iain McLaren; and –– Ian Tyler. The non-executive directors who served on the committee had no personal financial interest (other than as shareholders) in the matters decided, no potential conflicts of interest from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business. Biographical information on the committee members is shown on pages 58 and 59 and details of attendance at the committee’s meetings during 2014 are shown on page 67. Internal assistance provided to the committee The Chief Executive is not a member of the remuneration committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and is consulted in respect of certain of its proposals. Similarly, the CFO is not a member of the committee but may occasionally be invited to attend parts of its meetings to address specific matters. Neither the Chief Executive nor the CFO is consulted or involved in any discussions in respect of their own remuneration. During the year, the committee also received material assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Company Secretary. External assistance provided to the committee As and when the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from a number of sources. During the year, it received the following assistance: Adviser Assistance provided to the committee during 2014 Fees for committee assistance in 20141 Other services provided to the Company during 2014 New Bridge Street 2 Appointed by the committee to give £85,128 None periodic advice on various aspects of the directors’ remuneration packages. Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and provided support on a number of miscellaneous remuneration related projects. Slaughter and May Appointed by the committee to £5,790 None provide advice in relation to executive directors’ service contracts and other matters relating to their remuneration arrangements. Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Ernst & Young LLP Carried out an independent verification n/a Internal auditors of the Company of the Company’s achievement against throughout the year. performance conditions applicable to the Company’s LTIP and share option schemes. However, they provided no advice to the committee. Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Appointed by the Company to carry £30,715 General legal services to the Group out regular calculations in relation throughout the year. to the LTIP performance conditions. Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Notes: 1. The bases for charging the fees set out in the above table were agreed by the committee at or around the time the particular services were provided and, in general, reflected the time spent by the adviser in question on the relevant matter. 2. “New Bridge Street” is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc – they are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and their work is governed by the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. 3. The committee reviews the performance and independence of all its advisers on an annual basis. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Directors’ Remuneration report continued Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued) Operation of the remuneration committee during 2014 (continued) Statement of shareholder voting at general meetings The table below shows the voting outcome at the last general meeting(s) at which shareholders were asked by the Company to approve a resolution relating to its Directors’ Remuneration report and Directors’ Remuneration Policy: Number of Date of general votes For & Number of votes Total number of Number of votes Description of resolution meeting Discretionary % of votes cast Against % of votes cast votes cast Withheld 1 To approve the 2013 Directors’ Remuneration report 15 May 2014 384,329,738 99.30% 2,692,844 0.70% 387,022,582 1,031,354 To approve a Directors’ Remuneration Policy 15 May 2014 379,512,480 98.06% 7,495,533 1.94% 387,008,013 1,045,923 Note: 1. A vote withheld is not a vote in law. The committee welcomed the endorsement of both the above resolutions that was shown by the vast majority of shareholders and took steps, wherever practicable, to understand the concerns of investors who did not support the resolutions. Board changes during 2014 Leaving arrangements – Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown Dr Mike Watts, Deputy CEO, and Jann Brown, Managing Director & CFO, stood down as executive directors on 15 May 2014. Both individuals agreed to work a portion of their 12 month notice period, principally in order to help seek a resolution of the tax issue in India, and subsequently ceased employment on 17 October 2014. Following their retirement as directors, their annual salaries were reduced by £75,000 to £400,600 (in the case of Dr Mike Watts) and to £362,675 (in the case of Jann Brown). On the subsequent cessation of their employment, no additional payments were made in lieu of the salary (or pension or other benefits) to which these individuals would have been entitled had they worked the remainder of their notice periods. Both individuals continued to participate in the annual bonus scheme for 2014 and details of their payments for the year under that arrangement (which were pro-rated to the date of cessation of employment) are set out on page 87. Finally, the committee determined that, for a number of reasons (including the particular circumstances surrounding both individuals’ departure and the significant contribution that they had made to the Group over a very considerable period), it was appropriate to treat Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown as “good leavers” for the purposes of the LTIP. As a result, their outstanding awards did not lapse and will continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied. The number of ordinary shares that vest will also be subject to a time pro-rating reduction to reflect their early cessation of employment. Recruitment of James Smith James Smith, CFO, joined the Company on 3 March 2014 and became an executive director on 15 May 2014. Details of his remuneration package for the year (which is consistent with the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM) are provided throughout this Annual Report on Remuneration. As previously announced on 10 April 2014, the committee agreed that, in connection with his recruitment, James Smith would be granted an award of £200,000 in order to compensate him for bonus forfeited from his previous employment due to his resignation to join Cairn. 50% of this award was paid in cash on commencement of employment with the remaining 50% being delivered in the form of an award of shares that was released after 12 months’ continuous service with the Group. The aggregate value of this award made to James Smith was less than the amount of bonus foregone and the deferral period imposed on the share element was comparable to the time horizon applicable to his forfeited entitlements. Single total figure table for 2014 (audited) The tables below set out the remuneration received by executive directors and non-executive directors during the year in the following categories. + + + + + = Long-Term Total Salary Benefits Pension SIP Bonus Incentives Remuneration Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance 86 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Executive directors Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance Fixed Performance Salary Award on element Long-term element Total Financial year and fees Benefits 1 Pension 2 SIP3 recruitment4 subtotal Bonus 5 incentives6 subtotal remuneration Current directors Simon Thomson 2014 £538,125 £26,126 £80,719 £5,997 – £650,967 £422,458 – £422,458 £1,073,425 2013 £525,000 £22,269 £78,750 £5,996 – £632,015 £330,750 – £330,750 £962,765 James Smith4&8 2014 £291,667 £21,000 £43,750 £2,998 £200,000 £552,023 £229,969 – £229,969 £781,992 2013 – – – – – – – – – – Former directors Jann Brown7,8&9 2014 £333,144 £19,279 £47,461 £2,998 – £402,882 £244,158 – £244,158 £647,040 2013 £427,000 £22,688 £64,050 £5,996 – £519,734 £264,740 – £264,740 £784,474 Dr Mike Watts7,8&9 2014 £349,633 £10,817 £51,982 £2,998 – £415,430 £267,444 – £267,444 £682,874 2013 £464,000 £11,497 £69,600 £5,996 – £551,093 £285,360 – £285,360 £836,453 Notes: 1. Taxable benefits available to the executive directors during 2014 were a company car/car allowance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit, relocation expenses (in the case of James Smith) and, in the case of all of the executive directors who served during the year other than Dr Mike Watts, a gym and fitness allowance. This package of taxable benefits was unchanged from 2013. 2. Additional disclosures relating to the pension provision for the executive directors during 2014 are set out on page 89. 3. This column shows the face value (at date of award) of matching and free shares provided to the executive directors under the SIP during the relevant period. Further details on the way in which the SIP was operated during 2014 are set out on pages 94 and 95. 4. James Smith became an employee of the Company on 3 March 2014 and was appointed as a director with effect from 15 May 2014. His “Award on recruitment” was made up of: a cash award of £100,000 that was paid on the commencement of his employment with the Group; and a conditional award of 55,096 ordinary shares at a price of 181.5 pence per share, both by way of compensation for the loss of bonus from his previous employer. Further information in relation to these matters is provided on page 86. 5. This column shows the amount of bonus paid or payable in respect of the year in question after the operation of any applicable time pro-rating reduction. Further information in relation to the annual bonus scheme for 2014 is provided on pages 89 to 91. 6. This column shows the value of shares that vested in respect of LTIP awards with performance conditions that ended during the period in question. Further details of the LTIP’s operation during 2014 are provided on pages 91 to 94. 7. Both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts stood down as executive directors on 15 May 2014 but thereafter continued as employees of the Group until 17 October 2014. 8. The Regulations only require the above table to show remuneration paid to an individual at a time when he or she is a director of the Company. However, it has been decided that, in order to be as transparent as possible, it should disclose all sums paid to each of James Smith, Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts during 2014, including those paid at a time when they were employees of the Group but not directors. 9. For 2014, the salary figures for Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts include accrued holiday pay of £16,739 and £3,082 respectively that was paid on termination of employment. 10. Following the end of the year to 31 December 2014, the committee considered whether there were any circumstances that could or should result in the recovery or withholding of any sums pursuant to the clawback arrangements contained within the Company’s remuneration policy. The conclusion reached by the committee was that it was not aware of any such circumstances. Non-executive directors Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance Fixed Performance Financial Salary element Long-term element Total year and fees1 Benefits Pension 2 subtotal Bonus 2 incentives2 subtotal remuneration Current directors Ian Tyler3 2014 £127,675 – – £127,675 – – – £127,675 2013 £36,277 – – £36,277 – – – £36,277 Todd Hunt 2014 £73,800 – – £73,800 – – – £73,800 2013 £72,000 – – £72,000 – – – £72,000 Iain McLaren 2014 £83,800 – – £83,800 – – – £83,800 2013 £82,000 – – £82,000 – – – £82,000 Alexander Berger 2014 £73,800 – – £73,800 – – – £73,800 2013 £72,000 – – £72,000 – – – £72,000 M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 2014 £83,800 – – £83,800 – – – £83,800 2013 £82,000 – – £82,000 – – – £82,000 Former directors Sir Bill Gammell4 2014 £90,712 – – £90,712 – – – £90,712 2013 £236,000 – – £236,000 – – – £236,000 Dr James Buckee4 2014 £27,675 – – £27,675 – – – £27,675 2013 £72,000 – – £72,000 – – – £72,000 Notes: 1. The annual fee for each of the non-executive directors (other than the Chairman) for 2014 was £73,800. In addition, a further annual fee of £10,000 was payable to both Iain McLaren and M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC for their roles as Chair of the audit committee and the remuneration committee respectively. 2. The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Company’s long-term incentive arrangements and are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions. 3. Ian Tyler, who had previously served as a non-executive director, was appointed Chairman on 15 May 2014. The annual rate of fees payable to him in this new role was £160,000. 4. Both Sir Bill Gammell and Dr James Buckee retired as directors on 15 May 2014 and their respective fees for 2014 reflect the period from the start of the year to that date. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 Directors’ Remuneration report continued Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued) TSR performance graph and further information on Chief Executive pay Introduction The following chart demonstrates the growth in value of a £100 investment in the Company and an investment of the same amount in both the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 100 Index over the last six years. These comparisons have been chosen on the basis that Cairn was a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index for the whole of 2014 but has also previously been a constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index. The table beneath the graph illustrates the movements in the total remuneration of the Company’s Chief Executive during the same six-year period. Performance graph – comparison of six-year cumulative TSR on an investment of £100 350 300 FTSE 250 250 FTSE 100 200 Cairn Energy 150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 FTSE100 FTSE250 Cairn Total remuneration of Chief Executive during the same six-year period Annual variable Long term incentive element award rates vesting rates for for Chief Executive Chief Executive (as Total remuneration (as % of max. % of original Financial year Chief Executive of Chief Executive1 opportunity) award level) 2014 Simon Thomson £1,073,425 78.5% 0% 2013 Simon Thomson £962,765 63% 0% 2012 Simon Thomson £1,018,570 86% 0% 20112 Simon Thomson £3,405,719 82% 121% 2011 Sir Bill Gammell £4,053,822 n/a 106% 2010 Sir Bill Gammell £7,302,533 58% 113% 2009 Sir Bill Gammell £962,757 54% 0% Notes: 1. The amounts disclosed in this column have been calculated using the same methodology prescribed by the Regulations for the purposes of preparing the single total figure table shown on page 87. 2. Sir Bill Gammell stood down as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011 and was replaced by Simon Thomson (who had previously been Legal and Commercial Director) with effect from that date. Sir Bill Gammell’s “total remuneration” for 2011 shown in the above table reflects the amount of salary, benefits and pension paid to him in respect of the period to 30 June 2011. However, during the year to 31 December 2011, Sir Bill Gammell also received, in connection with the termination of his employment and in settlement of his contractual entitlements, a payment of salary and benefits in lieu of his contractual notice period of one year (£770,000) and a cash bonus under the Company’s annual cash bonus scheme (£625,000). Percentage annual change in Chief Executive’s remuneration elements compared to all Group employees The table below illustrates, for various elements of the Chief Executive’s 2014 remuneration package, the percentage change from 2013 and compares it to the average percentage change for all the Group’s employees in respect of that same period. % change % change in % change in in base salary taxable benefits annual bonus Chief Executive 2.5% 17.3% 27.7% All Group employees 3.0% 23.0% 27.9% 88 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Executive directors’ base salaries during 2014 Based on a review carried out in December 2013, the following salary increases for executive directors became effective on 1 January 2014: 2014 Annual salary details Annual salary as at 1 January 2014 % increase Annual salary as at (or on appointment, with effect from Job title 31 December 2013 if later) 1 January 2014 Current directors Simon Thomson Chief Executive £525,000 £538,125 2.5% James Smith CFO n/a £350,000 n/a Former directors Jann Brown1 Managing Director & CFO £427,000 £437,675 2.5% Dr Mike Watts 1 Deputy Chief Executive £464,000 £475,600 2.5% Notes: 1. Both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts stood down as executive directors with effect from 15 May 2014 but subsequently remained as employees of the Group until 17 October 2014. With effect from the date of cessation of directorship, their respective base salaries were reduced by £75,000 from the level noted in the above table. The increases shown in the above table for each of Simon Thomson, Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts were consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase awarded to other employees on 1 January 2014. Executive directors’ pension provision during 2014 (audited) As highlighted in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy described on pages 77 to 84, the Company operates a defined contribution, non-contributory group personal pension plan which is open to all UK permanent employees. The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary (15% in respect of senior executives) on behalf of all qualifying employees. The Company also has a pension committee which meets on a regular basis to assess the performance and suitability of the Company’s pension arrangements. On joining the Company, James Smith became a member of the Company scheme and, during the remainder of the year, received a Company contribution of 15% of his basic salary. Both Simon Thomson and Jann Brown have an individual personal pension plan. During 2014, Jann Brown received a contribution from the Company equal to 15% of her salary for the period that she was employed by the Group. Simon Thomson also received a contribution of 15% of his salary into his personal plan for the first 3 months of the year, at which point the arrangement reached the applicable statutory limit. Thereafter, he received an amount equivalent to 15% of his basic salary for the remaining portion of the year in the form of additional salary. During the year, Dr Mike Watts received an amount equivalent to 15% of his annual basic salary in the form of additional salary, as his pension arrangements are fully funded. Details of the actual amounts of pension contributions/additional salary that were paid to current and former executive directors during 2014 are set out in the “pension” column of the single total figure table on page 87. Annual bonus – 2014 structure and outcome (audited) During 2014, Cairn operated annual cash bonus schemes for all employees and executive directors. The maximum level of bonus award for executive directors and certain PDMRs for 2014 was 100% of annual salary (as at date of award). For all participants, as in prior years, bonus awards were based on individual and/or Company performance measures. Individual performance was measured through the Company’s performance management system and Company performance conditions were based on annually defined KPIs. The following paragraphs highlight, for each individual who served as an executive director during the year, the allocation of their bonus opportunity between Group KPI and individual performance conditions. Taking into account commercial sensitivities around disclosure, a summary of the relevant targets, ascribed weightings and achievement levels is also set out below. 2014 annual cash bonus scheme – allocation between Group KPIs and individual performance conditions Allocation of maximum bonus opportunity (as % of salary) between: Group Individual KPIs performance Current directors Simon Thomson 100% 0% James Smith 90% 10% Former directors Jann Brown1 50% 50% Dr Mike Watts 1 50% 50% Notes: 1. In connection with the cessation of Jann Brown’s and Dr Mike Watts’ directorships on 15 May 2014, the committee determined that, in order to better reflect their revised roles in the business going forward, the weightings used to calculate their 2014 bonuses should be amended to 50% Group KPIs and 50% individual performance, with the latter category being assessed by reference to specific measures relating to the Indian tax issue. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89 Directors’ Remuneration report continued Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued) Annual bonus – 2014 structure and outcome (audited) (continued) 2014 annual cash bonus scheme – Group KPI performance conditions and achievement levels Measures and weightings Performance achieved in 2014 Weighting (as % of Bonus awarded (as % allocated proportion of allocated proportion Performance measures Performance targets of maximum opportunity) of maximum opportunity) Summary of achievement Exploration and appraisal success Discovery of commercial 35%3 35% Two oil discoveries offshore hydrocarbons2 Senegal with the FAN-1 and SNE-1 exploration wells; target volumes of commercial hydrocarbons exceeded Active portfolio optimisation Prospect generation; acquire value 15% 3% Seven new prospects matured accretive nearer term production out of a target of twelve; assets; secure partners in higher unsuccessful in achieving other cost frontier acreage two targets during 2014 Balance sheet Retain balance sheet strength; 15%3 13.5% Debt financing concluded; minimum target liquid reserves divestment of 10% interest up to 2017 in Catcher to Dyas completed after year end Licence to operate Maintain licence to operate by 15% 13% Good performance against achieving targets for several leading almost all the leading targets, HSE performance indicators both leading and lagging indicators (versus OGP industry standards) Demonstrate operational excellence Timely and cost effective delivery 20% 14% Timely delivery of the majority of operated and non-operated asset of operated and non-operated projects; progress development asset projects, particularly projects on schedule and seismic projects; some delays within budget in exploration drilling due to rig inefficiency and non-productive time; Catcher and Kraken development projects on track Totals 100% 78.5% Notes: 1. Further disclosures in relation to the above Group KPIs, including details of the way in which they were measured and assessed, are set out in the 2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) section on pages 18 to 21. 2. This KPI was assessed on (i) evidence of commercial discoveries based on 2C resources; plus (ii) the net volumes versus the 50 mmboe target; and (iii) the finding efficiency expressed in US$/boe. 3. As explained in the Annual Statement set out on pages 76 and 77, the committee carried out an interim review in May 2014 of the above annual bonus scheme in order to determine whether any variations were required to reflect the exceptional circumstances surrounding the Indian tax issue that had arisen after the original structure had been agreed. The conclusion reached was that, as provided for by the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the committee should vary the weightings ascribed to the “Exploration and appraisal success” and “Balance sheet” measures, with the former being moved from 45% to 35% and the latter being changed from 5% to 15%. 2014 annual cash bonus scheme – individual performance conditions and achievement levels With the exception of the Chief Executive, each individual who served as an executive director during the year was given a number of different personal objectives tailored to their role and the needs of the business for the year. In summary, these objectives related to various matters associated with the Indian tax issue and, in the case of James Smith, also included the negotiation of certain debt facilities, a strategic review of funding and identified actions connected to the management of the finance department. The achievements against the above objectives were carefully considered by the committee following which it awarded each of the relevant individuals between 8.5% and 37.5% of salary, as set out on page 91. 90 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 2014 annual cash bonus scheme – actual payments awarded Award (as % of salary) based on achievement against performance measures relating to: Bonus actually paid (i.e. after application Individual of any time proGroup KPIs performance rating adjustment) Current directors Simon Thomson 78.5% – £422,458 James Smith 70.65% 8.5% £229,9691 Former directors Jann Brown 39.25% 37.5% £244,1581 Dr Mike Watts 39.25% 37.5% £267,4441 Note: 1. The 2014 bonus awarded to each of these individuals was pro-rated by reference to the proportion of the year that he/she was employed by the Company. The remuneration committee considered that the above award levels were appropriately reflective of overall performance during the year. Long-term incentives during 2014 Introduction During the year to 31 December 2014, the executive directors participated in the Company’s LTIP, which was originally approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 19 May 2009. The LTIP enables selected senior individuals to be granted conditional awards or nil-cost options over ordinary shares, the vesting of which is normally dependent on both continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance conditions are met over a specified period of three years. In the case of all awards under the LTIP (including those granted during 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014), the performance conditions involve a comparison of the TSR of the Company over a three-year performance period (commencing on the date of grant of the relevant award) with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group. At the end of this period, each company in the comparator group is listed in order of TSR performance to produce a “ranking table”. The vesting of awards then takes place as follows: Ranking of Company against the comparator group Percentage of ordinary shares comprised in award that vest Below median 0% Median 20% Upper decile (i.e. top 10%) 100% Between median and upper decile 20%–100% on a straight line basis A list of the companies comprised in the comparator groups applicable to all LTIP awards that were outstanding during 2014 is set out on page 94. In order to ensure that the LTIP encourages and rewards exceptional performance in terms of delivering increased growth and shareholder value, the performance conditions attaching to awards also provide that, where the TSR of the Company produces a ranking at or above the upper decile level in the appropriate comparator group, a participant will then be given the opportunity to increase the percentage of his/her award that vests through the application of a “multiplier” that is linked to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period. The way in which this multiplier operates is as follows: Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest TSR of the Company over the performance period 1 50% or less 1.33 100% or more 1–1.33 on a straight line basis Between 50% and 100% However, notwithstanding the performance of the Company against the above targets, no part of any award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period. In addition, and as noted in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, awards granted in 2012 and later years are subject to clawback provisions which may be operated by the committee where, in the period of three years from the end of the applicable performance period, it becomes aware of either a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results or an error in the calculation of performance metrics. On any vesting of an award under the LTIP, only 50% of the ordinary shares to which the holder has become entitled are released/become exercisable immediately, with the remaining 50% normally being released/becoming exercisable after a further period of one year. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 Directors’ Remuneration report continued Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued) Long-term incentives during 2014 (continued) LTIP – awards granted during 2014 (audited) On 19 March 2014, the following awards under the LTIP were granted to directors: Face value (£,000) of …. % of shares over which award …max. no. of No. of shares originally granted …shares over which shares to vest if Vesting determined Basis of Share price at over which award that vest at award originally all performance by performance Type of award award granted date of grant originally granted threshold granted3 measures met4 over Current directors Simon Thomson Nil-cost option 3 x salary of £1.682 959,794 20% £1,614 £2,147 3 years until £538,125 18 March 2017 James Smith Nil-cost option 3 x salary of £1.682 624,256 20% £1,050 £1,396 £350,000 Former directors Jann Brown5 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of £1.682 780,633 20% £1,313 £1,746 3 years until £437,675 18 March 2017 Dr Mike Watts5 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of £1.682 848,275 20% £1,427 £1,898 £475,600 Notes: 1. Details of the performance conditions applicable to the awards granted in 2014 are provided on page 91. 2. No price is payable by participants for their shares on the exercise of a nil-cost option granted under the LTIP. 3. The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the “number of shares over which the award was originally granted” by the “share price at date of grant” (being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant). 4. The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the “number of shares over which the award was originally granted” by 133% (being the vesting percentage that would apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject – see page 91) and multiplying the result by the “share price at date of grant” (being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant). 5. As explained on page 86 of this report, both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts have been categorised as “good leavers” for the purposes of the LTIP rules with the result that their awards will continue to vest at the same time and in substantially the same manner (subject to time pro-rating) as those held by all other participants. LTIP – awards vesting during the year (audited) On 16 June 2014, the three-year performance period applicable to the awards granted under the LTIP on 17 June 2011 to various participants (including the executive directors) came to an end. Thereafter, the remuneration committee assessed the relevant performance conditions. The results of this assessment can be summarised as follows: Performance measure % of award subject to measure Performance achieved 2011–2014 % of award vested Relative TSR performance against a comparator 100% Cairn’s TSR over the period ranked below the 0% group of 17 companies with the opportunity for median company in the comparator group. additional multiplier of up to 1.33 to be applied for upper decile performance. Notes: 1. Further details of the performance conditions that applied to the above awards are set out on page 91. 2. At various points in the period 17 June 2011 to 16 June 2014, the committee was required to determine the treatment of those comparator group companies that were the subject of takeover transactions. No other discretions were exercised by the remuneration committee during or after the relevant performance period. 3. The calculations used to inform the committee’s determinations in relation to the above awards were independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP. 92 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information LTIP – other awards held by executive directors during the year For the sake of completeness, and in order to allow comparisons to be made with the awards granted under the LTIP during 2014, set out below are details of the other entitlements under the plan that were held by current and former executive directors during the year: Face value (£,000) of …. % of shares over which …max. no. No. of shares award of shares over which originally …shares over to vest if all Vesting determined award granted which award performance by performance Basis of Share price at originally that vest at originally measures over three years Date of grant Type of award2 award granted date of grant granted threshold granted3 met4 until… Current directors Simon Thomson 14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of £2.887 513,335 20% £1,482 £1,971 13 June 2015 £494,000 20 March 2013 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of £2.784 565,732 20% £1,575 £2,095 19 March 2016 £525,000 James Smith – – – – – – – – – Former directors Jann Brown5 14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of £2.887 432,282 20% £1,248 £1,660 13 June 2015 £416,000 20 March 2013 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of £2.784 460,129 20% £1,281 £1,704 19 March 2016 £427,000 Dr Mike Watts5 14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of £2.887 469,691 20% £1,356 £1,803 13 June 2015 £452,000 20 March 2013 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of £2.784 500,000 20% £1,392 £1,851 19 March 2016 £464,000 Notes: 1. Further details of the performance conditions that apply to these awards are set out on page 91. 2. The awards shown in the above table that were granted in 2012 were originally made in the form of conditional shares. However, to provide flexibility to participants, they have been converted into nil-cost options. 3. The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant “number of shares over which the award was originally granted” by the appropriate “share price at date of grant” (being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant). 4. The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant “number of shares over which the award was originally granted” by 133% (being the vesting percentage that would apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject – see page 91) and multiplying the result by the appropriate “share price at date of grant” (being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant). 5. As explained on page 86 of this report, both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts have been categorised as “good leavers” for the purposes of the LTIP rules with the result that their awards will continue to vest at the same time and in substantially the same manner (subject to time pro-rating) as those held by all other participants. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 Directors’ Remuneration report continued Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued) Long-term incentives during 2014 (continued) Comparator group companies applicable to LTIP awards The table below provides details of the comparator groups applicable to each tranche of awards granted under the LTIP that were outstanding during 2014. Comparator group applicable to LTIP awards granted on… Company 17 June 2011 14 June 2012 20 March 2013 19 March 2014 Afren PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ BG Group PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited ✓ DNO ASA ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ EnQuest PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ EOG Resources, Inc ✓ Faroe Petroleum PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ Genel Energy PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ JKX Oil & Gas PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Lundin Petroleum AB ✓ ✓ ✓ Melrose Resources PLC* ✓ Newfield Exploration Company ✓ Niko Resources Limited ✓ ✓ ✓ Noble Energy, Inc ✓ Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited ✓ Ophir Energy PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ Petroceltic International PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ Premier Oil PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Rockhopper Exploration PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ Salamander Energy PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Santos Limited ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ SOCO International PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ Talisman Energy, Inc ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Tullow Oil PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Woodside Petroleum Limited ✓ * Denotes company that has delisted during the applicable performance period. Participation of executive directors in all-employee share schemes during 2014 Introduction In order to encourage increased levels of long-term share ownership amongst its general employee population, the Company launched an HM Revenue and Customs approved SIP in April 2010. The SIP provides eligible employees, including the executive directors, with the following benefits: –– “Partnership shares” – employees can authorise deductions of up to £1,800 per tax year from pre-tax salary, which are then used to acquire ordinary shares on their behalf. –– “Matching shares” – the Company can award further free shares to all participants who acquire partnership shares on the basis of up to two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased. For the tax year 2014/2015, the Company awarded two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased and intends to continue using this award ratio for the tax year 2015/2016. –– “Free shares” – employees can be given up to £3,600 worth of ordinary shares free in each tax year. On 8 April 2014, an award of free shares was made to employees, including to a number of the executive directors. As the SIP is an “all-employee” arrangement, no performance conditions are imposed in relation to any matching or free shares awarded pursuant to its terms. 94 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Details of executive directors’ SIP participation in 2014 Details of the shares purchased by and awarded to the executive directors under the SIP during the course of the year are as follows: Partnership shares awarded on… Matching shares awarded on… Total SIP shares held Free shares at 31 December awarded on 2014 (or date 8 April 2014 …6 May 2014 …5 December 2014 …6 May 2014 …5 December 2014 of cessation of Total SIP shares held at a price of at a price of at a price of at a price of at a price of employment, at 1 January 2014 £1.676 per share £1.851 per share £1.673 per share £1.851 per share £1.673 per share if earlier) Current directors Simon Thomson 6,761 1,789 810 – 1,620 – 10,980 James Smith – –1 – 896 – 1,792 2,688 Former directors Jann Brown 6,761 1,789 – – – – 8,550 Dr Mike Watts 6,761 1,789 – – – – 8,550 Notes: 1. Although James Smith was an employee of the Company on the date these free shares were awarded, he had not by that time satisfied the qualifying employment requirements for SIP participation. The total number of shares held by each of the current executive directors under the SIP is included in their beneficial shareholdings disclosed in the directors’ report on page 60. Shareholding guidelines for directors (audited) The committee believes that a significant level of shareholding by the executive directors strengthens the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders. Accordingly, a formal share ownership policy is in place under which the executive directors are required to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of base salary. The policy also provides that, until such a holding is achieved, an executive director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Company’s share incentive plans. The following table discloses the beneficial interest of each director in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2014 (or date of cessation of directorship, if earlier). It also highlights the fact that, on that date, the above shareholding requirements were satisfied by Simon Thomson, Chief Executive but, in light of his relatively recent appointment as CFO, not by James Smith. However, James Smith does intend to build up his holding over time in accordance with the committee’s policy and it is expected that he will reach the necessary levels within a period of three to five years from joining the Group. Ordinary shares subject Value of holding as a to outstanding Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Total holding of % of salary on unvested awards subject to other Total interest in Ordinary shares held in the SIP2 ordinary shares 1 January 20153 under the LTIP4 unvested awards5 ordinary shares Executive directors Simon Thomson 446,587 10,980 457,567 141% 2,038,861 – 2,496,428 James Smith 0 2,688 2,688 1% 624,256 55,096 682,040 Non-executive directors Ian Tyler 0 – 0 – – – 0 Todd Hunt 72,012 – 72,012 – – – 72,012 Iain McLaren 7,878 – 7,878 – – – 7,878 Alexander Berger 40,008 – 40,008 – – – 40,008 M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 7,000 – 7,000 – – – 7,000 Former directors Sir Bill Gammell 656,131 – 656,131 – – – 656,131 Dr James Buckee 37,788 – 37,788 – – – 37,788 Jann Brown 305,279 8,550 313,829 – 1,673,044 – 1,986,873 Dr Mike Watts 1,224,136 8,550 1,232,686 – 1,817,966 – 3,050,652 2,796,819 30,768 2,827,587 6,154,127 55,096 9,036,810 Notes: 1. Details of the Company’s share ownership policy for executive directors are set out above. 2. Under the rules of the SIP, certain shares awarded to participants must be retained in the plan for a specified “holding period” of up to five years. The receipt of these shares is not subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions. 3. Share price used is the average share price over the period of 90 days ending on 1 January 2015. 4. This column shows all unvested and outstanding awards under the LTIP that were held by the director concerned as at 31 December 2014 (i.e. including those granted during the year). Details of these entitlements, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, are set out on page 91). 5. As explained on page 86, in connection with his recruitment, James Smith was granted a conditional award of 55,096 ordinary shares, the vesting of which was subject to continued employment until the first anniversary of the date he joined the Group. This condition was satisfied on 3 March 2015 and the relevant shares were released to him shortly thereafter. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 Directors’ Remuneration report continued Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued) Dilution of share capital pursuant to share plans during 2014 In any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with the Company’s discretionary share plans cannot exceed 5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. In addition, in any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with all of the Company’s employee share schemes (whether discretionary or otherwise) cannot exceed 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. For the purposes of operating both the above limits, the number of shares issued prior to 6 February 2012 in connection with options and awards is adjusted to reflect the share capital consolidation which became effective on that date. It should also be noted that all shares acquired by or awarded to participants under the SIP are existing ordinary shares purchased in the market. As a result, the SIP does not involve the issue of new shares or the transfer of treasury shares. Board appointments with other companies during 2014 Certain of the Company’s current executive directors serve as non-executive directors on the boards of other companies and are permitted to retain any associated fees. Details of the positions held during 2014 and the fees that were payable are as follows: Fees received for the year to 31 December 2014 (or date of cessation of employment with the Position held Group, if earlier) Current directors Simon Thomson Non-executive director, Graham’s The Family Dairy Limited £35,000 Relative importance of spend on pay Set out below are details of the amounts of, and percentage change in, remuneration paid to or receivable by all Group employees and distributions to shareholders in the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2014. Financial Year Financial Year 2013 2014 % change Employee costs (US$m) 41.5 51.3 23.6% Distributions (US$m)1 36.6 64.3 75.7% Note: 1. For the purposes of the above table, “distributions” include amounts distributed to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback. 96 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Implementation of remuneration policy in 2015 The following table provides details of how the Company intends to implement the key elements of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy described on pages 77 to 84 during the year to 31 December 2015. Remuneration element Implementation during 2015 Base salary Both of the executive directors received a 1.5% increase in base salary on 1 January 2015 – this was in line with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees on that date. After applying this increase, details of the base salaries payable to both the current executive directors for the year to 31 December 2015 are as follows: –– Simon Thomson, Chief Executive – £546,197; and –– James Smith, CFO – £355,250. Benefits Executive directors will continue to receive the same benefits as in 2014. Annual bonus In accordance with the requirements of the policy, executive directors will be eligible to receive a bonus of up to 100% of base salary depending on the extent to which specified measures are satisfied over the year. All of the Chief Executive’s and CFO’s 2015 bonus opportunity will be based on the demanding Group KPIs described below (with details of the weightings specified in brackets): –– exploration and appraisal success (25%); –– active portfolio optimisation (25%); –– retain balance sheet strength (20%); –– maintain licence to operate (15%); and –– operational excellence (15%). The specific targets to be used for the purposes of the 2015 bonus scheme are commercially sensitive and have not, therefore, been set out in detail above. However, appropriate disclosures in relation to the 2015 bonus scheme will be included in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. LTIP It is intended that, during 2015, the executive directors will be granted LTIP awards over shares worth 300% of salary (being the same level as was awarded in 2014). The performance conditions that will determine the vesting of these grants will be those that applied to last year’s awards (full details of which are set out on page 91 of the Annual Report on Remuneration) except that the Total Shareholder Return comparator group will exclude Talisman Energy Inc, Salamander Energy PLC, JKX Oil & Gas PLC and Niko Resources Limited and include Kosmos Energy Limited, Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC, Dragon Oil PLC and Det Norske Olj eselskap ASA. SIP Executive directors will be given the opportunity to participate in the SIP on the same terms as apply to all other eligible employees in the arrangement. Pension The Company will continue to contribute 15% of basic salary on behalf of executive directors or pay them an equivalent amount of additional salary. Non-executive directors’ fees The annual non-executive director fee for 2015 has been increased from £73,800 to £74,900. The additional annual fee for chairing the audit and/or remuneration committees is unchanged at £10,000. Chairman’s fees The annual Chairman’s fee for 2015 has been retained at £160,000. By order of the Board M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Chair of the remuneration committee 9 March 2015 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Cairn Energy PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: –– Cairn Energy PLC’s group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the group’s loss and the group’s and the parent company’s cash flows for the year then ended; –– the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union; –– the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and –– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. What we have audited Cairn Energy PLC’s financial statements comprise: –– the Group Balance Sheet and the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014; –– the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended; –– the Group Statement of Cash Flows and the Company Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended; –– the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and –– the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit approach The context for our audit is set by Cairn Energy PLC’s (“Cairn”) major activities in 2014, together with the significant fall in world oil prices in Quarter 4. In the year, Cairn has progressed to development stage their interest in the Catcher North Sea field; raised finance for this and the other development project, Kraken; and completed a 4 well exploration drilling programme offshore North West Africa, which resulted in oil discoveries on 2 wells offshore Senegal. Away from core operations, Cairn’s main focus has been dealing with enquiries from the Indian Tax Authorities relating to a group reconstruction undertaken prior to the IPO of Cairn India in 2007, which has also resulted in a restriction on the ability to sell the remaining 10% holding in Cairn India. Overview Materiality –– Overall group materiality was $30.2m which represents 1% of group total assets. –– Group audit scoping was performed based on total assets held within each of the 63 individual components in the group and Audit scope addressed over 94% of group total assets. –– Impairment of exploration/development assets and goodwill. –– Impact of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited on tax provisions. Areas of focus –– Going concern. –– Other tax judgements. Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality $30.2m (2013: $36.0m). How we determined it 1% of total assets. Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that total assets is an appropriate measure for an exploration and development oil and gas group that does not currently have producing assets. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.5m (2013: $1.8m) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. For operating purposes, the group is structured around 3 key segments: Atlantic Margin (North Atlantic & North West Africa), the Mediterranean and North West Europe. During 2014, North West Europe has seen the most significant development activity, with the main exploration activity being undertaken in North West Africa. 98 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information For accounting purposes, the group is structured into 63 reporting units or components. Our group scoping was based on total assets, consistent with our approach to materiality, and identified 10 components which required an audit of their complete financial information. A further 7 components were subject to specified procedures at a financial statement line item (FSLI) level to obtain sufficient coverage. The majority of the finance function is in Edinburgh, other than North West Europe which is primarily accounted for in Norway. Our PwC Norway audit team performed the audit work on the North West Europe components and all other audit work was performed by our UK audit team. The UK team attended audit planning and clearance meetings in Norway, as well as being directly involved in the scoping and review of the work performed by PwC Norway. The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of impairment of exploration/development assets and goodwill Exploration assets of $417.0m relate to costs incurred where there is expected We tested management’s impairment review of goodwill, capitalised exploration future activity but no approved development plan. Development assets of and capitalised development costs. $467.8m reflect spend to date on Catcher and Kraken. Both of these asset categories only require an impairment review if an impairment trigger We reviewed management’s assessment of impairment triggers and did not is identified. identify any further triggers which had not been considered by management. The goodwill balance of $145.1m arose on the acquisitions of Agora and Nautical Specific work that we performed over the impairment review included: in 2012. As required by IAS 36, an annual impairment review is performed on –– comparing the assumptions used within the impairment review model to this balance. approved budgets and business plans and other evidence of future intentions for individual exploration properties, which we found to be consistent; Due to the nature of Cairn’s industry, indicators of impairment include: –– comparing reserves and production profiles and matching capital and –– unsuccessful exploration such as experienced in Foum Draa, Juby Maritime operating expenditure forecasts to group approved values or operator and Skarfjell during the year; estimates, which we found to be consistent; –– the recent significant decrease seen in global oil prices; –– benchmarking of key assumptions including commodity price and discount –– changes to exploration plans; rate and inflation against our own internal data which we found to be in line; –– changes to reserves estimates; and –– performing sensitivity analysis over key assumptions in the model in order to –– consolidated net assets being more than $1.5bn greater than the market assess the potential impact of a range of possible outcomes. For Catcher and capitalisation of the group. Kraken, we determined that the calculation was most sensitive to assumptions relating to the oil price. We calculated the degree to which the long-term oil When an impairment review is triggered, within the impairment review calculations price assumption would need to reduce further before an impairment arises there are significant judgements in relation to assumptions such as: on these assets and considered the likelihood of this arising in isolation from –– long-term oil price ; other changes in assumptions; and –– reserve estimates; –– challenged management on the inclusion of all appropriate assets and –– production profiles; liabilities in the cash-generating units and in particular given that the –– cost profiles and escalation applied; and recoverable amount is determined based on a fair value less costs of disposal, –– discount rates. the inclusion or exclusion of certain tax related balances and agreed that all relevant balances had been included. We focused on this area due to the significant values and the nature of the judgements and assumptions management are required to make in determining None of the items noted above resulted in a change to the impairment charge whether there are any impairment triggers or impairments. recorded by management Refer to Notes 2.1, 2.2 and 2.4 to the financial statements. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Cairn Energy PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Potential impact on tax provisions of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited We focused on this area because on 22 January 2014 the Group received In assessing the potential impact of the request for information by the Indian tax a request for information from the Indian tax authorities in respect of authorities we: amendments introduced in the 2012 Indian Finance Act which seek to tax –– read the correspondence received by the Group from the Indian tax authorities; prior year transactions under legislation applied retrospectively. At the same –– understood the group reconstruction under review, and the potential basis time the Group received an order not to sell the remaining shares in Cairn India. for any claim, including the relevant legislation and other precedent; –– discussed with management the advice and action they had taken with Although there have been developments over the course of 2014, no conclusion regards to the enquiry and reviewed any associated documents; has been reached by the Indian tax authorities in relation to this enquiry and –– discussed certain aspects of the matter directly with the group’s legal therefore management have made judgements relating to the likelihood of advisers; and an obligation arising and whether there is a need to recognise a provision –– sought advice from our own tax experts. or disclose a contingent liability. We concluded that the position adopted in the financial statements was Refer to Note 6.2 to the financial statements. reasonable based on the work we performed, in particular: –– management’s view that no provision for tax should be made at this time; –– the adequacy of the disclosure in the Annual Report; and –– the impact of the restriction on sale of Cairn India shares on the future funding requirements for the Group. We also considered whether this ongoing enquiry would have any impact on the carrying value of the investment in Cairn India Limited of $702.6m. We noted that while the group are restricted from selling the investment, this is a restriction directly on them and not all market participants, and therefore it does not affect the fair value of the underlying investment, which is the basis on which it is carried in the consolidated balance sheet. Going concern We focused on this area as the Group is in the exploration and development phase In assessing the appropriateness of the going concern assumption used in and is therefore reliant on having sufficient funding to progress their asset portfolio. preparing the financial statements, we: –– reviewed the cash flow requirements of the Group over the next 18 months As the group currently has no significant cash-generating assets in operation, based on budgets and forecasts: there is a finite cash resource to fund ongoing activities and therefore we have –– understood what forecast expenditure is committed and what could be focused on whether there are sufficient cash resources in place to allow the considered discretionary; group to continue as a going concern. –– considered the liquidity of existing assets on the balance sheet, including the Cairn India investment; In addition, the restriction on selling the remaining Cairn India shares noted –– reviewed the terms associated with the debt agreement and the amount of above means the Group is currently unable to access the value in this investment the facility available for drawdown; and to fund operations. –– considered potential downside/upside scenarios and the resultant impact on available funds During 2014, the group negotiated a debt facility to partially fund the development of Catcher and Kraken, and are required to meet a liquidity test to Our conclusion on going concern is below. allow them to drawdown this facility. Cairn are also planning to drill exploration and appraisal wells in North West Europe and North West Africa over the next 12-18 months which will be funded from existing cash resources. Other tax judgements We focused on this area because Cairn operates in a complex tax environment Our assessment of the tax judgements was made on the basis of: comprising a number of jurisdictions with specific tax rules relating to oil and gas –– our tax knowledge from similar circumstances and past experience; activities. The rules which have the most significant impact on the results are in –– our understanding of the Group and the relevant transactions; relation to North Sea field allowances and UK reinvestment relief. As a result, –– reviewing correspondence with tax authorities and/or evidence from similar management have to make significant judgements regarding current and precedent; and deferred tax positions. –– our professional judgement. Refer to Note 4.6 to the financial statements. Specifically, in relation to corporate and deferred tax positions we: –– considered the information available in relation to the Group’s open tax positions and assessed the associated level of provisioning. We found that management had appropriately included the relevant information and calculated the provision accordingly; –– assessed management’s consideration of the impact of the Group’s future plans and current legislation specifically related to oil and gas on the recognition of deferred tax and found it to be reasonable. In particular, we assessed the treatment of field allowances relating to Catcher and Kraken awarded at the time of Field Development Plan approval and found it to be in line with industry practice; and –– we assessed the basis on which deferred tax assets recognised are expected to be recovered and agreed with management’s assessment. 100 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern. We have nothing to report having performed our review. As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend they will do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the group’s and parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: –– the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and –– the information given in the Corporate Governance statement set out on pages 63 to 72 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: –– Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. –– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or –– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or –– otherwise misleading. –– the statement given by the directors on page 72, in accordance with provision We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the group’s and parent company’s performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit. –– the section of the Annual Report on page 73, as required by provision C.3.8 of We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee. Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: –– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or –– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or –– the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. Directors’ remuneration Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent company’s compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Cairn Energy PLC continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibility Statement set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: –– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; –– the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and –– the overall presentation of the financial statements. We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”) to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. Michael Timar (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 9 March 2015 (a) The maintenance and integrity of the Cairn Energy PLC website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website. (b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 102 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Contents 104 Group Income Statement 104 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 105 Group Balance Sheet 106 Group Statement of Cash Flows 107 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 108 Section 1 – Basis of Preparation 108 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies 110 Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets and Related Goodwill 111 2.1 Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets 113 2.2 Property, Plant & Equipment – Development/Producing Assets 114 2.3 Capital Commitments 114 2.4 Intangible Assets – Goodwill 115 2.5 Sensitivity Analysis 116 Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital 116 3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets 117 3.2 Net Funds 118 3.3 Income Tax Assets 118 3.4 Other Receivables 118 3.5 Trade and Other Payables 119 3.6 Financial Instruments 120 Section 4 – Results for the Year 120 4.1 Segmental Analysis 122 4.2 Pre-award Costs 122 4.3 Net Operating Expenses 123 4.4 Finance Income 123 4.5 Finance Costs 123 4.6 Taxation on Loss 126 4.7 Earnings per Ordinary Share 127 Section 5 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures 127 5.1 Issued Capital and Reserves 128 5.2 Capital Management 128 5.3 Staff Costs 129 5.4 Share-based Payments 130 5.5 Directors’ Emoluments and Remuneration of Key Management Personnel 130 5.6 Guarantees 131 Section 6 – Post Balance Sheet Events 131 6.1 Sale of 10% Working Interest in Catcher 132 Company Balance Sheet 133 Company Statement of Cash Flows 134 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 135 Section 7 – Notes to the Company Financial Statements 135 7.1 Basis of Preparation 135 7.2 Net funds 135 7.3 Other Receivables 135 7.4 Trade and Other Payables 136 7.5 Financial Instruments 136 7.6 Investments in Subsidiaries 137 7.7 Capital Management 137 7.8 Related Party Transactions 138 Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements 138 Appendix 1 – Principal Subsidiary Undertakings 139 Appendix 2 – Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies 141 Appendix 3 – Share-based Payments 142 Appendix 4 – Auditors’ Remuneration Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103 Group Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Section US$m US$m Continuing operations Pre-award costs 4.2 (54.8) (23.5) Unsuccessful exploration costs 2.1 (208.4) (213.1) Net operating expenses 4.3 (64.5) (42.2) Impairment of intangible exploration/appraisal assets 2.1 (46.9) (251.4) Gain/(loss) on disposal of oil and gas assets 2.2 2.3 (24.7) Impairment of goodwill 2.4 – (324.2) Operating loss (372.3) (879.1) Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 3.1 3.9 – Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 3.1 (194.3) (267.5) Finance income 4.4 38.3 50.6 Finance costs 4.5 (34.7) (2.9) Loss before taxation from continuing operations (559.1) (1,098.9) Taxation Tax credit 4.6a 178.0 543.0 Loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent (381.1) (555.9) Loss per ordinary share – basic (cents) 4.7 (66.51) (93.24) Loss per ordinary share – diluted (cents) 4.7 (66.51) (93.24) Group Statement of Comprehensive Income For the year ended 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Section US$m US$m Loss for the year (381.1) (555.9) Other comprehensive income – items that may be recycled to profit or loss Deficit on valuation of financial assets 3.1 (261.1) (110.8) Deferred tax credit on valuation of financial assets 4.6a 56.6 48.8 Valuation movement recycled to Income Statement 3.1 189.2 267.5 Deferred tax charge on valuation movement recycled to Income Statement 4.6a (40.9) (74.5) Currency translation differences (58.8) 7.6 Other comprehensive income for the year (115.0) 138.6 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent (496.1) (417.3) 104 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Group Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Section US$m US$m Non-current assets Intangible exploration/appraisal assets 2.1 417.0 498.6 Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets 2.2 467.8 299.9 Intangible assets – goodwill 2.4 145.1 163.4 Other property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 5.5 6.0 Available-for-sale financial assets 3.1 702.6 1,027.6 Deferred tax assets 4.6c 106.2 58.7 1,844.2 2,054.2 Current assets Income tax asset 3.3 60.3 81.3 Inventory 5.0 10.0 Other receivables 3.4 238.6 152.3 Cash and cash equivalents 3.2 869.3 1,308.3 1,173.2 1,551.9 Total assets 3,017.4 3,606.1 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 3.5 278.2 201.0 Provisions 11.6 11.4 Loans and borrowings 3.2 – 55.3 289.8 267.7 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 4.6c 61.7 148.0 Provisions 2.8 2.6 64.5 150.6 Total liabilities 354.3 418.3 Net assets 2,663.1 3,187.8 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Called-up share capital 5.1 12.4 12.8 Share premium 5.1 487.0 486.9 Shares held by ESOP/SIP Trusts 5.1 (26.7) (28.0) Foreign currency translation 5.1 (82.7) (23.9) Capital reserves – non-distributable 5.1 40.8 40.4 Merger reserve 5.1 255.9 255.9 Available-for-sale reserve 5.1 – 56.2 Retained earnings 1,976.4 2,387.5 Total equity 2,663.1 3,187.8 The financial statements on pages 104 to 142 were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by: James Smith Simon Thomson Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 Group Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Section US$m US$m Cash flows from operating activities Loss before taxation (559.1) (1,098.9) Unsuccessful exploration costs 208.4 213.1 Depreciation and amortisation 3.3 4.5 Share-based payments charge 21.4 14.0 Impairment of intangible exploration/appraisal assets 46.9 251.4 (Gain)/loss on sale of oil and gas assets (2.3) 24.7 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (3.9) – Inventory disposal/write down 8.4 – Impairment of goodwill – 324.2 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 194.3 267.5 Finance income (38.3) (50.6) Finance costs 34.7 2.9 Interest paid (0.5) (2.9) Income tax received 66.0 59.9 Foreign exchange differences 8.8 1.3 Other receivables movement 4.3 (6.4) Trade and other payables movement (4.6) 34.5 Provisions movement 2.9 – Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (9.3) 39.2 Cash flows from investing activities Expenditure on intangible exploration/appraisal assets (336.0) (386.6) Expenditure on property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets (39.8) (31.4) Proceeds on disposal of intangible exploration/appraisal assets 31.4 7.1 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets – 72.7 Purchase of inventory (4.5) (10.3) Proceeds from disposal of inventory 0.6 – Purchase of other property, plant & equipment and intangible assets (3.2) (4.4) Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 62.6 – Movement in funds on bank deposits 0.2 2.0 Dividend received – 40.5 Interest received 3.1 3.8 Net cash used in investing activities (285.6) (306.6) Cash flows from financing activities Cost of shares purchased (64.3) (36.6) Facility and arrangement fees (19.2) – Proceeds from exercise of share options 0.3 – Proceeds of borrowings – 32.5 Repayment of borrowings (53.4) – Net cash flows used in financing activities (136.6) (4.1) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (431.5) (271.5) Opening cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,308.3 1,586.6 Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents (7.5) (6.8) Closing cash and cash equivalents 3.2 869.3 1,308.3 106 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Group Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 31 December 2014 Shares Equity held by Foreign Merger Availableshare ESOP Trust currency and capital for-sale Retained Total capital and SIP Trust translation reserves reserve earnings equity US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2013 499.9 (28.7) (31.5) 296.1 (74.8) 2,980.7 3,641.7 Loss for the year – – – – – (555.9) (555.9) Deficit on valuation of financial assets – – – – (110.8) – (110.8) Deferred tax credit on valuation of financial assets – – – – 48.8 – 48.8 Valuation movement recycled to Income Statement – – – – 267.5 – 267.5 Deferred tax charge on valuation movement recycled to Income Statement – – – – (74.5) – (74.5) Currency translation differences – – 7.6 – – – 7.6 Total comprehensive income for the year – – 7.6 – 131.0 (555.9) (417.3) Share buy-back (0.2) – – 0.2 – (50.6) (50.6) Share-based payments – – – – – 14.0 14.0 Cost of shares vesting – 0.7 – – – (0.7) – At 31 December 2013 499.7 (28.0) (23.9) 296.3 56.2 2,387.5 3,187.8 Loss for the year – – – – – (381.1) (381.1) Deficit on valuation of financial assets – – – – (261.1) – (261.1) Deferred tax credit on valuation of financial assets – – – – 56.6 – 56.6 Valuation movement recycled to Income Statement – – – – 189.2 – 189.2 Deferred tax charge on valuation movement recycled to Income Statement – – – – (40.9) – (40.9) Currency translation differences – – (58.8) – – – (58.8) Total comprehensive income for the year – – (58.8) – (56.2) (381.1) (496.1) Share buy-back (0.4) – – 0.4 – (50.3) (50.3) Share-based payments – – – – – 21.4 21.4 Exercise of employee share options 0.1 0.2 – – – – 0.3 Cost of shares vesting – 1.1 – – – (1.1) – At 31 December 2014 499.4 (26.7) (82.7) 296.7 – 1,976.4 2,663.1 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 Section 1 – Basis of Preparation This section contains the Group’s significant accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole. Significant accounting policies specific to one note are included with that note. Accounting policies relating to non-material items are not included in these financial statements. This section also includes new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and interpretations and their expected impact, if any, on the performance of the Group. 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies a) Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Cairn Energy PLC (‘Cairn’ or ‘the Group’) for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 9 March 2015. Cairn is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded. The registered office is located at 50 Lothian Road, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9BY. Cairn prepares its financial statements on a historical cost basis, unless accounting standards require an alternate measurement basis. Where there are assets and liabilities calculated on a different basis, this fact is disclosed either in the relevant accounting policy or in the notes to the financial statements. The financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. The Group’s financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis. b) Accounting standards Cairn prepares its financial statements in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’), issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) as adopted by the EU. The Group’s financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) as they apply to accounting periods ended 31 December 2014. Effective 1 January 2014, Cairn has adopted the following standards: –– IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ –– IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ –– IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of interests in Other Entities’ –– IAS 27 (amendment) ‘Separate Financial Statements’ –– IAS 28 (amendment) ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’ Adopting IFRS 11 has the most significance as the Group’s material interests in oil and gas exploration and development licences are managed through joint arrangements with fellow partners. Previously, the Group’s interests in these arrangements were classified as jointly controlled assets and disclosed as joint venture balances in the notes to the appropriate financial statement line item. Following implementation of IFRS 11, the Group’s joint arrangements are all now classified as joint operations and the disclosures in the financial statements amended accordingly. There was no impact on the results for the year as a result of adoption. The following amendments to standards issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU have yet to be adopted by the Group: –– Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle (effective 1 July 2014) The adoption of these amendments will have no material impact on Cairn’s results or financial statement disclosures. There are no other standards or amendments issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU that will impact the Group. c) Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results of Cairn Energy PLC and its subsidiary undertakings to the Balance Sheet date. Where subsidiaries follow differing accounting policies from those of the Group, those accounting policies have been adjusted to align with those of the Group. Inter-company balances and transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation, though foreign exchange differences arising on inter-company balances between subsidiaries with differing functional currencies are not offset. The results of subsidiaries acquired in any year are included in the Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows from the effective date of acquisition while the results of subsidiaries disposed of during the year are included in the Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows to the date at which control passes from the Group. 108 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies – Continued d) Joint arrangements Cairn is a partner (joint operator) in oil and gas exploration and development licences which are unincorporated joint arrangements. All of the Group’s current interests in these arrangements are determined to be joint operations. A full list of oil and gas licence interests can be found on pages 144 to 146. Costs incurred relating to an interest in a joint operation are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies for oil and gas assets as appropriate (see sections 2.1 and 2.2). All of the Group’s Intangible exploration/appraisal assets and Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets are related to interests in joint operations. Cairn’s working capital balances relating to joint operations are included in Other receivables (section 3.4) and Trade and other payables (section 3.5). Any share of finance income or costs generated or incurred by the joint operation is included within the appropriate Income Statement account. e) Foreign currencies These financial statements continue to be presented in US dollars (US$), the functional currency of the parent. In the financial statements of individual Group companies, Cairn translates foreign currency transactions into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing at the Balance Sheet date. Exchange differences arising are taken to the Income Statement except for those incurred on borrowings specifically allocable to development projects, which are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. The Group maintains the financial statements of the parent and subsidiary undertakings in their functional currency. Where applicable, the Group translates parent and subsidiary accounts into the presentation currency, US$, using the closing rate method for assets and liabilities which are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the Balance Sheet date and rates at the date of transactions for Income Statement accounts. Cairn takes exchange differences arising on the translation of net assets of Group companies whose functional currency is non-US$ directly to reserves. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109 Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets and Related Goodwill This section focuses on the assets in the Balance Sheet which form the core of Cairn’s business. This section quantifies the financial impact of the operations for the year fully described in the Operational review on pages 22 to 27. Included are details of the costs of multi-well programmes in Morocco and Senegal and the impairment reviews and tests performed on the Group’s assets. Significant accounting judgements in this section: Impairment testing on oil and gas assets Given the recent fall in oil prices which lowers the Group’s short-term oil price assumption, Cairn has tested its oil and gas assets which contain discovered resources for impairment. Remaining exploration assets are reviewed for indictors of impairment and tested where indicators are identified. This is consistent with the Group’s accounting policies. The impairment tests resulted in an impairment of an asset in the North Sea and Greenland. For details of the indicators and the subsequent impairment tests conducted on those assets, see section 2.1. Key estimates and assumptions in this section: Impairment testing of Intangible exploration/appraisal assets and Property, plant & equipment – development assets Where an indicator of impairment is identified on an intangible exploration/appraisal asset or a development asset, an impairment test is conducted in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. The test compares either the carrying value of the asset or the carrying value of the cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) containing the asset, to the recoverable amount of that asset or CGU. The recoverable amount of an asset represents its fair value less costs of disposal. Where there is a verifiable third-party arm’s-length transaction from which a market value can be obtained this market value represents the fair value. In January 2015, Cairn completed the sale of a 10% working interest in the Catcher development and this transaction provides evidence of the fair value less costs of disposal of this asset at the Balance Sheet date. Where there is no verifiable third-party arm’s-length transaction, the fair value less costs of disposal of an asset is calculated using discounted post-tax cash flow models. The key assumptions used in the Group’s discounted cash flow models reflect past experience and take account of external factors. These assumptions include: –– Short/medium-term oil price based on a three-month average forward curve for three years from the Balance Sheet date; –– Long-term oil price of US$90 per boe escalated at 2.5% per annum; –– Reserve estimates of discovered resource (2P and 2C) based on P50 reserve estimates; –– Production profiles based on Cairn’s internal estimates which are not materially different from those of the operators; –– Cost profiles for the development of the field and subsequent operating costs supplied by the operator and escalated at 2.5% per annum; and –– Discount rates of 10% for the Group’s UK and Norwegian North Sea assets. Impairment testing of goodwill The goodwill arising from past corporate transactions in the UK and Norwegian North Sea is tested for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount against the carrying value of the underlying oil and gas assets in the UK and Norwegian North Sea operating segment. As with the assets above, fair value less costs of disposal are based on discounted post-tax cash flow models where no recent third-party transactions exist on which a reliable market-based fair value can be established. The key assumptions are therefore consistent with those for testing intangible exploration/appraisal assets. Where resource is prospective, fair value represents the expected net present value of the prospect, risk-weighted for future exploration success. Given the inherent risk associated with exploration activities, valuations of prospective resource are highly subjective. 110 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 2.1 Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets Accounting policy Cairn follows a successful-efforts-based accounting policy for oil and gas assets. Costs incurred prior to obtaining the legal rights to explore an area are expensed immediately to the Income Statement. Expenditure incurred on the acquisition of a licence interest is initially capitalised on a licence-by-licence basis. Costs are held, un-depleted, within intangible exploration/ appraisal assets until such time as the exploration phase on the licence area is complete or commercial reserves have been discovered. Exploration expenditure incurred in the process of determining oil and gas exploration targets is capitalised initially within intangible exploration/appraisal assets and subsequently allocated to drilling activities. Exploration/appraisal drilling costs are initially capitalised on a well-by-well basis until the success or otherwise of the well has been established. The success or failure of each exploration/appraisal effort is judged on a well-by-well basis. Drilling costs are written off on completion of a well unless the results indicate that hydrocarbon reserves exist and there is a reasonable prospect that these reserves are commercial. Following appraisal of successful exploration wells, if commercial reserves are established and technical feasibility for extraction demonstrated, then the related capitalised intangible exploration/appraisal costs are transferred into a single field cost centre within property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets, after testing for impairment (see below). Where results of exploration drilling indicate the presence of hydrocarbons which are ultimately not considered commercially viable, all related costs are written off to the Income Statement. Impairment Intangible exploration/appraisal assets are reviewed regularly for indicators of impairment and tested for impairment where such indicators exist. An indicator that one of the Group’s assets may be impaired is most likely to be one of the following: –– There are no further plans to conduct exploration activities in the area; –– Exploration drilling in the area has failed to discover commercial reserve volumes; or –– Development proposals for appraisal assets in the pre-development stage indicate that it is unlikely that the carrying value of the exploration/appraisal asset will be recovered in full. In such circumstances the intangible exploration/appraisal asset is allocated to any property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets within the same cash-generating unit and tested for impairment. Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the year. Where there are no development/ producing assets within the cash-generating unit, the excess of the carrying amount of exploration/appraisal asset over its recoverable amount are charged immediately to the Income Statement. Atlantic Margin Other Greenland and North West Europe Senegal Africa Republic of Ireland Mediterranean – UK and Norway Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2013 – 2.2 44.5 3.6 849.5 899.8 Foreign exchange – – – – 7.4 7.4 Additions 41.6 136.3 17.3 4.5 160.5 360.2 Disposals – – – (0.5) (5.1) (5.6) Transfers – – – – (298.7) (298.7) Impairment – – – – (251.4) (251.4) Unsuccessful exploration costs – (107.4) (23.6) (0.8) (81.3) (213.1) At 1 January 2014 41.6 31.1 38.2 6.8 380.9 498.6 Foreign exchange – – (0.8) (0.8) (28.6) (30.2) Additions 145.7 99.8 19.1 5.5 108.8 378.9 Disposals (20.5) (0.3) (5.5) – (0.3) (26.6) Transfers – – – – (148.4) (148.4) Impairment – – (22.7) – (24.2) (46.9) Unsuccessful exploration costs – (100.1) (6.6) (6.9) (94.8) (208.4) At 31 December 2014 166.8 30.5 21.7 4.6 193.4 417.0 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets and Related Goodwill continued 2.1 Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets – Continued Atlantic Margin – Senegal Cairn completed the farm-down of the three contiguous Senegalese blocks to ConocoPhillips in January 2014. Back costs received under the agreement are shown as disposals of US$20.5m. Cairn had originally farmed-in to the three blocks during 2013. During 2014, Cairn completed two exploration wells offshore Senegal: the FAN-1 and SNE-1 wells. Both wells encountered hydrocarbons. Results to date indicate that the SNE-1 well discovered commercial volumes of oil while further work is required to determine the commerciality of the FAN-1 discovery. Capitalised costs of US$166.8m at 31 December 2014 include the cost of these wells. Cairn, along with its partners in the joint operation, are preparing further exploration and appraisal programmes for submission to the Government of Senegal in May 2015, with a drilling programme due to commence in Q4 2015. Atlantic Margin – Other Africa: Morocco and Mauritania Cairn completed two exploration wells offshore Morocco in the current year. The Foum Draa and Juby Maritime wells did not encounter commercial hydrocarbons and both were plugged and abandoned. US$53.2m of unsuccessful exploration costs were charged to the Income Statement in 2014. Costs of US$107.4m incurred to 31 December 2013 were charged as unsuccessful costs in the prior year. A third well in Morocco, offshore Western Sahara, the non-operated Cap Boujdour well, commenced drilling in December 2014. The well failed to encounter commercial hydrocarbons and costs to 31 December of US$46.9m were charged to the Income Statement in 2014 as unsuccessful exploration costs. Work continued on the C-19 licence offshore Mauritania during 2014 with additions of US$2.9m in the current year (2013: US$27.0m). Costs of US$30.5m remaining at the year end represent US$29.9m of Mauritania costs and US$0.6m of other costs. Atlantic Margin – Greenland and Republic of Ireland Cairn is actively seeking to farm-down the Group’s interests in Greenland before undertaking any further exploration activities across the licence interests it holds. Though Cairn remains encouraged by the Pitu prospect, with no firm plans for future exploration activity, the remaining costs of US$22.7m associated with the Greenland licences were fully impaired at the year end. The costs of US$21.7m remaining at the year end relate to the Spanish Point appraisal prospect, offshore Republic of Ireland. North West Europe – UK and Norway UK and Norwegian North Sea Additions in the current year of US$108.8m (2013: US$160.5m) relate to expenditure on exploration and appraisal wells drilled and new prospects added to the portfolio. The Group added to its existing exploration portfolio through the acquisition of non-operated interests in the PL248c Grosbeak prospects in the Norwegian North Sea and through licences awarded under the latest rounds in both the UK and Norway. During 2014, two exploration wells were completed in the North Sea. Neither the UK Aragon well nor the Norwegian Atlas well discovered hydrocarbons. Unsuccessful exploration costs of US$50.0m were charged to the Income Statement together with US$2.2m relating to other licences. 2013 unsuccessful costs of US$81.3m included costs of US$53.5m and US$18.6m relating to the Frode and Klara exploration wells in the Norwegian North Sea. Following the two-well appraisal programme on the Skarfjell discovery which completed drilling operations in 2013, the interpretation of the well results concluded in the current year. The appraisal wells confirmed the estimated reserve volumes of the discovery without materially increasing the future economic value of the field. As the Skarfjell asset was initially recognised at fair value, it is unlikely that the costs relating to the appraisal wells will be recovered and costs of US$25.2m are charged as unsuccessful exploration costs in the year. DECC approval of the Catcher FDP was received in June 2014. Costs of US$148.4m were transferred from Intangible exploration/appraisal assets to Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets during the year. A similar transfer of US$298.7m was made in 2013 following approval of the Kraken FDP. Exploration costs remaining at the year end include the net book value of the Catcher satellite discoveries and exploration prospects and the Skarfjell discovery and associated satellite prospects. At the year end, Cairn reviewed its intangible exploration/appraisal assets for indicators of impairment. Impairment tests identified impairment on one of the Group’s intangible exploration assets, resulting in a charge of US$24.2m to the Income Statement. The 2013 year end impairment review identified an indicator of impairment on the Catcher asset. The subsequent test resulted in an impairment charge of US$251.4m. Norwegian Barents Sea Cairn has farmed-in to Block PL393B in the Barents Sea, which included the Ensis exploration well which completed in September 2014. The well did not encounter any hydrocarbons and was plugged and abandoned. Farm-in costs and additional costs incurred of US$17.4m were charged to the Income Statement as unsuccessful exploration costs. No costs remain capitalised at the year end. 112 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 2.2 Property, Plant & Equipment – Development/Producing Assets Accounting policy Costs All costs incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of producing hydrocarbons has been demonstrated are capitalised within development/ producing assets on a field-by-field basis. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only where it either enhances the economic benefits of the development/producing asset or replaces part of the existing development/producing asset. Any remaining costs associated with the part replaced are expensed. Costs of borrowings relating to the ongoing construction of development assets and facilities are capitalised during the development phase of the project. Capitalisation ceases once the asset is ready to commence production. Net proceeds from any disposal of development/producing assets are credited against the previously capitalised cost. A gain or loss on disposal of a development/ producing asset is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that the net proceeds exceed or are less than the appropriate portion of the net capitalised costs of the asset. Impairment Development/producing assets are reviewed for indicators of impairment at the Balance Sheet date. Indicators of impairment for the Group’s development/ producing assets include: –– Downward revisions of reserve estimates; –– Increases in cost estimates for development projects; or –– A decrease in the oil price or other negative changes in market conditions. Impairment tests are carried out on each development/producing asset at the Balance Sheet date where an indicator of impairment is identified. The test compares the carrying value of an asset to its recoverable amount based on the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal or value in use. Where the fair value less costs of disposal supports the carrying value of the asset, no value-in-use calculation is performed. If it is not possible to calculate the fair value less costs of disposal of an individual asset, the fair value less costs of disposal is calculated for the cash-generating unit containing the asset and tested against the carrying value of the assets and liabilities in the cash-generating unit for impairment. Where an asset can be tested independently for impairment, this test is performed prior to the inclusion of the asset into a cash-generating unit for further impairment tests. If the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment charge is made. Where there has been a charge for impairment in an earlier period that charge will be reversed in a later period where there has been a change in circumstances to the extent that the recoverable amount is higher than the net book value at the time. In reversing impairment losses, the carrying amount of the asset will be increased to the lower of its original carrying value or the carrying value that would have been determined (net of depletion) had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years. North West Europe – UK and Norway Total US$m US$m Cost and net book value At 1 January 2013 71.0 71.0 Foreign exchange 1.7 1.7 Additions 44.2 44.2 Transfers from intangible exploration/appraisal assets 298.7 298.7 Disposals (115.7) (115.7) At 1 January 2014 299.9 299.9 Foreign exchange (30.5) (30.5) Additions 50.0 50.0 Transfers from intangible exploration/appraisal assets 148.4 148.4 At 31 December 2014 467.8 467.8 Exploration and appraisal costs of US$148.4m relating to the Catcher fields included in the FDP were transferred to development/producing assets in 2014. A similar transfer of exploration costs for the Kraken field was made in 2013 upon receiving DECC approval. In September 2014, Cairn entered into an agreement to farm-down 10% of the Group’s 30% working interest in the Catcher development, satellite fields and surrounding exploration acreage to Dyas UK Limited (‘Dyas’). Under the terms of the deal, Dyas will fund Cairn’s exploration and development costs in respect of the licences up to a cap of US$182.0m. Final approval for the sale to Dyas was received in January 2015. As the deal had an effective economic date of 1 January 2014, on completion, Cairn received a refund of costs of US$54.7m including US$36.5m received under the carry. During 2013, Cairn agreed the sale of the Mariner asset in the UK North Sea to Dyas BV, receiving formal approval in December 2013. The disposal of Mariner resulted in a US$24.7m loss to the Income Statement. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113 Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets and Related Goodwill continued 2.2 Property, Plant & Equipment – Development/Producing Assets – Continued Impairment tests were performed on the Group’s development/producing assets at the Balance Sheet date. The value of Catcher implicit in the Dyas sale supports the carrying value of the Group’s remaining 20% working interest. Impairment tests were also performed on the Kraken development asset and concluded that no impairment existed (2013: US$nil). Sensitivity analysis is provided in section 2.5. 2.3 Capital Commitments 2014 2013 US$m US$m Oil and gas expenditure: Intangible exploration/appraisal assets – non-rig commitments 146.1 292.6 Intangible exploration/appraisal assets – drilling rig commitments – 195.2 Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets 1,271.4 372.8 Contracted for 1,417.5 860.6 Capital commitments represent Cairn’s share of obligations in relation to its interests in joint operations. These commitments include Cairn’s share of the capital commitments of the joint operations themselves. The capital commitments for intangible exploration/appraisal assets relate to operations in Africa and the UK and Norwegian North Sea. The capital commitments on Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets relate to the North Sea development projects and include US$215.0m of capital commitments for the 10% share of Catcher which was farmed-down to Dyas in January 2015 (section 6.1). Dyas will be responsible for funding this in full. Capital commitments for property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets include US$685.9m relating to two FPSO lease commitments due within the next eight years. This includes US$119.7m of lease commitments on the 10% of Catcher which was farmed-down to Dyas as noted above. The lease term for these assets has not yet commenced. The Group has no further material capital expenditure committed at the Balance Sheet date. 2.4 Intangible Assets – Goodwill Accounting policy Goodwill Cairn allocates the purchase consideration on the acquisition of a subsidiary to the assets and liabilities acquired on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill. Any goodwill arising is recognised as an asset and is subject to annual review for impairment. Goodwill is written off where circumstances indicate that the recoverable amount of the underlying cash-generating unit including the asset may no longer support the carrying value of goodwill. Any such impairment loss arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the year. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future years. In testing for impairment, goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated from the date of acquisition to the group of cash-generating units representing the lowest level at which it will be monitored. Cairn’s policy is to monitor goodwill at operating segment level before combining segments for reporting. The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, within the segment is based on its fair value less costs of disposal, using estimated cash flow projections over the licence period of the exploration assets risk-weighted for future exploration success. The key assumptions are sensitive to market fluctuations and the success of future exploration drilling programmes. The most likely factor which will result in a material change to the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is the result of future exploration drilling, which will determine the licence area’s future economic potential. UK and Norwegian North Sea Total US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2013 485.5 485.5 Foreign exchange 2.1 2.1 Impairment (324.2) (324.2) At 1 January 2014 163.4 163.4 Foreign exchange (18.3) (18.3) At 31 December 2014 145.1 145.1 Goodwill is fully allocated to the UK and Norwegian North Sea operating segment. At 31 December 2014, the goodwill impairment test did not identify any impairment, with the carrying value of the UK and Norwegian North Sea operating segment being less than the recoverable amount of the underlying assets, principally the Catcher, Kraken and Skarfjell assets. 114 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 2.4 Intangible Assets – Goodwill – Continued The impairment of the Catcher asset in 2013 (see section 2.1) reduced both the carrying value of the operating segment and its recoverable amount in equal measures. The release of deferred tax provided on the Catcher asset, however, increased the carrying value of the segment in relation to the recoverable amount. Additionally, the recognition of tax credits for field allowances to which the Kraken asset was eligible further increased the carrying value of the segment. As a result, the recoverable amount of the assets could no longer support their carrying value and at 31 December 2013 the year end impairment test identified impairment and a charge of US$324.2m was recorded. The remaining carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2013 was supported by the fair value less costs of disposal of the Group’s UK and Norwegian North Sea assets. 2.5 Sensitivity Analysis North West Europe oil and gas assets At 31 December 2014, impairment tests were conducted on the Group’s North Sea exploration/appraisal assets and development/producing assets resulting in an impairment charge of US$24.2m. An impairment test was also conducted on goodwill allocated to the North Sea Operating Segment. No impairment of goodwill was identified. For assets where the recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal estimated using discounted cash flow modelling, the key assumptions used in determining the valuations are subjective such as the future oil price assumption, or reliant upon the performance of operational partners for delivering development projects on time and within approved budgets. Cairn has run sensitivities on its long-term oil price assumptions at US$75 and US$70. Cairn also increased the short-term period, where assumptions are based on the forward curve, from three to four years. The impact of these changes on the carrying value of the Group’s assets at the Balance Sheet date is summarised below: Decrease in Decrease in Intangible Property, plant exploration/ & equipment – appraisal development Decrease in assets assets Goodwill US$m US$m US$m Short-term period increased from three to four years – – – Decrease in oil price assumption to US$75 per boe (14.6) – (37.1) Decrease in oil price assumption to US$70 per boe (32.6) (27.1) (88.1) A Key Performance Indicator (“KPI”) for the Group is to ensure effective engagement with partners to progress the North Sea development projects on time and within budget. Cairn’s base case asset valuations, used to estimate fair value less costs of disposal in impairment tests, assume this KPI is met. With the value of the Catcher development asset supported by the sale to Dyas, Cairn has run sensitivities on the Kraken development asset, delaying the date of first oil production by up to 12 months and increasing costs by 10%. The resultant fall in value would not impact the carrying value of any of the assets on the Group’s Balance Sheet. The Group’s proved and probable and contingent reserve estimates are based on P50 probabilities. P10 and P90 estimates are also produced but would not provide a reasonable estimate to be used in calculating the fair value of the Group’s assets. Cairn’s reserve estimates do not materially differ from those of the operators. Other oil and gas assets At the year end, an impairment charge was recognised on intangible exploration assets in Greenland as noted in section 2.1. These assets are fully impaired in accordance with IFRS and the Group’s accounting policies and therefore there is no meaningful sensitivity analysis to provide. There are no reasonable changes in assumptions that would lead to a material impairment of any of the Group’s remaining assets in the Atlantic Margin. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 115 Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital Cairn’s liquid cash resources supported by the undrawn US$575.0m secured borrowing facility ensure the Group is fully funded to meet its current exploration and development programme despite the current restriction on the sale of shares in Cairn India. This section focuses on those assets, together with the working capital position of the Group at the year end. Significant accounting judgements in this section: Impairment of Available-for-sale Financial Asset The Group’s ~10% shareholding in Cairn India Limited, classified as a non-current available-for-sale financial asset, suffered a significant fall in value during 2014. The size of the deficit was such that cumulative mark-to-market valuation movements recognised in ‘Other Comprehensive Income’ and classified as an available-forsale reserve in equity, were recycled to the Income Statement as impairment. The closing book value of the asset represents the quoted market price of the Group’s residual holding. Although Cairn is currently not able to sell its 9.8% stake, there is no restriction in the wider market where Cairn India Limited shares trade freely at this price. Key estimates and assumptions in this section: There were no key estimations or assumptions in this section. 3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets Accounting policy The Group’s available-for-sale financial assets represent listed equity shares which are held at fair value (the quoted market price). Movements in the fair value during the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The cumulative gains or losses that arise on subsequent disposal of available-for-sale assets are recycled through the Income Statement. At each reporting date, the fair value of the financial asset is compared to the value at the date of its initial recognition for signs of a prolonged or significant deficit in the valuation, which would indicate impairment. Where impairment is identified, cumulative losses recognised in Other comprehensive income are recycled to the Income Statement. In the event of a subsequent recovery in the valuation of the asset, there is no reversal of impairment; any such post-impairment gains are recognised as a surplus through Other comprehensive income. Any further impairment losses will be recognised through the Income Statement. Listed equity shares US$m Fair Value As at 1 January 2013 1,138.4 Deficit on valuation (110.8) As at 1 January 2014 1,027.6 Deficit on valuation (261.1) Disposal (63.9) As at 31 December 2014 702.6 Available-for-sale financial assets represent the Group’s remaining investment in the fully diluted share capital of Cairn India Limited, listed in India, which by its nature has no fixed maturity or coupon rate. These listed equity securities present the Group with an opportunity for return through dividend income and trading gains. In January 2014, Cairn was contacted by the Indian Income Tax Department to provide information in relation to the year ending 31 March 2007. While interaction with the Indian Income Tax Department continues, Cairn has been restricted by the Indian Income Tax Department from selling its shares in, or receiving dividends declared by, Cairn India Limited. Prior to the restriction in January, the Company disposed of 12,048,836 shares in Cairn India Limited, recognising a gain of US$3.9m. This includes prior year unrealised gains recycled from equity of US$5.1m. The disposal of 0.6% shareholding leaves a residual 9.8% interest in Cairn India Limited. At 31 December 2014, the value of the investment in Cairn India Limited had fallen to US$702.6m. The significant accumulated deficit of US$194.3m from the date of a previous impairment was recycled to the Income Statement and recorded as impairment. An impairment of US$267.5m was recycled to the Income Statement in June 2013 following a significant fall in value from the date of original recognition. 116 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets – Continued Sensitivity analysis At the year end the closing Cairn India Limited share price used to value the available-for-sale financial assets was INR 240.55/US$3.82 (2013: INR 323.75/US$5.24). The movement in the Cairn India Limited share price over the current and prior year is as follows: 7.0 6.5 6.0 5.5 5.0 4.5 4.0 3.5 3.0 1 Jan 2013: 31 Dec 2013: 30 June 2014: 31 Dec 2014: $5.87 $5.24 $6.08 $3.82 The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at the reporting date, assuming all other variables are held constant. Sensitivities have been run based on the highest and lowest share prices measured in the preceding 12-month period and on decreases of 10% and 20% on the share price at 31 December 2014. Those prices are determined using the closing INR share price converted to US$ at the daily rate. Effect on loss Effect on for year Equity As at 31 December 2014 US$m US$m Increase to the highest share price in 2014 – INR 383 (US$6.46) – 382.2 Decrease to the lowest share price in 2014 – INR 229 (US$3.61) (30.0) (30.0) Decrease of 10% on closing share price in 2014 – INR 216 (US$3.43) (60.8) (60.8) Decrease of 20% on closing share price in 2014 – INR 192 (US$3.05) (131.1) (131.1) Effect on loss Effect on for year Equity As at 31 December 2013 US$m US$m Increase to the highest share price in 2013 – INR 340 (US$6.33) – 167.7 Decrease to the lowest share price in 2013 – INR 274 (US$4.51) (54.6) (111.2) 3.2 Net Funds 2014 2013 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 869.3 1,308.3 Loans and borrowings – (55.3) Net funds 869.3 1,253.0 Cash and cash equivalents earn interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods from overnight deposits to three months depending on the cash requirements of the Group. Cairn limits the placing of deposits, certificates of deposit and other investments to banks or financial institutions that have ratings of Aor above from at least two of Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s or Fitch, unless a Sovereign Guarantee is available from an AAA rated Government. The counterparty limits vary between US$50.0m and US$200.0m depending on the ratings of the counterparty. No investments are placed with any counterparty with a five-year CDS exceeding 250 bps. Investments in money market liquidity funds are only made with AAA rated liquidity funds and the maximum holding in any single fund is 5% of total investments. The 2013 bank loan represents amounts drawn under the Capricorn Norge AS revolving exploration loan facility. During 2014, this facility was fully repaid and subsequently cancelled. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 117 Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital continued 3.2 Net Funds – Continued On 18 July 2014, Cairn Energy PLC signed a US$575.0m senior secured borrowing base facility with a syndicate of six international banks (BNP Paribas, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, DNB Bank ASA, HSBC Bank PLC, Societe Generale and Standard Chartered Bank) which was effective 1 August 2014. Until completion of the Catcher and Kraken developments the facility can be utilised to fund development costs on those projects and facility finance costs. The facility may also be utilised to issue letters of credit and performance guarantees for the Cairn Group of up to US$175.0m. Following completion, the facility can be used for general corporate purposes. Interest on outstanding debt is charged at the appropriate LIBOR for the currency drawn plus an applicable margin. The facility is subject to bi-annual redeterminations, has a market standard suite of covenants and is cross-guaranteed by all Group companies party to the facility. The outstanding debt is repayable in line with the amortisation of bank commitments over the period from 1 July 2018 to the final maturity date of 30 June 2021. Cairn Energy PLC had issued a US$100.0m Letter of Credit on 22 July 2013 as required under the membership of the Oil Spill Response Scheme’s “Cap and Contain” arrangement which was fully cash backed. On 31 December 2014, the Letter of Credit was released by the beneficiary and the cash released such that no restrictions now apply. Any future requirement for such a Letter of Credit could be drawn from the US$575.0m committed facility signed in 2014. 3.3 Income Tax Assets Income tax assets of US$60.3m (2013: US$81.3m) relate to cash tax refunds due from the Norwegian authorities on the tax value of exploration expenses incurred in Norway during the current year. 3.4 Other Receivables 2014 2013 US$m US$m Prepayments 19.1 5.2 Other receivables 105.8 86.2 Joint operation receivables 113.7 60.9 238.6 152.3 Prepayments include facility fees of US$16.3m incurred to secure debt funding. The amount will be amortised over the useful life of the facility, commencing on the date of the first draw-down under the facility, using an effective interest rate method. Costs directly related to development projects will be capitalised. Other receivables includes costs incurred by Cairn awaiting recharge to joint operations and dividends receivable of US$35.2m from Cairn India Limited. While the restriction over Cairn’s investment remains, Cairn India Limited is unable to remit these dividends to the Group. See section 3.1. Joint operation receivables includes Cairn’s working interest share of the receivables relating to joint operations and amounts recoverable from partners in joint operations. At 31 December 2014 no amount within the Group’s other receivables or joint operation receivables was past due or impaired (2013: US$nil). There was no Group allowance for doubtful debts in 2014. In determining the recoverability of other receivables the Group carries out a risk analysis based on the type and age of the outstanding receivable. 3.5 Trade and Other Payables 2014 2013 US$m US$m Trade payables 28.5 10.3 Other taxation and social security 6.4 6.4 Other payables 3.0 15.2 Joint operation payables 235.6 135.6 Accruals 4.7 33.5 278.2 201.0 Joint operation payables includes Cairn’s share of the trade and other payables of operations in which the Group participates. Where Cairn is operator of the joint operation, joint operation payables also includes amounts that Cairn will settle and recover from partners. 118 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 3.6 Financial Instruments Set out below is the comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements. Financial assets 2014 2013 Carrying amount and fair value US$m US$m Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents 869.3 1,308.3 Joint operation receivables 113.7 60.9 Other receivables 105.8 86.2 Available-for-sale financial assets Listed equity shares 702.6 1,027.6 1,791.4 2,483.0 All of the above loans and receivables are current and unimpaired. The impairment of the available-for-sale financial asset recycled to the Income Statement does not impact the carrying amount in the Balance Sheet. Financial liabilities 2014 2013 Carrying amount and fair value US$m US$m Amortised cost Trade payables 28.5 10.3 Joint operation payables 235.6 135.6 Accruals 4.7 33.5 Other payables 3.0 15.2 Provisions 14.4 14.0 Loans and borrowings – 55.3 286.2 263.9 The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, other than available-for-sale financial assets, has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates. Maturity analysis All of the Group financial liabilities have a maturity of less than one year, other than a provision of US$2.8m (2013: US$2.6m) that falls due after one year. Fair value The Group holds listed equity shares as a non-current available-for-sale financial asset. The Group determines and discloses the fair value of these by reference to the quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for those shares at the measurement date. At 31 December 2014 the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: 2014 2013 Assets measured at fair value – Level 1 US$m US$m Available-for-sale financial assets Equity shares – listed 702.6 1,027.6 702.6 1,027.6 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 119 Section 4 – Results for the Year This section includes the results and performance of the Group, with segmental disclosures highlighting the core areas of the Group’s operations in its three core regions of the Atlantic Margin, North West Europe and the Mediterranean. This section also includes details of the Group tax credits in the year and deferred tax assets and liabilities held at the year end. Significant accounting judgements in this section: Deferred taxation The deferred tax liability relating to the Group’s investment in Cairn India Limited, classified as an available-for-sale financial asset, is provided on the assumption that any future disposal will result in a tax liability. At the year end Cairn recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of UK North Sea oil and gas assets. This deductible temporary difference represents eligible field allowances on the Kraken and Catcher assets, offset by other taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are not included in the impairment tests conducted on the Group’s oil and gas assets. However, at each reporting date, Cairn reviews the carrying value of deferred tax assets to assess whether taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise unused tax losses and allowances which give rise to the asset. Cairn believes it is probable that UK North Sea assets will generate the taxable profits necessary to allow the temporary differences reflected in the deferred tax asset to be utilised in full. Key estimates and assumptions in this section: Deferred taxation Deferred tax liabilities relating to UK and Norwegian North Sea assets are measured using the tax rates and laws that are enacted at the Balance Sheet date and are expected to apply to the period when the assets are realised, based on the conditions that existed at the Balance Sheet date. Deferred tax assets do not include additional field allowances that certain assets in the UK may qualify for in future periods, but which are subject to Government approval of respective field development plans which did not exist at the Balance Sheet date. 4.1 Segmental Analysis Operating segments Cairn holds a balanced portfolio of exploration and development assets focused in three geographical regions: North West Europe; the Atlantic Margin; and the Mediterranean. The operations of the Group are organised on a country-by-country basis; countries form the Group’s operating segments. For management reporting purposes, operating segments are combined into regional business units. Cairn monitors the results of each regional unit separately for the purposes of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. The Group’s Atlantic Margin exploration region contains two regional units. Assets in Greenland and the Republic of Ireland are combined into one unit while the Group’s African assets in Senegal, Morocco and Mauritania also form a separate unit. The North West Europe regional unit holds the UK and Norway operating segments. This region was previously reported as “UK and Norwegian North Sea”. Currently the segment contains the Group’s North Sea assets including the Skarfjell discovery in Norway and the UK Catcher and Kraken developments. The Ensis prospect in the Norwegian Barents Sea is also included in this segment. The results of the Mediterranean region are reported along with the Group’s corporate assets within “Other Cairn Energy Group”. The Mediterranean includes licences in Spain, France and Malta. 120 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 4.1 Segmental Analysis – Continued Geographical information: non-current assets Atlantic Margin: Greenland and Republic of Ireland 2014 2013 North West Europe: UK and Norway US$21.7m US$38.2m 2014 2013 US$807.0m US$844.6m Other Cairn Energy Group: Others 2014 2013 Atlantic Margin: Senegal, Morocco and Mauritania US$4.8m US$5.1m 2014 2013 Other Cairn Energy Group: US$197.3m US$73.1m Mediterranean 2014 2013 US$4.6m US$6.9m Non-current assets for this purpose consist of intangible exploration/appraisal assets; property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets; intangible assets – goodwill; and other property, plant & equipment and intangible assets. The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2014 are as follows: Atlantic Margin Senegal, Other Morocco and Greenland and North West Europe Cairn Energy Mauritania Republic of Ireland – UK and Norway Group Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Pre-award costs – (0.7) (45.1) (9.0) (54.8) Unsuccessful exploration costs (100.1) (6.6) (94.8) (6.9) (208.4) Inventory disposal/write down – – – (8.4) (8.4) Depreciation – (0.1) (0.3) (0.7) (1.1) Amortisation – – – (2.2) (2.2) Other income and administrative expenses – (0.4) (2.1) (50.3) (52.8) Impairment of oil and gas assets – (22.7) (24.2) – (46.9) Gain on disposal of oil and gas assets – – 2.3 – 2.3 Operating loss (100.1) (30.5) (164.2) (77.5) (372.3) Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets – – – 3.9 3.9 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets – – – (194.3) (194.3) Interest income – – 1.2 1.9 3.1 Interest expense – – (0.1) – (0.1) Other finance income and costs 0.8 (0.4) 3.5 (3.3) 0.6 Loss before taxation (99.3) (30.9) (159.6) (269.3) (559.1) Tax (charge)/credit (1.3) – 134.0 45.3 178.0 Loss for the year (100.6) (30.9) (25.6) (224.0) (381.1) Capital expenditure 245.5 19.1 159.5 8.0 432.1 Total assets 358.1 28.0 988.8 1,642.5 3,017.4 Total liabilities 203.7 0.8 119.2 30.6 354.3 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 121 Section 4 – Results for the Year continued 4.1 Segmental Analysis – Continued The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2013 are as follows: Atlantic Margin Senegal, Other Morocco and Greenland and North West Europe Cairn Energy Mauritania Republic of Ireland – UK and Norway Group Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Pre-award costs – (1.1) (10.3) (12.1) (23.5) Unsuccessful exploration costs (107.4) (23.6) (81.3) (0.8) (213.1) Depreciation – (0.1) (0.5) (1.1) (1.7) Amortisation – – – (2.8) (2.8) Other income and administrative expenses (0.5) (0.2) (2.6) (34.4) (37.7) Impairment of oil and gas assets – – (251.4) – (251.4) Loss on disposal of oil and gas assets – – (24.7) – (24.7) Impairment of goodwill – – (324.2) – (324.2) Operating loss (107.9) (25.0) (695.0) (51.2) (879.1) Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets – – – (267.5) (267.5) Interest income – – 1.3 2.5 3.8 Interest expense – – (2.5) – (2.5) Other finance income and costs – 0.4 (0.2) 46.2 46.4 Loss before taxation (107.9) (24.6) (696.4) (270.0) (1,098.9) Tax credit – – 468.7 74.3 543.0 Loss for the year (107.9) (24.6) (227.7) (195.7) (555.9) Capital expenditure 177.9 17.3 204.9 8.4 408.5 Total assets 49.4 163.8 1,129.1 2,263.8 3,606.1 Total liabilities 8.8 135.1 169.0 105.4 418.3 4.2 Pre-award costs During the year, the Group incurred total pre-award costs of US$54.8m (2013:US$23.5m) as Cairn looked at new opportunities in North West Europe and elsewhere. US$30.3m (2013: US$nil) relates to pursuing new opportunities to follow up on the recent entry in the Norwegian Barents Sea, including US$22.0m acquiring seismic data. US$14.8m (2013: US$10.3m) relates to new opportunities in the UK and Norway including licensing round applications. In the Norwegian 2014 APA Licensing Round, Cairn was awarded non-operated interests in five licences: PL788 (Cairn 50%), PL787 (Cairn 30%), PL790 (Cairn 25%), PL159 (Cairn 18%) and PL800 (Cairn 35%). Further costs of US$9.7m (2013: US$13.2m) were incurred in pursuit of new opportunities in the Mediterranean and other regions. 4.3 Net Operating Expenses 2014 2013 US$m US$m Other income (3.1) – Administrative expenses 59.2 42.2 Inventory disposal/write down 8.4 – 64.5 42.2 Administrative expenses include US$7.6m relating to the Group reorganisation, US$1.6m of which were accelerated share-based payment charges. US$8.5m (2013: US$nil) incurred to defend the Group’s tax position in India are also included in administrative expenses. 122 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 4.4 Finance Income 2014 2013 US$m US$m Bank and other interest receivable 3.1 3.8 Dividend income 35.2 40.5 Exchange gain – 6.3 38.3 50.6 Dividend income is receivable from Cairn India Limited. See section 3.1. 4.5 Finance Costs 2014 2013 US$m US$m Bank loan and overdraft interest 0.3 2.6 Other finance charges 3.1 0.3 Exchange loss 31.3 – 34.7 2.9 4.6 Taxation on Loss Accounting policy The total tax charge or credit represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax. The current tax is based on taxable profit or loss for the year. Taxable profit or loss differs from net profit or loss as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint operations where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences that exist only where it is probable that taxable profits will be generated against which the carrying value of the deferred tax asset can be recovered. A deferred tax asset or liability is not recognised if a temporary difference arises on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. Current and deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 123 Section 4 – Results for the Year continued 4.6 Taxation on Loss – Continued a) Analysis of tax credit on loss in the year 2014 2013 US$m US$m Current tax credits: Norwegian tax refunds receivable (67.3) (81.6) Withholding taxes deducted at source 1.4 – (65.9) (81.6) Deferred tax credit: Norwegian deferred tax (credit)/charge (13.4) 20.3 Recognition of eligibility to future field allowances on UK development asset (71.2) (211.9) Release of provision on disposal of UK development asset – (32.8) Release of provision on impairment of UK intangible exploration/appraisal asset (15.0) (152.2) Other UK deferred tax credits 28.4 (10.3) Recycled from other comprehensive income on impairment of financial assets (42.0) (74.5) Recycled from other comprehensive income on sale of financial assets 1.1 – (112.1) (461.4) Total tax credit on loss (178.0) (543.0) Tax included in Other Comprehensive Income: Deferred tax credit on valuation of financial assets (56.6) (48.8) Deferred tax charge on valuation movement recycled to Income Statement 40.9 74.5 Total tax charge in Other Comprehensive Income (15.7) 25.7 Norwegian deferred tax credit includes a credit of US$6.9m (2013: charge of US$23.8m) on temporary differences in respect of non-current assets and a credit of US$6.5m (2013: US$3.5m) on losses and other temporary differences. Other UK deferred tax charges includes a charge of US$112.9m (2013: US$59.0m) on temporary differences in respect of non-current assets and a credit of US$84.5m (2013: credit of US$69.3m) on losses and other temporary differences. b) Factors affecting tax credit for the year A reconciliation of income tax credit applicable to loss before income tax at the UK statutory rate to income tax credit at the Group’s effective income tax rate is as follows: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Loss before taxation (559.1) (1,098.9) Loss before tax multiplied by the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) (120.2) (255.5) Effect of: Special tax rates and reliefs applying to oil and gas activities (145.5) (200.6) Impact of field allowances on deferred tax (47.8) (145.5) Additional deferred tax credit on disposal of development asset – (27.0) Non-deductible impairment of goodwill – 72.3 Adjustments in respect of prior periods (2.6) (16.6) Temporary differences not recognised 147.2 46.0 Deferred tax credit on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset (3.3) – Foreign exchange movements (1.6) (12.1) Other (4.2) (4.0) Total tax credit on loss (178.0) (543.0) The reconciliation shown above has been based on the average UK statutory rate of corporation tax for 2014 of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%). The UK main rate of corporation tax was 23% prior to 1 April 2014, and 21% from that date onwards. The reduction in the tax rate from 23% to 21% has resulted in an average rate of corporation tax of 21.5% for the year ended 31 December 2014, as shown above. The rate will reduce to 20% on 1 April 2015. Special rates of tax apply to oil and gas activities in the UK and Norwegian North Sea operating segment. The applicable UK statutory tax rate applying to North Sea oil and gas activities is 62% and the applicable Norwegian rate applying to oil and gas activities is 78%. 124 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 4.6 Taxation on Loss – Continued c) Deferred tax assets and liabilities recoverable/due after more than one year Reconciliation of movement in deferred tax assets/(liabilities): Temporary difference in respect of Other non-current temporary assets Losses differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets At 1 January 2013 – – – – Deferred tax credit though Income Statement (50.6) 109.3 – 58.7 At 1 January 2014 (50.6) 109.3 – 58.7 Deferred tax credit though Income Statement (31.3) 84.5 – 53.2 Exchange differences arising (0.2) (5.5) – (5.7) At 31 December 2014 (82.1) 188.3 – 106.2 Deferred tax liabilities At 1 January 2013 (597.4) 62.7 3.8 (530.9) Deferred tax credit though Income Statement 448.4 (49.3) 3.7 402.8 Deferred tax charge through Other Comprehensive Income (25.6) – – (25.6) Exchange differences arising 18.4 (12.4) (0.3) 5.7 At 1 January 2014 (156.2) 1.0 7.2 (148.0) Deferred tax credit though Income Statement 52.3 3.9 2.6 58.8 Deferred tax charge through Other Comprehensive Income 15.7 – – 15.7 Exchange differences arising 14.5 4.2 (6.9) 11.8 At 31 December 2014 (73.7) 9.1 2.9 (61.7) Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) analysed by country: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Deferred tax assets: UK 106.2 58.7 106.2 58.7 Deferred tax liabilities: Norway (52.2) (77.5) India (9.5) (70.5) (61.7) (148.0) Recognised deferred tax assets As at the Balance Sheet date, a net deferred tax asset of US$106.2m (2013: US$58.7m) has been recognised in the UK on other temporary differences and tax losses in excess of the UK deferred tax liability arising on temporary differences in respect of non-current assets attributable to UK Ring Fence trading activity. This includes the recognition in the year of a deferred tax credit to UK temporary differences in respect of non-current assets of US$71.2m (2013: US$211.9m), reflecting the eligibility to future field allowances on the Kraken and Catcher developments which will reduce future Ring Fence profits subject to Supplementary Charge. The eligible field allowances were confirmed when DECC approved the Kraken field development plan in 2013 and the Catcher field development plan in 2014, and will be claimed when production commences. A deferred tax asset has also been recognised in respect of Norwegian tax losses and other temporary differences of US$12.0m (2013: US$8.2m) against a Norwegian deferred tax liability arising on temporary differences in respect of non-current assets. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 125 Section 4 – Results for the Year continued 4.6 Taxation on Loss – Continued c) Deferred tax assets and liabilities recoverable/due after more than one year (continued) Unrecognised deferred tax assets No deferred tax asset has been recognised on the following as it is not considered probable that it will be utilised in future periods: 2014 2013 US$m US$m UK fixed asset temporary differences 244.5 163.8 UK Ring Fence trading losses 167.8 – UK Ring Fence pre-trade losses – 16.1 UK non-Ring Fence trading losses 3.9 – UK non-Ring Fence pre-trade losses 5.3 5.3 UK excess management expenses 311.9 205.4 UK non-trade deficits 39.8 53.2 UK other temporary differences 7.6 6.6 Greenlandic tax losses 1,301.5 1,277.0 d) Tax strategy and governance The Group’s tax strategy is fully aligned with its overarching business objectives and principles. Cairn commits to managing its tax affairs in a transparent and responsible manner and ensuring that all statutory obligations and disclosure requirements are met. We aim to comply with both the letter and spirit of the law in the relevant jurisdictions in which we operate, to ensure that the right amount of tax is paid, at the right time, within the right jurisdiction. As the Group is currently at an early stage in the value creation cycle and the level of its exploration activities is high, there are currently no taxable profits in the UK. Taxable profits in other jurisdictions are also minimal, and as a result cash payments of corporation taxes are currently low. Cairn’s policy is to not enter into any artificial tax avoidance schemes and to build and maintain strong collaborative working relationships with all relevant tax authorities, based on honesty, integrity and proactive cooperation. The Group aims for certainty in relation to the tax treatment of all items; however, we acknowledge that this will not always be possible, for example where transactions are complex and there is a lack of maturity in the tax regime in the relevant jurisdiction in which we are operating. In such circumstances the Group will seek external advice where appropriate and ensure that the approach adopted in any relevant tax return is supportable and includes full disclosure of the position taken. 4.7 Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated using the following measures of loss: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Loss and diluted loss attributable to equity holders of the parent (381.1) (555.9) The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2014 2013 ’000 ’000 Weighted average number of shares 578,845 602,279 Less weighted average shares held by ESOP and SIP Trusts (5,730) (5,969) Basic weighted average number of shares 573,115 596,310 Dilutive potential ordinary shares: Employee share options 33 389 Diluted weighted average number of shares 573,148 596,699 126 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Section 5 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures The disclosures in this section focus on the issued share capital, the share schemes in operation and the associated share-based payment charge to profit or loss. Other mandatory disclosures, such as details of related party transactions, can also be found here. Significant accounting judgements in this section: There are no significant accounting judgements in this section. Key estimates and assumptions in this section: Share-based payments Charges for share-based payments are based on the fair value at the date of the award. The shares are valued using appropriate modelling techniques and inputs to the models include assumptions on leaver rates, trigger points, discount rates and volatility. See section 5.4. 5.1 Issued Capital and Reserves Called-up share capital Number 231/169p 231/169p ordinary ordinary Group and Company ’000 US$m Allotted, issued and fully paid ordinary shares At 1 January 2013 603,261 13.0 Issued and allotted for employee share options 14 – Shares repurchased and cancelled by the Company (8,218) (0.2) At 1 January 2014 595,057 12.8 Issued and allotted for employee share options 94 – Shares repurchased and cancelled by Company (18,887) (0.4) At 31 December 2014 576,264 12.4 Share premium 2014 2013 Group and Company US$m US$m At 1 January 486.9 486.9 Arising on shares issued for employee share options 0.1 – At 31 December 487.0 486.9 Share buy-back The Company’s share buy-back programme (US$100.0m plus associated fees of $0.9m) ran from October 2013 until its suspension in March 2014. The first US$50.0m was entered into with Cairn’s brokers during 2013, and a further US$50.0m during 2014. During 2014 18.9m shares were repurchased at a cost of US$63.7m (2013: 8.2m shares at a cost of US$36.3m) plus associated fees of US$0.6m (2013: US$0.3m). Shares held by ESOP Trust Shares held by the ESOP Trust represent the cost of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Trust at 31 December 2014 of US$19.3m (2013: US$22.4m). The number of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Trust at 31 December 2014 was 4,284,055 (2013: 4,965,135) and the market value of these shares was £7.6m/US$11.9m (2013: £13.4m/US$22.2m). Shares held by SIP Trust Shares held by the SIP Trust represent the cost of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Incentive Plan Trust at 31 December 2014 of US$7.4m (2013: US$5.6m). The number of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Share Incentive Plan Trust at 31 December 2014 was 1,351,203 (2013: 938,846) and the market value of these shares was £2.4m/US$3.8m (2013: £2.5m/US$4.1m). Foreign currency translation Unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses arising on consolidation of subsidiary undertakings are taken directly to reserves. Foreign exchange differences arising on intra-group loans are not eliminated on consolidation; this reflects the exposure to currency fluctuations where the subsidiaries involved have differing functional currencies. These intra-group loans are not considered to be an investment in a foreign operation. Merger and capital reserves The merger reserve of US$255.9m arose in 2012 on shares issued by Cairn on the acquisition of Agora Oil and Gas AS. Capital reserves – non-distributable include non-distributable amounts arising on various Group acquisitions and the capital redemption reserve arising from the 2013/2014 share buy-back programme. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 127 Section 5 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures continued 5.1 Issued Capital and Reserves – Continued Available-for-sale reserve The available-for-sale reserve represents fair value movements on the available-for-sale financial assets (see section 3.1). At 31 December 2014, the cumulative deficit was recycled to the Income Statement as impairment. 5.2 Capital Management The objective of the Group’s capital management structure is to ensure that there remains sufficient liquidity within the Group to carry out committed work programme requirements. The Group monitors the long-term cash flow requirements of the business in order to assess the requirement for changes to the capital structure to meet that objective and to maintain flexibility. Cairn manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes to economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, Cairn may buy back shares, make a special dividend payment to shareholders, return capital, issue new shares for cash, repay debt, put in place new debt facilities (see section 3.2) or undertake other such restructuring activities as appropriate. No significant changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the year ended 31 December 2014. Capital and net debt were made up as follows: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Continuing operations Trade and other payables 278.2 201.0 Loans and borrowings – 55.3 Less cash and cash equivalents (869.3) (1,308.3) Net funds less payables (591.1) (1,052.0) Equity 2,663.1 3,187.8 Capital and net funds less payables 2,072.0 2,135.8 Gearing ratio 0% 0% 5.3 Staff Costs 2014 2013 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 43.2 38.4 Social security costs and other taxes 5.6 4.8 Redundancy costs 4.7 0.3 Other pension costs 3.4 2.8 Share-based payments charge 21.4 14.0 78.3 60.3 Staff costs are shown gross before amounts recharged to joint operations and include the costs of share-based payments. The share-based payments charge includes amounts in respect of both equity and cash-settled phantom options. During 2014 the Company carried out a programme of restructuring which included redundancy costs of US$4.7m. The average number of full time equivalent employees, including executive directors and individuals employed by the Group working on joint operations, was: Number of employees 2014 2013 UK 164 158 Norway 14 15 Spain 4 5 Greenland 15 12 Nepal – 2 Morocco 1 1 Group 198 193 128 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 5.4 Share-based Payments Accounting policy The cost of awards to employees under Cairn’s LTIP and share option plans are recognised over the three-year period to which the performance relates. The amount recognised is based on the fair value of the shares as measured at the date of the award. The shares are valued using a Monte Carlo model with the exception of the SIP awards which have been valued using a Black-Scholes model. Awards in prior years were valued using a Monte Carlo model. The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (“the vesting date”). The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The Income Statement charge or credit for a year represents the movement in cumulative expense as recognised at the beginning and end of that year. No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied. The Group operates a number of share-based schemes for the benefit of its employees. The number of Share Awards made by the Company during the year is given in the table below together with their weighted average fair value (‘WAFV’) and weighted average grant or exercise price (‘WAGP/WAEP’): 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 WAFV WAGP/WAEP Number WAFV WAGP/WAEP Number £ £ of shares £ £ of shares 2010 SIP – free shares 1.40 1.68 264,810 2.50 2.82 129,578 2010 SIP – matching shares 1.40 1.86 197,097 2.50 2.79 121,474 2009 Approved Plan 0.28 1.68 589,320 0.72 2.78 485,814 2009 Unapproved Plan 0.28 1.68 6,479,802 0.72 2.78 4,277,846 2009 LTIP 1.06 1.68 10,986,850 1.35 2.78 5,648,805 2014 Share awards 1.81 1.81 55,096 – – – 18,572,975 10,663,517 The analysis of the charge to the Income Statement in the year is: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Included within administrative expenses: 2010 SIP 0.8 0.9 2009 Approved Plan 1.0 0.6 2009 Unapproved Plan 4.4 3.6 2009 LTIP 15.0 8.3 2012 Share awards 0.2 0.6 21.4 14.0 As a result of the Group reorganisation in 2014, administrative expenses include US$1.6m (2013: US$nil) of accelerated share-based payment charges reflecting the reduced performance period for staff leaving through redundancy. Details of those awards with a significant impact on the results for the current and prior years are given below together with a summary of the remaining awards. Further details on assumptions and inputs applying to all share awards can be found in appendix 3. 2009 LTIP The awards existing under the 2009 LTIP are detailed in the table below together with the weighted average grant price (“WAGP”) at 31 December: 2014 2013 Number WAGP (£) Number WAGP (£) Outstanding as at 1 January 12,710,604 3.04 9,337,452 3.50 Granted during the year 10,986,850 1.68 5,648,805 2.78 Lapsed during the year (5,673,289) 2.84 (2,275,653) 4.29 Outstanding at 31 December 18,024,165 2.28 12,710,604 3.04 Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards 1.5 years 1.6 years Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 129 Section 5 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures continued 5.4 Share-based Payments – Continued Summary of all other share schemes The awards existing under all share schemes other than the 2009 LTIP but including the SIP are detailed in the table below together with the weighted average of the grant price, exercise price and notional exercise prices (“WAGP/WAEP”) at 31 December: 2014 2013 Number WAGP/WAEP (£) Number WAGP/WAEP (£) Outstanding at 1 January 11,011,826 2.82 7,126,626 2.94 Granted during the year 7,586,125 1.69 5,014,712 2.78 Vested/exercised during the year (363,053) 2.10 (175,799) 2.94 Lapsed during the year (2,456,149) 3.00 (953,713) 3.57 Outstanding at 31 December 15,778,749 2.26 11,011,826 2.82 Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards 8.0 years 8.0 years LTIP The fair value of the 2009 LTIP scheme awards has been calculated using a Monte Carlo model, as described at appendix 3. The main inputs to the model have been laid out in the appendix, though vesting percentages for LTIPs can be above 100%. For details on the vesting conditions attached to the LTIPs refer to the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97. 5.5 Directors’ Emoluments and Remuneration of Key Management Personnel Details of each Director’s remuneration, pension entitlements, share options and awards pursuant to the LTIP are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97. Directors’ remuneration, their pension entitlements, and any share awards vested during the year is provided in aggregate in section 7.8. Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors of the Company and of the members of the Management and Corporate teams who are the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate. 2014 2013 US$m US$m Short-term employee benefits 9.8 10.2 Termination benefits 0.3 – Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.6 Share-based payments 6.8 5.3 17.5 16.1 In addition employer’s national insurance contributions for key management personnel in respect of short-term employee benefits were US$1.4m (2013: US$1.3m). Share-based payments represent the cost to the Group of key management personnel’s participation in the Company’s share schemes, measured under IFRS 2. 5.6 Guarantees It is normal practice for the Group to issue guarantees in respect of obligations during the normal course of business. During the year, Cairn Energy PLC entered into a US$575.0m senior secured borrowing facility with a syndicate of six international banks (BNP Paribas, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, DNB Bank ASA, HSBC Bank PLC, Societe Generale and Standard Chartered Bank). See section 3.2. On entering into the facility certain subsidiaries granted cross-guarantees to each of the lenders. The Group also provided the following guarantees at 31 December 2014: –– Various guarantees under the Group’s bank facility for the Group’s share of minimum work programme commitments for the current year of US$7.8m (2013: US$33.8m); and –– Parent company guarantees for the Group’s obligations under joint operating agreements and other contracts. 130 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Section 6 – Post Balance Sheet Events 6.1 Sale of 10% Working Interest in Catcher In September 2014, Cairn entered into an agreement to farm-down 10% of the Group’s working interest in the Catcher development, satellite fields and surrounding exploration acreage to Dyas. Under the terms of the deal, Dyas will fund Cairn’s exploration and development costs in respect of the licences up to a cap of US$182.0m. Final approval for the sale to Dyas was received in January 2015. As the deal had an effective economic date of 1 January 2014, on completion Cairn received a refund of costs of US$54.7m including US$36.5m received under the carry. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 131 Company Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Section US$m US$m Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries 7.6 2,804.7 1,649.7 Current assets Other receivables 7.3 18.9 309.9 Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 24.0 882.9 42.9 1,192.8 Total assets 2,847.6 2,842.5 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 7.4 68.4 19.8 Total liabilities 68.4 19.8 Net assets 2,779.2 2,822.7 Equity Called-up share capital 5.1 12.4 12.8 Share premium 5.1 487.0 486.9 Shares held by ESOP/SIP Trusts 5.1 (26.7) (28.0) Capital reserves – non-distributable 5.1 0.7 0.3 Merger reserve 5.1 255.9 255.9 Retained earnings 2,049.9 2,094.8 Total equity 2,779.2 2,822.7 The financial statements on pages 132 to 142 were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by: James Smith Simon Thomson Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive 132 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Company Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Section US$m US$m Cash flows from operating activities Loss before taxation (14.9) (291.6) Share-based payments charge 4.6 4.0 Impairment of investment in subsidiary – 336.7 Finance income (0.9) (59.8) Finance costs 2.9 – Other receivables movement 307.4 (324.6) Trade and other payables movement (1,075.5) (0.4) Net cash used in operating activities (776.4) (335.7) Cash flows from investing activities Dividend received – 57.7 Interest received 0.7 1.8 Net cash from investing activities 0.7 59.5 Cash flows from financing activities Cost of shares purchased (64.3) (36.6) Facility and arrangement fees (19.2) – Proceeds from exercise of share options 0.3 – Net cash flows used in financing activities (83.2) (36.6) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (858.9) (312.8) Opening cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 882.9 1,196.4 Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents – (0.7) Closing cash and cash equivalents 7.2 24.0 882.9 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 133 Company Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 31 December 2014 Shares Equity held by Merger share ESOP Trust and capital Retained Total capital and SIP Trust reserves earnings equity US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2013 499.9 (28.7) 256.0 2,423.7 3,150.9 Loss for the year – – – (291.6) (291.6) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (291.6) (291.6) Share buy-back (0.2) – 0.2 (50.6) (50.6) Share-based payments – – – 14.0 14.0 Cost of shares vesting – 0.7 – (0.7) – At 31 December 2013 499.7 (28.0) 256.2 2,094.8 2,822.7 Loss for the year – – – (14.9) (14.9) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (14.9) (14.9) Share buy-back (0.4) – 0.4 (50.3) (50.3) Share-based payments – – – 21.4 21.4 Exercise of employee share options 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 Cost of shares vesting – 1.1 – (1.1) – At 31 December 2014 499.4 (26.7) 256.6 2,049.9 2,779.2 134 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Section 7 – Notes to the Company Financial Statements This section contains the notes to the Company Financial Statements. The issued capital and reserves of the Company are largely consistent with Cairn Energy PLC Group Financial Statements. Refer to section 5.1 of the Group Financial Statements. Key estimates and assumptions in this section: Impairment testing of investments in subsidiaries The Company’s investments in subsidiaries have been tested for impairment by comparison against the underlying value of the subsidiaries’ exploration/appraisal assets based on fair value less costs of disposal calculated using the same assumptions as noted for the testing of goodwill impairment in section 2.4. 7.1 Basis of Preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The Company applies consistent accounting policies as applied by the Group. To the extent that an accounting policy is relevant to both Group and Company Financial Statements, refer to the Group Financial Statements for disclosure of the accounting policy. Material policies that apply to the Company only are included as appropriate. Cairn has used the exemption granted under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 that allows for the non-disclosure of the Income Statement of the parent company. The loss attributable to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014 was US$14.9m (2013: US$291.6m). 7.2 Net Funds 2014 2013 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 24.0 882.9 Net funds 24.0 882.9 7.3 Other Receivables 2014 2013 US$m US$m Prepayments 15.0 0.3 Other receivables 3.9 1.8 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – 307.8 18.9 309.9 During the year, the Company received shares from Capricorn Oil Limited, its principal subsidiary, for settlement of inter-company debts of US$1,138.9m. Refer to section 7.6 for further details. During 2013 a provision for doubtful debts of US$689.2m made in a prior year was released when the net debt due from the subsidiary was capitalised through a share issue. 7.4 Trade and Other Payables 2014 2013 US$m US$m Trade payables 0.2 0.1 Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 57.6 4.2 Other taxation and social security 1.3 1.1 Accruals 9.3 14.4 68.4 19.8 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 135 Section 7 – Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued 7.5 Financial Instruments Set out below is the comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Company’s financial instruments that are carried in the Financial Statements. 2014 2013 US$m US$m Financial assets: Carrying amount and fair value Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents 24.0 882.9 Other receivables 3.9 1.8 Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings – 307.8 27.9 1,192.5 All of the above financial assets are current and unimpaired. 2014 2013 US$m US$m Financial liabilities: Carrying amount and fair value Amortised cost Trade payables 0.2 0.1 Accruals 9.3 14.4 Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 57.6 4.2 67.1 18.7 The fair value of financial assets and liabilities has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates. Maturity analysis All of the Company’s financial liabilities have a maturity of less than one year (2013: less than one year). 7.6 Investments in Subsidiaries Accounting policy The Company’s investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provisions resulting from impairment. In testing for impairment the carrying value of the investment is compared to its recoverable amount, being its fair value less costs of disposal. The fair value is based on the discounted future net cash flows of oil and gas assets held by the subsidiary, using estimated cash flow projections over the licence period. For exploration assets, estimated discounted cash flows are risk-weighted for future exploration success. Discounted future net cash flows are calculated using an estimated short-term oil price based on the forward curve and long-term oil price of US$90 per boe (2013: long-term oil price of US$90 per boe), escalation for prices and costs of 2.5%, and a discount rate of 10% (2013: 2.5% and 10% respectively). Full details on the assumptions used for valuing oil and gas assets can be found in section 2. Subsidiary undertakings Total US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2013 916.9 916.9 Additions 1,069.5 1,069.5 Impairments (336.7) (336.7) At 1 January 2014 1,649.7 1,649.7 Additions 1,155.0 1,155.0 At 31 December 2014 2,804.7 2,804.7 Details of the Company’s principal subsidiaries at the Balance Sheet date are included in appendix 1. Additions during the year included US$1,138.9m for the issue of 731,262,214 shares of £1 each at par by Capricorn Oil Limited which reduced the amounts owed to the Company by Capricorn Oil Limited. A further US$16.1m (2013: US$9.7m) was recognised as additions relating to Capricorn Oil Limited for the award of share options of the Company to the employees of Capricorn Energy Limited (a principal subsidiary of Capricorn Oil Limited). Additions during 2013 included US$1,059.8m capital contribution by Cairn Energy PLC which reduced the amounts owed to the Company by Capricorn Oil Limited. 136 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 7.6 Investments in Subsidiaries – Continued At the year end, investments in subsidiaries were reviewed for indicators of impairment and impairment tests conducted where indicators found. Given that the market capitalisation of Cairn is less than its net book value, impairment tests were conducted on all investments in subsidiaries held by the Company. No impairments arose at the year end. At 31 December 2013 the Company’s investment in Capricorn Oil Limited was impaired to reflect the fair value of the underlying assets of the Capricorn Oil Group. A charge of US$336.7m was made to the Company’s Income Statement. 7.7 Capital Management Capital and net debt were made up as follows: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Trade and other payables 68.4 19.8 Less cash and cash equivalents (24.0) (882.9) Net debt 44.4 (863.1) Equity 2,779.2 2,822.7 Capital and net debt 2,823.6 1,959.6 Gearing ratio 2% 0% 7.8 Related Party Transactions The Company’s principal subsidiaries are listed in appendix 1. The following table provides the Company’s balances which are outstanding with subsidiary companies at the Balance Sheet date: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings – 307.8 Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings (57.6) (4.2) (57.6) 303.6 The amounts outstanding are unsecured and repayable on demand and will be settled in cash. During the year, the Company increased its investment in Capricorn Oil Limited through capitalisation of loan balances receivable from the subsidiary. See section 7.6 for further details. The following table provides the Company’s transactions with subsidiary companies recorded in the loss for the year: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Amounts invoiced to subsidiaries 17.3 8.4 Amounts invoiced by subsidiaries 7.2 2.2 Dividend received from subsidiary – 57.7 Directors’ Remuneration The remuneration of the directors of the Company is set out below. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97. 2014 2013 US$m US$m Emoluments 5.8 4.8 5.8 4.8 Pension contributions were made on behalf of directors in 2014 of US$0.4m (2013: US$0.2m). No share awards to directors vested during 2014 (2013: none). Other transactions During the year the Company did not make any purchases in the ordinary course of business from an entity under common control (2013: US$nil). Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 137 Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements Appendix 1 – Principal Subsidiary Undertakings The Company’s principal subsidiaries as at the Balance Sheet date are set out below. A full list of subsidiaries can be found on the Annual Return. The Company holds 100% of the voting rights and ordinary shares of the following companies: Principal activity Country of incorporation Country of operation Direct holdings Capricorn Oil Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland Cairn UK Holdings Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland Indirect holdings – Capricorn Oil Limited Group Capricorn Energy Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland Capricorn Spain Limited Exploration Scotland Spain Capricorn Malta Limited Exploration Scotland Malta Capricorn Greenland Exploration A/S Exploration Greenland Greenland Capricorn Exploration and Development Company Limited Exploration Scotland Morocco Capricorn Mauritania Limited Exploration Scotland Mauritania Capricorn Senegal Limited Exploration Scotland Senegal Capricorn Ireland Limited Exploration Scotland Republic of Ireland Capricorn Norge AS Exploration Norway Norway Nautical Petroleum Limited Exploration England UK Nautical Petroleum AG Exploration and development Switzerland UK Agora Oil and Gas (UK) Limited Exploration Scotland UK 138 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Appendix 2 – Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies Group and Company The main risks arising from the Company’s and the Group’s financial instruments are liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk arising from equity price fluctuations and foreign currency risk. The Board of Cairn Energy PLC through the Treasury Sub-Committee reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and these are summarised below. The Group’s treasury function and Executive Team as appropriate are responsible for managing these risks, in accordance with the policies set by the Board. Management of these risks is carried out by monitoring of cash flows, investment and funding requirements using a variety of techniques. These potential exposures are managed whilst ensuring that the Company and the Group have adequate liquidity at all times in order to meet their immediate cash requirements. There are no significant concentrations of risks unless otherwise stated. The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivatives, for speculative purposes. The primary financial assets and liabilities comprise cash, short and medium-term deposits, notice accounts, certificates of deposit, money market liquidity funds, listed equity shares (Cairn India Limited only), intra-group loans and other receivables and financial liabilities held at amortised cost. The Group’s strategy has been to finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings. Other alternatives such as equity issues and other forms of non-investment-grade debt finance are reviewed by the Board, when appropriate. Liquidity risk The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk using both short and long-term cash flow projections, supplemented by debt financing plans and active portfolio management. Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in and delays of development projects. The Group’s forecasts show that the Group will be able to operate within its current debt facilities and have significant financial headroom for the 12 months from the date of approval of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts. Details of the Group’s debt facilities can be found in section 3.2. At 31 December 2013 Cairn Energy PLC Group had a total of US$60.0m of facilities in place to cover the issue of performance guarantees. On 21 February 2014 the facilities were further increased to US$100.0m. On 1 Aug 2014 these were cancelled and replaced by the US$575.0m debt facility noted above. The Group currently has surplus cash which is invested in a combination of money market liquidity funds, notice accounts and term deposits with a number of international and UK financial institutions, ensuring sufficient liquidity to enable the Group to meet its short and medium-term expenditure requirements. Interest rate risk Surplus funds are invested at floating rates. Borrowing arrangements are generally entered into at floating rates. From time to time the Group may opt to manage a proportion of the interest costs by using derivative financial instruments like interest rate swaps. At this time, however, there are no such instruments (2013: none). The Group’s loss before tax is not sensitive to changes in interest rates. Foreign currency risk Cairn manages exposures that arise from non-functional currency receipts and payments by matching receipts and payments in the same currency and actively managing the residual net position. Generally the exposure has been limited given that receipts and payments have mostly been in US dollars and the functional currency of most companies in the Group is US dollars. The Group also aims where possible to hold surplus cash, debt and working capital balances in functional currency which in most cases is US dollars, thereby matching the reporting currency and functional currency of most companies in the Group. This minimises the impact of foreign exchange movements on the Group’s Balance Sheet. Where residual net exposures do exist and they are considered significant the Company and Group may from time to time opt to use derivative financial instruments to minimise exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to movements in the US$:GBP exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Group’s and the Company’s monetary assets and liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material. 2014 2013 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on loss before tax Equity loss before tax Equity Group US$m US$m US$m US$m 10% increase in Sterling to US$ 28.3 80.1 9.2 41.4 10% decrease in Sterling to US$ (28.3) (80.1) (9.2) (41.4) 2014 2013 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on loss before tax Equity loss before tax Equity Company US$m US$m US$m US$m 10% increase in Sterling to US$ 89.8 89.8 93.5 93.5 10% decrease in Sterling to US$ (89.8) (89.8) (93.5) (93.5) Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 139 Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements continued Appendix 2 – Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies – Continued Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, investments with banks and financial institutions and joint operations. Joint operation partners are subject to a risk assessment using publicly available information and credit reference agencies, with follow-up due diligence and monitoring if required. Investment credit risk for investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the Group Treasury function in accordance with the Board-approved policies of Cairn Energy PLC. These policies limit counterparty exposure and maturity and take account of published ratings, market measures and other market information. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate the risk of financial loss through counterparty failure. It is Cairn’s policy to invest with banks or other financial institutions that firstly offer the greatest degree of security in the view of the Group, and, secondly the most competitive interest rates. Repayment of principal is the overriding priority and this is achieved by diversification and shorter maturities to provide flexibility. The Board continually re-assesses the Group’s policy and updates as required. At the year end the Group does not have any significant concentrations of bad debt risk. As at 31 December 2014 the Group had investments with 22 counterparties (2013: 33) to ensure no concentration of counterparty investment risk. The maturity of these investments ranged from instant access to three months. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the Balance Sheet date. Market risk: equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risks arising from the listed equity investments it holds in Cairn India Limited. Equity investments are held for strategic rather than trading purposes and the Group does not actively trade these investments, which are classified as non-current available-for-sale financial assets. Movements in the fair value during the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The cumulative gain or loss that arises on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets is recycled through the Income Statement. Further details on the impact of equity price movements on the fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets are included in section 3.1. 140 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Appendix 3 – Share-based Payments Cairn Energy PLC Group and Company The schemes below apply for both Group and Company. Cairn Energy PLC share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year, subject to the normal employee dealing bans imposed at certain times by the Company. The weighted average share price during the year was £1.877 (2013: £2.753). The Cairn Energy PLC share awards during 2014 were valued using a Monte Carlo model with the exception of the SIP awards which were valued using a BlackScholes model. Awards in prior years were valued using a Monte Carlo model. The main inputs to the models include the number of options, share price, leaver rate, trigger points, discount rate and volatility. –– Leaver rate assumptions are based on past history of employees leaving the Company prior to options vesting and are revised to equal the number of options that ultimately vest. –– Trigger points are based on the length of time after the vesting periods for awards in 2014. Awards in prior years have trigger points based on the profit points at which the relevant percentage of employees are assumed to exercise their options. –– The risk-free rate is based on the yield on a zero coupon Government bond with a term equal to the expected term on the option being valued. –– Volatility was determined as the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the shares of a peer group of similar companies selected from the FTSE, as disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97, over a 10-year period to the date of award. The following assumptions and inputs apply to the share plans detailed in section 5.4: Lapse due to Risk-free rate withdrawals Scheme name Volatility per annum per annum 2010 Share Incentive Plan 29% – 52% 0% – 0.69% 5% 2009 Approved and Unapproved Plans 29% – 52% 0.29% – 3.20% 5% 2009 LTIP 29% – 52% 0% – 2.33% 0% 2012 Share awards 29% – 52% – 5% Employee exercise trigger point assumptions For 2014 awards, the assumption used for the 2009 Approved and Unapproved awards is that employees will exercise half of the awards on the vesting date and the remaining half will be exercised equally each year over the following seven years. This assumption is modified for the 2009 LTIP awards such that awards are assumed to be exercised 10% on the three-year anniversary of the award date and 22.5% each year thereafter up until the seventh anniversary date. The assumption used for the valuation of the SIP is that employees will withdraw shares five years after the award date. For details on the vesting conditions attached to the LTIPs refer to the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 141 Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements continued Appendix 4 – Auditors’ Remuneration 2014 2013 US$’000 US$’000 PwC LLP Fees payable to the Group’s auditors and its associate firms for: Audit of parent company and consolidated Financial Statements 346 246 Audit of Group companies pursuant to legislation 250 139 Tax advisory and other services 203 13 Ernst & Young LLP Fees payable to the Group’s auditors and its associate firms for: Audit of parent company and consolidated Financial Statements – 86 Audit of Group companies pursuant to legislation – 258 Tax advisory and other services – 66 The Group has a policy in place for the award of non-audit work to the auditors which, in certain circumstances, requires Audit Committee approval (see the Audit Committee report on pages 73 to 75). The split of audit fees to non-audit fees payable to the auditor is as follows: 2014 Fees to Auditors 2013 Fees to Auditors Non Audit fee, $79,000 Non Audit fee, $203,000 Audit fee, $596,000 Audit fee, $729,000 142 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Group booked reserves and resources A total of 56.1 mmboe were booked as 2P Reserves and 171.6 mmboe as 2C Resources at 31 December 2014 on a net working basis. Discoveries Acquisitions 31.12.13 Revisions & Extensions & Disposals Production 31.12.14 Net 2P Reserves mmboe mmboe mmboe mmboe mmboe mmboe UK 30.1 26.1 – – (0.0) 56.1 Totals 30.1 26.1 – – (0.0) 56.1 Net 2C Contingent Resources UK 33.7 (32.5) – – – 1.1 Ireland 23.4 – – – – 23.4 Norway 23.0 0.5 – 3.4 – 26.9 Senegal – – 120.1 – – 120.1 Totals 80.1 (32.0) 120.1 3.4 – 171.6 –– 2P Reserves increased by 26.0 mmboe during 2014 due to the Catcher project FDP approval. –– 2C Resources increased by 91.5 mmmboe during 2014 due to Senegal and promotion of Catcher Resources to Reserves. –– All 2P bookings are supported by independent Competent Persons Reports. –– In January 2015 Cairn completed the sale of a 10% interest in the Catcher development to Dyas UK Limited; this sale is not reflected in the reserves disclosed above. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 143 Licence list As at 31 December 2014 Country Asset Name Block/Licence Operator Cairn Interest (%) Atlantic Margin Morocco FOUM DRAA OFFSHORE Foum Draa Cairn 50 1, 2 AND 3 Morocco JUBY MARITIME I, II AND Juby Maritime Cairn 37.5 III Morocco CAP BOUJDOUR I – XV Cap Boujdour Kosmos 20 Mauritania C-19 PSC C-19 Chariot 35 Senegal RUFISQUE OFFSHORE, Sangomar-Rufisque Cairn 40 SANGOMAR OFFSHORE AND SANGOMAR DEEP OFFSHORE Greenland ATAMMIK 2002/15 Cairn 87.5 Greenland EQQUA 2008/11 Cairn 87.5 Greenland LADY FRANKLIN 2005/06 Cairn 87.5 Greenland PITU 2011/13 Cairn 87.5 Republic of Ireland SPANISH POINT FEL 2/04 Cairn 38 (Blocks 35/8, 35/9) Republic of Ireland SPANISH POINT NORTH FEL 4/08 Cairn 38 (Blocks 35/2b, 35/3b, 35/4a) Republic of Ireland FEL 1/14 FEL 1/14 Cairn 38 (Blocks 35/13, 35/14, 35/15 (p), 35/18, 35/19) Mediterranean Spain ALTA MAR 1 Alta Mar Cairn 100 Spain ALTA MAR 2 Alta Mar Cairn 100 Spain BENIFAYO Albufera-Benifayo-Gandia Cairn 100 Spain GANDIA Albufera-Benifayo-Gandia Cairn 100 France ST LAURENT Saint Laurent eCORP 22 (Block P566) France GEX GEX eCORP 20 Malta BLOCKS 1, 2 and 3 Area 03 Cairn 60 North West Europe UK PEDL203 PEDL203 Egdon 15 (Block SK/65b) UK PEDL118 PEDL118 Egdon 15 (Blocks SK/65c, SK/66d) UK PEDL005 PEDL005 Egdon 10 (Blocks TF/38b andTF/49b) UK P218 P218 Premier 21 (Block 15/21a Gamma) UK P1763 P1763 MPX North Sea 32.5 (Blocks 9/9d, 9/14a, 9/15d) UK P1463 P1463 Premier 20 (Block 14/30a) UK P1077 P1077 EnQuest 25 (Block 9/2b ALL) 144 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Country Asset Name Block/Licence Operator Cairn Interest (%) UK P2040 P2040 Premier 20 (see Notes 4 (Block 29/11) and 5) UK P2124 P2124 Serica 10 (Block 113/22a) UK P2086 P2086 Premier 20 (see Notes 4 (Blocks 28/9b, 28/14) and 5) UK P1995 P1995 TAQA 50 (Blocks 210/25b, 211/21b, 211/26b) UK P2070 P2070 Premier 46 (see Note 4) (Block 28/4a) UK P2077 P2077 Premier 46 (see Note 4) (Block 28/8) UK P1430 P1430 Premier 30 (see Note 4) (Blocks 28/9a, 28/10c) UK P1655 P1655 Premier 21 (Block 15/21g) UK P1976 P1976 EnQuest 40 (Blocks 8/5, 9/1b) UK P1991 P1991 Endeavour 20 (Block 14/30c) UK P1659 P1659 Nexen 19 (Block 20/7a) UK P1887 P1887 First Oil 26.67 (Blocks 12/16b and 12/17b) UK P1482 P1482 Hydrocarbon Resources 10 (Blocks 113/26b, 113/27c) Ltd (Centrica) Norway PL159C PL159C Statoil 18 (Block 6507/3a) Norway PL393B PL393B Statoil 25 (Blocks 7125/4c, 7125/5b) Norway PL248C PL248C Statoil 20 (Blocks 35/11g, 35/11h) Norway PL378 PL378 Wintershall 20 (Block 35/12a) Norway PL378B PL378B Wintershall 20 (Block 35/12b) Norway PL418 PL418 Wintershall 20 (Blocks 35/8f, 35/9e) Norway PL630 PL630 Statoil 20 (Blocks 35/10b, 31/1b) Norway PL665S PL665S Faroe Petroleum 20 (Blocks 2/2d, 2/3b, 3/1a) Norway PL632 PL632 Statoil 40 (Block 33/9c) Norway PL748 PL748 DNO 20 (Blocks 34/2, 34/5) Norway PL682 PL682 Bayerngas 10 (Block 35/9b) Norway PL758 PL758 EnQuest 35 (Blocks 6508/1, 6608/10, 6608/11) Norway PL747 PL747 Bayerngas 40 (Block 35/8) Norway PL420 PL420 RWE Dea Norge AS 20 (Block 35/9d) Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 145 Licence list As at 31 December 2014 – continued Country Asset Name Block/Licence Operator Cairn Interest (%) Asia Pacific Nepal KARNALI AND Petroleum Agr. 1 Cairn 100 DHANGARI (Blocks 1 and 2) Nepal LUMBINI, BIRGANJ AND Petroleum Agr. 2 Cairn 100 MALANGAWA (Blocks 4, 6 and 7) Notes: 1. Cairn has issued surrender notices in respect of Greenland Licences 2011/16, 2011/17, 2008/14, 2009/11, 2008/13, 2009/10 and 2008/10. 2. Cairn has received four new licences in the 28th Seaward Licensing Round in the UKCS (P2184, P2149, P2148 and P2918). 3. Cairn has issued surrender notices in respect of UKCS Licences P1633 and P1887. 4. Cairn has completed a transfer of a 10% interest in Licences P1430, P2040, P2070, P2077 and P2086 to Dyas UK Limited. The transfer took place on 20 January 2015 with an effective economic date of 1 January 2014. 6. Cairn has agreed to transfer its interest in Licences P2040 and P2086 to Statoil. This transfer is conditional on the usual third party approvals. 146 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Glossary The following are the main terms and abbreviations used in this report: Corporate Other AGM Annual General Meeting 2C best estimate of contingent resources Board the Board of Directors of Cairn Energy PLC 2D/3D two dimensional/three dimensional Cairn Cairn Energy PLC and/or its subsidiaries as appropriate 2P proven plus probable Cairn India/CIL Cairn India Limited and/or its subsidiaries as appropriate ABC anti-bribery and corruption Capricorn Capricorn Oil Limited and/or its subsidiaries as appropriate ALARP as low as reasonably practicable Company Cairn Energy PLC APA awards in predefined area CR Corporate Responsibility bbl barrel CRMS Corporate Responsibility Management System boe barrel(s) of oil equivalent ELT Exploration Leadership Team boepd barrel(s) of oil equivalent per day Group the Company and its subsidiaries BOP blow out preventer RMC Risk Management Committee bopd barrels of oil per day SLT Senior Leadership Team DC drill centre DECC Department of Energy and Climate Change DEFRA Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs E&P exploration and production EAA environmental area assessment ESA exploration study agreement EIA Environmental Impact Assessment EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative ESIA Environmental and Social Impact Assessment FDP field development plan FEED front end engineering design FEL frontier exploration licence FID final investment decision FPSO floating production, storage and offloading GHGs Greenhouse gases GMT Greenwich Mean Time GRI Global Reporting Initiative HSE Health, safety and environment IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IOGP International Association of Oil & Gas Producers JV Joint Venture (referring to industry term, not IFRS definition) KPI Key Performance Indicator LPI leading performance indicator LTI lost time incident/injury LTIF lost time injury frequency mmbbls million barrels of oil mmboe million barrels of oil equivalent mmbopd million barrels of oil per day MMO marine mammal observer mmscfd million standard cubic feet of gas per day NCS Norwegian Continental Shelf ONHYM Office National des Hydrocarbures et des Mines PCDP Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan PDP Project Delivery Process Q1/2/3/4 quarter 1/2/3/4 STOIIP stock-tank oil initially in place TRIR total recordable injuries rate TD target depth TVDSS total vertical depth sub sea UKCS UK Continental Shelf US$ US dollar WEC well engineering and construction WI working interest Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 147 Notes 148 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Company information Financial Advisers Stockbrokers N M Rothschild & Sons Limited Jefferies New Court Vintners Place St Swithin’s Lane 68 Upper Thames Street London London EC4N 8AL EC4V 3BJ Secretary Morgan Stanley Duncan Wood LLB 20 Bank Street Canary Wharf Solicitors London Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP E14 4AD 1 Exchange Crescent Conference Square Registrars Edinburgh Equiniti EH3 8UL Aspect House Spencer Road Auditor Lancing PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP West Sussex 141 Bothwell Street BN99 6DA Glasgow T 0871 384 2030 G2 7EQ Overseas shareholder helpline number T +44 121 415 7047 www.shareview.co.uk Printed on FSC-recognised paper, produced from sustainably managed forests. This report was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an FSC-recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 accreditation. These materials contain forward-looking statements regarding Cairn, our corporate plans, future financial condition, future results of operations, future business plans and strategies. All such forward-looking statements are based on our management’s assumptions and beliefs in the light of information available to them at this time. These forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject to significant risks and uncertainties and actual results, performance and achievements may be materially different from those expressed in such statements. Factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ from expectations include, but are not limited to, regulatory changes, future levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing, weather and weather-related impacts, wars and acts of terrorism, development and use of technology, acts of competitors and other changes to business conditions. Cairn undertakes no obligation to revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in Cairn’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in circumstances or events after the date hereof. Head Office 50 Lothian Road Edinburgh EH3 9BY T: +44 131 475 3000 F: +44 131 475 3030 E: pr@cairnenergy.com www.cairnenergy.com London 6th Floor 20 Berkeley Square London W1J 6EQ Norway Veritasveien 25 Stavanger Norway Senegal Immeuble EPI Blvd du Sud x Rue des Ecrivains 3eme etage Point E Dakar Senegal BP. 25087 Dakar Fann www.cairnenergy.com/ar2014
