VIETNAM HOLDING ASSET MANAGEMENT GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Company: VIETNAM HOLDING ASSET MANAGEMENT Ltd. Address: Floor 8, Nam A Bank Tower, 201-203 Cach Mang Thang Tam Street, Ward 4, District 3, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Contact name: Mr. Vu Quang Thinh, Managing Director Tel: +84 8 3929 1515 Website: www.vnham.com Reporting date: 22 January 2015 Reporting period: 2014 Membership date: 12 December 2007 Number of Employee: 15 -1Brief description of nature of business VIETNAM HOLDING ASSET MANAGEMENT (VNHAM) is an investment management company with a representative office in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam and a subsidiary in Zurich, Switzerland. VNHAM started its activities in 2006 by managing the investment portfolio of VIETNAM HOLDING Ltd. (VNH), a closed-end investment fund whose shares are traded on London's AIM Market since 15 June 2006 and Frankfurt's Entry Standard since 20 October 2008. Besides its activities as investment manager for VNH, VNHAM also acts as investment advisor to Lumen Vietnam Fund, an open-ended investment fund incorporated in Liechtenstein and managed by CBR Investment AG. -2Message from the Chairman As a founding member of the Global Compact Network in Vietnam, VNHAM fully supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. The company has committed to make the Global Compact and its principles fundamental parts of its own strategy and day-to-day operations. With this report, we are pleased to announce our continuing progress toward these important goals. At the VNH Annual General Meeting held in November 2009 VNH’s shareholders decided to integrate environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) factors in their investment process. VNH thereby became the first fully compliant signatory of the United Nations’ Principles for Responsible Investment in its marketplace. This strategy has since been consistently applied by VNHAM, its sole investment manager. ESG factors are an integral part of our investment analysis and portfolio management processes. This approach has contributed to reducing portfolio volatility and has led to investments that are better positioned than their competitors and more profitable over the long run. VNHAM further translated its ESG policy into tangible actions. We work proactively with investee companies to develop solutions for ESG issues that are most relevant to them. VNHAM has regularly put forward AGM resolutions and cooperated with like-minded investors. Our investment team has offered constructive suggestions on several occasions. The subsequent “Sustainable Investment” section provides more details in this regard. VNH continued to conduct the series of VNH Forums in an active effort to improve the corporate governance of its portfolio companies and the country’s business community. The Forums are customized to address senior executives of VNH investee companies. The 2014 VNH Forum was held under the theme “ESG Reputation in a digital World”. The event was highly appreciated by the numerous participants and an active exchange of ideas and strategies in the field of digital marketing and communications was triggered. The VNH Foundation remains close to VNHAM’s heart as it displays our solidarity with the less fortunate members of Vietnam’s aspiring society. I am proud to report that VNHAM was again able to make a financial contribution in support of the Foundation’s ongoing projects. Please refer to the “VNH Foundation” section on page 6 for further details. In these ways and through its own business conduct, VNHAM further illustrates its commitment to support Vietnam’s quest for a more sustainable future. Jean-Christophe Ganz, Chairman VIETNAM HOLDING ASSET MANAGEMENT Ltd. -3CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We believe that the transparency of business practices among market participants is a key factor in the development of healthy and sustainable capital markets in Vietnam. In support of this conviction, we are actively contributing to the elevation of the country's corporate governance standards and practices. All VNH and VNHAM staff sign a Code of Ethics contract annually. VNHAM's compliance officer specifically ensures that our company and its staff comply with local laws and regulations, as well as with internal policies in the fields of environment, social responsibility and corporate governance. INVESTMENT STRATEGY Our objective is to achieve long-term capital appreciation by investing in a diversified portfolio of public companies in Vietnam, and in the securities of foreign companies if a majority of their assets and/or operations are based in Vietnam. Target companies must combine measurable value with high growth potential. We do not intend to take control of any company or entity in which VNH has directly or indirectly invested or to take an active management role in any such company. However, we may appoint one of our directors, employees or other appointees to join the board of an investee company and/or may provide certain forms of assistance to such company, subject to prior approval by the VNH Board. VNHAM actively incorporates ESG considerations into its ownership policies and practices. It will seek an active dialogue with the management of the investee companies and will seek appropriate disclosure of ESG issues. Through VietNam Holding Forum events, we promote acceptance and implementation of the ESG principles within the Vietnamese investment industry. VNHAM is strongly committed to the economic development of Vietnam. We also strive to improve the social welfare of Vietnam's youth through the work of our affiliated VNH Foundation. We aim to have a corporate governance structure that protects the investments of shareholders, the dedication of its employees, and the interests of other stakeholders. We further strive to operate in a fair and transparent manner, while ensuring a robust and effective system of internal controls and managing operational and investment risks. -4SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT In 2014 VNHAM continued to apply its disciplined exit policy as some investee ENVIRONMENT companies failed to meet our expectations in terms of ESG compliance. As an example, in 2014 we fully divested from a construction material company which Principle 7: displayed a low level of corporate governance standards with a possible hidden “Businesses large ownership by one if its board members. should support a precautionary VNHAM’s successful application of the ESG principles were further highlighted by the approach to fact that VNH has not only outperformed the benchmark index VNAS (Vietnam All environmental Share Index) by over 10% last year with its NAV/share performance of 18%, but challenges” also over a five year period with an outperformance of nearly 60%. We work proactively with our investee companies’ managements to develop solutions for ESG issues that are most relevant to the company, its industry and its immediate market environment. We actively participate and vote at investee company AGMs. VNHAM regularly puts forward AGM resolutions and cooperates LABOUR with like-minded investors. Our investment team has openly voiced concern over management policies, including employment policy and offered constructive “…we fully suggestions on several occasions. In 2014 VNHAM attended and voted at 25 AGMs, support the four covering each company in VNH’s portfolio. principles in the field of labour” We are not satisfied with simply reflecting sustainability in our portfolio we actively help to grow and promote it throughout the Vietnamese marketplace. Our experience has proven that enterprises which are sensitive to environmental, social and corporate governance issues are usually better managed and more successful than other companies. In 2014 the VNHAM team arranged more than 29 visits to 25 different investee companies for VNH’s and VNHAM’s members of the respective boards of directors. ANTI-CORRUPTION Both boards continued to be actively engaged with the top managements of the portfolio companies in order to enhance their financial and ESG performance. Principle 10: “Businesses should The material issues addressed at these company visits included: work against corruption in all Strategic management and core business activities forms, including Role of the supervisory board and the benefits of independent board members extortion and Leadership transition process bribery” Disclosure of environmental impact measurements Improvement of sustainability reporting ERP system implementation -5VNH FOUNDATION The VNH Foundation is a charitable organization based in Zurich, Switzerland. It ENVIRONMENT supports disadvantaged children and young adults in Vietnam and its neighbouring countries. Formed in reflection of our dedication to social responsibility, the Principle 8: Foundation is the creation of VNHAM. “Undertake initiatives to The VNH Foundation identifies worthy projects and structures its fund allocation so promote greater that 100% of the donations received by the Foundation go towards the targeted environmental recipients and the Foundation’s supported partner organizations. It proactively follows responsibility” the progress of each project, and reports periodically to the Foundation's board. The VNH Foundation currently supports a number of projects in Vietnam and in Thailand. Starting in 2007, the Foundation has sponsored corrective orthopedic surgery for 173 children affected by Agent Orange in Central Vietnam’s Quang Tri Province. HELPING OTHERS The Foundation has also donated state-of-the-art medical equipment, including an arthroscopy tower, sterilization achiness and an operating table to the Da Nang “While strongly Orthopedics Hospital. The hospital was able to increase its capacity from an initial 780 committed to the to over 4,000 operations annually. In cooperation with the Bruderholz Hospital in economic Basel, Switzerland, the Foundation helps to provide medical training to the staff of the development of Da Nang Orthopedics Center in Vietnam. To achieve this, the Foundation sponsors annual visits to the Da Nang Center by Swiss doctors and nurses specialized in Vietnam, we also orthopedic surgery. strive to improve the social welfare.” VNH Foundation has provided scholarships in the impoverished Ninh Tuan Province to allow well over 1,000 children to attend primary school. The VNH Foundation has also built a home for street children in the South of Thailand and supports the ongoing operation of the home by the Baan Nok Kamin Foundation, a Thai organization with roots in Switzerland. In 2014, the VNH Foundation received a substantial donation from VNHAM. As a result, the Foundation plans on taking on a number of new projects in 2015. -6As a member of UN Global Compact (UNCG), we are pleased to produce a Communication On Progress (COP) on how we support the ten principles of the Global Compact. Our COP is available on www.vnham.com and www.unglobalcompact.org -7-
