UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 Contents Statement of support................................5 About Claire.............................................7 Human Rights People............................8 Labor principles People ......................10 Environment Planet.............................12 Anti-Corruption Profit.........................15 Measurements and goals........................16 2 3 Statement of support Claire Group is an international fashion house with roots in Denmark founded in 1975 with the vision to create clothes on a sustainable basis. Our mission is to create stylish and casual clothes that appeal to fashion conscious women and children and build a company we can be proud of. Our products are sold around the world through own shops and retailers. We are dedicated to fulfil the intentions of the 10 principles outlined by the UN Global Compact Initiative. We strive to influence our suppliers and business partners to support, to live up to and to participate in the Global Compact Initiative. Claire Group has been an active part of the UN Global Compact initiative since January 2010 and our support is unchanged. It is our conviction that business must be sound and sustainable for all involved in the process. Since 2009, Claire Group has been a member of BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) because we think auditing our suppliers is a tool to obtain a responsible supply chain. In 2012, we took a step further and became the first fashion house in Scandinavia to be certified with the ethic standard, SA 8000. In 2014 we have committed our selves to uphold a strong animal welfare policy and in 2014, we revised our anti-coruption policy. We continue setting targets within the 10 principles in UN Global Compact and we measure our performance year by year. We are proud to contribute to a more sustainable world, today and in the future. Ikast, June 25, 2015 Anders Hust, CEO Sign: ______________________ “Our focus on quality stretches beyond our products. It also reflects the responsibility we have towards people and planet.” Anders Hust, CEO 4 5 About Claire Brief description of nature of business. Claire Group is family-owned companies (Ltd.) established in 1975, with headquarter in Ikast, Denmark. Claire Group is an international fashion house. Together our collections make a complete concept for modern women and children with an active life style. Most products are produced by our suppliers in Europe, China and India. Company info: Claire Group A/S Date: 30-06-2015 Address: Marsvej 6 10 Membership 11-01-2010 7430 Ikast date: Telephone: +45 97153122 Employees: 37 Country: DK Denmark Sector: Textile Contact name: Ulla Dam Contact Supply chain Contact mail: ud@claire.dk position: manager You can read about our different memberships, our certification and our sustainable product marks on www.claire.dk ” It is our vision to create clothes on a sustainable basis and build a company we can be proud of” Anders Hust, CEO 6 7 Processes and activities We have a clear written policy on human rights and sustainable production. Our values together with our in-house SA 8000 procedures and our BSCI membership ensure us against discrimination. To prevent discrimination to happen we have implemented proactive procedures for hiring, promoting and dismissal. At the same time our headquarters in Denmark are under strict Danish legislation, which we comply with. We have established a whistleblower system to handle any complaints. We have in-house awareness training of employees in human rights and SA 8000 issues. We have an annual in-house audit and 2 Bureau Veritas audits pr. year. Outcome Our SA 8000 procedures and our BSCI Code of Conduct have prevented us from violating the human right conventions in Denmark and on factory level at our main suppliers. We are in compliance with Danish laws and collective agreements. Bureau Veritas has successHuman Rights People fully certified our company with SA 8000 in 2012, and in June 2015 we were re-certified according to the SA 8000 standard. To monitor our effort, and measure our Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights progress in the supply chain we are auditing our supand pliers according to an audit plan and corrective action plans are issued in case of NON COMPLIANCE. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. See our figures below. What we want • Claire Group was certified with the ethic standard SA In Claire Group we are obliged not to violate basic human rights conventions in Denmark and where our 8000 in 2012 and re-certified in 2015. clothes are produced. We support the international declared human rights and we will not discriminate against any person on grounds of race, religion, gender, age or disability. It is vital to us that everybody is welcome • In 2014 75% of our employees are covered by a collecand feels like a member of the team. It is one of our core values that we are aware of our social responsibility tive agreement. towards our employees, the local society and workers in our supply chain. Everybody should be given fair • In 2014 86% of all employees have participated in a opportunities to build careers. We want to have a sustainable supply chain as well. Through our membership SA 8000 course. of the Business Social Compliance Initiative concept we are obliged to respect the fundamental human rights conventions no matter where we produce our clothes. And we want to live up to our commitment to BSCI. • In 2014 50% of employees on management level or in a position of trust were women. • In 2014 68% of our suppliers (BV), have had 1. first audit in order to disclose non-conformities within human rights and the BSCI Code of Conduct in general. Corrective actions have been carried out accordingly. • In 2014 68% of our suppliers (BV) are in compliance “We have been working with social responsibility with the BSCI Code of Conduct or with the result imfor more than 38 years and finally we have a cerprovement needed. Additional 30 % of BV have been tificate proving that our work is very well done. screened and have now started preparation for auditing procedure. Now there is more weight behind our words, when we talk about human rights and labor standards.” Anders Hust, CEO 9 tional, Health and Safety work is very well organized. We assess any labour related risk or accident at Claire Group A/S as well as any “close to” accidents. We have 6 weeks of vacation and paid sick leave. We have an employer-paid health insurance. All employees have access to paid education within their area of responsibility. We have employees on special terms e.g. trainees or work ability testing. Our values together with our in-house SA 8000 procedures and our BSCI membership ensure us against violation of basic labor standards in Denmark and in our supply chain. We have established a whistleblower system to handle any complaints. We have in-house awareness training of employees in Occupational, Health and Safety and in SA 8000 issues every second year. “With our SA 8000 certificate we show our suppliers, that we take our own medicine. That has definitely given us more respect in our supply chain.” Through our membership in BSCI we have implemented policies and the BSCI Code of Conduct in our supply chain. The BSCI Code of Conduct set out the minimum criterias for labour standards. If we see any young Anders Hust, CEO workers they will be employed in light jobs suitable to their age and abilities only. At the same time we will demand that they return to school every day. We also require compliance as a minimum with local legislation in our production countries. Labor principles People Outcome We are in compliance with Danish laws and collective agreements and Bureau Veritas has successfully certified our company with SA 8000 in 2012. Our staff is extremely loyal and as a consequence we have a lot of long terms relationship. We are auditing our suppliers according to an audit plan and we are making corrective Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition action plans when a supplier is not in compliance with the Code of Conduct. There is no forced or compulsory of the right to collective bargaining; labour in the company or at our supplier premises and all basic labor standards are observed, and audited at Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; our core suppliers. Our SA 8000 procedures and our BSCI Code of Conduct have prevented us from violating Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and basic workers standards, national legislation and collective agreements in Denmark and on factory level at our Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. main suppliers. See our figures below. • Our Occupational, Health and Safety work is well organised and works successfully according to What we want the intentions of the Danish laws. We want to be one of the very best companies in the textile business regarding CSR-related issues. We believe fundamentally that our social responsibility should encompass not only our own activities in Denmark but also • 86% of our staff has received training in our CSR-programme and SA 8000 issues. activities in our supply chain. We think that freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are fundamental rights, which should be upheld. • We have employees on special terms corresponding to ½ man year. We take the working environment extremely seriously because we believe that working environment and job • 100% of all employees have a private health insurance. satisfaction goes hand in hand. We care about each employee’s health and safety. We want to have a creative work environment and believe that this requires good conditions concerning employee safety and health of a • 75% of all employees are covered by a collective agreement. top standard level. We want to motivate and educate our staff and make the best possible use of our resources. • 32% of all employees have first aid certificate. We condemn child labour, dangerous work, unreasonably long working days or salaries, which is lower than the current industrial rate in the country of production. We support a world wide effort to deal with the chal• We have established a whistleblower system. lenges of living wage. • In 2014 68% of our suppliers (BV) have had first audit in order to disclose non-conformities within Processes and activities human rights and our Code of Conduct in general. Corrective actions have been carried out Employees in headquarters are organized in unions as we respect freedom of association and the right to colaccordingly. lective bargaining. The company is covered by three collective agreements. Compensation and overtime payment meet the Danish minimum standard or the relevant collective agreement. • In 2014 68% of our suppliers (BV) are audited Good (G) according to the BSCI Code of Conduct or with the result improvement needed (IN). Additional 31% of BV have been screened and have now We have a clear written policy on Occupational Health and Safety. We continually improve our working envistarted preparation for the auditing procedure. ronment, according to Danish legislation and our SA 8000 standard and procedures. We have an Occupational Health and Safety committee with representatives from the workers and the management group. Our Occupa10 11 Environment Planet Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges ; and Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies What we want At Claire Group we are aware of our environmental responsibility, and we think all companies should contribute. We seek to be a more and more green company on a daily basis not only because there is money to be earned by safeguarding the environment but also because we owe this to our grandchildren. We consider environmental awareness as a wide range of initiatives that includes running our headquarters in Ikast on a sustainable basis and reducing our CO2 emission from producing our products. We care about chemicals in clothes, zippers and buttons, and we observe the EU-REACH and Norwegian legislation as a minimum. We support environmentally friendly technologies and help to improve the general knowledge of environmentally friendly fabrics and labels. Processes and activities We have a policy on environment and transportation. In 2010 we performed a 360 degree inspection in our house and reviewed our electricity consumption Outcome in our headquarters. In our efforts to be a more green company we recycle whenever it is possible and we measure our in-house consumption of resources. We encourage our suppliers always to use an environmentally friendly • In 2014 we reduced our electricity consumption by 44%, our commercial method and to avoid all unnecessary use of chemicals. Besides we have a waste by 69% and water by 52%. (2010=100) restricted chemicals programme, which our suppliers must follow. We have • Consumption of heat has been reduced by 46% due to reorganizing on a collection of organic styles for children (GOTS) and a collection of styles a smaller area. made of bamboo fibres. We also strive to increase the number of styles with • We sail approximately 89% of our goods to Europe from our suppliers. Oeko-Tex 100 year after year. We have also joined the wash campaign: • In our supply chain 72% of suppliers (BV) have signed our restricted Clever Care, since 40% of the Co2 emmission lies with the consumer. chemicals programme. • In 2015 we will strengthened our restricted chemicals programme further. Random inspections are organized according to the limit values in EU-reach Outcome and Norwegian legislation. We have established figures for our calculation and picked relevant Key Performance Indicators. We measure our progress and we begin to see the result of our efforts in 2010, where we invested a considerable amount in saving electricity and changing bulbs into LED bulbs. The reduction in electricity continued in 2014, where our total consumption of electricity for the year has been reduced by 44% and water is reduced by 52% compared to 2010. Our in“Sustainable fashion is not only about where the clothes is coming from vestment in low energy lighting have prooven succesful and has been earned and how it is produced, it is also about a sustainable consumer behavior back over a 5 years period. We have focused on reduction of our commercial waste and have recycled as much as possible. We have reduced our commersince 40 % of the CO2 emission lies with the consumer.” cial waste by 69% (2010=100) Our transport by air has increased and we will Anders Hust, CEO dig further into this KPI. See our total measurements on last page. 12 13 Anti-Corruption Profit Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. What we want At Claire Group corruption is not acceptable and we are strongly against bribery, extortion or any other form of facility payments. We want to run a profitable company and respect people and planet. We encourage our business partners with our attitudes to bribery and corruption. Processes and activities We have a formulated company policy about bribery and anti-corruption, and in 2011 it was implemented in our staff handbook. In 2014 this policy was strengthened and we issued a anti-corruption Code of Conduct. We do not pay any form for illegitimate payments and no employee must either give or receive gifts above a value of 50 Euro. Our employees are encouraged to express complaints, suspicions or concerns anonymously to the company by using the whistleblower. Bribery is a part of our in-house employer training in human rights, workers rights and environmental issues and SA 8000 training. Outcome Our anti-corruption policy and our transparent rules and procedures have prevented us from any cases of bribery, anti-corruption etc. in 2014. We are in compliance with Danish laws and Bureau Veritas has successfully certified our company with SA 8000 in 2012 and again in 2015. • In 2011 we formulated a anti-corruption policy about bribery and corruption and in 2012 it was implemented in our staff handbook. In 2014 this policy was revised and made stronger. • In 2014 we had no cases regarding bribery or anti-corruption from the whistleblower scheme. • In 2014 68% of our suppliers (BV), have had first audit in order to disclose non-conformities within human rights and our Code of Conduct in general. Corrective actions have been carried out accordingly. • In 2014 68% of our suppliers (BV) are audited Good (G) according to the BSCI Code of Conduct or with the result improvement needed (IN). How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? A summery of our social performance for 2014 can be found on last page. This COP will be available at the Global Compact homepage and can be found on www.claire.dk. 14 15 Measurements and goals Key PerformMeasurements 2014 Measurements 2014 Goals/Objectives 2015 Goals/Objectives 2015 Policy System ance Headquaters Suppliers Headquaters Suppliers Indicators Human Rights Headquarters: Headquarters: Suppliers: Headquarters: Suppliers: SA 8000 management • SA 8000 certification in June 2012+2015 1. 68% of buying volume (BV) • SA 8000 certification renewed 1. 70% of BV with first audit system with first audit YES + • 86% of all employees with SA-8000 training • 95% of all employees with 2. 66% of BV are Good or Three collective 2. 68% of BV are Good or IN SA-8000 training and increasing IN with BSCI CoC and agreements • 50% of employees on management level or in a with BSCI CoC and focus on internal training in position of trust are women general 3. 28% of suppliers with Suppliers: 3. 31% of suppliers with screening • 75% of employees covered by a collective agreescreening • 50% of employees on manageBSCI – ment ment level or in a position of Code of Conduct trust are women * IN = Improvement needed • 75% of employees covered by a * IN = Improvement needed collective agreement Labour Headquarters: Headquarters: Suppliers: Headquarters: Suppliers: Standards SA 8000 management • SA 8000 certification in June 2012+2015 1. 68% of BV with first audit • SA 8000 certification renewed 1. 70% of BV with first audit YES system + • 86% of all employees with SA-8000 training 2. 68% of BV are Good or IN • 95% of all employees with SA-8000 2. 66% of BV are Good or Three collective with BSCI CoC and training and increasing focus on IN with BSCI CoC and agreements • ½ man-year employed on special terms internal training in general 3. 31% of suppliers with 3. 28% of suppliers with Suppliers: • 75% of employees covered by a collective screening • ½ man-year employed on special terms screening agreement BSCI – • 75% of employees covered by a colCode of Conduct • 32% of all employees have first aid certificate lective agreement • 32% with first aid certificate Environment Headquarters: 2012 2013 2014 Suppliers: 2015 Suppliers: Waste in KG 18340 12200 12960 Waste in KG 12500 Environment program • 72% of BV with signed • 75% of BV with signed chemiYES Clever Care Campaign Electricity in KwH 185262 157760 133958 chemicals program Electricity in KwH 130000 cals program Water in M3 485 421 362 Water in M3 350 Suppliers: Heat in KwH 847100 460592 358559 • Random inspections on readyHeat in KwH 400000 made garment from all core Restricted chemicals Transportation by 91% / 9% 96% / 4 % 89% / 11% Transportation by 90% /10% suppliers. program. Ship/aeroplane Ship/aeroplane Anti-corruption Headquarters: Headquarters: Suppliers: Headquarters: Suppliers: SA 8000 management system • No cases regarding Anti-corruption 1. 68% of BV with first audit • All cases solved 1. 70% of BV with first audit YES Whistleblower 2. 68% of BV are Good or 2. 66% of BV are Good or Suppliers: IN with BSCI CoC IN with BSCI CoC BSCI – 3. 31% of suppliers with 3. 28% suppliers with screening Code of Conduct screening 16 17 Marsvej 6-10 • 7430 Ikast www.claire.dk www.hustandclaire.dk www.clairegroup.dk
