Opportunities and Challenges www.americanindustriesgroup.com 2013 Corporate Social Report Responsibility Report 1 Welcome T wo years ago we started in American Industries Group a transparency exercise with the objective to work in areas connected with different spheres of influence and community participation. show the scope and goals of our business aligned with the vision of CorpoThe 2014 report contemplates results rate Social Responsibility that we are corresponding to the years 2012 and looking to develop. This is our second 2013, giving continuity to the report report in which we represent the adpreviously presented in 2012. We vances and achievements reached on used the guideline of the Global Rethe road toward sustainability. porting Initiative (GRI) according to version G4 at the core level to show During the year 2012 we published information about our performance. our first corporate social responsibility report which provided us with the The information shown on the report bases to guide the performance of corresponds to the operations of the the company focusing on four fundabusiness areas of Shelter and Real Esmental pillars: our personnel, clients, tate in the cities of Chihuahua, Juárez, community and the environment. Monterrey, Querétaro and GuadaThis process facilitated the revision lajara in Mexico. No information is of our organizational principles at the shown regarding subcontractors and time that a project concluded with the personnel in their charge. As well, insale of a significant part of the real esformation about the hired personnel tate portfolio. by American Industries Group and its affiliates run directly by our clients In the year 2013 American Industries under the Shelter plan is shown only Group strengthened its social and to project the size of the plan, howenvironmental compromise joining ever it is not contemplated on the the United Nations Global Compact indicators of social, economical and which represents a movement toenvironmental performance. ward integration and sharing universal principles in the areas of human We appreciate all the comments rights, labor, environment and the about the content of the report, fight against corruption. Therefore it which can be sent to esr@aiig.com or is perfectly viable for the company to gguerrero@aiig.com 2 INDICATORS G4-3-6 | G4-28-31 Key Performance Highlights 8,446 Total number of employees of the group at the end of 2013. Equivalency Employees 44 Shelter clients in 2013. Equivalency Clients 17 New service contracts 7 And Renewed contracts in 2012 y 2013. 3 Contenido Message from the Board 5 Opportunities and Challenges 6 About Us 7 Materiality and Stakeholders 10 CSR Our Focus 12 Our People 13 Our Principles and Corporate Values 16 Our Clients 17 Our Community 19 Our Environment 20 Recognitions Obtained in 2013 22 GRI Index 23 Appendix 25 4 Message from the Board Dear reader In American Industries Group we are convinced of the participation of companies in search for the common good as an essential element to face the challenges that we have at a social level in the country. For more than 35 years we have developed strategies to assist Mexico in positioning itself as a competitive country in international markets with the purpose of attracting multinational companies in the manufacturing sector. This action has reaped benefits during the years, allowing that at this moment 8,000 people are hired giving their best effort on a daily basis to contribute to the productivity and competitiveness of these companies. To be able to continue being competitive in the market for Shelter services for companies and administration of industrial real estate assets, we have to renew and develop new activities. During the year 2012 we initiated a process that was concluded in the year 2013 with the sale of 87 buildings from our real estate portfolio, which was in a partnership with Kimco Realty. The new owner of this portfolio is FIBRA Terrafina who at the same time has a strategic alliance with Prudential Real Estate Investors. At the present moment we have a contract for administration of the assets for all the buildings sold in the transaction. The industrial real estate business in Mexico is in a transition toward the implementation of sustainable characteristics of construction. This movement will facilitate the implementation and acceptance by the majority of our clients, who at the same time will see the benefits in energy usage which impact directly in the level of emissions and carbon footprint of their production. We continue working to develop chains of high added value. During 2013 and 2014 we have witnessed the aerospace cluster consolidation in Chihuahua, which allows the clear identification Luis Lara Armendáriz of the path for growth and attraction of specialPresident of the Board of Directors ized suppliers. American Industries Group Nevertheless, with all these benefits, we continue facing the challenge of translating the benefits of a more solid economy to society and especially to the sectors of the population who require bigger and better opportunities. INDICATORS G4-1 5 Opportunities and Challenges W e have named our 2014 report “Opportunities and Challenges” since it describes the moment in which we are Sustainable Construction At the present moment there is a direct relationship between energy usage of now as a company. The challenges that buildings and the level of emissions to we face present strategic opportunithe atmosphere. As a result, it is a priorities to be able to position ourselves as ty to improve the environmental perforleaders in the attraction of foreign inmance and reduction of the ecological vestment in addition to strengthen and footprint of the buildings to implement consolidate the operations of our clients mechanisms to make the usage of the in Mexico. energy more efficient during its life cycle, as well as materials and construcDuring 2013 the company went through tion techniques. a profound transformation due to the selling of an important part of its inIn Mexico there are still obstacles that dustrial real estate portfolio in Mexico. prevent the accelerated development The selling operation was made in the of sustainable construction, among country and included a portfolio formed them the lack of coordination between by 87 industrial buildings, representing the states to create regulations for conclose to 11 million square feet, which struction and urban plans, in addition were bought by a real estate trust (FIthe absence of a system of certification BRA) Terrafina (BMV: TERRA13) together practices. Nevertheless, there is a poswith Prudential Real Estate Investors for itive impulse by the private sector to the amount of $600 million dollars. It is promote practices and the acceptance important to point out that part of the of sustainable buildings for corporate portfolio was in a partnership with Kimoffices, distribution centers or manufacco Realty Corp. (NYSE:KIM). turing plants. There are alternatives in the design and operation of a building The immediate result of the operation that can favor a better environmental was the reduction of the real estate performance. portfolio of the company to 5 properties, which are added to the millions of In American Industries Group we are square feet available in land. After the convinced that in our real estate develsale of the portfolio, a contract was opment we will have an offer that will signed for the administration of the contribute together with our clients to properties in which American Industries diminish the environmental impact of manages the assets under the guideour buildings. We are looking for stratlines and policies of Terrafina. egies such as fluorescent lighting of low intensity, sensor controls, high efficiency cooling and heating systems, solar Focused Growth panels and recycling of residual waters. In 2013 a strategy for growth was implemented at the Shelter business unit, focused on concentrating the resources, capacities and competencies in the regions where we have presence. In this manner all the efforts are channeled to grow with our clients in the regions of Chihuahua and Ciudad Juarez, Monterrey, Guadalajara and Queretaro. This strategy caused an administrative decentralization of resources, therefore the information and key indicators are shown subtracted according to this new operation. 6 About us A merican Industries Group is a leading company in the market in administrative and industrial real estate services that facilitate the start-up, operation and consolidation of international manufacturing companies in Mexico. It is part of a holding company that groups at the same time other companies. The corporate responsibility report in 2013 contemplates information about all the companies of the group. Our Shelter services allow our clients a fast installation of any manufacturing project in the country, providing the right execution of business plans for the automotive, aerospace, medical industries, household appliances and metal mechanical, among others. Through more than 35 years of presence in the market, we have facilitated the successful installation of more than As is described in the previous secFund. In addition, American Industwo hundred international companies in tion, at the present time we are adtries Group continues its strategic Mexico, following the unique strategy of ministrating an industrial portfolio regional growth focusing its capacibeing the key business partner to attain of over 87 first class buildings for ties in locations that show industrisuccess for our clients. Terrafina Real Estate Investment al growth in Mexico. Presence in the Country Ciudad Juárez Chihuahua Torreón Monterrey Locations Querétaro Shelter + Real Estate Guadalajara INDICATORS G4-7-9 | G4-17 7 About us T he operation strategy of American Industries Group allows a proper identification of requirements to be able to determine the perfect location for the manufacturing project. At this moment we have presence in five regions with our Shelter services: Cd. Juárez, Chihuahua + Delicias, Monterrey, Querétaro and Guadalajara. We managed more than 8,000 employees during the year 2013; this means an increase of 1,948 employees in comparison to the results obtained at the end of 2011. Region Employees under Shelter Scheme1 Shelter Clients2 Ciudad Juárez 481 5 Chihuahua + Delicias 7,276 32 Monterrey 169 3 Guadalajara 118 2 Queretaro 69 2 Total 8113 44 1 Total of employees hired under personnel records of American Industries Group and its affiliated companies. These employees are managed under the human resources policies of our clients. 2 Number of clients as of December 31, 2013. State New Buildings (Built-to-suit1) Expansions 2 Chihuahua 5 1 Coahuila 1 1 Nuevo León 0 1 Total 6 3 1 The Built to-suit scheme allows us the construction of a building according to our clients’ needs. 2 An expansion is considered an increase of the space of the existing rented building. American Industries Group currently owns more than 25.6 million square feet of available land. 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy B eing a corporate citizen goes beyond assuming the inherent responsibilities for any legally constituted organization. However, when we define how to Implementing the strategy To design and execute the strategy for corporate “go further” it represents a complex process whose social responsibility we have a committee responresult must be incorporated in the strategy, theresible for designing the programs, coordinating the fore, in all the plans of performance of the company. execution and evaluating the progress inside and outside of the company. Inside the company the first Our contribution as a corporate citizen is to create objective is to create a working environment that higher standards of living and quality of life in the promotes productivity and well being of the people communities in which we operate, and contribute to that are part of the company, improving the quality actions that maximize the welfare of all. of their lives; in addition to establishing the ethical and integral performance in the whole company. The starting point for the social corporate responThis strategy involves promoting a labor culture that sibilities in American Industries Group is identifying gives advantages to the development of leaders in the duties and responsibilities of a company legally the whole company. formed, that will allow us to honor and comply with Mexico´s laws. From this legal platform we are able Toward the outside, we evaluate our actions in the to recognize the challenges and needs for economic communities where we have presence always looking development in the country and take a position that for positive impact that sparks productive activities will allow us to participate in a positive manner. with participation based on economic development. Organizational Corporate structure Public Relations Shelter Shelter Chihuahua Monterrey Real Shelter Estate Shelter Shelter Querétaro Guadalajara Construction Promotion & Sales Recursos Customs Property Humanos Management Sales & Marketing Information Financet Technologies 10 INDICATORS G4-13 | G4-34 In addition, we participate in global forums where perspectives about social responsibility and corporate citizenship are discussed, like the UN Global Compact that helps us to have a vision about general initiatives reMateriality and Stakeholders garding a broad diversity of themes. T he interaction with our groups of interests happen at different levels from the daily activities between employees and clients, providers of services and government institutions, to specific processes of feedback such as surveys and evaluations of service. These processes allow us to have first hand information and to validate the concerns and interests toward themes of impact. Type of Communication Main Group of Interest Relationship Schemes Expectations Account Executive in charge. Quality of service. Service Contracts Frequent meetings. Search and retention of Shelter Clients Corporate revision of talent. contracts. Consolidation and Surveys of service growth in the country. satisfaction. Monthly visits. Follow-up of service Real Estate Clients Service Contracts clauses. Follow-up system Characteristics of (customer service). buildings. Internal communication. Survey of labor Compensation. environment. Training and Collaborators Labor Contract development. Performance evaluation. Internal meetings and Communication. conferences. Messages and indirect Collaborators’ invitations through Quality of family life and Indirect outside work benefits. families employees. Strategic Alliances and Board meetings. Global results. partners joint ventures Investments. Suppliers and Service Contract Services feedback. Evaluation of services. subcontractors Educational Participation in forums Forums and academic Alignment with industry and collaboration needs. Institutions meetings. agreements Industrial Partners’ meetings. Alignment with industry Membership Associations needs. Government Institutional Norms Norms and compliance. promotion. Communities Institutional Relationship with Participation and organized groups. connection. INDICATORS G4-18 | G4-24-27 11 Materiality and Stakeholders Priority Themes Prioritizing expectations →Benchmark of sustainability reports of the sector →Feedback from groups of interest The process of bringing near and prioritizing of →Projects and strategies of the company expectations implemented from 2011 allowed us to detect the following material aspects for our groups of interest: • Energy and environmental impact1 • Continuity plans and risk management1 Internal • Local suppliers2 relevance • Training and labor performance1 • Safety and health1 • Code of ethics1 • Diversity and labor justice1 • Construction materials2 For this report we again verified the materiality External relevance of these aspects, monitoring its relevance in the industry and the view of our interest groups through daily interaction. In addition to considering other relevant aspects for the company: • Human rights1 Material • Anticorruption1 aspect • Client satisfaction1 • Economic value generated and distributed1 Material Aspects 11 1) Energy and environmental impact (GRI Aspect: Energy) influence in the groups of interest 2) Continuity plans and risk management 3) Local supplier 4 4) Labor training, development and performance 6 (GRI Aspect : Training and education) 7 5) Safety and health 6) Code of ethics (GRI Aspect: Investment) 5 7) Diversity and labor justice (GRI Aspect: Employment) 1 8) Construction materials 2 9) Human rights 10) Anticorruption (GRI Aspect: Fight against corruption) 9 11) Satisfaction of clients (GRI Aspect: Product labeling and services) 12) Economic value generated and distributed 3 8 12 importance of the aspect 1 Relevant aspect inside the organization 2 Relevant aspect outside the organization 12 INDICATORS G4-18-19 | G4-20-21 CSR our focus Our focus to integrate Corporate Social Responsibility in our business model is based on the belief that together, collaborators, clients, partners and community, all grow and we build a more stable society. Committed Workforce One of the main pillars in our focus is to count on a developed and inspired team. To achieve this we have to build a working place that favors the commitment and loyalty towards the organizational objectives. Business Ethic Our commitment and behavior come from the values and reflect the organizational culture in American Industries Group. Having a clear understanding allows us to set the basis and obtain the desired results. Committed Operational Excellence Labor Force Our clients expect the best service and fulfilling our commitments. To keep the highest standards of service, we constantly monitor Respect for the our service processes and promote improveEnvironment ment in each one of them. and Our Business Ethics Surroundings Vision Community Closeness and Bonding To be a profitable company, leader in adminWe participate in areas where there exists a istrative and real estate priority for the community and we have the services, whose actions and achievements trancapacity to intervene in a positive manner. scend positively towards Even though different needs exist at a comits clients, collaborators munity level, we may not always have the and in the community capacity to intervene. We have selected the areas where we have the tools to generate a change or become part of it. Respect for the Environment Community Operational and Our Surroundings Closeness and Excellence Bonding We are looking to develop and implement practices that allow us to mitigate the negative environmental impact generated from our operations, in the Real Estate area through the implementation of sustainable building characteristics and in the Shelter area promoting the culture of ecology. 13 Our people: Committed Workforce The main drive that allows us to offer a service that transforms ideas and consolidates projects is the talent and commitment that make up American Industries. The fundamental premise is value and it must be present in everything that we develop. Maximizing talent is the most important task that allows us to have an inspired and committed workforce. Attracting and Retaining Talent Recruitment The participation of our people is key to bring outstandThe search for talent begins with identifying the new ing service which is appreciated by our clients; To reach needed skills to reach our vision. Therefore we work this it is necessary to have the required talent in each close with universities and technical education centers. one of the key functions, being in personnel selection We currently have 7 agreements with public and private processes for our clients, negotiation of contracts with universities in the country. Since 2013 we started the suppliers or connecting with educational institutions. pilot program Modelo Mexicano de Formación Dual The company personnel are committed to getting re(Mexican Dual Formation Model) along with CONALEP sults that create a positive impact. Chihuahua, COPARMEX, and our client Fokker (www. fokker.com) consisting in selecting students through To attract and retain talented people, we offer dynamic a scholarship or internship process equivalent to one and challenging working environments that allow develacademic year. At the end the students receive their opment and professional growth. degree as technicians from CONALEP. Age rank Gender distribution 12.61% distribution in 2013 in 2013 33.93% 19.82% 66.07% 67.57% Younger than 30 years old Women Between 30 & 50 years old Men Older than 50 years old 14 INDICATORS G4-LA1 | G4-LA9 Our people: Committed Workforce New employment contracts in 2012 New employment contracts in 2013 Region Men Women Total Region Men Women Total Chihuahua 15 33 48 Chihuahua 9 16 25 Juárez 1 2 3 Juárez 1 5 6 Monterrey 2 2 4 Monterrey 1 3 4 Guadalajara 1 3 4 Guadalajara 5 10 15 Querétaro 0 3 3 Querétaro 0 1 1 Total 19 43 62 Total 16 35 51 Turnover in 2012 and 2013 Employee dismissal by gender Year Turnover Year Men Women Total 2012 3.17% 2012 20 32 52 2013 1.55% 2013 10 36 46 Development Employee dismissal by age The specialization in specific areas requires the Year <30 30-50 >50 development of technical skills of the personnel. Our objective is to offer opportunities for growth 2011 11 1 0 and acquiring new knowledge. 2012 16 30 6 During 2012 and 2013 we offered a very complete training program to handle a new version 2013 17 27 8 of our ERP based on Oracle R12. In addition, external training sessions were given to get to know and adapt to the LEED projects Approach and Reorganization guidelines (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) and clean industrial parks acDuring 2012 and 2013 significant changes occording to the NMX-R-046-SCFI-2011 norm. curred in American Industries Group. The business areas of Real Estate and Shelter were remodeled from the sale of the real estate portfolio and the strategy of focus in locations. Average training hours Under this strategy it was necessary to evaluate per employee the organizational structure and adapt it to the new focus and business objectives. Some responsibilities were reassigned to avoid duplication and 20.83 17.08 others had to be concluded. We believe that our 15.68 strategy will offer better value to our clients and collaborators. 2011 2012 2013 INDICATORS G4-LA1 | G4-LA9 15 Our people: Committed Workforce Feedback and performance Labor environment and culture A relevant responsibility of the team leaders is to perform an In 2013 as part of the initiatives for improvement of the evaluation of individual performance on each member once labor environment, the evaluation for the culture and laa year. bor environment was implemented under the methodology of “Súper Empresas” together with the magazine During 2013 the competencies profile project was concluded “CNN Expansión”. which lead us to conduct a process of evaluation of performance according to the required level. The number of companies that participate at a national level allows a ranking to be created with the results in each segment. In our segment, belonging to big service companies, we obtained the 52nd place in employee satisfaction. On the other hand, the level of employee particPercentage of employees whose performance and ipation was very good, reaching 90.61% of the personnel. professional development is evaluated regularly 93% Women Survey result of the labor 90% Men environment and culture 76% 64% 89.78% 48% 87.76% 45% 85.74% 2011 2012 2013 Culture Organization Average Climate The evaluation responsibilities of the performance and follow-up have been assigned to each region leader due to the The percentage of policies approval and practices implementation of the relocation of resources in the Shelter for the company in each aspect of culture and labor area. environment were better in comparison to global results of 2011. The results of 2013 show a reduction in the number of employees that received a complete evaluation. Continuous improvement We continue fostering the development of projects An important aspect of the process is the elaboration of an that stimulate improvement in the processes of serindividual improvement plan starting from the results of the vice and activities that add value to our clients. In evaluation. This plan has specific actions that need to be de2011 we launched the initiative Forum AI of continveloped by the evaluated employee and his/her area leader uous improvement projects as well as in 2012 and to raise the level of performance through internal or external 2013 with good participation results. training, assignment of projects or coaching. Improvement projects developed 2011 2012 2013 Projects 6 15 12 16 INDICATORS G4-LA11 Our Principles and Corporate Values: Business Ethics The manner in which we conduct our relationships with the groups of interest have to reflect the principles and corporate values at all times. A critical aspect to maintaining the highest standards of performance is to assure the integrity in all decision making and behavior. We lean on communication and training to share the principles and commitment of the company with its groups of interest. Human Rights Ethics Fight Against Corruption Our values and culture are the base to esDue to the services that we offer to our clitablish the expected behaviors, policies and ents in the areas of purchasing of goods and general guidelines. nonproductive services, there is a risk of conflict of interests over choosing a suppliOne of the main objectives is to show iner or product. To decrease this risk, internal tegrity in each one of our relationships with audit controls have been created that congroups of interest. These principles are destantly check the application of purchasing scribed in the Code of Ethics which during policies. In addition, we train the newly hired 2013 was newly revised and is actually in its employees regarding this issue through the sixth version. use of the code of ethics. We are also in updating processes with the employees who We continue working in the induction prohave significant seniority. gram where we share all the policies of the organization. In the same manner, we have worked so that all the employees have the training of the module for social responsibility and ethics. Communication and training against corruption Training hours 2013 in human rights Number of informed 220 49 67 60 55 employees 36.89 42.8 50.3 45 Number 2010 2011 2012 2013 of trained 55 employees Total Hours Employees INDICATORS G4-56 | G4-HR2 | G4-SO4 17 Our Clients: Operational Excellence We are partners with our clients, searching together for consolidation and growth of their operations in the country for which the level of service that we offer must respond at all times to their needs and expectations; for which we must establish objectives and goals that will allow our abilities to develop. We are based on a system of quality that supports our operations under high standards of service. Creating Value for Our Clients Survey results of 100.00% perception from clients Our clients are the starting point to design the service processes under the focus of cre95.00% ating value. This means that all our efforts are driven to create a support structure that will 90.00% 89.52% 89.15% facilitate and allow a successful operation. 86.51% 86.90% 85.00% In the Shelter business area we create value 80.00% when we generate positive results in each one of the service areas. To make sure that all 75.00% the processes comply with the expectations of our clients, we have a certified system of Chihuahua Juárez Monterrey Querétaro quality control in ISO 9001:2008. 2012 100.00% Goal From 2012, as part of our improvement commitment, we raised the goal for the clients 95.00% satisfaction survey to a minimum of 90 percent, before this goal was established at 86 90.00% percent. In 2013, Guadalajara was integrated 85.00% as a region beginning with the evaluation of 97.35% a client. 80.00% 89.21% 90.06% In the regions of Chihuahua, Juárez and 75.00% 84.91% Querétaro we were able to have a better result of perception the same year. 70.00% 70.00% 65.00% Chihuahua Juárez Monterrey Querétaro Guadalajara 2013 Goal 18 INDICATORS G4-PR5 Our Clients: Operational Excellence In the same manner, we monitor the performance of our activities In the following years we will be looking to through the client’s complaints indicator. This indicator is evaluated develop the land reserve that the company monthly when the complaints are reported. has through a focused strategy based on the characteristics of each region where we have It is important to identify the causes of the complaints and make presence. This strategy will allow us to be more sure they are handled effectively, preventing their recurrence. flexible and adjust each building to the necessities of our clients. At the same we will have the capacity to invest together with partners in a high value portfolio. Number of complaints from Clients 2011 2012 2013 Attention and Effective Complaints 23 14 8 Response to Tenants We continue renovating the client portfolio attention quality under the guidelines of TerTo reach the total satisfaction of our clients is a key objective in the rafina. This has made the transition and accepwhole organization. tance of the new policies of administration and building maintenance, allowing us to offer the Supplier Management same quality of service to the tenants of our portfolio and those of Terrafina buildings. The purchasing processes of non productive goods are part of the variety of services offered by American Industries. During 2012 and 2013 Specialized Industrial Parks purchases for more than 7.2 million dollars were managed. We work hand in hand with the areas of urban development and planning of the municipalities to define the guidelines that will allow planning of industrial spaces according to the Percentage of purchasing expenses international necessities and requirements, 2011 2012 2013 from the urban infrastructure point of view and norm standards applicable in Mexico. National 71% 81% 83% Starting from the identification of specific International 29% 19% 17% needs of an industrial sector, it is possible to develop an industrial park destined to facilitate the interconnection and focused services to one type of industry in particular. This is the objective of the Aerotech Industrial Park in the Property Management and Real Estate city of Queretaro which was inaugurated on Services Focus September of 2012. It has enough space to house more than 24 industrial buildings. In September of 2013 the process of sale of the real estate portfolio to Terrafina (BMV:TERRA13) was concluded which was constituted of 87 industrial buildings. At the same time a plan for services of administration was configured for this portfolio under the policies and guidelines established by Terrafina. INDICATORS G4-EC9 19 Our Community: Closeness and Community Ties There is a close relationship between major economic activity and the creation of opportunities for the community. One of the main contributions that we bring to this positive relationship between economy and opportunity is the attraction of sources for employment when we facilitate the installation of international companies in the country. Detonating major economic activity has implications in many sectors of society, education and training for employment are main objectives for American Industries. Social Investment We contribute financially through the funding of social projects that influence the community in a positive manner. These projects comply with legal requirements and have programs that attend basic needs. We presently support 16 organizations from civil society in the cities of Chihuahua and Queretaro. Percentage 8% Educational Links distribution 4% 25% We have developed connection plans and direct of social 3% contact with universities and technical institutions investment in the city of Chihuahua with the purpose to faciliin 2013 tate the participation of students in internships and professional practices, in addition to participating in 21% committees for connection with companies in the educational sector. 22% Promotion of Corporate Social 17% Responsibility Care of homeless children Visual and motor disability and mental health We are part of three committees focused on promotion of corporate social responsibility: Entreperneuship promotion Children with disabilities ● Aliarse Chihuahua (Allied with Chihuahua) ●Comité de RSE en Canacintra Chihuahua (CSR Social Integration Committee in Canacintra Chihuahua) Addiction Prevention ● Comité de RSE en Index Chihuahua (CSR Committee in Index Chihuahua) Prenatal care The objective of the committees’ work is to promote 20 INDICATORS G4-16 acceptance of practices for corporate social responsibility at a municipal level using the most representative companies in the community. Our Environment: Respect for the Environment and Our Surroundings The management of the environmental impact of our operations is key to generate well-being in the long run. Under this focus we look to build a portfolio that allows us the efficient use of resources and satisfaction of the needs of our clients. Therefore part of the support of our Shelter services are dedicated to ensuring that compliance with the norms regarding the environment, the handling of hazardous waste, and environmental projects. Energy Use of electric energy (Kwh) One of the main components in our daily activities is electric energy. In the Operational Building main offices in Chihuahua we have two 302,784 locations called the Operational Build291,552 ing, where we hold all the Shelter activities and the Business Center Building, where all the activities of the real estate area are concentrated. In both 268,648 buildings the use of energy is directly related with the amount of working equipment, air conditioning and lighting of the working areas. 2011 2012 2013 Since 2011 we began monitoring the use of electric energy with the purBusiness Center Building pose of finding a reduction and gener120,944 ating savings. This objective has been 98,880 100,392 reflected in benefits for the Business Center Building where through a preventive maintenance program of the air conditioning and lighting units the use has been reduced in 2012 and 2013. In the Operational Building the use of electric energy is influenced by the amount of computer equipment and 2011 2012 2013 servers located in it. INDICATORS G4-EN3 21 Our Environment: Respect for the In the years to come, we must focus our efforts in finding better efficient uses of energy mainly with intelliEnvironment and Our gent lighting and computer equipment. Surroundings Water Consumption The water used in the Operational and Business Center Buildings is assigned to restrooms, dining areas and air conditioning systems. We have conducted awareness campaigns to reduce waste. Therefore the increase in the amount of operations and perWe use recycled water for the green areas, avoiding sonnel has been reflected in an increase in energy requirethe use of potable water. ments. Servers Virtualization During 2013 the project for replacement of servers and virWater consumption in m3 tualization was implemented. With that we facilitate the use and capacity of one physical server through a layer of virtuOperational Building alization that allows us to keep up to 10 virtual servers. 1292 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Effect Indirect emissions as a result of the use of electric energy 1136 976 in the Operational Building and Business Center Building is calculated according to the international standard 2 of “The GHG Protocol”. Emissions (Tons of CO2 equivalent) 2011 2012 2013 Operational Building 156.38 Business Center Building 145.74 242 267 174 133.6 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Business Center Building Consumption of recycled water (m3) 2557.5 60.5 51.8 49.43 1956.6 2185.7 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 22 INDICATORS G4-EN8 | G4-EN16 Our Environment: Respect for the Environment and Our Surroundings Real Estate The technologies and sustainable initiatives implemented in the new buildings of American Industries include: Environmental Management ●Efficient lighting systems through the use of LED lights outside The environmental strategy in Real Estate is defined startand adding high efficiency T5 and T8 fluorescent equipment in ing from our position as developers before transcendental the interior. subjects such as climate change and sustainability. After this ●The use of natural light by 5% of the total required for lighting analysis, as well as understanding the needs of the industrithrough a dome shaped skylight system in covered areas and al market, we can offer a renewed portfolio directed toward windows, lowering the use of energy and improving the quality increasingly more efficient buildings in the use of resources of the labor environment inside. (energy, water and materials) that can be adapted better to ●Adding insulation to the buildings, reducing the effect of conthe environmental programs of our clients. centrated heat, improving comfort for the occupants. ●Addition of solar heaters. To implement this focus, we developed an action strategy in ●Addition of efficient air conditioning. equipment that reduces each phase of the lifecycle of the properties: the use of energy. ●Installation of low water use equipment in the restrooms. ●Selection and location for the site of the project for sustain●Using efficient drip water systems for green areas and landable industrial development. scape design with endemic vegetation. ●Improvement in energy efficiency and reduction of the car●Using environment friendly coolants that do not contain chlobon footprint in the buildings of the new portfolio. rofluorocarbon (CFC’S). ●Continuous exploration of new developments in energy ef●The use of paints, sealers, adhesives and varnishes that have ficiency and integral solutions of construction materials. low or non volatile organic content (VOC’s). The efforts for implementing the initiatives for sustainability The plans for near future implementation of technologies and create an added value to our future clients and investors, sustainable programs such as: reducing operational costs and creating labor environments that improve workers’ productivity. ●The use of white cover Pintro KR 18 as refractive insulation material. Our objective is to preserve the value of the assets in the ●Use of Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified lumber . long run through the reduction of obsolete buildings, obtainIncreasing by 10% recycled construction material as well as adding better occupation and better income return on investing the use of 15% of material from the region. ment. ●Promote initiatives for the use and sharing of low emissions vehicles with special parking areas for these types of vehicles. This strategy of real estate development is aligned with the principles and vision of our partners in each location where we have presence. This effort must include a market logic where our industrial clients find a competitive advantage to locate their operations in our buildings. 23 Awards Received in 2012 and 2013 Expansión Super Company 2013 A key action to know the perception of our employees in relation to the culture and environment within the organization was the evaluation through the “Super Empresas” (Super Companies) methodology. Once the results were in, we were in 52nd place. American Industries Group was recognized for the sixth consecutive year as a Socially Responsible Company by the CEMEFI (Mexican Center for Philanthropy). The Expansión Super Company ranking is formed by Distinctive CSR 2013 organizations that participate in an evaluation of cultural themes and labor We were once again recognized as a socially responsible environment. company through an evaluation process for the evidence of actions, policies and guidelines implemented by the In 2013 we participated for company to respond to its groups of interest in the areas the first time, being part of quality of life, business ethics, connection with the comof the ranking of 68 recogmunity and caring for the environment. nized companies. UN Global Compact Environmental Compliance Award In May of 2013 American Industries Group became one from the Urban Development of the companies to sign the UN Global Pact. This group and Ecology Department of the of companies works to align its operations to the 10 principles of the Pact in the areas of human rights, labor Municipality of Chihuahua rights, environment and fight against corruption. During 2012 we obtained for the third consecutive year the award for Environmental Compliance given by the Distinction by the Secretary of Labor Municipality of Chihuahua to the companies that have as a Family Responsible Company proper compliance with environmental norms at the municipal level. During 2013 the commitment of the company was renewed to work in the areas for balance of work-family, equal opportunities and fighting against labor violence and sexual The distinctive FRC is focused harassment. This award was obtained for the first time in in the improvement of the the year 2010. policies and guidelines for human resources inside the company. 24 GRI Content Index Basic General Contents 1. Strategy and Analysis Indicator Description Page G4-1 Statement of the main person responsible for organizational decisions 5 2. Organization Profile G4-3 Name of the Organization 2 G4-4 Most important brands, products and services 2 G4-5 Location where the main office of the organization is located 2 G4-6 Specify in how many countries the organization operates 2 G4-7 Describe the nature of the judicial and property policy 7 G4-8 Specify in which markets you serve 7 G4-9 Determine the size of the organization 7 G4-10 Number of employees by contract, gender, etc. 4 G4-11 Number of employees by contract, gender, etc. Appendix G4-12 Describe the chain of suppliers of the organization Appendix G4-13 Communicate all significant changes during the period 9 G4-14 Indicate how the organization addresses, where appropriate, the precautionary principle Appendix G4-15 Make a list of charters, principles or other external initiatives that are subscribed to by the organization 22 G4-16 Make a list of the associations and the national and international promotional organizations to which you belong 19 3. Subject Matters and Coverage G4-17 Make a list of the entities shown in the consolidated financial statements, specify if one does not appear in the report Appendix G4-18 Describe the process that has been followed to determine the content of the report, coverage of every aspect and 10 application of elaboration principles of the report G4-19 Make a list of the identified subject aspects 11 G4-20 Specify the coverage of each subject aspect inside the organization 11 G4-21 Specify the limit of each subject aspect outside the organization 11 G4-22 Describe the consequences of the use of the information of previous reports and their causes Appendix G4-23 Point out all significant change in the scope and coverage of each aspect in relationship to previous reports Appendix 4. Participation of Groups of Interest G4-24 Make a list of the groups of interest of the organization 10 G4-25 Specify on what the selection of the interest groups is based on with whom you work 10 G4-26 Describe the focus of the organization about the participation of the groups of interest 10 G4-27 Problems and key issues arising from the participation with groups of interest 10 5. Report profile G4-28 Period report corresponds to 2 G4-29 Date of last report 2 G4-30 Cycle of report presentation 2 G4-31 Provide a point of contact to resolve any questions regarding the content of the report 2 G4-32 Specify which option of agreement you have chosen in GRI index and reference to external verification 23 G4-33 Describe the actual policy and practices in relationship with external verification Appendix 6. Government G4-34 Describe the government structure of the organization 9 7. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the values, principles, standards and norms of the organization 16 INDICATORS G4-32 25 GRI Content Index Indicator Description Page Economy G4-EC9 Percentage of expenses corresponding to local suppliers 18 Environment G4-EN3 Internal use of energy 20 G4-EN8 Total collection of water according to the source 21 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions effect (scope 2) 21 Labor Practices and Work with Dignity G4-LA1 Number and rate of hires and average turnover of employees 14 G4-LA9 Yearly average of hours of training per employee 14 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees whose individual performance and development is evaluated regularly 15 Human Rights G4-HR2 Hours of training for the employees about policies and procedures in human rights, including the percentage of em16 ployees trained Society G4-SO4 Policies and communication procedures and training regarding the fight against corruption 16 Products Responsibilities G4-PR5 Results of surveys to evaluate customer satisfaction 17 26 GRI Content Index Indicator Description Answer G4-11 Percentage of employees coveOn the date of making the report, the total of employees in the company have a unique red by collective contracts individual long term contract, for labor or a specific time. 0% of the employees are hired under collective contracts. G4-12 Describe the chain of suppliers Due to the nature of the services rendered by the organization, we count on a supplier base of the organization for service activities and manufacturing plants such as a cafeteria, security, housekeeping, among others. As well as for the area of Real Estate, we have contractors for building, plant maintenance and outdoors. G4-14 Indicate how the organization In the Real Estate area we have mechanisms in place to properly identify environmental addresses, where appropriate, impact and assure compliance with norms. the precautionary principle G4-17 Make a list of the entities shown The group of companies that participate and are part of the report are: American Industries in the consolidated financial Group SA de CV, Idea Servicios Administrativos SA de CV, American Industries International statements, specify if one does SA de CV, Shelter American Industries SA de CV and Talento Delfos SA de CV. not appear in the report G4-22 Describe the consequences of We had no repeated information from previous reports reflected in the present report. the use of the information of previous reports and their causes G4-23 Point out all significant change in There are no significant changes in the scope and coverage of the aspects regarding prethe scope and coverage of each vious reports. aspect in relationship to previous reports 27 Washington Ave. #3701, Industrial Park Las Americas C.P. 31200 Chihuahua, Chih. México.
