Infinite Headquarters Business Tupolevlaan 41-61 and sustainability 1119 NW, Schiphol-Rijk performance The Netherlands report 2014 possibilities Corporate offices 830 Third Avenue, 9th floor New York, NY 10022 United States Washington Plaza 40–44 Rue Washington 75008 Paris France Max Hoegger-Strasse 6 8048 Zurich Switzerland www.constellium.com Constellium – Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Ideas. Materialized. 2 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 3 Heading 1 Inside this report: Business in focus Key figures 2 Infinite possibilities 3 We explain our organization and our Value we create 4 strategy, as well as the progress that Highlights of the year 6 our business units have made during Company organization 8 the year. Chief Executive Officer insights 10 Our strategy 12 Innovation 15 Market overview 16 Aerospace and Transportation 18 Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products 20 Automotive Structures and Industry 22 Board of Directors 24 Executive Committee 26 Governance 28 Engaging with stakeholders 30 Sustainability in focus Sustainability highlights 32 Altogether more sustainable 34 We outline why and how sustainability Our materiality assessment 36 matters at Constellium, and showcase Stakeholder perspectives 39 some of the key achievements of 2014. Making our products more sustainable 42 Supporting our people 50 Making our operations more efficient 58 About this report Doing business responsibly 64 Reporting period Financial year 2014 (January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014) Managing sustainability 68 Reporting cycle Annual Date of publication June 2015 Report scope T  he data or financials relate to Constellium worldwide falling within the scope of consolidation at December 31, 2014. Wise Metals data Performance in detail Consolidated income statement 70 is not included since the acquisition of Wise Metals occurred on Consolidated statement of financial position 71 January 5, 2015. This section provides greater detail Consolidated statement of cash flows 72 Report content The content of this report is based on our business data and the and data on both our business and results of our dialog with stakeholders, the Global Reporting Initiative Share information 73 G4 requirements and other sustainability ratings and rankings. sustainability performances. Sustainability data 74 Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 guidelines – Core Assurance The report is in compliance with the GRI G4 guidelines and maintains Memberships 77 code of reporting as advised by GRI. It is not externally assured. GRI G4 disclosure index 78 Contact For further information please contact: Forward-looking statements 81 communications@constellium.com or sustainability@constellium.com Have a look at the new Constellium microsite dedicated to our business and sustainability report: www.business-sustainability.constellium.com 2 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 3 Key figures Infinite possibilities as of December 31, 2014 Group sales €3,666m Adjusted EBITDA €275m We are Constellium. 2014 3,666 2014 275 We are a global leader in aluminium solutions 2013 3,495 2013 280 2012 3,610 2012 223 whose business is to materialize today’s and tomorrow’s ideas. For us, aluminium is more than a metal. Revenue by business unit Packaging and Automotive Full-time employees by geographic region Full-time employees* It is part of the solution for tomorrow’s Asia lighter, faster economy. Abundant, endlessly Automotive Rolled Products North Structures 44% America 3.4% and Industry 14.6% 24% 9,148 recyclable and reusable, aluminium’s Aerospace Europe 82.0% unique properties mean that, together and Transportation 32% with our partners, we can shape a future of infinite possibilities. *Permanent and fixed-term employees #1 Worldwide for #1 Worldwide for #2Worldwide for Crash aerospace plates closure stock Management Systems #1 In the USA #1 In Europe for hard #1In Europe for #2 In Europe for for large coils alloy extrusions large profiles can body stock For more information see page 8 4 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 5 Value we create Our vision, objective and values underpin a business model that continues to meet the demands of world-leading customers through three business units. Our vision Sense of urgency Our business model We are the leading global supplier and decentralized of aluminium aerospace plates To be the most profitable and We are a global sector leader decision-making and closure stock, the leading the fastest growing company in strongly committed to designing European supplier of large profiles our industry. We relentlessly focus on actions and manufacturing innovative and hard alloy extrusions as well Resource extraction that drive business forward, aluminium products and as a leading global supplier of creating structures, processes solutions for a broad range Our objective and communications to enable of applications dedicated can body stock and automotive To achieve leadership positions structures. Our unique platform swift decisions at the point primarily to aerospace, in our global target markets has enabled us to develop stable, of impact. automotive and packaging by continuously enhancing diversified and long-standing markets. Our business model our portfolio of products and customer relationships – in fact Responsibility and is to add value by converting improving the levels of service, we have worked with most of Aluminium smelting accountability aluminium into semi-fabricated quality and added value we our largest customers for over products, and we are the provide to our customers. We engage personally in actions 25 years. supplier of choice to numerous that continuously improve our blue‑chip customers. We operate through three performance, challenging the business units: Our values status quo and taking risks. Our facilities are strategically Semi-manufacturing These are the core beliefs that located in the United • Aerospace and Transportation guide our actions: Rigor and discipline States, Europe and China. • Packaging and Automotive These comprise 23 production We objectively assess the situation Rolled Products Teamwork and mutual trust sites, 10 administrative Rolling Extrusion and act immediately on deviations, and commercial sites and • Automotive Structures We develop and utilize refusing to compromise on quality a world-class technology and Industry perates relationships across Constellium and integrity. mo center. We collaborate with liu to leverage mutually beneficial around 40 external scientific Key customers include: re Cons Whe outcomes and opportunities. Transparency and highest partners aiming at sharing Aerospace: standards of ethics emerging knowledge, exploring Airbus, Boeing, Bombardier, te Entrepreneurship and We act honestly, ethically and innovative concepts and Dassault Aviation, Embraer, KAI, l Recycling Product decisiveness honorably. We show beliefs identifying new talents. Lockheed Martin, Pilatus, SpaceX Products recycled manufacturing We lead, engage and inspire through behaviors and lead Our International Scientific back into the At our customers by example. We enrich our Council gathers several of the Packaging: production process or at their employees to pursue our customers community and make responsible, world’s top material scientists Amcor, Anheuser-Busch InBev, vision, encouraging growth and sustainable decisions. to further strengthen our Ball, Can-Pack S.A., Coca-Cola, improvements that support technical leadership and Crown, Rexam business objectives. innovation performance. Automotive: Audi, BMW Group, Ford, General Product use Motors, Mercedes-Benz, Porsche, Each product has its own PSA Peugeot Citroën, Tesla, Valeo usable lifetime 6 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 7 Highlights of the year From major investments and a landmark acquisition to the supply of aluminium products for the new F-150 pickup truck that is changing the face of our industry, 2014 saw many examples of achievement and progress at Constellium. Announced Significantly acquisition of expanded Won contract to We provide Ford Motor Co. with aluminium structural Wise Metals Body-in-White supply structural parts for the all-new Ford F-150 pickup truck. The truck We announced the acquisition (BiW) production parts for the new delivers the industry’s best of Alabama-based Wise Metals in Europe lightweight Ford towing and payload capability in a capacity-expanding among full-size, lightduty move. We plan to invest up to We announced a planned F-150 pickup pickups, enabled by reducing $750 million by 2022 in the €200 million investment truck its weight through the use of high-strength aluminium alloy Muscle Shoals plant which over the next three years is currently focused on the to grow our European BiW in the body. can market, to increase business – which produces capacity and start producing automotive body sheets. automotive body sheets for the car industry. See case study on page 21 for more information. Increased Invested in We signed a joint-venture with UACJ to produce BiW Increased AIRWARE® North America to aluminium sheets in Bowling passenger Green, Kentucky. We have production produce Body‑instarted building the new facility safety with new capabilities White (BiW) that will be hosting a first BiW lightweight and finishing line. We invested in a new casthouse products high-strength in Issoire, France, enabling us to meet increasing material demand for our AIRWARE® We launched new Crash technology – which allows Management Systems (CMS) aircraft manufacturers to technology for the front and reduce the weight of aerospace the rear of vehicles to improve components. AIRWARE® is protection in the event of a onboard to be part of major collision. Now we can produce new aerospace programs. aluminium CMS 15% lighter or 10% stronger than the current options. Joined forces Endorsed new Joined research Invested in Decin with global can global aluminium consortium including recycling manufacturer sustainability led by MIT technology Rexam to convert standard We joined the Massachusetts Institute of Technology We finalized a €15 million investment in Decin, Czech production lines Constellium is a member of the Aluminium Stewardship (MIT) Industrial Fracture Republic, to boost production We expect can makers across Consortium, reinforcing our of high-volume alloy products Initiative, a unique value chain commitment to partnering Europe to continue converting program that has delivered for the automotive industry by their production lines from with leading institutions almost 10,000 tons per year. the first voluntary standard for steel to aluminium due to its to achieve breakthrough The investment includes a new responsible aluminium. This innovations. The consortium extrusion line and a casthouse many advantages for packaging new voluntary standard is the will use simulation software to process and recycle both applications. culmination of a year-long to predict how automotive machining scrap from our consultative dialog involving structural components behave industry leaders and civil customers and demolition. during accidents and help us society organizations. improve safety. 8 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 9 Company organization Our global footprint Constellium is a global sector leader strongly committed to designing and manufacturing innovative and high value‑added aluminium products and solutions for a broad range of applications. Our primary markets are aerospace, automotive and packaging – and we meet the needs of p Plant customers in these markets through three business units.  Office ¦ Technology center ut Joint-venture Aerospace and Packaging and Automotive Structures Main plants Transportation Automotive Rolled and Industry Provides technologically Products Produces advanced solutions for North America Europe Asia advanced aluminium alloys Develops, provides and recycles the global automotive industry, with wide applications across aluminium sheets and coils for including Crash Management Van Buren, MI Singen, Germany Neuf-Brisach, Changchun, China the global aerospace, defense, packaging applications (beverage Systems (CMS) and other •P  roduces customized • Integrated hot/cold-rolling France • Joint-venture with automotive structures and line Engley, majority owned by transportation and industrial and food cans, closures, foils) structural and safety parts Crash Management Systems •S econd largest volume, Constellium • Recognized for closure stock fully integrated, rolling mill sectors. The business unit as well as automotive solutions, and extrusions. This business (CMS) and functional surfaces in Europe • Provides global customers offers a wide range of products including high-performance unit also manufactures large • Features advanced • One of the largest extrusion •D edicated primarily to can with CMS and other structural including plates, sheets products for Body-in-White (BiW) profiles mainly for road and rail prototyping and development presses in the world stock and Body-in-White modules capabilities and extrusions which allow and heat exchangers. transportation, energy and other • Advanced and highly • World-class recycling center Constellium to provide tailored industrial applications. productive integrated CMS solutions to our customers. Bowling Green, KY manufacturing lines • Joint-venture with UACJ Valais, Switzerland •P recision plate shop for For more information For more information For more information (Japan), majority owned by Constellium Issoire, France general engineering products see page 18 see page 20 see page 22 •O  ne of the world’s two leading • One Body-in-White •L eading large profile aerospace plate mills, with Plant finishing line supplier for high-speed train wingskin capabilities Office manufacturers • Designed to allow for R&D centre • New AIRWARE® casthouse for expansion beyond Joint venture •C asthouses in Steg and low-density alloys 100,000 tons Chippis • Recycling facility Revenues €m Revenues €m Revenues €m •S ierre plate shop and Steg casthouse qualified for Ravenswood, WV aerospace 2014 1,197 2014 1,576 2014 921 •W  orldwide unique assets for Voreppe, France aerospace plates •C  -TEC, our world-class 2013 1,204 2013 1,480 2013 859 • Recognized supplier to the technology center Decin, Czech 2012 1,188 2012 1,561 2012 910 highly demanding defense Republic industry •E urope’s largest hard alloys • Wide-coil capabilities and extrusion plant Adjusted EBITDA €m Adjusted EBITDA €m Adjusted EBITDA €m largest stretcher worldwide enabling unique product creation 2014 91 2014 118 2014 73 2013 120 2013 105 2013 58 Muscle Shoals, AL •W  idest strip mill in the US 2012 106 2012 92 2012 46 • World-class recycling center 10 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 11 Chief Executive 2014 was a pivotal year for Constellium in many respects. Pierre Vareille, Chief Executive Officer, highlights the main Officer insights achievements of the last 12 months, before outlining his expectations for the period ahead. What have been your personal is to make sure that all our are confident that improvement number 1 or number 2 globally 2030, which means that market that seeks to mobilize a broad highlights as Chief Executive colleagues get back home safely, will begin to be demonstrated. in all our markets. This will shares for Constellium and base of stakeholders to establish Officer over the last year? every day. What progress has been ensure the long-term future of our peers will remain relatively and promote responsible practices One of the events that will have a How would you describe made with the Lean our Company. We also aim to be stable for the foreseeable future. across the aluminium value chain, great influence on the long-term Constellium’s financial Transformation program? recognized as the most innovative We have to take advantage of including business ethics and future of Constellium was the performance over the last year? and reliable partner in the industry this opportunity to dramatically environmental performance. Over the last two years, Lean has and the natural home for its improve our operations, control acquisition of Wise Metals, which It has been a solid performance, been the platform for a significant What are your hopes and is a real game-changer for us. best talents. our costs and prove that ambitions for the next 12 months which could have been stronger improvement in the service we Constellium can get back to the Not only has it made us a more still. But we were impacted by provide to customers, in terms Finally, following the acquisition of and beyond? international company and the Wise Metals, Constellium is now a pole position we held in the past in higher metal premiums and by the of quality as well as delivery this high-tech industry. I expect to see the projects third largest hot rolling company disappointing performance of one performance, and this helped us major player in the US packaging initiated during 2014 come to in the world, it has also given us of our business units, Aerospace continue to take market share market. We plan to invest up to What were the key sustainability fruition in 2015. They include the the capability and presence to and Transportation. from our competitors. Among the $750 million in our Muscle Shoals achievements of 2014 – and successful integration of the newly participate in the fast-growing many success stories around plant to start producing auto the disappointments? acquired Muscle Shoals plant, Body-in-White (BiW) market in The dynamic global automotive body sheets and take advantage industry, and the increasing Lean, I am especially proud to note The major downside concerned the turnaround of Aerospace and the US. This is part of a program that over half of our employees of the very promising appetite our safety record, which has Transportation, good progress that sees us investing massively importance of aluminium to of the automotive industry for both structures and BiW were now contribute at least one helpful now stagnated for two years. with the investments announced in new and improved production suggestion every month. aluminium solutions. Our response has been to launch over the last 12 months, a facilities on a global scale, to again the chief drivers for our growth. Against this background, Although there is still room for Looking at the aluminium a vigorous plan to make sure that successful launch of Lean phase 2 help us achieve our long-term industry, what are the key we once again make progress in and a return to an improving growth ambitions. the Automotive Structures and considerable improvement, we Industry business unit performed have already accomplished a lot. challenges and opportunities this vital area. The latest employee safety performance following the From a business, innovation and well and we have expanded our We are now continuing our Lean that lie ahead? survey also showed that we still stagnation of the past two years. operational standpoint, our overall plants at Decin in the Czech journey with a five-year phase two, In the automotive sector, have much work to do to deliver At a personal level, I again look great performance in 2014 has Republic, Gottmadingen in which will see us empower even the challenge will be to meet satisfaction to all our employees, forward to leading a team of been achieved first and foremost Germany and Van Buren in more of our people at plants and increasing demand for highdespite the marked progress committed, talented individuals. by the dedication of our talented the US, and built a new plant extend Lean into our office and quality and innovative aluminium achieved since 2012. Our record on Our people are aligned along teams around the globe. We all in China to meet the rapidlysupport functions. body sheet and structural parts, production waste is another area the same vision, with the same share the same ambition for our increasing demand. as this industry moves away from where significant improvements shared values and commitment company, an ambition supported 2014 has been a big year for are required if we want to reach Packaging and Automotive Rolled investments. How will this impact steel and towards aluminium. to delivering our strategy. It was by an aggressive strategy both in This is why we are so active with our targets. a privilege to work alongside terms of growth and of improving Products also recorded a good 2015 and the following years? performance, with the plant at R&D and investments to build On a positive note, in addition them during 2014 and I thank our operations and service to Firstly, it is important to new capacity. to the increase in employee them unreservedly for their skills, our customers. Neuf-Brisach in France breaking understand that the only reason several records for volume, quality With regard to packaging, suggestions, we have improved support and tireless enthusiasm. But there have also been that we have been able to make our energy efficiency and already and service to our customers. these investments is because I strongly believe steel will finally some low points, notably our The plant at Singen in Germany disappear as a material for cans, hit our 2015 target. In addition, Our commitment to the safety performance. Sadly, we Constellium’s success has we have accelerated the speed of experienced a less satisfactory generated a high level of Free Cash with aluminium taking 100% of the United Nations Global Compact experienced a fatality at Chippis year due to subdued demand. market over the next few years. innovation, where we are ahead “We have reaffirmed our support in Switzerland in December. Flow during the two last years. of target, and taken important Aerospace and Transportation In other words, we are investing The market will continue to grow of the Ten Principles of the United My thoughts, and those of in Europe, albeit at a low rate. strides forward with our Life Cycle Nations Global Compact (UNGC) everybody at Constellium, are returned figures well below because we have the means Assessment program. expectations. The issues at and because of all the work we In order to maintain and increase in the areas of human rights, labor, very much focused on this tragic our market share, we have to learn It was also rewarding to see environment and anti-corruption. loss. This puts everything in Aerospace and Transportation, have accomplished together in to be more flexible and more at the the launch of the Aluminium These principles lie at the heart of perspective: we can succeed in all which were associated with previous years. our commitment to sustainability. operational challenges and service of our customers. Stewardship Initiative’s new global we do, but nothing really counts These investments form the sustainability standard for the In this report we communicate on compared to such an event. capacity constraints, are not yet foundations for our future In the aerospace industry, no new our progress and have referenced fully resolved. However, we have aircraft are scheduled to be in aluminium industry in December the UNGC Communication on Our first and utmost responsibility success. In a few years, I believe 2014. Constellium has been one of taken the necessary actions and Constellium will be ranked either design then production before Progress logo where applicable.” the prime movers of an initiative 12 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 13 Our strategy Our strategy is consistent and proven. It aims to establish us with immediate access to 450,000 metric tons of hot The Wise Metals acquisition will help us meet that demand. 1. Safety This is our utmost priority and Constellium as the most profitable and fastest growing mill capacity. We plan to invest up to $750 million by 2022 to increase Muscle Shoals’ we are disappointed that we have failed to live up to our high Our packaging strategy is also aluminium company in the world. supported by Wise Metals which current hot mill capacity to over 700,000 metric tons and build expectations. We have reduced has a steady revenue stream the number of accidents by 80% 200,000 metric tons of dedicated since 2004 and in 2014 these driven by long-term contracts BiW finishing capacity to help us stood at only one-third of those with most American beverage can continue to grow in this valueof the European Aluminium customers. We now hold leading added market. benchmark. However, it is with positions in the can body stock markets in both North America Our vision is to become a leading great regret that we have to again Our strategy (#3) and Europe (#2), where we global player in all three of our main report that while the recordable Our ambition is to become the announced a partnership with markets. Our success in seizing injury rate remained broadly most profitable and the fastest Rexam to switch two of their steel opportunities across the globe stable, we experienced one growing company in our industry. can lines to aluminium in Spain. depends primarily on our ability fatality during the year. Please see We aim to achieve leadership Although growing at a relatively to deliver innovations, which is page 51 for details of how we positions in our global target modest rate, packaging remains central to our strategy. Relative to intend to improve our safety markets of aerospace, automotive the cornerstone of Constellium; it our sales, we already invest more performance in 2015. and packaging by continuously is a stable, high-volume business in R&D than our competitors and enhancing our portfolio of where our technical strengths can this has created a track record of 2. Empowering our people products and improving the play to good effect. proven innovations. These include a We aim to involve our employees quality of the service we provide to new AIRWARE® casting system that In aerospace, our progress against in the transformation of our our customers. enables us to produce aluminiumthe strategy was disappointing, Company by asking them to make Our strategy is based on three lithium billets using advanced suggestions that will improve due to capacity constraints and strategic pillars: alloys, new Crash Management performance. Our ambition was operational issues. However, this Systems (CMS) and GRIPSTERTM, for 50% of employees to make at market remains very attractive 1. F ocus on profitable which brings reduced noise least one suggestion per month. to us and we are addressing the qualities to refrigerated vehicles In reality, the figure at the end markets and segments 3. Accelerate performance double capacity at Van Buren challenges experienced in 2014. (see page 44). Our reputation for We are confident that we have the of 2014 was 58%, so we have S  trengthen our leading position in in Michigan, which will enable innovation is further endorsed by B  e best-in-class in safety right leadership team, products outperformed our Lean target. the aerospace market us to take advantage of North the high-value output delivered American demand for automotive and services, and anticipate a Control costs by our International Scientific E  xpand our market share in the structural parts. Early in 2015, marked improvement in 2015 3. Quality Council as well as by close working automotive segment Monitor trade working capital we announced a major contract and beyond. Two years ago we were receiving relationships with external Increase margins and volumes in Continue to improve operational with Ford for the new Ford F-150, organizations, such as the new too many quality-based customer the can stock market performance through our Lean which incorporates extensive use Building global partnership with Massachusetts complaints each month. Today, Transformation program and of aluminium. This is the first time capabilities to drive Institute of Technology (MIT) that thanks to engaging our people that aluminium will feature heavily through initiatives such as 2. Build global capabilities improve service through the growth we established during 2014. designating 2014 as the ‘Year extension of the program to in a mass market vehicle and we to drive growth believe it will be a game changer The explosive growth of BiW is of Quality’ and due to our additional functions currently the single most powerful Accelerating relentless deployment of very C  ontinue to lead our industry for the automotive industry. in innovation In addition, we made significant trend in the automotive sector. performance precise tools and methodologies, Focusing on profitable investments at our plants in China, Our acquisition of Wise Metals Our Lean Transformation program we have decreased the number E  xpand our Body-in-White (BiW) markets and segments Germany, Czech Republic and has transformed Constellium is already changing the way we of complaints by around 70%, and automotive structures During 2014, we made overall from a relatively Europe-centric work. Lean is based on relying on exceeding the Lean target of a France to boost production for the activities in the US progress in our main markets. organization to a truly global player all our employees to contribute to 50% improvement. automotive industry in Europe. able to serve global customers the progress of our Company and C  ontinue to evaluate selective In the US automotive market, Our strategy in automotive is better and faster. The BiW market potential investments in Asia a number of expansion projects further enabled by the acquisition providing specific, very efficient 4. On-time, in-full delivery in the US is expected to grow from tools to produce a major impact on  evelop our technological D and the strategic acquisition of Wise Metals (see ‘Building 100,000 metric tons in 2012 to We have successfully met our our people, our customers and our target and reduced the number of expertise of Wise Metals are giving us global capabilities to drive over one million tons in 2020 and operations. In 2012, we identified the capacity we need to grow growth’ opposite) which has the around two million tons in 2025. late deliveries by half from 2012 B  ecome an industry leader in the six Lean KPIs, and targeted to 2014. in this booming segment. widest hot strip mill in North progress of at least 2% per month area of sustainability We have invested $40 million to America. Wise Metals provides on each KPI. 14 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 15 Our strategy continued Innovation 5. Inventory Innovation is the oxygen that feeds Constellium’s strategy. At C-TEC, our world-class We have reduced inventory by 17% technology center, over 250 specialists from 22 nationalities are responsible for since 2012, with minor progress in 2014, so this initiative has not creating the innovations that bring new standards of performance to customers in the yet had the anticipated impact on aerospace, automotive and packaging sectors. World leaders in R&D for aluminium our flexibility and our service to and related solutions, we invested €42 million in innovation during 2014 and helped our customers. Transforming the supply chain is a mid-term bring several new products to market (see Products on page 44 for details). process and 2015 has been designated the ‘Year of Just in Time’, in order to drive inventory C-TEC provides us with a ‘lab to that could create possibilities reduction and accelerate flows. “The Auto hub, enabled by industrial-scale’ capability which for products and applications Lean tools, is another concrete enables us to de-risk innovations in our markets. Web-integrated step in our commitment to 6. Equipment downtime for our customers. During 2014, production could revolutionize dramatically reduce the time to Due to organizational or we accelerated and finalized a manufacturing processes. market for our innovations.” technical issues, some key major change in the way C-TEC In automotive, many Original works. The facility now operates Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) Simon Laddychuk equipment was not operational Vice President and Chief Technical Officer for up to 30% of the time in Longer Wider through a project management are developing driverless car 2012. We have now reduced this Phase 2 is a five-year program The original six production-based approach with a sharp focus on technology. What new demands figure to 15%, meeting our Lean which will anchor a culture of KPIs will continue. But phase 2 execution. This project-driven would this create on the shape of target and freeing up capacity continuous improvement in the will also embrace the Lean office, focus empowers people to take vehicles, and hence for aluminium Working with the best to increase production without Company, ensuring that this is a covering non-manufacturing responsibility and helps us work body parts? Through C-TEC, we collaborate capital expenditure. permanent change for the better. functions such as sales, faster and smarter, bringing with the brightest minds in the We have set the target of 2% purchasing, finance, IT, R&D and ideas to fruition more quickly Reducing time to academic world. The Lean journey month-on-month improvement, HR. We have identified KPIs for and enabling customers to seize market USA: Massachusetts Institute of which equates to a year-on-year each function and these will be competitive advantage. continues C-TEC launched the first platform Technology (MIT), Northwestern reduction of 20%. Our objective is measured company-wide and by The first phase of Lean has been dedicated to automotive University, University of a resounding success, driving to reach a 70% improvement over each site. Eyes on the future Body-in-White (BiW) projects South Carolina, Worcester the five years of the program. A key role for C-TEC is to use a marked improvement in our for faster R&D. This generated Polytechnic Institute “The Lean transformation ‘watch’ processes to continuously operations and the service immediate benefits including UK: Brunel University, Deeper program is only starting and the monitor and evaluate technology provided to customers. We have better communication within University of Manchester, second phase in the next five trends that may open up new made a tremendous difference in Instead of being implemented the teams, more efficient University of Oxford years will make Constellium the opportunities for our business the space of 24 months. But this at a plant level, phase 2 is project management and faster benchmark in our industry.” units. Our International Scientific France: CNRS/University is just the beginning – in January now being implemented at decision-making. The Auto hub, Autonomous Production Unit Pierre Vareille Council brings together several of laboratories, IRT M2P, 2015, we announced Lean phase 2, inspired by the Toyota ‘Oobeya’ (APU) level. Each APU Manager Chief Executive Officer the world’s top material scientists IRT Jules Verne which has three new dimensions: (Japanese for ‘big project room’) will be coached and challenged and nurtures our innovation concept, is a large space where Germany: RWTH Aachen, on KPIs in order to drive strategy with new perspectives. the Project Manager, lab team German Aerospace Center DLR continuous improvement deeper The center integrates this latest members and R&D scientists Switzerland: EPFL Lausanne into Constellium. thinking, together with other with various competencies Netherlands: TU Delft inputs from its ‘watch’ processes, (metallurgy, forming, modeling) into its strategy and works closely work together. This is an important with the business units to create step in the deployment of Lean a product/process roadmap and tools at C-TEC, and seven portfolio. Developments that we further project platforms are are exploring include 3D printing, planned to be in operation by which is advancing at phenomenal the end of 2015. C-TEC is also speed leading to new potential working on creating “competency opportunities. Nanotechnology is platforms” aimed at maintaining enabling sensors to be integrated a good balance between project into inanimate objects – the efficiency and building skills. basis for the ‘internet of things’ 16 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 17 Market overview Lloyd O’Carroll is an experienced metals equity analyst and the author of ‘The O’Carroll Aluminum Bulletin’, one of the industry’s most respected research services. Here, he outlines the latest developments in the automotive sector and the opportunities that face the aluminium industry. What are the major trends Although China is not achieving What role is regulation in the wider aluminium the 15–18% growth of recent playing? years, it is still seeing high single industry? digit growth. This is being driven Regulation is the major factor Aluminium has been the fastest by factors including the increase here, driven by concerns over growing metal for the last 20 years in major infrastructure projects, climate change – and those and consumption is continuing especially the power grid – high concerns are likely to become even to grow at around 7% per year, and medium voltage power lines more pronounced in the years to compared with 2% for steel. are aluminium, not copper. come, as regulation increases There is more to come, especially across all major markets. in light-weight, high-volume In the US, the requirements of the How significant is Ford’s Corporate Average Fuel Economy vehicles following the landmark decision by Ford to incorporate switch to aluminium for (CAFE) standards are set to so many aluminium parts in the the new F-150? double by 2025, from 27 miles per F-150. This is little short of a game gallon (7km per liter) across an changer. By transforming its bestautomaker’s fleet to 55 miles per The US is the biggest aluminium gallon (14km per liter). In Europe, selling vehicle in the US, Ford sent market and is experiencing the regulations are even more a clear message to the rest of the strongest growth, propelled aggressive and the forecasts are automotive industry: the future is by the transportation sector. that Japan will shortly adopt the aluminium. Historically, aluminium Auto production volumes are more stringent European model, was used in transmission high and we are seeing many new with China and India probably casings, engine blocks and heat applications for Body-in-White doing the same at some point. (BiW) as well as structures such exchangers but as far as bodywork What is likely to happen in What should the Now it is ‘how can we improve the is concerned, it was limited to The auto manufacturers are the longer term? aluminium industry be product to make it more efficient as bumpers, engine cradles and premium cars. Ford’s decision doing what they can to increase and create value for everyone drive shafts. There is also good signals a new era. As aluminium companies become doing for automakers? involved?’ That should be the growth for aluminium in heavy and fuel economy, but there is only a driving force in the automotive Anything that makes it easier and focus. It is a massive opportunity, medium sized trucks and trailers. The switch by Ford makes perfect so much that can be achieved industry, steel producers will more efficient for them to use and it is essential that aluminium sense. It is moving from mild by adapting drive frames and take a back seat. Although new Europe is up slightly, and some aluminium in their manufacturing. producers execute flawlessly, steel to a blend of aluminium and engine transmissions. The rest high-strength steel alloys will experts are now upgrading their That could mean coatings develop as good a product as high-strength steel as a way of will be delivered by lowering continue to play a part in vehicle forecasts. The weaker euro will or better gauge control, and possible and continue to add reducing mass and increasing fuel vehicle weight, and that is where chassis construction, their help export markets, while the anything in alloy development. capacity. It is a tall order, but the efficiency. This is a very important aluminium comes into its own. use will be limited. Along with stronger dollar will take some Metallurgists should be tweaking future is bright. trend for aluminium as it will add Switching from steel to aluminium its light-weighting properties, growth away from the US. existing alloys and determining an additional 1–1.5% to total is not only cheaper. Lighter weight aluminium provides better whether something new is needed. In the emerging markets, we are global growth for this metal. also means more economical corrosion resistance and greater It is no longer a case of ‘whatever seeing strong growth in the Pacific engines with lower CO2 emissions. energy absorption in a crash. we sell them must be cheap’. Rim, Southeast Asia and in India, Electric vehicles may play a part What is more, it is not clear while Brazil has stuttered a little. too, but range and price remain how cars made of lighter, highserious shortcomings. strength steel could be cut into by rescue services in the event of an accident. 18 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 19 Aerospace and Transportation “2014 was a challenging year for Aerospace and Transportation, with management Moreover, the highlight of the year changes and operational issues hampering progress. However, the business is Meeting demand Taking advantage of lower alloy density and improved material was the decision to build a new casthouse at Issoire in France, essentially strong and the turnaround is already well underway. The efforts of my for AIRWARE® properties, AIRWARE® enables structural parts to be redesigned to meet accelerating demand for team are demonstrating that we can deliver on our potential in the coming years.” technology and allows manufacturers to AIRWARE® technology (see the case study to the left). Laurent Musy, President of Aerospace and Transportation reduce significantly the weight of aerospace components, thus Our AIRWARE® technology is improving fuel consumption of Plans for 2015 and How we meet driving significant improvements commercial aircraft. AIRWARE® beyond customer needs in performance for aerospace also eases the production of Looking at the year ahead, the customers including Airbus, Constellium is the world leader in complex parts, guarantees focus will remain on returning the Bombardier, Lockheed Martin value-added aerospace plates, higher durability and contributes business to its growth trajectory. and SpaceX. With demand a market that is continuously to the development of a more Much of the work essential to continuing to increase, early expanding thanks to healthy sustainable aerospace industry achieving this began towards the in the last financial year we growth in aircraft production, due to its infinite recyclability. end of the last financial year, and announced plans to expand driven by the steady increase in we will be redoubling our efforts our AIRWARE® manufacturing These qualities explain why it has global air travel. Customers all throughout 2015. Specifically, capacity at Issoire, in France. been selected for several major over the world rely on our wide we will: aerospace programs, including range of innovative aluminium We are building a new AIRWARE® Airbus’ A350 XWB, Bombardier’s •implement the operational rolled and extruded products casthouse that is expected to CSeries, NASA’s Orion spacecraft transformational program to which contribute to decreased ramp up production during 2015. built by Lockheed Martin and the improve reliability and deliver on aircraft weight and deliver fuel As the brand for our patented Falcon 9 Launcher from SpaceX. our commitment to customers; efficiency gains. These products Constellium’s products are onboard major aerospace programs range of aluminum-lithium The new casthouse will enable include rectangular and machined alloys, AIRWARE® is changing the •increase capacity and grow us to meet increased demand for plates, as well as extrusions for face of the aerospace industry our business to support AIRWARE® and clearly illustrates aircraft wings (including skins, ribs Our manufacturing skills and customers and reduced customer based on its unique combination our customers’ own growth our long-term commitment to and stringers), as well as frames capabilities in Europe and complaints, both of which were of strength, lightness and ambitions, not only by supporting strengthen our leading position and fuselage sheets. We are also North America are supported achieved before the end of the improved corrosion resistance. programs in ramp-up phase in the aerospace market. proud to serve the space industry, by C-TEC, our world-class financial year. We were also but also by anticipating future a segment characterized by the technology center in Voreppe, pleased to report excellent increases in production – for highest requirements in terms of France. The center develops new progress on safety performance example, the single-aisle aircraft technology and performance. technology and aluminium-based within the business unit projects at Airbus and Boeing; solutions addressing current during 2014. In addition, we provide advanced and future market needs, such •strengthen collaboration across aluminium solutions that enable We continued to serve our our production network which as our internationally-respected manufacturers in transportation, major customers during 2014, serves the aerospace market – AIRWARE® portfolio of products. industry and defense to address primarily through long-term Issoire, Ravenswood and Valais; their technology challenges. contracts secured in previous We have strong market positions Highlights of 2014 years. These customers include •develop and ramp up production 2014 was characterized by a the world’s major aircraft at the new casthouse at Issoire to in rolled aluminium for truck disappointing performance from manufacturers such as Airbus, increase AIRWARE® capacity; floors, tank trailers and dump bodies, railcars and roof coils our Aerospace and Transportation Boeing, Bombardier and Dassault •continue to develop new, in North America and Europe. business unit, primarily due and their suppliers. We supply a innovative solutions for our We also provide specialized plate to operational challenges and wide range of alloys for Original customers in aerospace as for armored vehicles. capacity constraints. As the year Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) well as in other markets such progressed, the improvements leading commercial and military as defense; In all of our markets we offer we put in place to effect a programs via multi-year contracts. customized services designed business turnaround began to •reduce costs and to improve the effectiveness of Furthermore, the range of plant improve efficiency; and have an impact. Primary focus at operations and reduce costs, investments planned for 2014 Aerospace and Transportation •maintain our focus on safety at including pre-machining, were also implemented as is to improve operational Complex shapes through age forming all our sites, at all times. advanced welding and recycling. expected, including recalibrating performance and to secure and burners at several sites and the Innovation is a key competitive strengthen the business’ position extension of aerospace capacity at advantage for our customers in in its key segments. The early our plants in Valais, Switzerland. Aerospace and Transportation. signs of progress include an uplift in delivery performance to 20 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 21 Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products “This was a good year for our Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products business. in Europe and the largest market • ensure efficient integration of •c  ontinue to build our global BiW for steel cans, this is a significant Wise Metals within Constellium capacity, including execution We made a number of key decisions that will impact positively the business unit’s landmark in the drive towards and make it even more of our investments in new future and that of Constellium as a whole. These include the acquisition of Wise 100% aluminium beverage cans. competitive, drawing on the production lines in Europe, Metals as part of our ambitious investment plan to develop our Body-in-White Currently, approximately 80% skills and experience developed at Neuf-Brisach (France) and of cans in Europe are made at our European plants – Singen (Germany); and capability both in the US and in Europe.” from aluminium. particularly the Lean program; Pierre Vareille, President of Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products ad interim •a  s aluminium continues to • begin to ramp up capacity at penetrate the mass automotive Plans for 2015 and Wise Metals to meet the North market, partner with Original beyond American demand for BiW; Equipment Manufacturers 2015 will be a year of (OEMs) worldwide on R&D How we meet • work closely with our JV partner projects for aluminium-intensive implementation, with the customer needs decisions taken in 2014 translating UACJ to start and ramp up solutions for the cars of Being now the world #1 for closure on time the new BiW plant at into tangible activities across the future. stock and #1 in Europe and #3 in Bowling Green (USA) scheduled Constellium. Specifically, we will: for 2016; North America for can stock, we are market leaders in aluminium for packaging, as well as a growing and leading supplier to the automotive industry both in Europe Benefiting from 2022 to increase current hot mill capacity to over 700,000 metric In addition to being a profitable business in its own right, and the US. Customers worldwide the Wise Metals tons and build 200,000 metric tons of dedicated BiW finishing with a customer base that includes leading names such trust us to provide them with the innovative products and acquisition capacity to serve the rapidly as Anheuser-Busch InBev growing US automotive market. and Coca-Cola, Wise Metals advanced alloys that they need As part of the $750 million enhances our global footprint to create value and competitive The growing importance of strategic investment plan, we and offering: firstly by increasing advantage. Our customers include aluminium to the automotive have recently decided to build our exposure to the North major beverage and food can industry is nowhere better a $160 million finishing line in American market; and secondly manufacturers such as Anheuserdemonstrated than by Ford’s North America with a capacity of by supplementing our leading Busch InBev, Ball, Coca-Cola, Tabstock production at Constellium decision to incorporate many 100,000 metric tons. This second position in Europe. Over time, we Crown and Rexam, specialty aluminium parts in the 2015 line is due to start in early 2018. expect to benefit from increased packaging producers like Amcor F-150, the most popular vehicle product development resources and leading automotive companies Highlights of 2014 the automotive mass market. in North America for the last 20 A key milestone for Constellium, and technological capabilities, including Audi, Mercedes-Benz, In May, we signed a joint‑venture years. BiW will play a major role in the Wise Metals deal will enable The most significant development wider global reach and greater BMW Group, PSA Peugeot Citroën agreement with United Aluminium this industry transformation – we us to provide greater sustainable of 2014 was our announcement of operational flexibility. and Tesla. Corporation of Japan (UACJ) to estimate that the North American value to our customers globally. the acquisition of Wise Metals that supply BiW aluminium sheet to market for BiW aluminium rolled Packaging, which accounts for was completed on January 5, 2015 the fast-growing US automotive products could grow from less the majority of the business unit’s (see case study opposite). We also industry. The joint‑venture will than 100,000 metric tons in 2012 revenue is a large, strong and decided to invest €200 million in have an initial target capacity of to approximately two million tons stable business that is expected to BiW capacity in Europe, of which 100,000 metric tons of finished by 2025. grow by around 2% annually. €180 million is being invested in products. The semi-products – a new continuous annealing and On January 5, 2015 we completed Demand in the automotive sector cold rolled coils – will be supplied conversion line in Neuf-Brisach, the acquisition of Wise Metals, is growing at a much faster pace, from both partners’ rolling mills. France. We are also investing in a private aluminium sheet particularly for Body-in-White Production is scheduled to start at a new line at Singen, Germany, producer located in Muscle (BiW) products such as car hood, the new Bowling Green, Kentucky, that is already producing revenue Shoals, Alabama, for $1.4 billion. door and roof panels. facility in the first half of 2016, and meeting increased demand The acquisition of Wise – which with full capacity expected to be The business unit is also the in Europe. has the widest hot strip mill reached by 2018. largest non-integrated producer Driven by the Corporate Average in North America – provides of foil stock in Europe and a world In packaging, we announced us with immediate access to Fuel Economy (CAFE) regulations leader in aluminium solutions for a partnership with Rexam to 450,000 metric tons of hot mill in the US, which require significant bright and functional surfaces in switch two of its steel can lines capacity. In parallel, we intend Aluminium ingots getting ready for the hot line at the reductions in fuel consumption, lighting, decorative applications to aluminium in Spain. As Spain to invest up to $750 million by Muscle Shoals plant aluminium BiW is now penetrating and cosmetics. is one of the largest can markets 22 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 23 Automotive Structures and Industry “The business unit has enjoyed another very successful year, significantly This will enable us to deliver outperforming our competitors. We have grown adjusted EBITDA by 23% over advanced products to customers with unparalleled speed. Changing worldwide. In the US, the CAFE standards are set to double by 2013 and for the fifth consecutive year achieved record levels of adjusted the game 2025, from 27 miles per gallon (7km per liter) to 55 miles EBITDA per metric ton. In addition, we have continued to win important nominations Plans for 2015 per gallon (14km per liter). and lay the groundwork for future success, particularly in the automotive market.” and beyond In January 2015, Ford launched It is a similar story elsewhere • Bring our new production the new F-150, which is a game in the world, with automotive Paul Warton, President of Automotive Structures and Industry capabilities up to full capacity changer for the automotive manufacturers globally turning and ensure they can deliver high industry worldwide. The new to aluminium to reduce weight quality, on time, every time. Ford F-150 – the most famous and improve fuel efficiency. and popular vehicle in North How we meet customer • Continue to win nominations America with sales running at Our role is to help customers needs from existing and new OEMs, approximately one every 45 exploit the advantages of including for relatively new seconds – is built with extensive aluminium and therefore we Automotive Structures and product areas such as body continue to meet consumer Industry is a global business unit use of high-strength, militarystructures and chassis. and legislative demands. In the operating in two principal areas: grade aluminium alloy. This is The industry trend is towards wake of this landmark contract automotive structural parts and the first time that a mass market common platforms with a larger – which has established Crash Management Systems vehicle is built with such a number of different vehicle us not only as one of Ford’s (CMS); and hard and soft alloy high reliance on aluminium, New production lines for automotive structures at the Van Buren plant models sharing the same extrusions for the automotive, and we are proud to be one largest suppliers of aluminium components including front and structural parts, but also the transport and industrial markets, of Ford’s largest suppliers of rear CMS. The nominations we #1 provider in the US – we are such as components for trains, will account for 30% share of the with the official inauguration F-150 components. have won will drive the business already working with other trucks, buses, and power rails. total CMS market in Europe and of the plant extension in April in 2017 and beyond. With fewer Through the use of high-strength The business unit is the #1 or #2 20% in the US respectively, and 2015. The coming year will high-volume OEMs to help them in volume but more significant steel in the frame and aluminium player in all key market segments. that combined aluminium CMS see production running at achieve similarly impressive nominations likely to be available, alloy in the body, Ford has production for China, Europe and full capacity. weight savings. They are seeking We enjoy strong, long-term and it is more important than ever to reduced the weight of the new North America will reach more opportunities to replicate the well-established relationships At the same time, we invested have the proven global capacity F-150 by up to 700lbs and this with many of the world’s leading than 28 million units. success of the F-150 and with €10 million in new buildings and and quality to deliver. has delivered the industry’s best automotive Original Equipment aluminium now proven on a Automotive Structures and equipment at Gottmadingen in • Capitalize on the partnership towing and payload capability high automotive manufacturing Manufacturers (OEMs) including Industry has a global footprint, Germany, to meet demand from among full-size light-duty with Brunel University and platform, barriers no longer exist Audi, BMW Group, Fiat Chrysler with operations in Europe, North European customers including pickups. This is a tipping point Jaguar Land Rover, including the to prevent its rise as a truly mass Automobiles, Ford, General Motors, America and China. The business BMW Group. This line will be for an industry coming to terms opening of the Advanced Light market solution. Jaguar Land Rover, Mercedesunit has two additional integrated operational in 2015. with tighter emissions standards Metals Processing Research Benz and PSA Peugeot Citroën, remelting centers that guarantee At Decin in the Czech Republic, we Center. This will incorporate all of which rely on aluminium’s both a supply of prime extrusion completed a €15 million casthouse a fully integrated direct chill physical properties and billets and also contribute to our and tube press line, and launched casting facility and a full-size Constellium’s know-how to create recycling efforts. another growth program that extrusion press. We expect to vehicles that are lighter and invests a further €22.5 million see the center begin to make therefore more fuel efficient and environmentally friendly. (See case Highlights of 2014 in additional casting, extrusion progress in three key areas: Our strong performance in 2014 and fabrication capacity at the light-weight material design; study opposite for details of our creates opportunities for all same facility. sustainability and recycling; role in the new Ford F-150.) our stakeholders, including our and joining, pre-treatment and Environmental regulation, During 2014, we progressed vehicle integration. people, and underpins our plans particularly the Corporate Average the new state-of-the-art for the years ahead. • Maintain the focus on Lean Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards research facility in the UK which At our Van Buren plant in the US, we jointly share with Brunel programs and processes, which in North America, in combination we invested $40 million to double University and Jaguar Land drive costs down and customers’ with resurgent automotive production capacity in order to Rover. With completion planned satisfaction up. Lean made an market growth, is fueling an take advantage of surging North for the third quarter of 2015, the important contribution to our unprecedented and fast-growing American demand for automotive Advanced Light Metals Processing quality, our on-time delivery demand for both aluminium structural parts, as evidenced Research Center will give us by and our working capital in 2014. structural parts and CMS among by the new Ford F-150 (see case far the most rapid prototyping Now we need to build on that volume manufacturers of cars and Ford F-150 windshield headers produced by Constellium study opposite). During 2014, capability in our industry, with progress in 2015 and generate trucks. Automotive sector analysts we carried out a successful a full-sized extrusion press and an even better performance for expect that by 2018 aluminium production ramp-up with Ford casting equipment. our customers. 24 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 25 Board of Directors 5 8 3 4 6 1 9 2 7 Richard B. Evans – 1 Guy Maugis* – 6 Mr. Evans has served as Chairman of our Mr. Maugis has served as a member of our Board since December 2012 and as a member Board of Directors since January 2011. of our Board of Directors since January 2011. Matthew H. Nord (Not photographed) Pierre Vareille – 2 Mr. Nord has served as a member of our Board Mr. Vareille has served as Chief Executive of Directors since May 2010. Officer of Constellium and as a member of our Board of Directors since March 2012. John Ormerod* – 7 Mr. Ormerod has served as a member of our Michiel Brandjes* – 3 Board of Directors since June 2014. Mr. Brandjes has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014. Werner P. Paschke* – 8 Mr. Paschke has served as a member of our Philippe Guillemot* – 4 Board of Directors since May 2013. Mr. Guillemot has served as a member of our Board of Directors since May 2013. Lori A. Walker* – 9 Ms. Walker has served as a member of our Peter F. Hartman* – 5 Board of Directors since June 2014. Mr. Hartman has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014. *Independent Director For full biographies visit www.constellium.com 26 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 27 Executive Committee Pierre Vareille – 1 Chief Executive Officer President, Packaging and Automotive Didier Fontaine – 5 Chief Financial Officer Simon Laddychuk – 6 Laurent Musy – 9 President, Aerospace and Transportation business unit Rolled Products business unit on an interim basis Vice President and Chief Technical Wesley N. Oberholzer – 10 Officer Vice President, Packaging and Automotive Marc Boone – 2 Rolled Products North America Vice President, Human Resources Jeremy Leach – 7 Vice President and Group General Vittorio Rossetti – 11 Nicolas Brun – 3 Counsel Chief Information Officer Vice President, Communications Yves Mérel – 8 Jun Tao – 12 Béatrice Charon – 4 Vice President, EHS and Lean Vice President, Strategy and Business Vice President, Business Planning Transformation Development Paul Warton – 13 President, Automotive Structures and Industry business unit 5 5 2 10 8 1 11 12 6 1 7 3 4 13 9 For full biographies visit www.constellium.com 28 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 29 Governance We are committed towards maintaining the highest • to review, evaluate and make recommendations to the full • to establish criteria for Board and Committee membership Function •d evelops and implements the standards of corporate governance to ensure our business Board of Directors regarding our compensation policies and and recommend to our Board of Directors proposed nominees operational business decisions, as defined by management and is run in the best interests of our shareholders. This is a establish performance-based incentives that support our for election to the Board of Directors and for membership •m the Board of Directors;  onitors the implementation vital element of building trust and in acting with integrity. long-term goals, objectives and interests; on committees of our Board of Directors; and and progress of significant operational projects; • to review and approve • to make recommendations to •m onitors the execution of the the compensation of our our Board of Directors regarding Budget, and in particular the Chief Executive Officer, all Board governance matters Free Cash Flow generation of the Director independence Board meetings in 2014 Function employees who report directly and practices. business; and We maintain a one-tier Board The Board of Directors held Our Board of Directors has to our Chief Executive Officer •s ubmits reports, proposals and of Directors consisting of both 10 meetings in 2014 and reviewed determined that three members, and other members of our Executive Committee recommendations on all matters Executive Directors and Nonmatters including: John Ormerod, Werner P. senior management; relating to the operations to the Paschke and Lori A. Walker, Function Executive Committee. Executive Directors (each a • reports from the Board’s • to review and make ‘Director’). Under Dutch law, the are audit committee ‘financial recommendations to the Board • reviews all strategic issues committees; Board of Directors is responsible experts’ as defined by the SEC of Directors with respect to our and evaluates all significant Code of Conduct for our policy and day-to-day • reports from the Chief Executive and also meet the additional incentive and equity-based proposed acquisitions or Our Worldwide Code of Employee management. The Non-Executive Officer (including EHS and criteria for independence of audit compensation plans; divestments, financial and Business Conduct sets out Directors supervise and provide M&A activity); committee members under the restructuring, alliances and the standard of behavior we Securities Exchange Act of 1934, • to set and review the strategic partnerships; guidance to the Executive Director. • approval of the 2013 expect from our employees. as amended. compensation of and Annual Accounts; • develops and monitors The Code governs the way As a foreign private issuer under reimbursement policies Constellium acts in business, and the Securities and Exchange The principal duties and for members of the Board implementation of key strategic, • approval of filing of Form 20-F how we expect our partners and Commission (SEC) rules, we are responsibilities of the Audit of Directors; financial, investment and with the SEC; suppliers to behave. It applies not required to have Independent Committee are to oversee and organizational decisions; • to provide oversight concerning to all Constellium employees, Directors on our Board of • approval of the draft agenda for monitor the following: selection of officers, • controls the execution of the fivesubject to applicable local law. Directors, except to the extent that the Constellium General Meeting Compliance with the Code is • our financial reporting process management succession year plan and of the Budget; our Audit Committee is required to of Shareholders of June 11, 2014, essential to preserving and and internal control system; planning, expense accounts, • reviews reports and proposals consist of Independent Directors. including nomination of the new enhancing the Company’s Non-Executive Directors; • the integrity of our consolidated indemnification and insurance made by the Operations However, our Board of Directors reputation as a responsible financial statements; matters, and separation Committee to evaluate its corporate citizen, and ultimately, has determined that, under • amendment of the Delegation packages; and • the independence, qualifications economic and financial to maximizing shareholder value. current NYSE listing standards Authority; and performance of our • to provide regular reports to the consequences; and regarding independence (which • approval of the Wise Metals we are not currently subject acquisition; independent registered public Board of Directors and take such • as and when required, submits Whistleblower policy to), and taking into account any accounting firm; other actions as are necessary reports, proposals and We have implemented a applicable committee standards, • approval of re-financing through and consistent with our recommendations on all matters whistleblower policy to foster • the performance of our internal Amended and Restated Articles Messrs. Brandjes, Guillemot, issue of high-yield bonds issue within its scope of responsibility an environment where our audit function; of Association. Hartman, Maugis, Ormerod, and new revolving credit facility; to the Board of Directors. employees can act without Paschke and Ms. Walker are • our related party transactions; fear of retaliation and report • reports from the business units For more information on Independent Directors. (on any major projects); and and Nominating/Corporate our Executive Committee wrongdoing or suspected Governance Committee see pages 26–27 wrongdoing or irregularities • our compliance with legal, ethical of a financial, accounting, • approval of 2015 budget. Our Board and regulatory matters. Our Nominating/Corporate Operations Committee banking or corruption nature in The Board of Directors is Governance Committee currently Constellium to a reporting official. Our Committees Remuneration Committee consists of three Directors. Chairman To facilitate this reporting, we responsible for our policy and day‑to-day management. Pierre Vareille, are in the process of establishing Audit Committee Members Members an external hotline in all the The Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive Officer supervise and provide guidance Members Our Remuneration Committee Richard B. Evans, Chair, countries and languages we currently consists of three Directors: Michiel Brandjes, Matthew H. Nord Members have operations in. to the Executive Director. Our Audit Committee currently consists of five Independent Matthew H. Nord, Chair, • Business Unit Presidents For more information on the Directors under the Richard B. Evans, Peter F. Hartman Function Insider Trading policy members of our Board of Directors • Chief Financial Officer see pages 24–25 NYSE requirements: The principal duties and We have an Insider Trading policy Function responsibilities of the Nominating/ • Vice President Strategy and which sets out the restrictions on, Werner P. Paschke, Chair, Corporate Governance Committee Business Development inter alia, trading in Constellium Philippe Guillemot, Guy Maugis, The principal duties and securities and the use of responsibilities of the Remuneration are as follows: • Vice President Human Resources John Ormerod, Lori A. Walker inside information. Committee are as follows: 30 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Constellium Business and sustainability Business andreport performance sustainability 2014 31 performance report 2014 Engaging with stakeholders In this section: Sustainability highlights 32 “Constellium is making Altogether more sustainable 34 good progress delivering Our materiality assessment 36 on our commitment to Our stakeholders include suppliers, customers, Stakeholder perspectives 39 sustainability. Along with our Making our products more sustainable 42 employees, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Supporting our people 50 rapid growth, we are working local communities, industry organizations and others Making our operations more efficient 58 hard to shape the future of a in the aluminium value chain. Engaging with them Doing business responsibly Managing sustainability 64 68 responsible and sustainable proactively helps us to govern our business in line with aluminium industry.” their expectations and needs. Laurent Musy Chairman, Constellium Sustainability Council Who we engage with How we engage When we engage Analysts and investors Annual analyst day, regular exchanges through our Investor Relations team • Quarterly earnings conference calls • Analyst day once a year • Exchanges on a regular basis Customers Visits, industry associations, regular customer satisfaction surveys, trade • Bi or tri-annual customer satisfaction surveys organized within business units shows • Meetings with customers for commercial and technical aspects Employees Employee feedback collection, works councils, Management Days, • Exchanges throughout the year • Biennial Global Employee Survey management calls, Environment, • Annual business unit President Health and Safety (EHS) days, customer roadshows presentations and business unit • Quarterly LIVE magazine (internal President roadshows, Chief Executive newsfeed) Officer plant visits, Chief Executive Officer memos as appropriate, • Weekly newswires Lean workshops, THANK YOU • Annual employee recognition program AWARDS, interaction with employee representatives Industry stakeholders Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), industry associations including European • General meetings and many other meetings for various working groups, Aluminium, The Aluminum Association, taskforces International Aluminium Institute (IAI), Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques et Spatiales (GIFAS) and others. See ‘Memberships’ on page 77 Local communities This is managed at local levels. See • One community program in each site Sustainability ‘Supporting communities’ on pages 56 and 57 NGOs ASI, community engagement activities • 3–4 general meetings/year but many other meetings for various working groups, taskforces in focus Shareholders Annual General Meeting, roadshows • Annual General Meeting once a year • Roadshows as appropriate Suppliers Code of Conduct, visits, sustainability targets • Visits are organized for new suppliers • Regular audits For more information see ‘Stakeholder perspectives’ pages 39–41 32 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 33 Sustainability highlights We continued to work hard in 2014 to embed sustainability across the business. These are some of the many achievements we recorded during the year. Carried out the Improved energy Worked in 2014 Global efficiency at partnership Employee Survey Ravenswood to develop the Our second Global Employee Our unit at Ravenswood (USA) world’s first Survey revealed a high overall reduced electricity consumption participation rate of 75%, by nearly 20,000 MWh, notably ‘2l/100km’ vehicle an 11% increase from 2012. thanks to investing in a new In partnership with car We made headway in most motor drive for a rolling mill and manufacturers Renault and categories, including employee replacing 80% of the plant lighting PSA Peugeot Citroën, and parts engagement, customer focus, with LED lighting. and tools supplier SNOP, we training and development, and are participating in the Allegria providing clarity around our project which was filed and strategic direction. validated by ADEME1. This project aims to develop materials and technologies that will enable the development of a 2 litre/100km Performed Life vehicle by 2020. Cycle Assessment Implemented ISO studies on 50001 at Decin aluminium cans Our Decin plant in the Czech Republic implemented the and car hoods ISO 50001 standard on energy Reinforced our We extended our program of Leadership Safety Tours. We performed third-party verified management. The standard specifies requirements for commitment to These tours are a company‑wide Life Cycle Assessment studies on two key products – a beverage initiative through which all our establishing, implementing, Leadership Safety leaders – from senior management can model and a car hood model, maintaining and improving an following the introduction of a energy management system. Tours to shift supervisors – interact sustainability check for every with their teams on a weekly basis new product or process within our and encourage all our people to innovation process in 2013. identify simple, sustainable solutions on the shop floor. Launched our first Won recognition materiality matrix at the European based on GRI G4 Business Awards Contributed to the Constellium proudly took part in the new era of space guidelines Constellium was named successful test exploration on the journey to We launched our first materiality Environmental and Corporate Responsibility Champion in Mars, providing AIRWARE® flight of NASA’s aerospace technology to assessment exercise in line with international standards France by the European Business Awards, which recognizes and Orion crew module NASA’s Orion spacecraft. (Global Reporting Initiative’s rewards excellence, best practice AIRWARE® technology was G4). This has allowed us to and innovation in companies aboard Orion’s successful first identify the issues that are most across the European Union. flight test, Exploration Flight important to internal and external Test-1 (EFT-1) built by Lockheed stakeholders. Martin and designed for human exploration of deep space. 1. A  DEME: Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie. ADEME is the French state operator that supports environmental and energy transition. 34 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 35 Altogether more sustainable We have identified a series of commitments and targets On track which we use to evaluate our progress towards becoming Needs improving Achieved a more sustainable business. Missed This symbol identifies sustainability Key Performance Indicators throughout this report Products People Operations Responsible business We are committed to We are committed to ensuring We are committed to We are committed to developing, producing and our people are safe, skilled, minimizing the environmental undertaking the highest selling sustainable products motivated and engaged. impact of all our operations standards of governance that meet our customers’ in terms of energy, waste across all our activities in line needs now and in the future. and water. with Constellium values. We will We will We will We will Maximize recycling rates of our products, Protect the safety and health of our employees, Further develop recycling Subscribe to the highest levels of transparency and including after the end of their useful life contractors and visitors as a top priority accountability, and commit to develop company and industry sustainability programs Continuously innovate and offer lighter, safer and Strive to enhance employee engagement Optimize the use of natural resources, especially energy Promote the adoption and implementation of infinitely recyclable solutions and development sustainability policies by our suppliers and contractors Prevent and minimize environmental impacts Targets Progress Targets Progress Targets Progress Targets Progress 75% beverage can recycling rate 60% improvement in recordable cases 10% decrease in energy consumption 100% of key suppliers joining the in Europe by 2015 by 2014 per processed unit by 2015 UNGC by 2015 All major new innovation projects No serious injuries in 2015 Major European sites reaching through Life Cycle Assessments ISO 50001 certification by 2015 For more information see page 65 by 2015 50% improvement in employee 75% total landfill reduction by 2020 10% of sales from innovative products contributions by 2014 by 2015 75% participation rate in the employee For more information survey in 2014 For more information see page 59 see page 43 Six-point improvement in the employee satisfaction rate in 2014 For more information see page 51 36 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 37 Our materiality assessment Our materiality assessment process guides our Mapping and Of the issues that did not emerge Materiality matrix key as highly material, two in particular approach to sustainability by allowing us to identify prioritizing issues We used the outcomes of our are of high interest to us, namely Use this color key to see how each material issue fits within diversity and local communities. and manage the issues that are most likely to impact stakeholder survey to map all 35 issues. The 17 issues that were in These topics have been the four pillars of Constellium’s sustainability strategy: the business and the stakeholders we surveyed. the upper right half of the matrix communicated within the People pillar of this report. Products were identified as our material People issues and have been indicated in The remainder will be reported to Operations the chart below. interested stakeholders through Responsible business other channels, such as our Our approach The following issues did not emerge website (www.constellium.com). as highly material: labor and Initiatives regarding these issues During 2014, we undertook human rights, treating suppliers are already underway, even though a materiality assessment to with respect, local communities, they have not been identified as identify the issues that matter work/life balance, diversity and material issues by our materiality most to Constellium and our absenteeism, water, renewable assessment process. surveyed stakeholders. energy in operations, global Based on surveys and regular warming, biodiversity, expanding engagement with our internal and our markets, traceability of our external stakeholders, we identified products, selecting suppliers on a total of 17 material issues that sustainability and performance. form the basis of the potential issues Pierre Vareille, Chairman of European Aluminium, introduces the covered in this report. Sustainability Roadmap towards 2025 Consulting with internal We asked each participant to Gathering additional insight Very important and external stakeholders rate the relative importance of Ensure safety The first step in our materiality As part of the consultation, at work 35 sustainability topics, which process was to consult with internal we asked open-ended questions. were identified through external Reduce use of harmful Customer and external stakeholders to find out These were intended to give us Engage suppliers substances benchmarking and grouped under in sustainability satisfaction which sustainability issues they see a fuller understanding of what performance five areas: environment, health as most important for Constellium. stakeholders are particularly and safety, people, supply chain Promote and Increase external Innovation Importance to stakeholders (external) interested in, and what they want to enforce ethical recycling activities • I nternal assessment: and economy. We then asked business practices see more of. We administered a questionnaire participants to choose two or three Increase internal Improve employee to representatives from senior priority issues within each area Three main areas emerged: recycling activities satisfaction management and our Sustainability to create a comprehensive list of 1. Recycling, particularly related to Council, of which 84 provided input. material issues. creating a circular economy Increase economic Develop Improve energy performance training and efficiency of operations • External assessment: Implementing the 2. Management transparency, empowerment We spoke to and conducted surveys including accountability for our with 27 external stakeholders, outcomes sustainability charter including customers, suppliers, The exercise has shown good investors, Non-Governmental alignment between our internal and 3. Our ambition regarding energy policy and relevant Key Reduce our Reduce waste Reduce Prevent pollution Organizations, regulators, scrap external stakeholder expectations greenhouse gas from operations psycho-social from operations traders and dealers, union for sustainability. It has confirmed Performance Indicators emissions risks representatives, certification that our four priority areas of See page 39 for more information products, people, operations and on how we are engaging with Important bodies and industry associations. stakeholders, and an overview of Develop products with responsible business, are still the environmental benefits the main topics raised in 2014 most relevant for our business. It has also given us focus within those Important Importance to Constellium (internal) Very important areas as we look ahead and develop. 38 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 39 Our materiality assessment continued Stakeholder perspectives The chart below shows where In the following chapters, we will Products Stakeholder engagement ensures that our approach to the primary impacts for each of explain how we are managing these People the issues sit with respect to the potential issues, engaging with Operations sustainable business is relevant and effective. It gives us an boundaries of our business. people and partners across the outside perspective, helping us to evolve our business in line Responsible business supply chain, as necessary. with both internal and external expectations. pacts outside Con ary im stel Prim lium Engage suppliers in Our approach “This stakeholder consultation Customers seek leading sustainability performance There are many ways that we engage process should enable action on environmental with our stakeholders – from Constellium to further develop impacts within and outside meetings and business activities its sustainability policy, beyond pacts Co ns Many of our customers expect yi m te to membership and participation already recognized strengths Constellium to lead on reducing ar lli ir m Innovation u in organizations. like the management of safety the environmental impacts of our P m at work. This will help them products. Others emphasized Our stakeholders include employees tackle important sustainability the importance of improving and employee representatives, Promote and acts within C Customer challenges and improve the imp o satisfaction customers, suppliers, our Board sustainability across the supply ry Ensure safety ns enforce ethical business quality of the information chain, and some suggested that Pri of Directors, shareholders and practices at work m included in the sustainability lliu ma investors, regulators and policy we could usefully carry out further te makers. They also include the performance report.” work on improving beverage can Reduce psycho-social risks Increase communities in which we operate as Pascal Thomas recycling rate. Develop internal recycling Reduce our AFNOR Increase products with Improve energy efficiency of operations activities greenhouse well as sustainability organizations, external recycling environmental benefits Reduce use of harmful gas emissions including Non-Governmental Some regulatory bodies activities substances Organizations and academic “By engaging in such a push for us to retain institutions concerned about the Develop training social, environmental and climate consultation process, industry leadership Improve Constellium took a relevant Prevent and empowerment Some regulatory bodies we interact pollution from employee impacts of the production and use approach to define its satisfaction with acknowledge our performance operations of aluminium products. Through our sustainability priorities. materiality assessment exercise, with regard to safety and also Reduce As shareholders, we strongly that we have given due attention Increase economic waste from we have started to engage with our support this determined performance operations stakeholders in a more systematic to the environmental impacts of attention to environmental, our business activities. However, manner. We have also connected social and governance closely with selected stakeholders in 2014 they also emphasized factors, as we understand the importance of us retaining during the development of sustainability as a potent lever this report. our leading industry position. for corporate competitiveness.” A number of them also expressed See page 30 for a summary of the Sébastien Blot concern regarding psycho-social main ways that we engage with Bpifrance risks and reducing stress levels our key stakeholder groups among employees. Scope and boundaries across different regions and We also used the guidance notes Research organizations call business units in the materiality on accountability and the material This materiality exercise has been assessment process. This was an aspects criteria defined by Global for continued investment conducted for Constellium in its Innovation is fundamental to entirety, and therefore considers extensive process, but does not Reporting Initiative to inform necessarily represent the totality our approach. creating products that customers the impacts of all of Constellium’s want. Through our engagement in consolidated operations. We involved of all our internal and external stakeholders’ views. 2014, several research organizations a range of stakeholders encouraged us to continue investing Constellium Prize 2014 awarded in research and development. to Dr. Thierry Loiseau 40 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 41 Stakeholder perspectives continued Human rights Industry associations emphasize the importance Developing The voluntary standard will allow the industry to better respond to Strengthening of transparency Some industry associations the world’s growing customer and consumer demand for a more sustainable sustainability in have asked us to work towards first sustainable supply chain. the supply chain increased levels of transparency and accountability, including an increase aluminium Once implemented, the new standard will allow industry In 2014, we launched a supplier in our external reporting activities. standard participants to certify aluminium assessment campaign to products through a thirdstrengthen our suppliers’ Investors support our Leaders from the aluminium sector party certification system. sustainability credentials sustainability approach unveiled a new comprehensive This certification will signal that and align them with our vision standard that aims to improve the products have been produced in and strategy. We are focused on ensuring that investors see Constellium as a leader industry’s environmental, social line with the standard’s principles Part of this campaign included in high value-added aluminium and governance performance relating to environmental the launch of a pilot program with products and solutions. The surveyed throughout its entire value chain, performance, social responsibility an external and independent investors indicated that we must including plans to reduce its and governance practices. We see assessment company – an online continue to work on positioning greenhouse gas emissions. the new ASI standard as a natural platform which allows companies ourselves as a leader in sustainability. extension of our own sustainability This is the culmination of a to monitor the environmental In 2014, they acknowledged our efforts. By working together with Key stakeholders interacting at the launch of European Aluminium year-long consultative dialog and social performance of their continued commitment to ensuring our stakeholders, we can become Industry’s Sustainability Roadmap towards 2025 involving industry leaders and civil global suppliers. safety at work. They also stressed the more sustainable as an industry. society organizations. We are proud of our contribution We have also been promoting our importance of good corporate ethics and transparency and indicated Constellium joined Aluminium to the development of the ASI Code of Conduct to key suppliers Creating an We have supported European Aluminium as it engaged with the they would welcome additional communication on these topics. Stewardship Initiative (ASI) at its inception and we have participated standard. In our view, this standard is truly groundbreaking as it brings and encouraging them to adopt the principles set out by the industry-wide European Union decision-makers and the wider policy community in the development of the new together players across the entire aluminium value chain and defines United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Setting up the process roadmap to 2025 to promote the outstanding Non-Governmental standard under the leadership properties of aluminium and a Chain of Custody, which directly has not been straightforward, We have helped develop the optimize the contribution our metal Organizations see us of the International Union for links sustainable practices to the but we are starting to see positive European Aluminium Industry’s can make to meeting Europe’s Conservation of Nature (IUCN). as a valuable player end products used by businesses results. For example, one of our Sustainability Roadmap towards sustainability challenges. We engage with Non-Governmental and consumers. suppliers has joined the UNGC 2025. The roadmap seeks to create Organizations, especially those as a result of this dialog. a vision, future outlook, priority operating in the social and Read more at areas and targets which will help environmental sectors. They stress www.aluminium-stewardship.org See pages 65 –67 to see how enhance sustainability in the that because of our very specific we are engaging with suppliers aluminium value chain. position in the center of the aluminium value chain, we have an opportunity to be a key player. Most of them also emphasize the Suppliers want Certification bodies Maintaining healthy We take our stakeholders and their importance of working towards common standards and Suppliers are encourage greater relationships with expectations very seriously. We are reducing the environmental footprint increased recycling supportive of creating consistency union representatives trying to address the expectations that stakeholders have raised. of our products and operations Suppliers are a crucial part of our shared standards Some of the certification bodies we In 2014, union representatives This report provides information on – with recycling possibilities and increased investment in renewable value chain and play an important across the supply chain engaged with in 2014 encouraged us expressed the need to maintain the key actions taken. energy being specific issues raised role in the overall sustainability of our business. Most of our suppliers with the Aluminium to be consistent across all aspects of our sustainability communications. healthy management–union relationships, and some shared in 2014. They also stressed the express the need for a clear and Stewardship Initiative their views on the environmental importance of having a clear and well-defined greenhouse gas (GHG) well-defined supply chain strategy. (ASI) impacts of our business. emissions target, which we are Our scrap dealers and traders currently working on. emphasize the need to promote the benefits of recycling for the environment. 42 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 43 Making our products more sustainable We must design, manufacture and sell products that meet Materiality coverage customers are through bi-annual satisfaction surveys which help We also held a Truck Preparation Area workshop to improve our onour customers’ needs – both now and into the future. For us, • Customer satisfaction to identify areas where we need to take action. Results are already time in-full delivery performance and reduce inventory at our this boils down to delivering high-quality products efficiently, • Innovation visible. Between 2012 and 2014, we witnessed a clear improvement in casthouse in Issoire, in line with our Lean culture. Truck Preparation developing innovations that anticipate market needs and • Develop products with environmental benefits customer satisfaction at Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products. Areas play an important role in the process efficiency of our operations. reducing the environmental impacts across the aluminium • Increase recycling activities The business unit mandated an external research agency to conduct They involve organizing the shipping area of a production unit around life-cycle. Targets its customer satisfaction survey, covering all aspects of our offer, specific customer orders to control incoming and outgoing product flow. including the quality of our products, • 75% beverage can recycling 2015 is the ‘Year of Just In Time’, logistics, technical support, sales rate in Europe by 2015 service, management, level of to ensure optimum customer innovation, as well as sustainability satisfaction. We will pursue • All major new innovation and communication topics. The global continuous improvement on projects through Life Cycle satisfaction rate at Packaging and this front. Assessments (LCAs) by 2015 Automotive Rolled Products has • 10% of sales from innovative increased by 10 points since 2012. products by 2015 Since its launch two years ago, our company-wide Lean Performance Transformation program has made a significant contribution to • Latest available data show customer satisfaction. Our focus continuous improvement with on quality control and just in time 69.5% beverage can recycling production have helped us reduce rate in Europe in 2012 the percentage of missed deliveries by half and the number of customers • Over the last 12 months, 73% complaints by 70%. For more on Lean Partnering with of new projects incorporated a sustainability checklist as Transformation see pages 13 and 14. customers Our Chief Executive Officer Pierre part of their project reviews. Depending on the outcome Vareille named 2014 the ‘Year of to increase of this checklist, LCAs Quality’, reinforcing quality at the heart of our approach to building efficiency were performed customer satisfaction, supported In 2014, Constellium’s • Ahead of our target with 13% of by our slogan ‘Quality makes the Ravenswood plant created a difference’. This philosophy was sales from innovative products Lean system for leading tank clearly demonstrated in late 2014 in 2014 trailer manufacturer Heil Trailer by the Automotive Structures and Industry extrusions plant at Sierre. International. Working with We organized an extensive Total Champagne Metals, the team reduced the manufacturer’s Customer satisfaction Productive Maintenance (TPM) level lead-time while improving Our customers include some one workshop that took place at one of the site’s major rail production delivery times and reducing of the largest manufacturers in time-lags across the entire the aerospace, packaging and facilities. Key highlights of this workshop included strong team supply chain. automotive industries. Meeting their expectations and anticipating their motivation, great team effort, a “The driving force behind this needs are fundamental to building high participation rate (32 people) was to improve the overall enduring relationships and our longand excellent overall results. business processes between term business success. Thanks to the workshop, the team the two companies.” has now defined clear improvement At the Packaging and Automotive actions as part of TPM level two and Andrew Cordell Sales Manager, Constellium Rolled Products business unit, three workshops, reinforcing our we monitor how satisfied our Lean culture. 44 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 45 Making our products more sustainable continued Innovation We also developed new lighterchallenge of significantly lowering Assessing lifetime impact weight, stronger alloys to be used in industry-wide fuel consumption. With its properties of lightness, LCA is a technique to assess the Crash Management Systems for the strength, formability, corrosionIn the aerospace market, our environmental impacts of a given automotive industry and supported resistance and infinite recyclability, AIRWARE® lightweight alloys are product throughout its life, from our plants in developing a Body-inaluminium is the ideal solution for reducing the weight of components, raw materials extraction for the White (BiW) capability by improving many applications. and reaping significant fuel original manufacturing process processes and optimizing equipment reduction benefits (see ‘Innovation’ through usage to its end-of-life. Constellium products bring for R&D. on the opposite page). And in the This is a vital tool in mapping the innovative qualities to our three main aviation industry, our emphasis upstream impacts and downstream markets of automotive, aerospace Developing products with on end-of-life recycling through and packaging, including reduced benefits of our products, and helps environmental benefits projects such as SENTRY (see identify where environmental fuel consumption and reduced Aluminium is a finite resource. ‘Recycling partnerships’ on page 49 improvements can be made at greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Its manufacture uses energy and for more) are helping to close the various stages of the product lifeHowever, constant innovation is Our innovative automotive products displayed at C-TEC water, and waste is formed as a loop of our value chain, avoid waste cycle. It provides an overview of required to make sure that aluminium by‑product. But it is also a lightweight, and reduce energy use, water and impacts across different categories remains a material of choice, capable more readily recyclable alternative greenhouse gas emissions. such as greenhouse gas emissions of delivering sustainable and proven products that must deliver in the new aerospace applications and to other materials – offering water eutrophication, acidification, Collaboration has been central to advantages to our customers marketplace. So instead of focusing deliver improved buy-to-fly ratios1. opportunities to reduce environmental resource depletion, toxicity and this drive. In 2014, we continued and to consumers worldwide. on the number of patents we file, Developed at C-TEC, this system is impacts across its life-cycle. waste production. our work with the Aluminium Based in Voreppe, France, C-TEC, we monitor the percentage of annual now in the final stages of trials. Stewardship Initiative (ASI) to As a major manufacturer of aluminium our technology center, has a proven Constellium sales generated by 1. I n the aerospace industry, the ‘buy-to-fly’ bring together organizations from products, it is our responsibility to products or processes created in the ratio is routinely used to describe the 73% track record of conceiving and work closely with others in the value across the value chain as well as previous five years. Our objective is amount of raw material required to produce incubating ideas that shape the a finished part. chain to minimize these impacts, from NGOs to establish a standard for world (see ‘Innovation’ on page 15). 10% by the end of 2015, and in 2014 responsible aluminium. production and distribution through Sometimes these innovations we achieved 13%, so we are already of new projects to design and end-use. Across all 13% well ahead of target. We also contributed to the European incorporated a sustainability may take the form of incremental markets, our customers look to us to Aluminium Industry’s Sustainability checklist as part of their project improvements. At other times, they In one of the highlights of the year, offer solutions that are cost-effective, Roadmap towards 2025, helping reviews in 2014 can be true breakthroughs. At all we perfected a new AIRWARE® of sales from innovative efficient, and help them meet their to develop targets that enhance times, we believe that an innovation casting system that enables us to products in 2014 environmental objectives. sustainability (see ‘Creating an must be commercially viable if it is produce aluminium-lithium billets We have the opportunity to drive industry-wide roadmap to 2025’ on based on criteria including to be adopted by our customers and using advanced alloys which bring significant change with our products page 41 for more). environmental risks or opportunities. incorporated in transformational the advantages of AIRWARE® to by bringing new solutions to Over the last 12 months, 73% existing markets. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) of project reviews performed To improve the overall sustainability of at our C-TEC technology center GRIPSTER™: the organization in Europe which certifies low noise vehicles. In the automotive industry, for example, the Aluminum Association our products, we look to identify ways incorporated this check. the quiet revolution GRIPSTER™ is a differentiated highlights that using aluminium instead of steel in cars could save of embedding environmental benefits throughout a product’s life. One of the During the sustainability check, we also decide if an LCA should product offer for the tread key ways to achieve this is to conduct up to 44 million tons of carbon be conducted. LCA tools are used Refrigerated trailer deliveries to plate market and we anticipate a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). emissions each year. Last year to support our decision-making city premises can cause excessive converting customers from we worked in partnership with At the end of 2013, we introduced a process and can be used across noise and disturb local residents polyester or extruded floors. Testing began in the summer of car manufacturers Renault, PSA sustainability check for every new common products and processes to and businesses. Launched in 2014, Peugeot Citroën, and parts supplier broadly identify the most significant 2014 with vehicles operated by product or process at the innovation our new GRIPSTER™ product SNOP to develop the world’s environmental impacts. In 2014, offers a superior tread pattern French truck Original Equipment phase of product development. Manufacturers (OEMs) Aubineau, first affordable 2 litre/100km Here, members from our research no mandatory LCA studies took for refrigerated vehicle floors. car. This effort forms part of our Chereau and Lamberet. Feedback and technology, sales, marketing, place, as no case of significant It is the only solution on the work for the Allegria project (see was positive and demand is strategy, general management and uncertainties or potential negative market that combines greater now increasing. We believe that ‘Sustainability highlights’ on page 33 production teams meet to decide impacts were found. durability and better grip with soon, several hundred vehicles for more), which aims to address the whether or not to pursue a project reduced noise qualities that meet the requirements of PIEK, manufactured by these OEMs will incorporate GRIPSTER™. GRIPSTER™ pattern for tread plate 46 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 47 Making our products more sustainable continued There were a significant number In 2014, we extended the scope of product categories. Our target is for Recycling The misleading concept of of cases where an LCA was recommended to support product promotion, two of them leading to a our LCA tools to cover a broader range of products and processes. In addition, we increased the number all new major innovation projects to go through a screening using LCA tools by the end of 2015. Using recycled aluminium reduces the need for primary aluminium and therefore reduces waste, avoids recycled content Some players in the industry use ‘recycled content’ as a metric, 69.5% beverage can recycling decision to proceed – both detailed of impact categories from 5 to 22 1. Impact  2002+ and CML are LCA rate achieved in Europe resource depletion and reduces which measures the amount of in ‘Life Cycle Assessment in practice’ and these now cover most of those methodologies, covering a wide range of in 2012 impacts, from water, soil and air impacts GHGs across an aluminium product’s recycled aluminium in products as below. identified by IMPACT 2002+ and as well as GHG, land occupation, resources life-cycle. an indication of how environmentally CML1. We also developed some more depletion and toxicity. friendly that product is. For us, this specialized LCA models for specific In the aluminium industry there are Therefore, having products with metric is misleading because: two key sources of recycled material: higher than average amounts of • it fails to distinguish between end‘recycled content’ does not make • end-of-life scrap metal, which is of-life and other scrap content. any difference to the overall impact Life Cycle combination of strength and lightness of aluminium achieves Aluminium beverage can (g CO2 eq./can) material that has already been used and disposed of; and This can encourage inefficiencies of the aluminium industry (see diagram below). in production because it rewards Assessment 130 major weight savings, and hence 120 • process scrap metal, produced wasteful processes that produce lower fuel consumption during use.  e have continued to engage in W in practice 110 during the manufacturing process. more scrap; and Its efficient recycling also helps 100 industry initiatives to promote to recover a significant part of the 90 From an environmental point of view, • there is only a limited amount better handling of recycling and initial investment. 80 only end-of-life scrap can be of recycled aluminium available recycling metrics, notably in relation In 2014, we conducted two full LCA studies to improve our 70 associated with a lower environmental globally. Logically, this means that with Metal Packaging Europe and 60 understanding of the sustainability footprint, because its impacts have increasing recycled material on European Aluminium initiatives1. Aluminium vs Steel (kg CO2 eq.) 50 risks and opportunities relating to 40 already been taken into account one product line will remove it from 1. S  ee ‘Recycling rate vs recycled content’ and aluminium automobile hoods and 300 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 during its initial life. Of course, process others, thus offering no actual ‘Metal as a permanent material’ documents Recycling rate % at http://metalpackagingeurope.org/whatbeverage cans, and to demonstrate 250 scrap is always recycled because we benefit for the environment. 200 Constellium Industry average we-stand-for/ the intrinsic performance of acknowledge our responsibility to 150 our products. 100 retain it in the manufacturing loop. 50 These results highlight the vital Automobile hoods 0 importance of increasing end-50 Aluminium Steel of-life recycling rates to improve We wanted to investigate the hood hood the sustainability of the industry, effects of using an aluminium car Increasing recycled content offers no actual environmental benefit Metal production Use End-of-life and confirm Constellium’s strong With a limited scrap pool, increasing the recycled content of one product is made possible by decreasing the hood produced by Constellium position relative to competitors. instead of a traditional steel version. recycled content of another. This is why, at Constellium, we focus on making the scrap pool bigger by increasing Assessed by a third party critical “Rio Tinto Alcan is proud to end-of-life recycling rates. Aluminium beverage cans collaborate with Constellium review led by Quantis and using real manufacturing data from plant We were also keen to understand for the evaluation of the processes and metal supply, the the effects of recycling rates on environmental footprint of their LCA showed that the proposed carbon emissions for aluminium products. Rio Tinto Alcan’s very aluminium hood had significantly cans manufactured with our low carbon footprint aluminium metal. Once again using real lower greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions than its steel alternative. manufacturing data, we proved helps Constellium and its customers to reduce their global Producer 1 Sharing Producer 2 that an average recycling rate of More precisely, GHG impacts of 69.5% yields a carbon footprint of environmental footprint and to make aluminium an always the limited the aluminium hood (156kg CO2 eq.) based on our material were found 80g CO2 eq. for our own cans1. This is a favorable figure when compared to better solution.” scrap pool to be 37% lower than for a steel Jérome Lucaes the European average of 94g CO2 eq. Director Material Stewardship, Rio Tinto Alcan one (247kg CO2 eq.). Despite higher impacts associated with the Based on a recycling rate of 90%, 1. 69.5% is the EU+EFTA average recycling upstream aluminium processes, which is representative of many rate for 2012 (most recently published). the aluminium hood showed European countries, this figure 2. Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg, Sweden, lower overall impacts throughout further reduces to 67g CO2 eq. Norway, Finland, Switzerland all perform per can2. at 90% or higher recycling rates, according the whole life-cycle. This is to the most recent data currently available Products 1 Products 2 mainly because the (2012) – press release from European Aluminium, March 16, 2015. 48 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 49 Making our products more sustainable continued Recycling partnerships: Looking ahead • Maintain our commitment to customer satisfaction by working on projects such as Lean phase 2 (see page 43 for Aluminium Stewardship Initiative: Every Can Counts: We are working more information) We are collaborating to establish together on a communication a standard for responsible and collection program to boost • Push for new innovations such aluminium across the value chain. beverage can recycling rates. as lightweighting and more scrap tolerant alloys that bring environmental benefits to our products IRT M2P: We are associated with • Continue to invest in research Canibal: A one-of-a-kind machine its ‘LCA and Recycling’ program, and technology to create at Constellium Paris and the Neufsharing and improving knowledge successful new products and Brisach plant that gobbles up used and practices in the field of prepare for future developments beverage cans, plastic bottles end-of-life recycling – especially Core project team at Decin, inaugurating the new furnace • Further expand our use of Life and plastic cups. The Canibal also in automotive. sorts and crushes used containers. Cycle Assessments (LCAs) and Repurposing The new recycling furnace in Decin operated at its full annual capacity Not only does the furnace mean that our customers can now Every ton of waste generated by Canibal is equivalent to 2.5 tons of ensure they are undertaken on all new major developments 6,000 tons for the first time in 2014, recycling 6,000 tons of aluminium. access an efficient solution to recycle their turnings, it also allows carbon credits. • Continue to work with key of waste The furnace recycles two different us to efficiently transform endMetal Packaging Europe: We are stakeholders to create and enhance efficient end-ofof-life demolition scrap back to sorts of material, both of which are advocating for the notion of metals life recycling processes for wrought products. traditionally difficult to recycle: CR3: We are a member of the as permanent material and on the aluminium products small spirals of waste aluminium, Center for Resource Recovery use of relevant recycling metrics. known as turnings; and painted or and Recycling that brings together coated end-of-life scrap. universities and industry partners to improve recycling processes, through better sorting, metal Increasing end-of-life target set by the European recyclers to validate the feasibility composition analysis and SENTRY: Led by the Basque recycling across the industry beverage can industry to raise the of recycling properly sorted conditioning of scrap. GAIKER-IK4, IK4-LORTEK and IK4recycling rate to 75% by the end demolition scrap and turning it into Our approach is to focus our efforts AZTERLAN R&D centres, SENTRY of 2015, and are partners in the new products; on increasing end-of-life recycling is part of the Clean Sky program. ‘Every Can Counts’ initiative – a and designing with end-of-life • Lowering the amount of Its objective is to define dismantling consumer campaign to increase recycling in mind. Recycling is a scrap generated by our and recycling operations for new recycling rates of beverage Industry Associations: shared challenge, and increasing customers, particularly in the metallic aero-structures with cans. Latest available data show As members of European end-of-life recycling is the best way aerospace market; and the minimum environmental continuous improvement with Aluminium and International of getting more recycled metal back impact, to maximize potential 69.5% achieved in 2012, up from • Developing more scrap-friendly Aluminium Institute we work with for a new life. reuse of the recovered materials. 52% in 2005 (and 43% in 2000); alloys that will further develop the others on industry challenges, Through SENTRY, the Europe-based At the same time we aim to minimize use of scrap in wrought alloys, thus including the Aluminum • Improving end-of-life processes, companies Dassault Aviation, the amount of scrap generated avoiding potential down-cycling in Association in the US. particularly dismantling and AELS and Constellium, together across our operations, and recycle cast products. shredding. See our partnerships with the Israeli IAI, are working any scrap that we do produce, with IRT M2P, CR3 and SENTRY on Next steps include our involvement with IK4 members to develop new despite our best efforts. the opposite page; in recycling in the US, notably fuselage technologies and endKey activities in 2014 included: through the recent acquisition of-life procedures to benefit the •Enhancing the recycling of wrought aviation sector, aluminium industry of Wise Metals. • Improving end-of-life collection products into new wrought and environmental assessment rates, particularly in packaging. products, through better sorting. in general. We have endorsed the collective We have been working with metal 50 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 51 Supporting our people Our aim is for Constellium to be recognized as the natural Materiality coverage Ensuring safety at work Environment, Health and Safety must be investigated through our 8D (Discipline)2 problemhome for talented and dedicated employees. We know that a • Ensuring safety at work (EHS) is the number one priority solving process within five days. During 2014, we continued to for Constellium – we want every safe, content and engaged workforce translates directly into • Reducing use of harmful substances employee, visitor and contractor assess the effectiveness of how we implement this methodology with to return home safely every day. improved business performance, and we will continue • Improving employee satisfaction Using EHS FIRST, our comprehensive our effectiveness score rising from 75% in 2013 to 87%. to invest in initiatives to support our people. • Reducing psycho-social risks and integrated EHS management 204 (work-related stress) system, has improved our safety • Developing training record in recent years, yet we can and empowerment – and must – do better. In 2014, the 8D investigations number of serious injuries including in Constellium in 2014 fatalities decreased from seven to Targets four. However, the single fatality we • 60% improvement in recordable experienced during the year detracts This score measures how effectively cases by 2014 significantly from this achievement. the 8D process has been performed In December, at Chippis, Switzerland three months after the incident, • No serious injuries in 2015 an employee was killed in a molten against a 100% ideal assessment. • 50% improvement in employee metal explosion during the casting At the same time, we increased the suggestions by 2014 process. We deeply regret this tragic number of 8D investigations from accident, which strengthens our 72 to 204. • 75% participation rate in the resolve to do everything we can to employee survey in 2014 ensure the safety of all our people. Improving safety performance • Six-point improvement in the Learning from this incident, we have We continue to develop new employee satisfaction rate introduced several new measures to processes and modify existing ones in 2014 protect employees during casting. to improve our safety performance. These include constructing new The two fatalities in 2013 and the Performance physical structures, such as screens fatality in 2014 have led to significant and cabins, and replacing manual new programs. These include a range • Our Recordable Case Rate of initiatives to address the dangers activities where possible. remained largely unchanged of crane operation and working at at 2.8 Our Recordable Case Rate1 remained height, following the fatalities at largely unchanged at 2.8. This rate our plants in Ravenswood, West • It is with great sadness that has reduced over the last decade, Virginia and Levice, Slovakia in 2013 we report one fatality in 2014. from 13 in 2004, largely through (see ‘Working safely at height’ on The number of serious injuries the introduction of best practice page 52). including this fatality was four measures. Achieving a further • Improvement in number of reduction is a key challenge, but 1. R  ecordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost time employee suggestions, with it is one we face with resolve injuries, restricted work injuries or medical 58% now making at least one and commitment. treatments per one million hours worked. suggestion per month 2. The 8D (Discipline) problem-solving method All our plants use a structured is a structured, step-by-step approach to • 11.4% improvement in problem-solving methodology to understanding a problem and developing employee survey participation identify the root cause of safety solutions. It prevents problem solvers from jumping to premature conclusions before in 2014 to 75% or environmental incidents under a problem is properly defined and its root • Two-point improvement in an EHS directive. All recordable cause identified. employee satisfaction rate cases, high potential near misses, high potential first aid incidents and environmental events 52 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 53 Supporting our people continued We are committed to sharing best Working safely practices on EHS across the broader industry and in 2014 Creating a great The results at Gottmadingen were achieved through a twin focus on at height again collaborated with place to work engagement and communication. For example, in 2014, managers European Aluminium, the International Aluminium Institute at the plant again increased their Working at height is inherently Our Gottmadingen automotive and the Aluminum Association shop floor tours, ensuring that dangerous, yet sometimes production site in Germany in the US on a range of initiatives. employees are treated with respect essential to our operations. In 2014, recorded the highest scores and that managers are aware of following a height-related fatality For more information see in the employee survey, with a ‘Stakeholder perspectives’ on any issues. Employees responded at the plant in the previous year, participation score of 98% and a pages 39–41 with a high level of suggestions the EHS team at Levice in Slovakia satisfaction score of 90%, up from per month, with around 85% of developed and implemented an 85% and 77% respectively in 2012. all employees making at least innovative yet relatively simple THANK YOU AWARDS to the Working @ Height team Reducing use of harmful This performance was achieved one improvement suggestion per solution which reduced heightrelated risk to employees and substances despite the plant’s rapid growth month. This feedback underlines As our use of chemicals is a material from around 30 employees when the value of direct face-tocontractors by 89%. features a total of 13 new safe hosted by Chief Executive Officer it was established in 2000 to some working areas and three new Pierre Vareille. These annual awards issue, during the year we continued face engagement. The Working @ Height initiative to evaluate how we handle harmful 550 today. service platforms on existing are designed to foster excellence The management team organizes (W@H) included the installation crane tracks. throughout the Company and pay substances such as hydrofluoric At the heart of this strong twice-yearly meetings with of new fixed ladders and railings tribute to the talented people who acid, which remains essential to performance is a culture In September 2014, W@H was a all employees to inform them to working platforms as well as support our business. our manufacturing processes. of teamwork and trust, Gold Winner at the Constellium about key business and site the purchase of dedicated safety As a result, we improved the ways in empowerment and mutual THANK YOU AWARDS which were issues. The meetings include: equipment. The Levice plant now For more information on which we use, transport and store respect. The key performance THANK YOU AWARDS see page 54 an assessment of the market; this substance. tool deployed by the plant’s stable a forecast of future performance; management team is to lead and an outline of projects currently We extended our program of We also launched a new concern at Constellium’s current Improving employee work alongside people, listening underway and planned; an outline Leadership Safety Tours during communications program based safety performance and invited satisfaction to what employees say but also of any development plans for the 2014. These tours are a companyon the FIRST acronym below, to all employees to “make safety an hearing what they are not saying. plant; and a Q&A session where We value our employees highly and Quality and high-performance wide initiative through which remind employees of our five key everyday priority”. In addition, many work hard to ensure they enjoy employees are encouraged to all our leaders – from senior safety behaviors: sites organized activities to improve delivery are core objectives for interact with management. maximum job satisfaction; we managers, but so too are ‘leading management to shift supervisors EHS performance. For example, we believe this translates into improved F – interact with their teams on a ollow EHS rules even if carried out emergency procedure with a smile’, being approachable business performance. and being alert to employee stress. weekly basis and encourage all you are in a hurry tests in Dahenfeld, Decin, Paris, our people to identify simple, Levice, Carquefou and NeufIn 2012, we launched our biennial ntervene immediately if sustainable solutions on the shop floor. This is a direct and effective means of gathering feedback to I somebody is taking risks or deviating from EHS rules Brisach and health workshops in Ravenswood, Crailsheim and Landau. Contractors participated in employee survey program, which is designed to understand our employees’ needs and improve improve safety performance on the ground and is now a dedicated EHS Key Performance Indicator. A new R eport EHS hazards to prevent injury these events alongside Constellium employees and generated suggestions for safety improvement satisfaction. Every employee had the opportunity to take part in the survey, either via the internet or earch out EHS risks EHS template for daily Compliance to Rules Tours and the Leadership S before any changed or non-routine activity during work sessions. on paper. The survey identified our key strengths and areas for improvement, and in 2014 we carried Safety Tours makes it easier and Strengthening stakeholder more effective to monitor and followup on situations that are potentially T ake EHS as your first priority interaction Contractors, suppliers and visitors to out a second survey to evaluate the progress we had made. harmful. Compliance to Rules tours our sites are expected to comply with 75% of our plants help us identify any Every year, we take time to remind our people about the importance the same high EHS requirements as deviations from rules and to take the of safety through our EHS FIRST employees. Each person receives a necessary corrective actions. Day. In 2014, this event engaged plant-specific orientation and is fully participation rate in the thousands of Constellium supervised throughout their visit. employee survey in 2014 employees. The theme this year Each person entering a Constellium was behavior as the key driver to managed area is included in Annual EHS FIRST day at the Gottmadingen plant improving safety. Our Chief Executive the Constellium Injury Record Officer Pierre Vareille voiced his Keeping System. 54 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 55 Supporting our people continued Promising results The Lean Team Development Work related stress can affect In 2014, participation in the survey Fund was created earlier this year. Each Team Leader receives a sum employees in every organization. At our Issoire and C-TEC Supporting reached 75%, in line with our target. Promisingly, our employee of €1,000 to be used by operators locations we have implemented sporting excellence satisfaction metric has increased to implement improvement ideas a multidisciplinary approach to Majid Jabbour, who works in our IT by 2%, but this was not sufficient to and generate team spirit. The teams this complex issue. Working with department, has been passionate reach the six-point improvement we are free to spend it as they wish, employees, unions, management about kayaking since the age of 14. had targeted for 2014. and since January 2014, the teams and health experts, we have Today, he is a member of the Kayak have used the funds to make launched several initiatives, National Team of Morocco and We have made good progress in several investments. For example, including: was ranked 27th worldwide in 2011, several areas. The results show Finally, we must make further a production team at Nuits-Saintas well as third at the last African that our people have a better • using an employee survey to progress in encouraging our people Georges in France used its €1,000 championship in 2013. Majid is identify the main causes and and several other international understanding of the vision and to take more pride in product quality, fund to capture benchmarks and now aiming for qualification for consequences of stress. More than regattas. To help Majid maintain strategy of the Company, and they and this was addressed through share best practices by visiting the the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de 1,200 employees have participated his training and preparations, we are more confident that our Senior ‘Year of Quality’ campaign, which was Crailsheim site in Germany. Janeiro, Brazil. This year, he will at Issoire; provide him with flexibility at work, Managers and leaders can execute implemented widely in 2014. participate in two World Cups, as well as financial sponsorship for this strategy and make the right Promoting health and • creating a multidisciplinary pilot the World Championship in Milan, To improve our performance his equipment and training. decisions promptly. Furthermore, group that is helping us monitor our people increasingly adhere ahead of the 2016 survey, we are reducing stress our stress prevention initiatives; to our goals and objectives, have empowering each site to take Promoting health and reducing accountability for improvement. stress underlines our commitment to • reviewing stress indicators performance by giving feedback and also provided with mentoring a better understanding of our In September 2014, each site all aspects of employee wellbeing. quarterly to identify and address through a simple method: identify for 12 months. In addition to our values and greater belief in our presented the main drivers behind key situations. At C-TEC, for the Situation, the Task, the Action corporate programs, each site products and services. They believe Over the last 12 months, our teams in their highest scoring categories example, we have identified 10 and the Result. The 5 Whys provides safety, technical and that Constellium is improving its Germany carried out important work to senior management. Based on indicators while at Issoire we have methodology tackles root causes, personal development training to customer focus and are more to help people return to Constellium best practice sharing, all sites have created a 34-point action plan questioning why something has employees, in line with local needs. confident that they will be able following absence. Also in Germany, set up relevant local action plans, which will be deployed by the end happened and analyzing how In return, each team was given a to develop to their full potential. we launched an extensive with their achievements subject to of 2015; improvements could make a €1,000 development fund to spend in Concerning their job, they now have health campaign at our Singen, quarterly reviews. difference to the outcome. any way they chose (see ‘Recognition a better understanding of their roles Gottmadingen and Dahenfeld plants, • launching a training and awareness and reward’ on the opposite page for and performance objectives, and Furthermore, we exceeded our target focused on five key elements: program for managers and Because our people understand more information). their appreciation of immediate of achieving a 50% improvement employees. 80% of employees where and how we can improve, management has improved. • stress management, including at C-TEC and 100% of Issoire we set a Lean target of half of all Employee behavior is guided by our in employee suggestions by 2014. stress analysis through a heart managers have been trained to employees making a suggestion Code of Conduct and the year saw us However, there remains On average, each employee now scan, together with seminars on date; and each month. During 2014, we again deliver e-training modules and significant room for improvement. provides eight suggestions every how to reduce stress and how exceeded that target, with 58% of refresher courses. As Constellium has moved from year, which are duly considered and • creating a “preventer network”, leaders can encourage health; employees giving us the benefit of being a division of a large group to a treated as required. trained to listen, alert and advise fully independent company listed on • promoting physical activity, on work related stress. We have their experience and knowledge. Encouraging gender 8 through eight-week circuit The aim is to analyze most diversity the New York Stock Exchange, the 15 preventers at C-TEC and 25 training programs; suggestions within 24 hours and to survey clearly showed the impact at Issoire. Currently, we manage diversity at implement them as soon as possible. of change. Although our values suggestions per employee • ergonomics, including a a local level. The year saw a focus are better understood, people every year physiotherapy consultation and Training and empowerment At the same time, we have continued on recruiting more young women, have signaled that we need to do expert personal advice; to deliver training programs to Front specifically in production functions more in order to build a strong At Constellium, we know that training Line Managers, this year focusing including Lean Manager, supervisor company culture in which they can • nutrition, based on improving and empowerment not only ensure on adaptive leadership sessions Recognition and reward and operator roles. fully engage. They also expressed nutrition by promoting balanced that we meet our business objectives which aim to enhance leadership concerns about how they are The THANK YOU AWARDS are one menus in our canteens; and but also that our people fulfill their and communication skills. In 2015, Government legislation in France recognized in their daily activities. way in which we recognize the great own personal potential. managers will receive training on also requires organizations to reach work of our people during the year. • vaccination, including agreement with unions on gender We have therefore developed a influenza vaccinations. As part of our Lean leadership conflict resolution. specific training program on giving This program celebrates individual equality. C-TEC, our technology program, over 3,500 operators In addition, we developed an and receiving feedback, as part of employees and teams across the center, was the first Constellium each received two hours of training Emerging Leaders program in the Lean program. Company for their remarkable facility to sign up to the agreement in on feedback and the 5 Whys 2014, with 20 selected employees efforts and accomplishments, which 2012. Today, women account for 30% methodology. STAR feedback is being coached on a week-long combine to advance our collective of employed staff in C-TEC. a pragmatic tool that improves residential course in Germany, ambition, goals and values. 56 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 57 Supporting our people continued Labour days where families, friends and training for a wide range of other neighbors can visit the site to see our Looking ahead roles such as sales, marketing and work at close quarters. During 2014, human resources. Each year, more Environment, health and safety • Carry out a site-by-site analysis we held these events at Levice in of potential emergency situations, than 20 apprentices graduate and Slovakia, and Carquefou in France, • Integrate the Muscle Shoals take their places on the Singen including chemical spills, and as well as at our joint-venture at plant in the US with the EHS evaluate our capability to manage shop floor or in our offices. Changchun, China. organization and align it an emergency situation that has The Singen approach, where public to Constellium standards. escalated into a crisis education resources are integrated The integration program will into our facilities, is a training model that we believe offers great Restoring a include the introduction of proven Constellium initiatives such Employee engagement opportunities. We work closely with hamlet, building as a number of serious injury prevention programs as well as • Work to improve our engagement and satisfaction scores ahead Preparing the workforce of tomorrow – apprentices at the Neuf-Brisach plant local schools at Singen and deliver the majority of the training within a team Leadership Safety Tours of the next survey, scheduled for 2016. This includes the site, ensuring that apprentices • Roll out the Contained implementation of action plans in gain practical knowledge of the During 2014, a team of new Fueling our future vocational training program to help 59 young people, including working environment. apprentices from our site at Hazards program, in line with the Lean phase 2 KPI, which all sites, and several organization development initiatives in the 20 women, become production This integrated approach, which is Valais in Switzerland spent a encourages immediate action to Aerospace and Transportation The young people of today are the line operators. well-established in Germany and at week restoring the culturally identified risks unit in order to address the future of Constellium. We work Valais in Switzerland, is now being important hamlet of Chiessio • Reduce the time taken by new identified weaknesses At Singen in Germany, over 100 rolled out to other Constellium in the Alps. Supervised by hard to ensure that they have the employees, or those joining to apprentices and students take part sites, particularly in France. professionals, they carried out • Encourage every site to lead skills they need to succeed, with a complete their EHS introductory in a three-and-a-half-year program various tasks including building community activities and share primary focus on apprenticeships. Towards the end of 2014, our Chief modules, from six months to at our Industrial Training Center. lime walls, installing doors and best practice with other sites During 2014, we increased the The program covers the different Executive Officer Pierre Vareille, water pipes, repairing roofs and four weeks number of apprentices by 29% over disciplines that the site depends as well as Executive Committee cutting wood. Training and empowerment members Marc Boone and Laurent • Implement the Business Unit 2013. We have doubled our intake on, including mechatronics, (BU) President site visit program. Musy, met a number of apprentices The purpose of the project was • Launch the Constellium of apprentices at Neuf-Brisach and mechanics, process mechanics, Under this initiative, every BU at Singen. not only to rebuild the hamlet University, a formal onboarding Issoire in France. At Neuf-Brisach, materials testing and mechanical President will visit each plant and the access paths in order program aimed at new managers for example, we launched a new engineering. Singen also delivers once a year, with the visit focused to support tourism – but also solely on EHS matters, as a • Implement Conflict Management to build a team among the demonstration of EHS FIRST training for Front Line Managers The agreement at C-TEC included Finally, we permit some flexibility from health and sport initiatives apprentices, who slept on-site in action and presentation skills for 10 action points that will enable to part-time employees, and we at Issoire, Montreuil-Juigné and shared cooking and cleaning manufacturing support functions us to: increase diversity during allow them to work from home in and Carquefou in France and responsibilities at the camp. • Standardize our environmental recruitment; support the promotion case of specific situations with the Gottmadingen, Dahenfeld and risk assessment methods • Continue to encourage employees of women; ensure salaries are paid agreement of their manager. Singen in Germany to educational to suggest areas for improvement, fairly, independent of gender and projects at Valais in Switzerland. • Participate in the 2015 biennial through the Lean training program At Neuf-Brisach in France, we European Aluminium safety improve the balance between work Supporting communities workshop, building on our • Launch AIRWARE® school, which and home life. organized a day when youngsters We rely on local communities to success at the 2013 workshop aims to develop technical training could find out about their parents’ Following the agreement, we have provide people with the skills, where we took the top three on AIRWARE® jobs and also held several student already made good progress on a commitment and experience places, out of 39 entrants. visitor days. At Decin in the Czech • Enable open enrollment in number of issues. These include that we need to maintain our This event facilitates the Republic, initiatives included an leadership program ensuring equality in promotion competitive edge. So we are keen sharing of best practice to award presented to the best high opportunities for men and women to play an active part in supporting further improve our industry • Develop Lean program school student. We also supported and providing individual coaching those communities wherever and safety performance and functional training for environmental schemes at C-TEC, to support the promotion of whenever possible. support functions Paris and Zurich, made financial •Produce two new safety videos: women. In addition, 25% of women Each plant adapts its initiatives to donations at Ravenswood and and 11% men have seen their Safe Behavior at Machines and • Activate a central Human its own local environment, rather Van Buren for the Toys “R” Us Contractor Management to salaries adjusted. Constellium has Resource Information System than merely adopting a companyfoundation and restored an ancient encourage the adoption of safety also partnered with other local (HRIS) wide approach. building at Valais (see ‘Restoring a behavior in the workplace companies to facilitate nursery hamlet, building a team’ opposite). Apprentices at camp in Valais access in case of emergencies Every site was involved in valuable In addition, many of our facilities related to employees’ children. community work during the year, regularly organize Open House 58 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 59 Making our operations more efficient Environment Maintaining efficient operations is fundamental to strong Materiality coverage Improving the energy efficiency of our operations We calculate our energy efficiency by using an ‘energy consumption to long-term performance. It saves costs, reduces our direct • Improve energy efficiency With its properties of lightness with produced ton’ ratio, which is then modified by a product mix factor. of operations environmental impacts, and can even improve the speed • Control and reduce our strength and infinite recyclability, aluminium has clear advantages in This is because although more complex products deliver greater at which we get products to market. 2014 was another greenhouse gas emissions terms of energy efficiency. Although the initial process environmental benefits during use, they also require more energy strong year, particularly in the areas of resource and • Prevent pollution from operations to manufacture aluminium is to manufacture. We introduced Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) necessarily energy intensive, energy efficiency. • Reduce waste from operations aluminium products such as cars specifically to ensure that the energy efficiency benefits during usage are and airplanes enable greater energy efficiency during usage, while taken into account when discussing Targets recycling requires only moderate the extra energy consumed energy consumption. during production (see ‘Life Cycle • 10% decrease in energy Assessment’ on page 45). consumption per processed We address the challenge of unit by 2015 (2010 baseline) energy efficiency by developing Our improved performance in 2014 and supporting improved recycling was driven by several factors, • All five major European including enhanced metal recovery (see ‘Recycling’ on pages 47–49), sites achieving ISO 50001 processes, which provide more by increasing the performance of certification by 2015 metal output for the same energy our products and by working on •75% total landfill reduction by the energy efficiency of our own input. In addition, we invested in 2020 (2010 baseline) operations, which in turn improves new and more efficient production the performance of end products tools as well as ancillary equipment (see ‘Products’ on page 43). such as boilers and lighting. We also Performance revitalized our energy network during • Improved energy consumption Improving efficiency by 10% 2014, to improve how we share best per processed unit by 10% practice across Constellium. Even though our energy consumption ahead of 2015 target date makes only a minor contribution to the lifetime energy used by an ISO 50001 certification • Achieved ISO 50001 certification at Decin. Neufaluminium product, we remain Our target is that all our major Brisach, Issoire and Valais committed to becoming more energy European sites will be certified under are all expected to follow suit efficient. Our target was to improve the ISO 50001 energy management during 2015 efficiency by 10% by 2015, from a scheme by the end of 2015. These 2010 baseline, and we are pleased sites account for over 60% of our • Reduced landfill waste in 2014 to report that we have achieved this energy consumption. by around 1,212 metric tons target in 2014. (mainly due to change in nonrecurrent activities), but we still need to make significant improvements regarding our 2010 1.00 2011 0.96 2012 0.93 2013 0.93 2014 0.90 ISO 50001 recurrent activities Certification achieved at Decin. Neuf-Brisach. Issoire and Valais 10% decrease in energy are all expected to follow suit during 2015 consumption per processed unit 60 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 61 Making our operations more efficient continued Reducing greenhouse What does this mean for adverse impact on water quality. gas emissions (GHG) Constellium? Firstly, we are These require constant monitoring, continuing to work hard to cut and we have decontamination In common with all progressive GHGs through initiatives such as treatment underway. In addition, industrial companies, we are improvements on our production other risks relate to our use of committed to reducing our impact lines and by making sure we use chemical compounds, notably on the environment by cutting GHG as little material as possible. fuel, lubricants, raw materials for emissions wherever possible. Secondly – and this will ultimately coatings and surface treatment. However, this is a complex issue lead to a far greater understanding The potentially significant impacts for the aluminium industry. In order of aluminium’s role in GHG are pollution of soil, groundwater or to ensure understanding of the emissions – we are keen to report river courses. true impact of our operations, our performance under Scopes 1, We have rigorous internal directives we need to encourage a holistic 2 and 31, and are preparing to do in place regarding issues including view. Specifically, we wish to raise so in the near future. Now favored spill containment, underground tank awareness of GHGs throughout by many regulators and proposed storage and soil and groundwater the entire life-cycle of aluminium to be used as the basis for new monitoring. These cover all key products, not only during legislation, reporting under Scope 3 aspects of environmental protection, manufacturing processes. will provide a clearer picture of our and these are complemented by GHG emissions because it will take We acknowledge that the written guidelines. We have now into account factors other than our manufacturing processes that added new guidelines to the directive Oxy-fuel combustion technology manufacturing processes, including create aluminium are indeed energy on emergency preparedness and Energy efficient LED lighting at the Ravenswood plant at the Neuf-Brisach plant the life-cycle benefits of aluminium intensive. LCA studies consistently crisis management. These include and recycling. show that reducing GHG emissions improved emergency procedures, over the full life-cycle depends on In 2014, our Scopes 1 and 2 particularly where the situation Taking a total In fact the LEDs, which save energy and also improve safety and In our 2012 sustainability report, we highlighted a project where two factors: being able to deliver emissions increased by 1.6% demands external support. The new approach to energy working conditions because of their added brightness, now account for we worked with our oxygen and gas supplier Linde to reduce high-performance products, which require less material and reduce to 755kt CO2 eq., in line with our increased energy consumption. guidelines will be rolled out across all Constellium production sites in 2015. efficiency 80% of Ravenswood’s lighting. energy consumption and CO2 energy consumption during usage; and further improving end-of-life The principal contribution to this increase is the increased production Our EHS Managers meet and emissions. In 2014, we continued share best practice twice a year, Ravenswood provides an instructive recycling rates. of automotive parts in our Van that collaboration by fitting new under the umbrella of the EHS Improving energy efficiency is one example of how a number of Buren facility and the recycling oxy-fuel technology to one rotary For instance, although the network. An internal mandatory of our key objectives, and during separate improvements combined operation in Decin associated with furnace at our Neuf-Brisach manufacture of aluminium parts for auditing program verifies that 2014 we again launched, extended to have a major impact on total our new furnace (see page 48). plant. Early results show energy cars initially produces relatively high we are following the directives and rolled out a wide range of energy efficiency during 2014. Although recycling helps reduce consumption falling by 50% levels of GHGs, the lighter weight of and implementing the correct energy-saving initiatives. Together, the new motor drive the overall GHG emissions (through and the melting rate increasing these parts has a dramatic effect procedures at all times. In addition, and LED lighting have reduced Scope 3), it comes at the cost of local For example, we optimized by 20%. This is part of a joint on the energy efficiency – and during 2014 we introduced an electricity consumption by almost higher emissions for Scopes 1 and 2. heating systems and boilers development agreement between therefore the GHG emissions – of the external audit in one pilot site to 20,000 MWh. At the same time, at several sites, including the our companies which will see the car during its lifetime. Furthermore, evaluate our performance, and we we have increased production Preventing pollution on-site introduction of energy recovery remaining furnaces at Neuf-Brisach aluminium can be infinitely recycled have decided to roll-out this audit in capacity at the site by optimizing systems at Decin in the Czech converted by the end of 2016. through processes that require Pollution prevention is overseen by 2015 and forward, towards covering metal composition and processing, Republic and Burg in Germany, and significantly less energy than the a dedicated organization supported all our sites. Each plant also carries and balancing the upstream and “This project is very significant installed a new pusher furnace at original manufacturing processes by commitment at all levels of out an annual drill to optimize the downstream heat treatments to for Linde in terms of our Neuf‑Brisach in France which has (see ‘Recycling’ on page 47). our workforce. performance of our people and reduce natural gas consumption commitment to technological led to around 7% improvement This means that when the car has processes in the event of a pollution per ton by 4%. progress as a sustainable Pollution is a material risk at all in energy consumption. reached the end of its useful life, the or emergency incident and during solutions provider. We welcome production sites. In two of our sites, In addition, we invested in new this joint development with aluminium can be transformed into the year we also implemented a there are significant risks being motor drives at our rolling mills at Working together Constellium as it will advance new products extremely efficiently. posed by soil contaminated by full-scale emergency response drill (see ‘Ensuring the right response’ on Issoire in France and Ravenswood the development of the oxychlorinated solvents during previous in the US. Ravenswood also fuel process, save energy and page 62). Our strategy is not only to share operations, which could have an achieved efficiencies through a new increase efficiency for fully 1. S  cope 1 emissions are direct emissions best practice and collaborate LED lighting project, following on ramped-up plants.” from owned or controlled sources. with colleagues but also with Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the success of similar projects our suppliers, building long‑term Thomas Niehoff from the generation of purchased energy. at Singen in Germany in 2012 and Head of Non-Ferrous and Mining at Linde relationships that deliver Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions Issoire in 2013. (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value mutual benefits. chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions. 62 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 63 Making our operations more efficient continued had the effect of making our target Ensuring the The scenario at Neuf-Brisach was a fire on a lacquering line, followed by It also endorsed the ability of the crisis management team to more challenging. In order to rise to this challenge, we will engage with right response an explosion in a furnace that led to chemical leaks and major injuries. support their colleagues in the field, and to handle all aspects partners to deliver common solutions to waste recycling. We selected this scenario because of communication. Following the We work hard to minimize the it could lead to the greatest drill, we discussed the challenges likelihood of on-site pollution potential impact and required of such a large-scale incident with Looking ahead incidents, and as a responsible the intervention of a number of the external emergency rescue organization, have plans in place to •F  urther improve energy specialist teams. We deployed the services and shared thoughts protect employees, the community efficiency by rolling out Emergency Response Plan, which on how our response could be and the site in the event of an new practices such as mobilized our teams on-site and improved. These included the need incident. There is no substitute upgrading to oxy-fuel burner guided how we worked with the to provide additional training to for first-hand experience, which the rotary furnaces, at our external rescue services, with all members of the crisis management is why in 2014 we carried out a Neuf‑Brisach plant actions managed from a dedicated team in order to give them a full-scale emergency response crisis management center. greater understanding of their Casthouse at the Issoire plant •R  oll out ISO 50001 certification and crisis management drill at personal roles. to three major plants: Issoire, our Neuf-Brisach plant in France. The drill highlighted the robustness Neuf-Brisach and Valais This involved 50 of our people, of our plans and demonstrated We have not received a fine for by 75% by 2020, against a 2010 including our own on-site fire excellent cooperation between the environmental issues for a decade, baseline. This will require a reduction •D  efine a new set of operational brigade, working alongside the internal and external teams. and this again applied in 2014. of around 8,000 metric tons per year. targets, notably in the area of external emergency and rescue Our risk prevention processes and energy efficiency and reducing services as well as local authorities. To meet this ambitious target, GHG emissions compliance with regulations are we are developing solutions to recognized by ISO 14001 certification, •D  eploy a new employee guide help us recycle waste that goes to which states that sites must prevent for emergency situations based landfill that is not currently widely pollution. In addition, our sites have on 2014 drills and learning classified as recyclable. The solution to fulfill legal requirements, meet throughout the year must be technically feasible and the requirements of insurers or economically viable in order for it to • Integrate the Muscle Shoals insurance and follow our own internal be implemented. plants in Alabama. This will directives and guidelines. All our fully-owned industrial sites are now In 2014, a solution was found to involve preparing the plants to certified to ISO 14001. We also adopt recycle 300 tons of municipal meet ISO 14001 and OHSAS a systematic approach to identify waste which is produced annually 18001 certification, sharing best potential ongoing cases of nonat our Issoire plant in France but practice and ensuring the plants compliance, and this is additionally which was previously incinerated. meet Constellium policy reviewed by the Executive Committee We also conducted trials on recycling •E  ndorse the future Aluminium of Constellium. Although we have filtration dust alongside salt slag Stewardship Initiative (ASI) the highest standards supported during the year, and continued our standard (see page 40 for by commitment at all levels of work towards reducing waste sent more information) our workforce, we will never to landfill. be complacent. •F  urther engage in reducing the Although we aim to go beyond amount of waste sent to landfill, legislative requirements at all our despite challenging targets Reducing waste from our plants, the program to reduce waste is operations complicated by the different legislative Aluminium is a highly recyclable environments that govern our plants product. However, the manufacturing worldwide. A more rigorous regime in process produces waste products – Europe has led to the development such as salt slag, filtration dust and of more facilities for recycling, and sludge from wastewater treatment. therefore more opportunities for us to We aim to reduce these waste reduce waste sent to landfill. products wherever practicable. In the US, where there are fewer Crisis preparation emergency drill We have an ambitious target to cost-effective recycling solutions, Sorting of production waste at Above: Cast house at Issoire. our acquisition of Wise Metals has one of our sites reduce the waste we send to landfill 64 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 65 Doing business responsibly We are committed to transparency and improving the Materiality coverage Promoting and enforcing ethical business practices of the minerals used in our products originated from conflict zones during sustainability of our sector. Our approach is underpinned by • Promoting and enforcing ethical We view compliance as an the previous year. We also set up a dedicated team to answer any business practices the principles of fairness, responsibility and due-diligence • Engaging suppliers in opportunity to add value and mitigate risk. The way that our specific questions relating to our use of minerals during production. and is maintained through strong relationships that adhere sustainability performance employees conduct themselves is key to managing this risk. This process will continue in the to applicable regulations. We endorse the United Nations • Increasing economic performance (see pages 2, Promoting and enforcing ethical future, so that we are able to provide answers to our stakeholders on an business practices through our Global Compact (UNGC) principles and actively work towards 10 and 70) Code of Conduct helps us to embed ongoing basis. appropriate behaviors across our encouraging our suppliers to become fellow signatories. Targets business and our supply chain. Engaging suppliers in sustainability performance • 100% of key suppliers joining Updating our Code of Conduct At Constellium, sustainability does the UNGC by 2015 not just mean ensuring that our own We regularly review and update our Code of Conduct which lays down social, environmental and ethical Performance strict guidelines on the behaviors standards are in place. It also means we expect from all our people, on all making sure our values are reflected • We provided 60 customers with across the supply chain. sites (see page 77 for details on Code information relating to the use of Conduct Training programs). Our comprehensive and companyof conflict minerals wide sustainable supply chain • 10 suppliers had their No conflict minerals policy outlines the behaviors sustainability performance With the launch of the Dodd-Frank we expect from our suppliers, assessed through a new Act in the US, it is now a legal including social and environmental pilot program requirement for manufacturing behaviors. In 2014, we assessed the companies to provide information sustainability performance of our • Around half of our key suppliers relating to where they source some key metal and energy suppliers, as are signatories to UNGC by 2014 specific raw materials. This call well as those suppliers identified as for increased transparency aims posing greater risk to our business, to control the use of minerals such primarily due to their location. as gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten We launched a pilot program with obtained from conflict zones – such 10 suppliers to identify the risks and as the eastern provinces of the opportunities of our engagement Democratic Republic of Congo and with them. We are currently neighboring countries. analyzing the results before deciding how to progress. In 2014, we were contacted by over 60 customers to provide information Aligned with the UNGC, our supply about the use of conflict minerals chain policy is a proven way of in the production process. In line encouraging meaningful dialog with with companies registered on the our stakeholders. It also supports New York Stock Exchange, we our target of ensuring that all key filed a disclosure document with suppliers adhere to UNGC principles the US Securities and Exchange by 2015. Unfortunately, despite Commission (SEC) in May 2014, engaging closely with our key suppliers which can be found on our website. to encourage them to become The results were based on an signatories, the process is taking investigation which involved tracing longer than expected, as it requires materials down the supply chain to companies to evaluate and sometimes the smelting phase of production. realign their strategy and compliance models. To date, nine of our 16 key By engaging with our suppliers, suppliers are signatories to UNGC. we were able to determine that none 66 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 67 Doing business responsibly continued Anti-corruption As well as our supply chain policy, we our aluminium suppliers and to Our ability to be a safe and also have a dedicated Supplier Code encourage them to be compliant. responsible corporate citizen also of Conduct in place. The Code meets depends in part on the capability The essence of the ASI standard is all pillars of the UNGC principles and performance of those who that it enables transparency, not and we are currently in the process help us carry out our operations only regarding the sustainability of of ensuring that it is signed up to by (see ‘Strengthening stakeholder our suppliers, but also of the entire all our suppliers. The Supplier Code interaction’ on page 52 for value chain. Moreover, the Chain of Conduct applies to all suppliers, more information). of Custody will ensure that the subsidiaries, consultants, contractors metal we buy has been certified. and affiliates of Constellium. A copy can be found on our website. This serves as an important step Looking ahead towards fulfilling our commitment As an active member of the towards supplier sustainability. • Encourage our suppliers to Aluminium Stewardship Initiative We look forward to welcoming more sign up to the Aluminium (ASI), this standard is one of the focal members into this project and to all Stewardship Initiative (ASI) points of our dialog with the industry participants across the value chain • Roll out our company-wide and with our suppliers. We intend becoming ASI certified, which forms Supply Chain policy to comply with the standard, with an integral aspect of our approach our key target being to involve to our supply chain (see page 40 for information about our work with the ASI). Team at Oddo Metals Oddo Metals: Oddo has embedded a number of sustainability principles in the way “At Oddo, we have immediately understood and given full support Paving the way it works, including: to Constellium’s sustainable supply chain strategy.” • adhering to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Antoine Chacun Our long-term partnership with Managing Director, Oddo Metals supplier Oddo Metals went from principles; strength to strength in 2014. •b  eing evaluated on sustainability Oddo has made it a priority “We have been very pleased to have processes and practices by to support our sustainability Oddo supporting us from the very an external and independent agenda and has taken steps to beginning of our efforts towards assessment company; and align its practices with our policy. a more sustainable supply chain, By adhering to our standards, •e  stablishing a Code of Conduct at and we look forward to all our the locations of its own suppliers. suppliers following suit.” Christian Keidel Group Director, Strategic Purchasing, Metal and Energy Procurement, Constellium Using train to transport metal supply, be it metal slabs or used beverage cans, to be recycled 68 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 69 In this section: Managing sustainability Consolidated income statement 70 Consolidated statement of financial position 71 Consolidated statement of cash flows 72 Share information 73 Sustainability data 74 Memberships 77 GRI G4 disclosure index 78 Forward-looking statements 81 Above: (from left) Rovertos Gross, Béatrice Charon, Olivier Néel, Catherine Athènes, Laurent Musy, Didier Vasner, Frédéric Dunod Our Sustainability Council was The key discussions and outcomes Carole Michalland formed in 2012, to provide a formal from the 2014 meetings included: Human Resource Consultant body to develop and implement our • 2014 results versus objectives of Guy-Michel Raynaud sustainability goals and practices. the roadmap; Director, Technology It includes representatives from every aspect of our business, • launch of specific actions: Didier Vasner because sustainability is a collective materiality assessment, LCAs of Group Environment Manager agenda. We believe it is important for key products; and each department to have a voice and “Our council has moved from • definition of new objectives. be able to share its perspective. an informal group of engaged executives to an established The council defines and updates our Members committee of managers. sustainability policy and links it with  aurent Musy L They represent all business units the overall Constellium corporate President, Aerospace and functions at high levels, and strategy. As part of this, council and Transportation beyond their genuine interest members discuss feedback and any Chairman, Sustainability Council in this subject, they bring the sustainability projects proposed right expertise and momentum by key stakeholders, including Catherine Athènes for Constellium to improve. customers, suppliers and NGOs. Sustainability Council Leader Areas for improvement include Director, Marketing, Packaging and better representation of our US The team is responsible for agreeing Automotive Rolled Products activities and accelerating our on key environmental and social objectives, targets and indicators, Olivier Néel sustainability projects.” and tracking our performance Sustainability Manager Béatrice Charon against them. In addition, the Vice President, Business Planning council’s role is to ensure accurate Laura Berneri disclosure of sustainability data, Director, External Communications together with alignment to Global Volker Brockhagen “I joined the Council recently Reporting Initiative (GRI), Carbon Director, Group EHS (Environment, representing the ‘Automotive Disclosure Project (CDP) and United Health and Safety) Structures and Industry’ Nations Global Compact (UNGC) business unit and I truly amongst others (see ‘Memberships’ Béatrice Charon Vice President, Business Planning appreciate the work that is being Performance on page 77). done and the commitment of The Sustainability Council meets Frédéric Dunod participants. As a newcomer to on a regular basis four times a Director, External Reporting Constellium, it is also interesting year. One of these events is a Sophia Elasri to gain a global view of the special meeting with the Executive Manager, Strategic Purchasing company through its approach in detail Committee of Constellium where Energy Procurement to sustainability.” members recap actions and decide Rovertos Gross the key priorities for the years ahead. Rovertos Gross Director, Strategy, Automotive Structures Director, Strategy, Automotive and Industry Structures and Industry 70 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 71 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of financial position Year ended Year ended Year ended At December 31, At December 31, (in millions of Euros) December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 (in millions of Euros) 2014 2013 Revenues 3,666 3,495 3,610 Assets Cost of sales (3,183) (3,024) (3,136) Non-current assets Gross profit 483 471 474 Intangible assets (including goodwill) 28 21 Selling and administrative expenses (200) (210) (212) Property, plant and equipment 632 408 Research and development expenses (38) (36) (36) Investments in joint-ventures 21 1 Restructuring costs (12) (8) (25) Deferred income tax assets 190 177 Other (losses)/gains – net (83) (8) 62 Trade receivables and other 48 60 Income from operations 150 209 263 Other financial assets 33 7 Other expenses – (27) (3) 952 674 Finance income 30 17 4 Current assets Finance costs (88) (67) (64) Inventories 432 328 Finance costs – net (58) (50) (60) Trade receivables and other 568 483 Share of (loss)/profit of joint-ventures (1) 3 (5) Other financial assets 57 25 Income before income tax 91 135 195 Cash and cash equivalents 989 233 Income tax expense (37) (39) (46) 2,046 1,069 Net income from continuing operations 54 96 149 Assets classified as held for sale 14 21 Discontinued operations Total assets 3,012 1,764 Net income/(loss) from discontinued operations – 4 (8) Net income for the period 54 100 141 Equity Net income attributable to: Share capital 2 2 Owners of the Company 51 98 139 Share premium 162 162 Non-controlling interests 3 2 2 Retained deficit and other reserves (207) (132) Net income 54 100 141 Equity attributable to owners of the Company (43) 32 Non-controlling interests 6 4 (37) 36 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Borrowings 1,205 326 Trade payables and other 31 35 Deferred income tax liabilities – 1 Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 654 507 Other financial liabilities 40 36 Provisions 61 65 1,991 970 Current liabilities Borrowings 47 22 Trade payables and other 872 646 Income taxes payable 11 19 Other financial liabilities 71 24 Provisions 49 38 1,050 749 Liabilities classified as held for sale 8 9 Total liabilities 3,049 1,728 Total equity and liabilities 3,012 1,764 72 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 73 Consolidated statement of cash flows Share information Year ended Year ended Year ended Share price evolution In US$ (from May 16, 2014) (in millions of Euros) December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 35 Net income from continuing operations 54 96 149 30 Adjustments 241 133 81 Changes in working capital: 25 Inventories (95) 41 35 Trade receivables (48) 9 26 20 Margin calls 11 4 7 Trade payables 170 (1) 20 15 Other working capital (33) (9) 27 Changes in other operating assets and liabilities: 10 Provisions (12) (17) (31) 05-16-2014 06-16-2014 07-16-2014 08-13-2014 09-16-2014 10-14-2014 11-14-2014 12-16-2014 01-16-2015 02-13-2015 03-16-2015 04-16-2015 05-14-2015 Income tax paid (27) (29) (28) Pension liabilities and other post-employment benefit obligations (49) (43) (40) Net cash flows from operating activities 212 184 246 Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment (199) (144) (126) Proceeds from disposals, including joint-venture (2) 7 – Investment in joint-venture (19) – – Proceeds from finance lease 6 6 8 Other investing activities (2) (1) (13) Shareholding structure (as of December 31, 2014) Average number of daily shares traded: 2.65% Net cash flows used in investing activities (216) (132) (131) 12.23% Public So far the average number of shares Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities Net proceeds received from issuance of share – 162 – shareholders traded for Constellium since May 30, Interim dividend paid – (147) – Bpifrance 2014 is 884,472 Withholding tax reimbursed/(paid) 20 (20) – Management Distribution of share premium to owners of the Company – (103) – Interest paid (39) (36) (28) Net cash flows used in factoring – – (49) Proceeds received from Term Loan and Senior Notes 1,153 351 154 Repayment of Term Loan (331) (156) (148) 85.12% shares Proceeds of other loans 13 2 6 Payment of deferred financing costs (27) (8) (14) Transactions with non-controlling interests (2) (2) – Other financing activities (34) – (7) Net cash flows from/(used in) financing activities 753 43 (86) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 749 95 29 Cash and cash equivalents – beginning of period 236 142 113 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 6 (1) – Cash and cash equivalents – end of period 991 236 142 Less: Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale (2) (3) – Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the Statement of Financial Position 989 233 142 74 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 75 Sustainability data GRI G4–10: Total workforce In this section (pages 74-77), we provide our Throughout this section, the following symbols included in Temporary (agency, performance across the four pillars of Constellium’s some charts help the reader identify our progress on those Inactive Inactive excluding sustainability strategy: Products, People, Operations Key Performance Indicators where we disclose data. Apprentice restructuring without pay Permanent Fixed-term contractors) and Responsible Business. All Constellium Number of employees Male 260 7 40 – – – per specific employment type Female 57 6 21 – – – Key Performance Indicators: Products People Operations Responsible business Number of employees Male – – – 7,671 499 per employment contract 601 Female – – – 872 106 Number of employees working Full-time 296 8 47 8,227 594 363 full/part time Part-time 21 5 14 316 11 238 Products People Total full-time employees (permanent and fixed-term) 9,148 Total workforce 10,140 Europe Beverage can recycling rate* Recordable case rate* Number of employees Male 260 7 20 – – – per specific employment type Female 57 6 19 – – – 80 14 13.25 Number of employees Male – – – 6,514 201 75% target for 2015 per employment contract Female – – – 749 40 601 70 69.5% 12 10.85 66.7% Number of employees working Full-time 296 8 25 6,947 237 363 60 63.1% full/part time Part-time 21 5 14 316 4 238 58% 10 8.65 Total workforce 8,474 50 7.25 46% 48% 8 Asia 43% 40 5.15 Number of employees Male – – – – – – 6 per specific employment type 3.85 3.55 Female – – – – – – 30 3.2 2.8 Number of employees Male – – – 7 257 4 2.65 2.71 – 20 per employment contract Female – – – 7 45 10 2 Number of employees working Full-time – – – 14 302 – full/part time Part-time – – – – – – 0 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Total workforce 316 *This is the most recent data. Figures for this data-point consume long processing *Recordable case rate is a ratio that measures the number of fatalities, serious North America time and 2012 data was made available only in 2015. Since 2000, the beverage can injuries, lost time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments per one recycling rate has seen tremendous improvement from 43% (in 2000) to 69.5% million hours worked. Number of employees Male – – 20 – – – (in 2012). per specific employment type Female – – 2 – – – Number of employees Male – – – 1,150 41 per employment contract – Female – – – 116 21 Number of employees working Full-time – – 22 1,266 55 – full/part time Part-time – – – – 7 – Total workforce 1,350 Sales from innovative products Number of serious injuries including fatalities 14 13% 8 GRI G4–LA1: Employee turnover Apprentices and fixed-term employees have not been included, for accuracy in turnover rate calculation 12 7 7 7 Between 26 Between 46 9.3% 6 6 Total 10 Under 26 and 45 and 55 Above 56 5 Europe 8 Number of new employees hired in 2014 Male 83 184 67 5 339 4 Female 8 52 8 3 71 6 4.5% 3 3 Number of employees who left the Company in 2014 Male 29 92 30 108 259 4 Female – 32 7 15 54 2 Number of employees on December 31, 2014 Male 211 2,917 2,313 944 6,385 2 Female 23 406 226 101 756 Turnover rate Male 14% 3% 1% 11% 4% 0 2012 2013 2014 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Female – 8% 3% 15% 7% North America Number of new employees hired in 2014 Male 35 146 38 19 238 Female 5 24 9 5 43 Number of employees who left the Company in 2014 Male 4 21 19 26 70 Female 1 10 5 3 19 Number of employees on December 31, 2014 Male 31 439 407 209 1,086 Female 2 41 25 15 83 Turnover rate Male 13% 5% 5% 12% 6% Female 50% 24% 20% 20% 23% Asia Number of new employees hired in 2014 Male – 2 – – 2 Female – 5 – – 5 Number of employees who left the Company in 2014 Male – 1 – – 1 Female – 1 1 – 2 Number of employees on December 31, 2014 Male – 11 2 – 13 Female 1 11 2 – 14 Turnover rate Male – 9% – – 8% Female – 9% 50% – 14% 76 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 77 Sustainability data continued Operations Responsible business Greenhouse gas emissions In kt CO2 eq Indirect energy consumption* (in TJ) Code of Conduct Training Source 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1,118 1,116 500 446 446 450 416 414 Electricity 3,982 4,111 4,071 4,089 4,007 974 935 403 400 Direct energy consumption* (in TJ) 350 307 Energy sources 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 283 287 297 278 300 Anthracite 459 395 439 519 492 250 Liquefied 10 10 10 11 13 200 Petroleum Gas 150 Natural Gas 6,570 6,463 6,618 7,254 7,295 100 Diesel 115 112 109 114 113 96% 99.82% 50 achieved achieved 0 Heavy fuel 188 190 168 187 182 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2013 2014 Scope 1 Scope 2 Total 7,342 7,170 7,344 8,085 8,095 Number of people targeted Number of people achieved Total energy consumption (in TJ) In TJ/year 10,890 10,810 10.936 11,677 11,815 *This includes, in some cases, our own energy generation. Water consumption In 106 m3 Air emissions In metric tons 30 550 500 Memberships 25 450 Participates in 400 projects and 20 350 Memberships and associations Has positions in governance committees 300 Aluminum Association (AA) Member Yes 15 250 Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Member and part of Standard Setting Group Yes 200 10 150 ARPAL, Spain Member No 5 100 Association Française de l’Aluminium (AFA) President, Béatrice Charon Yes 50 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) No No 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Cercle de l’Industrie Member No Total water Ground water Surface water Water from public net NOX Particulate materials SO2 VOC Emballages et Bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM) Member No European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) Member Yes European Aluminium (EA) Chairman, Pierre Vareille Yes France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) Chairman, Laurent Musy Yes Production waste and handling In metric tons Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of Board, Laurent Musy Yes Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques et Spatiales (GIFAS) Member No 120,000 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) No No 100,000 International Aluminium Institute (IAI) Member Yes 80,000 La Boîte Boisson (BCME) Member Yes Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) Member No 60,000 Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes, emballages et bouchages Member Yes 40,000 Métalliques (SNFBM) United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No 20,000 8,840 9,683 10,840 9,628 8,224 Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of Board, Laurent Musy Yes 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Recycling Incineration Landfill Key Performance Indicators: Products People Operations Responsible business 78 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 79 GRI G4 disclosure index We have achieved full disclosure against the general standard disclosures and specific standard disclosures listed below, and reported against the mining and mineral sector guidelines (which are marked with a *). GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page CATEGORY: ECONOMIC STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Chief Executive Officer insights 10–11 INCREASE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE of the organization MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our strategy 12–14 G4-3 Name of the organization Constellium G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Performance in detail 70–73 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Business operational performance 18–23 G4-EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities for Due to the uncertainty of the effects of climate change it is difficult to quantify its impact. Possible scenarios that Our main brands are: AIRWARE®, SEALIUM®, ALUMOLD®, Surfalex®, Formalex®, Strongalex®, the organization’s activities due to climate change could create financial risks for our business include availability of water, additional regulation to mitigate climate Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, LONGLINEFINISH®, BUTLERFINISH®, STAYBRIGHT®, change, serious weather events causing damage to operations and supply chain, and climate warming/cooling KEIKORTM and GRIPSTERTM trends in different regions positively or negatively affecting the sales of finished products in particular beverage G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Amsterdam (Netherlands) Back Cover cans. As a participant since 2013 in the EU ETS (European Union Emission Trading Scheme), changes to this system and a higher price of carbon could have an impact. G4-6 Countries where the organization operates Company organization 9 There are, however, opportunities from climate change and associated legislative changes. New technology and G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with the highest ethical standards and best products which are lightweight and recyclable and are being used to lower fuel emissions in vehicles present an practices, to answer to our shareholders and other stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide opportunity for aluminium, including, increased sales and opening of new markets as well as increasing aluminium Code of Conduct. We are listed on NYSE and on Euronext under the ticker symbol “CSTM.” share in existing markets, promotion of aluminium for new markets, providing innovative solution for customer Shareholders as of December 31, 2014 – public shareholders 85.12%, Bpifrance 12.23%, and needs, R&D investment, and expansion of manufacturing facilities. Opportunities from the EU ETS include being management 2.65% able to trade excess emissions certificates, which would provide an additional income, and no costs except those to reduce emissions to the required level to have excess certificates. G4-8 Markets served Company organization 9 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Performance in detail 70-77 INCREASE RECYCLING ACTIVITIES G4-10 Workforce characteristic Performance in detail 75 MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS* G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining Approximately 80% of our total headcount are represented by unions or equivalent bodies or are agreements covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements that are subject to periodic renegotiation. G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Recycling 47–49 The vast majority of employees based in Europe and approximately 53% of U.S. employees are G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Recycling 47 covered by collective bargaining agreements. input materials G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Value we create 5 IMPROVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF OPERATIONS G4-13 Changes in organization’s size, structure, ownership Acquisition of Wise Metals in the US closing on January 5, 2015, disposal of Sabart facility MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY or its supply chain in France, creation of the joint-venture with UACJ in Bowling Green, Kentucky, and closure of Kunshan facility in China G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Improving the energy efficiency of our operations 59, 60 G4-14 Precautionary approach Our strategy 12–14 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Performance in detail 76 Governance 28–29 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Performance in detail 76 G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or initiatives Memberships 77 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Improving the energy efficiency of our operations 59 to which the organization subscribes At Constellium, ‘energy efficiency’ is the way we define ‘energy intensity’. G4-16 Membership of associations or organizations Memberships 77 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Improving the energy efficiency of our operations 59, 60 Stakeholder perspectives 39-41 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products Developing products with environmental benefits 45, 46 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES and services G4-17 Entities included in the organization reports Our materiality assessment 38 REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS G4-18 Reporting principles for defining report content About the report IFC MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-19 Process for defining content and aspect boundaries Our materiality assessment 37 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 61 G4-20 Material aspects within the organization Our materiality assessment 38 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Performance in detail 76 G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization Our materiality assessment 38 G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Performance in detail 76 G4-22 Restatements of information provided in earlier reports None G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 61 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods About the report IFC G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded in the reporting year in scope and aspect boundaries G4-EN21 NOX, SO2, and other significant air emissions Performance in detail 76 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT REDUCE WASTE FROM OPERATIONS G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Engaging with stakeholders 30 PREVENT POLLUTION FROM OPERATIONS Stakeholder perspectives 39–41 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders to engage Our materiality assessment 36 G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Reducing waste from our operations 63 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement Engaging with stakeholders 30 Preventing pollution on-site 61 G4-27 Key topics collected through stakeholder engagement Our materiality assessment 37 G4-EN22 Water discharge Performance in detail 76 REPORT PROFILE G4-EN23 Waste disposal Performance in detail 76 G4-28 Reporting period About the report IFC G4-EN24 Significant spills No major spills recorded in the reporting year G4-29 Date of the last report Issued in 2014 (Available on the sustainability page at www.constellium.com ) DEVELOP PRODUCTS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS G4-30 Reporting cycle About the report IFC MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report About the report IFC G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Developing products with environmental benefits 45 G4-32 GRI Content Index GRI G4 disclosure index 78–80 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) 45, 46 G4-33 External assurance About the report IFC and services GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure Governance 28–29 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and Governance 28–29 norms of behavior Promoting and enforcing ethical business practices 64–67 IFC stands for inside front cover 80 Business and sustainability performance report 2014 Business Business performance performance and sustainability and sustainability reportreport 2014 2014 81 81 GRI G4 disclosure index continued Forward-looking statements SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES This report contains statements that relate to future events These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking to, those set forth under the heading ‘Risk Factors’ in our DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Annual Report on Form 20-F, and described from time to DEVELOP PRODUCTS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS CONTINUED Litigation Reform Act of 1995. time in subsequent reports, filed with the US Securities and MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Exchange Commission. G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Promoting and enforcing ethical business practices 65-67 Forward-looking statements include those statements G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number None recorded in the reporting year containing such words as ‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, Constellium disclaims any obligation to update publicly any of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations ‘scheduled’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘will’, or other words of forward-looking statements, whether in response to new ENGAGE SUPPLIERS IN SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE similar meaning. All statements that reflect Constellium’s information, future events or otherwise, except as required MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY expectations, assumptions or projections about the by applicable law. G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engaging suppliers in sustainability performance 65–67 future other than statements of historical fact are G4-EN32 Suppliers screened using environmental criteria No quantitative data available currently forward‑looking statements. Engaging suppliers in sustainability performance 65–67 CATEGORY: SOCIAL The forward-looking statements contained in this report SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, IMPROVE EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION uncertainties and other factors and are not guarantees MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT of future performance. G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Improving employee satisfaction 53, 54 G4-LA1 Number and rates of new employee hires and Performance in detail 75 employee turnover G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Part-time workers have pro-rata benefits of full-time employees; temporary workers are not not provided to temporary or part-time employees eligible for the same benefits. Some select benefits related to health insurance are granted depending on seniority. MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Strengthening stakeholder interaction 52, 53 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding The minimum notice period changes depending on the country of operation operational changes and is based on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question. G4-MM4* Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one None recorded in the reporting year week’s duration ENSURE SAFETY AT WORK REDUCE PSYCHO-SOCIAL RISKS REDUCE USE OF HARMFUL SUBSTANCES MATERIAL ASPECT: SAFETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ensuring safety at work 51, 52 G4-LA5 Workforce represented in health and safety committees 100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and safety committees. This report was released in June 2015 G4-LA6* Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism Performance in detail 74 and total number of work-related fatalities Coordination: Print: Corporate Communications Printed by Park Communications on G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Promoting health and reducing stress 54, 55 Department and Sustainability FSC® certified paper. with trade unions Health and safety topics are covered not only in agreements with trade unions but also in our procedures and directives. Psychological risks prevention was specially covered in 2014. Council. Park is an EMAS certified DEVELOP TRAINING AND EMPOWERMENT Design and production: company and its Environmental MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Radley Yeldar | www.ry.com Management System is certified to G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Training and empowerment 55, 56 ISO 14001. Photography credits: G4-LA11 Employees receiving regular performance and career Training and empowerment 55 development reviews Aerial Innovations 100% of the inks used are vegetable 100% of professional grade employees receive annual performance and career development Airbus oil based, 95% of press chemicals through the IPCM (Individual Performance and Career Management). This has been extended to some supervisory levels in France. All other employees receive an annual performance review but G. Brooks are recycled for further use and this is done on a site-by-site basis and tracked centrally for all managers C. Butcovich on average 99% of any waste F. Debatty associated with this production will SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS A.Doyen be recycled. PROMOTE AND ENFORCE ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES M. Ellis MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION European Aluminium Association This document is printed on Cocoon G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Promoting and enforcing ethical business practices 65 European Business Awards Silk 100; process chlorine free (PCF) J. Goldstein paper containing 100% recycled G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken None recorded in the reporting year Heil Trailer International fibre approved by the FSC®. MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Istock G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Promoting and enforcing ethical business practices 65 M. Lieske G4-HR4 Risks to the right to exercise freedom of association None identified V. Martin and collective bargaining Master Image Programmes SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY D. Mortemore INNOVATION Thinkstock G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Innovation 44, 45 G. Uféras CUSTOMER SATISFACTION C. Williams G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Customer satisfaction 43
