1971 – The Construction of Hasan Uğurlu Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant CONTENTS 02 REPORT PROFILE AND BOUNDARY 03 Employee Turnover 33 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 04 Commitment 34 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 05-06 Employee Diversity 35-38 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 07 ANTI-DISCRIMINATION 39-40 COMPANY PROFILE 08-28 TRAINING 41-42 Form of Ownership and Legitimacy 08 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 43-46 Organizational Structure 09-11 ENVIRONMENT 47-50 Company Scale and Financials 12-14 Materials and Energy 47-48 Operational Structure 15-20 Water Consumption 49 Doğuș Construction Affiliate Companies 21 Waste Management 50 Stakeholders 22-24 INVESTMENTS 51-57 Memberships 25-26 SUPPLY 58-60 Awards and Accomplishments 27-28 Material Supply 58 LABOUR 29-38 Local Supplier Procurement Policy 59 Employment 31-32 Local Purchasing Rates 60 GRI INDEX 61-63 03 REPORT PROFILE AND BOUNDARY Unless otherwise stated, “Responsive from Doğuș 2013” includes the data obtained from the Head Office and active construction sites during January 2013-December 2013. On the other hand, in the sections of “Materials and Energy”, “Water Consumption”, “Waste Management” and “Public Benefit Investments”, to stand as an example only the data obtained from Artvin Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant and Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro Project are evaluated. Due to the hardship in collecting accurate data on sub-contractor employees, the data with regards to the labour are stated to include particularly Doğuș Employees of the Head Office and construction sites. This report is the first Corporate Social Responsibility Report of Doğuș Construction, who signed United Nations Global Compact on October 8, 2012, and it is prepared according to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), G3.1, Level C. The data were collected from the departments in charge by report supervisors on the basis of the GRI indicators. Doğuș Construction undertakes to report Corporate Social Responsibility performance annually. During the preparation process of the report, particular importance were given not only to Doğuș Construction’s 2013 superior policies and practices in Occupational Health and Safety and Human Resources in the Head Office, Artvin Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant Project and Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro Project construction sites but also financial indicators generated within the same period. As a result of this report, Doğuș Construction aims to communicate to its stakeholders, who are indicated in Page Nos.: 23-24, 10 basic principles of United Nations Global Compact and to encourage them to be a part of this process. Therefore, feedbacks from its stakeholders are of great importance to Doğuș Construction. Please send your opinions and suggestions. Elvan Sezgin Head Office Corporate Communications Specialist Cumhuriyet Cad. No:2 unglobalcompact@dogusinsaat.com.tr 34810 Kavacık-Beykoz, Istanbul-TURKEY UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 04 United Nations Global Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative. It includes 10 principles that are based on universally recognized statements on the fields of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Implementation of these principles provides a guiding and comprehensive perspective to companies and institutions in terms of risk management, increasing productivity, maintaining employee motivation and loyalty, creating sustainable policies, strengthening brand awareness and forming new communication channels besides to adding value to their entity. Since its official launch, “the initiative has grown to more than 12000 participants, including over 8000 businesses in 145 countries” according to the data provided on UN Global Compact website on the date this report has published. Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 05 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Stakeholders, In today’s world, companies and institutions have impacts not only on their stakeholders and employees, but also on the economic and social order of the countries in distant territories due to their ever increasing and extending spheres of influence in connection with the socio-economic and cultural structure that undergo a change with globalization. Therefore, developing a more responsive perspective and raising awareness on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption will make a great difference in our near surroundings and any location around the world. Today, a company’s reason for existence is not solely making profit… Besides to its financial strength, a company’s success is based on its capability to develop sustainable policies and enthusiasm towards becoming a responsible institution for the society and environment as well as its ability for efficient reputation management. Therefore, it is an important responsibility for each conscious individual and commercial enterprise to increase the quality of life in our society and create a sustainable future by preserving the nature and natural resources. Doğuș Construction undertakes infrastructure and superstructure projects in Turkey and international arena since 1951 through creating piece of work that contributes to human life directly and indirectly. Yet, the human being is the only living creature that is capable of transforming natural environments into habitable places. Structures that are built by the humans were subject to various technical and aesthetic evolutions; they transformed from primitive shelters into skyscrapers, pathways to motorways in time. Yet again, the most important component of construction sector is “the human”. It is easy to choose the right machinery and technology, however it is that much challenging to find the right person… For this reason, we believe Doğuș family that compose of workers, engineers and executives is the biggest asset of our company. As contractors, our ultimate desire is not only to participate in the innovative and advanced projects that will add value to humanity but also to ensure the continuity of this stance. As Doğuș Construction, we perform works that coincide with social values and objectives within the framework of the principles of transparency, fairness, liability and accountability; and that support socio-economic development. We contribute to local, national and international economy with the employment opportunities we provide. Hereby, we became a part of the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative namely United Nations Global Compact on October 8, 2012. MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 06 Being a part of this initiative not only lays certain missions on the companies and institutions, but also provides several benefits for them. In parallel with the improvement in transparency and reliability, companies increase their brand equity and corporate reputation, establish stronger relationships with their stakeholders and obtain a better sustainable vision and strategy. The impacts of global financial crisis that broke out in 2008, continued in 2013. Central banks of developed countries pursue to practice their loose monetary policies in order to maintain price stability and support governments with their employment policies. World has entered a period of low growth with the shrinkage of global liquidity and the suspension of consumer demands and investments as a result of an increase in risk perception. Capital outflow from developing countries has accelerated in connection with increasing geopolitical risks that emerge in our territory. In spite of this unfavourable economic situation, Turkey continued to grow due to the dynamism of domestic demand and increase in public investments for the last few years. The eagerness of the public sector to make investments on the fields of energy, transportation and environment, in Turkey and the countries where we are active; creates a serious business opportunity for our company. By successfully performing its sustainable growth strategy, our company has undertaken 11 infrastructure projects with a total value of 870 million USD in Turkey and Kazakhstan in 2013. Also, Doğuș completed various projects with a total amount of 1,355 million USD on time with no compromise on its sense of quality. In 2013, our consolidated revenues are 366 million USD and operating profit is 11,24 million USD. Our operating profit increased by 8,7 % compared to 2012. In spite of the intense competition in the sector, Doğuș managed to close the year with a liquid balance sheet by preserving its profit margin. Compared to the previous year, I am pleased to remark that 2013 has been a successful year for our company due to the increase in its operating profit and consolidation of its equities. This beautiful world, this beautiful country is entrusted to us… We put our hearts and souls into this work with each member of our Doğuș family: workers, engineers and officers. We will sustain this desire for success for many more years. Whatever we do, we will always be in the memory of others with the things we left behind. I would like to express my sincere sympathies to with whom we provided our services: public and private sector institutions, all my colleagues and my co-workers as well as Doğuș Group which has always been very supportive. Gönül Talu Chairman 07 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH Doğuș Construction that operates in Turkey and the region for sixty two years, choose to act honestly, realisticly and respectfully to its employees with an ethical frame of mind and in accordance with ethics and legal legislations. Doğuș Construction takes necessary measures in order not to endanger ecological balance in consideration of the interests and benefits of today’s and next We have passion for our work... generations and aims to be a role model to the society. Ensuring this awareness to be adopted by each employee of Doğuș Construction as a part of the corporate culture and to re-examine business processes in the light of this framework are its priorities. Its duty is to minimize negative environmental effects that may result from its fields of activity, procure sustainable natural resources management, inspire employee motivation and raise social responsibility awareness in each phase of its projects. COMPANY PROFILE 08 With its mega project perspective, Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. is one of the leading companies of its sector. It undertakes infrastructure and superstructure projects not only in Turkey but also in the international market. Doğuș Construction ranks among the most reputable construction companies since its establishment in 1951 by completing 170 projects with a total value of more than USD 12 billion up to this day. Today, total amount of the projects Doğuș is involved values at approximately USD 2,8 billion. Doğuș also successfully conducts business development activities as well as infrastructure and superstructure projects inbound and outbound, either within joint ventures or consortiums that are established with the participation of other internationally active companies. Various projects that are implemented by Doğuș Construction since its establishment may be outlined as follows; 20 dams and hydroelectric power plants with a total capacity to produce 3000 MW electricity, 1 thermal power plant, 1450 km of road construction, 2.000.000 m2 of building construction including airport construction, 35 km of bridges, viaducts and crossings, more than 116 km of metro, tunnels, diversion tunnels as well as ports, marinas, irrigation projects, sewage systems, office buildings, shopping and leisure centres, residential and industrial buildings and decapping works. Doğuș aims to expand its field of activity in the international market. Therefore, it continues to explore new business opportunities in Sub Saharan Africa, Eastern Europe, Russia, Ukraine as well as India, Vietnam and Gulf Countries. Doğuș Construction is audited by the Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance that furnishes services on the subjects of safeguarding life, property and environment and risk management, and is qualified to receive the following certificates; ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System, OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health and Safety Management System, and ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System. Form of Ownership and Legitimacy Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. is a local incorporated company that operates in national and international construction projects. 2013 2012 Shareholders Amount (000 TL) % Amount (000 TL) % Doğuș Holding A.Ș. 204,452 98 188,646 90 Ferit Faik Șahenk --10,537 5 Filiz Șahenk --5,269 3 Doğuș Turizm Sağlık 5,235 2 5,235 2 09 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE GOVERNANCE Gönül Talu Chairman of the Board Hüsnü Akhan Board Member Dr. Sadi Göğdün Board Member Kayhan Uyaroğlu Board Member Șadan Gürtaș Board Member Ahmet Kurutluoğlu Board Member Burak Talu Executive Board Member Chairman of the Board who is the highest governance body of Doğuș Construction has an executive power within the Company. Therefore, he is authorized in key issues such as purchasing with exorbitant sum, decisions on participating to tenders, the selection of key executives and media relations plan. Such authority is given to him as a result of his services to Doğuș Construction and contributions to the business as well as him being a doyen due to his experience and knowledge in the sector. Such know-how brought along the status of being the final decision maker, a status that is not written down in the executive functions. Members, who participate to the governance and pass remarks on the company decisions in Board Meetings, but who do not have executive power, are referred as “independent members”. In this context, there are three independent members within the Company. ORGANIZATIONAL CHART 10 Board of Directors Internal Audit Law Consultancy Department Official Risk Department Administrations Technical Support Services Engineering Works General Corporate Communication Quarry Works Surveying Manager Department QA/QC Coordinator of Human Resources Ankara Liason Consultants Office Administrative Works Ass. General Manager Ass. General Manager Ass. General Manager Ass. General Manager Ass. General Manager Ass. General Manager Ass. General Manager Ass. General Manager of Business Development and of Management and of Infrastructure of Superstructure of Machinery Supply of Financial Works of Energy Projects of Technical Works Project Finance Information Systems Works Works and Purchasing Business Coordinator of Coordinator of Technical Tender Projects Technical Projects Projects Projects Machinery Development DIS Finance Manager Preparation Coordinator of Planning and Manager of Coordinator of Mechanical Pre-Qualification Management Purchasing Financial Affairs Reporting Contract Adm. EM & HM Works Works Preparation Systems Planning and Accounting Coordinator of HM Works Electrical Works Budget Control Information Energy Projects Electrical Technologies Reporting Budget and Projects Arch. Contract Reporting EM Works Works Administration HM Works Design 11 PROCESSES Managerial Processes Operational Processes Support Processes Strategic Planning Business Development Internal Audit Risk Management Tender Human Resources Cost Management Project Management Purchasing Management Systems Machinery Supply Financial Affairs Information Technologies Law Administrative Affairs Corporate Communications COMPANY SCALE AND FINANCIALS 12 According to 2013’s year end financial data; Distributed Economic Value January 2013 December 2013 Amount (000 USD) Amount (000 TL) Revenue 366.086 781.337 Cost of Revenue 331.565 707.660 Employee Payroll and Employee Related Expenses 14.033 29.951 Construction Site Employee and Related Expenses 85.115 184.661 Private Health Insurance 283 605 Payment to Shareholders 5.046 10.769 Finance Cost 6.273 13.388 Payments to the State 4.959 10.583 Societal Investment 521 1.111 13 COMPANY SCALE AND FINANCIALS According to 2013’s year end financial data; Number of Employees Capital Amount (000 TL) Company Employees (Including Foreign Operations) 2.920 Total paid-in capital 100% 209.687 Employees in Joint Operations and Subsidiaries 377 Adjustment to share capital 108.634 Total 3.297 Total capital 100% 101.053 Total Assets Amount (000 USD) Amount (000 TL) 631.535 1.347.885 COMPANY SCALE AND FINANCIALS 14 Revenue Amount (000 USD) Amount (000 TL) Artvin Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant 162.932 347.745 Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro 132.271 282.307 Konya-Akșehir-Afyon Road 22.538 48.103 Otogar-Kirazlı-Bașakșekir Rail Mass Transportation System 16.079 34.318 Boyabat Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant 15.415 32.900 Doğuș Technology Building 3.762 8.030 Mavi Tünel Water Treatment Plant 1.874 3.999 Tokat-Niksar Highway 1.761 3.759 Petkim Container Port Contruction Works 1.534 3.274 Kılavuzlu Irrigation Main Channel Section 1 1.310 2.796 Artvin-Erzurum-Ardahan-Ardanuç State Roads 570 1.216 *Other 6.039 12.890 366.086 781.337 *Revenues from completed projects 15 OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE Doğuș Construction pursues new business opportunities in the international arena and newly emerging markets through business development activities besides to its operations in Turkey. In this context, Doğuș collaborates with the leading international and local companies of their sectors by forming partnerships in more competitive markets in order to share risks and satisfy the qualification requirements. In accordance with our strategies and previous projects Doğuș has branches in Libya, Morocco, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Oman and Qatar. Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. Ayson Geotechnical and Marine Construction Co. Turkey Ukraine Libya Qatar Morocco Bulgaria Kazakhistan Oman (%45 Doğuș Construction) Doğuș Doğuș SARL Dogus Oman LLC. Gülermak-Doğuș Building Site Branch Doğuș İnșaat ve Libya (Branch) Doğuș EOOD Kazakhistan Ltd. Artvin Dam and Ticaret Ltd. (Kiev) Construction LLC J.V. Otogar-İkitelli HEPP Project Kazakhistan Doğuș ES Turkey Project (%50) Building Site Branch Doğuș CRO (Branch) Sofya Branch Branch Uskudar-Umraniye Metro (Branch) Project Doğuș Gulsan JV Teknik Engineering Yapı MerkeziBulgaristan Rep. (Kazakhstan and Consultancy Inc. Building Site Branch Office Branch) Ukraine Doğuș-YükselKonya-Atașehir-Afyon D.A.Y J.V. (%50) (%15) Yenigün Belen (Branch) J.V. Kadıköy Road Project Boryspil Airport Kartal Project Project (%37,5) (%26) Building Site Branch Turkey Mavi Tunnel Potable Bulgaria Water Treatment Project D.A.Y Ltd. Ști. Doğuș Polat J.V. (Branch) (Boryspil) Building Site Branch Araklı-İyidere Petkim Container Port Sofya Branch Project (%50) Project Sofya Metro Project Building Site Branch Doğuș Alarko YDA Kırıkkale Kayaș Viaducts J.V. (Borispol) Project (%37,5) Building Site Branch Doğuș Alarko YDA Kılavuzlu Irrigation Main Ayson Ltd. Ști. Ltd. Ști. (Borispol) Channel Project (%50) (%37,5) Doğuș Gulsan JV (Kazakhstan) (%50) Building Site Branch Uskudar-Umraniye Metro Doğuș Gulsan JV Project (Kömürhan) (%50) Building Site Branch Doğuș-YDA J.V. Artvin DAM & HEPP Tokat Niksar Road Project Project (%50) GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF THE OPERATIONS 16 Overseas EUROPE EUROPE EURASIA EURASIA BULGARIA BULGARIA RUSSIA RUSSIA CROTIA CROTIA KAZAKHSTAN KAZAKHSTAN ALBANIA ALBANIA UKRAINE UKRAINE BOSNIA BOSNIAHERZEGOVINA HERZEGOVINA AZERBAIJAN AZERBAIJAN GERMANY GERMANY GEORGIA GEORGIA KOSOVO KOSOVO MACEDONIA MACEDONIA MONTENEGRO MONTENEGRO POLAND POLAND ROMANIA ASIA ASIA ROMANIA INDIA INDIA SERBIA SERBIA NORTH AFRICA NORTH AFRICA MIDDLE MIDDLE EAST EAST MONGOLIA MONGOLIA LIBYA LIBYA NEPAL NEPAL IRAQ IRAQ MOROCCO MOROCCO PAKISTAN PAKISTAN OMAN OMAN ALGERIA ALGERIA VIETNAM VIETNAM QATAR QATAR EGYPT EGYPT SAUDI SAUDIARABIA ARABIA YEMEN YEMEN AFGHANISTAN AFGHANISTAN KUWAIT KUWAIT UNITED UNITEDARAB ARABEMIRATES EMIRATES SUBSAHARAN SUBSAHARAN AFRICA AFRICA DJIBUTI DJIBUTI ETHIOPHIA ETHIOPHIA GHANA GHANA KENYA KENYA MOZAMBIQUE MOZAMBIQUE NIGER NIGER NIGERIA NIGERIA SUDAN SUDAN TANZANIA TANZANIA UGANDA UGANDA ZAMBIA ZAMBIA Countries Countries ofof Operation Operation Countries Countries ofof Interest Interest *”Countries of interest” refers to the regions in which Doğuș Construction pursue opportunities through business development activities and bid for projects. 17 GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF THE OPERATIONS Overseas Major Outbound Projects Doğuș Construction has performed its activities in abroad and carried out mega projects since its establishment. PROJECT NAME COUNTRY COMMENCEMENT DATE TERMINATION DATE Marib Dam and Irrigation Project Yemen 1984 1987 Asilah-Tanger Motorway Morocco 2002 2005 Trakia Motorway Lot 5 Bulgaria 2003 2006 Kiev Dnieper Railroad and Highway Bridge Ukraine 2004 2011 Sofia Metro Extension Project Bulgaria 2008 2012 Kiev Boryspil International State Airport Ukraine 2008 2012 *The table shows some important projects that Doğuș Construction undertook in the international arena. Ongoing Outbound Projects As of July 17, 2013; Doğuș Construction started the construction of the motorway between Almaty-Khorgos within the scope of East-West Roads Project in Kazakhstan. PROJECT NAME COUNTRY East-West Road Projects ( Almaty-Khorgos) Lot 1 Kazakhstan East-West Road Projects ( Almaty-Khorgos) Lot 2 Kazakhstan GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF THE OPERATIONS 18 19 GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF THE OPERATIONS Inbound INBOUND PROJECTS IN 2013 20 Completed Inbound Projects Doğuș Construction completed the construction of Boyabat Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant and Otogar-Kirazlı-Bașakșehir Rail Mass Transportation System in 2013. Furthermore, construction works of 11 inbound projects still continue. Boyabat Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant Otogar-Kirazlı-Bașakșekir Rail Mass Transportation System Ongoing Inbound Projects Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro Artvin-Erzurum-Ardahan-Ardanuç State Roads Konya-Akșehir-Afyon Road Artvin Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant Kömürhan Bridge Connection Tunnel and Road Tokat-Niksar Highway Mavi Tunnel Potable Water Treatment Plant Doğuș Oto Kartal Sales and Service Facilities Doğuș Technology Building Kılavuzlu Irrigation Main Channel Section 1 Petkim Container Port Contruction Works Joint Ventures and Consortiums During January-December 2013, Doğuș Construction established joint ventures with YDA Construction in Tokat-Niksar Road Construction Project and with Gülsan Construction in the East-West Roads Construction Project. PROJECT NAME JOINT VENTURE Tokat Niksar Road Construction Project, Construction of the Section between Km : 0+000 48+962 / Tokat, TURKEY DOĞUȘ 50% YDA 50% East-West Roads Construction Project (Almaty-Khorgos Section) West Europe – DOĞUȘ 50% – GÜLSAN 50% West China International Transit Corridor Lot 1 / Almaty,KAZAKHSTAN 21 DOĞUȘ CONSTRUCTION AFFILIATE COMPANIES Doğuș Group is active in construction, financial services, automotive, media, tourism and services, real estate, energy and entertainment. Doğuș Construction is the first company of The Group. STAKEHOLDERS 22 Every institution is in communication with its internal and external stakeholders, by their very nature, at any stage of the activities they perform. The relations with the stakeholders are formed in accordance with the needs and expectations where the sustainability of these relations depends on institutions’ vision and practices in this field. Making an innovation in the Stakeholder Communication Management is only possible by implementing a sincere and transparent policy. In this context, Doğuș Construction believes the necessity of establishing healthy relations with its stakeholders starting from the commencement of each project till the completion and throughout the latter processes, through the right means of communication. Establishing strong relations and the maintenance of this communication will benefit not only the institutions but also the stakeholders. Therefore, Doğuș Construction acts as an integral body with its stakeholders, with the same drive and same enthusiasm towards taking the contracting sector a step further in Turkey and reaching to global standards. The worth of its stakeholders is undeniable for Doğuș Construction in its success in the international arena where it experienced great changes and progress in time with the contribution of their entity. As Doğuș Construction is a contracting company, it does not have direct contact with the ultimate consumers. On the other hand, Doğuș touches every part of their lives through its infrastructure and superstructure projects. With this report, Doğuș Construction aims to spread the principles of UN Global Compact to its stakeholders and it makes a commitment to take the necessary actions in the line with this initiative. Doğuș defines groups and institutions with common goals and similar point of views as its stakeholders who will contribute to its growth in accordance with its long term strategies and targeted markets. 23 STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS MEANS OF COMMUNICATION Informative e-mails, meetings, intercorporate organizations and special activities, New Year's Eve Employees Celebration, internet and website, social media, internal communication channels, training programs Telephone, e-mail, fax, interviews, meetings, dinners, receptions, internet and website, reports, catalogue, Customers brochure, introductory film, presentations, tenders Telephone, e-mail, fax, interviews, meetings, dinners, receptions, internet and website, reports, catalogue, Business Partners brochure, introductory film, presentations, tenders Telephone, e-mail, fax, interviews, meetings, internet and website, catalogue, brochure, introductory film, Suppliers tenders Financial Institutions Telephone, e-mail, fax, interviews, meetings, catalogue, brochure Telephone, e-mail, fax, interviews, periodical meetings, reports, receptions, internet and website, social Affiliate Companies media, catalogue, brochure, introductory film STAKEHOLDERS 24 STAKEHOLDERS MEANS OF COMMUNICATION Telephone, e-mail, fax, interviews, meetings, internet and website, catalogue, brochure, Competitors introductory film, tenders Non-Governmental Organizations, Telephone, e-mail, fax, memberships, periodical meetings, publication subscriptions, Public Economic Enterprises, cooperations, catalogue, brochure, introductory film, business trips Foundations and Associations Telephone, e-mail, fax, interviews, memberships, meetings, agreements, internet and website, Unions announcements Sponsorships, panels, university events, social media, internet and website, internship Universities opportunities, catalogue, brochure Press releases, advertorials, editorials, interviews, site visits, internet and website, e-mail, Press and Media telephone, catalogue, brochure Social media, internet and website, construction projects, corporate social responsibility The Society projects 25 MEMBERSHIPS Doğuș Construction is a member of various initiatives in order to make contribution to the contracting sector, share its knowledge backlog with the stakeholders and support business development activities through strengthening the existing strategic connections. Not only the Chairman of Doğuș Construction is a member of the Supreme Advisory Council of Turkish Contractors Association but also the Executive Board Member serves as the Board Member in the same initiative. ORGANIZATION MEMBER/MEMBERS Turkish Contractors Association Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. The Turkish Employers Association of Construction Industries Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. Turkish Industry and Business Association Chairman and Board Member Istanbul Chamber of Commerce Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. Istanbul Chamber of Industry Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. United Nations Global Compact Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. Ethics and Reputation Society Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. Chamber of Mechanical Engineers Purchasing Manager Turkish Electro Technology Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. Central Anatolian Exporters Union Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. MEMBERSHIPS 26 ORGANIZATION MEMBER/MEMBERS Ankara Chamber of Industry Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. Ankara Branch Turkish Road Association Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. Ankara Chamber of Commerce Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. Ankara Branch Risk Managers Association Financial Services Assistant General Manager Foreign Economic Relations Board General Chairman Foreign Economic Relations Board EU Business Council Business Development and Project Finance Assistant General Manager Foreign Economic Relations Board USA Business Council Chairman Foreign Economic Relations Board Eurasia Business Council Executive Board Member Foreign Economic Relations Board Gulf Countries Business Council Business Development and Project Finance Assistant General Manager PERYÖN Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. Turkish Businessmen Association-Qatar Doğuș Construction and Trade Inc. 27 AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS Building of the Year Award “Lion Bridge” and “Serdika II” stations constructed by Doğuș during the Sofia Metro Extension Project, received the “Building of the Year” Award in the 11th National Contest in Bulgaria, on December 19, 2012. Lilyana Pavlova, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, presented the award to Doğuș Construction. AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS 28 Top 250 International Contractors Beginning from 2003 every year, Doğuș Construction is being listed as one of the “Top 250 International Contractors” by ENR (Engineering News Record) on the basis of the revenue generated from its outbound projects in the previous year. International Quality Summit Award Doğuș received the “International Quality Summit” Award in Golden Category on the basis of QC100 Model for Total Quality Management, in the assessment by “Business Initiative Directions”. Mr. Jose E. Prieto, the Chairman of BID, presented the award to Doğuș Construction in the ceremony that took place in New York on May 28, 2012. 29 LABOUR “The most important component of the construction sector is “the human”. It is easy to choose the right machinery and technology. However, it is pretty challenging to find the right person who loves and respects to his job and dedicate himself to his proffesion. Therefore, we believe that our biggest asset is Doğuș Family; comprises of our workers, engineers and executives who enhance their efficiency continously and put great emphasis on team work. The constructors are the key players who carry the past into the future and leave a mark on the history of humanity…” Gönül Talu LABOUR 30 31 EMPLOYMENT Each employee of Doğuș Construction is employed in the full time basis with “Indefinite Period Labour Contract”. The ratio of unionized employees under collective bargaining is 75,12 %. The employees of Doğuș Construction are all around the world due to the fact that Doğuș undertakes projects in both national and international arena. The percentage distribution of employees vary according to years and locations. In 2013, especially Marmara and Black Sea Regions draw attention with their high percentage of employees due to ongoing domestic projects in recent years. Regional Distribution of the Employees Marmara 42,05 % Black Sea 46,55% Central Anatolia 4,26 % Agean Mediterrean 0,03 1,17 Ukraine 1,72 Libya 0,03 Kazakhstan 3,47 Morocco 0,07 Bulgaria 0,65 EMPLOYMENT 32 Distribution of White and Blue Collar Employees The total number of white-collar employees in the Head Office is 154. When the construction sites are included to the statistics, the number of white-collar employees reaches to 550, while the number of blue-collar employees to 2370. Blue Collar White Collar 81,14 550 Blue Collar White Collar 2.370 18,86 * Values reveal the data as of December 2013 excluding subcontractor employees. 33 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER Turnover rate varies in the Head Office and construction sites. Since there are transfers between the construction sites as well as employment contracts are terminated following the completion of each project through an employment plan, it is not easy to collect accurate data on turnover rates at construction sites. Therefore, turnover rate for the construction sites cannot be provided. Turnover Rate on the Basis of Gender Turnover Rate on the Basis of Age Over 50 12% Female 35% Male 65% Below 30 29% Between 30 50 59% *Distribution of turnover rate in the Head Office on the basis of gender. *Distribution of turnover rate in the Head Office on the basis of age. COMMITMENT 34 35 EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY Distribution on the Basis of Vocational Category The number of employees varies according to the vocational category, age and gender. Operators 11% Workers Technicians and Formen 59% 5% Engineers and Architects 8% Management 3% Others 7% Financial and Administrative Personnel 7% *Data include the vocational distribution of the employees at the Head Office and construction sites. Employees of the subcontractors are excluded. EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY 36 Distribution on the Basis of Age Over 50 Below 30 15% 11% Between 30-50 Below 30 54% Over 50 Between 30-50 21% 35% 64% *Data include the employees at the Head Office and construction sites. *Data include the employees at the Head Office and construction sites. Employees of the subcontractors are excluded. Employees of the subcontractors are excluded. 37 EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY Distribution on the Basis of Gender and Educational Level In order to make a healthy assessment, it is more appropriate to collect the data on the basis of gender and educational level separately for the Head Office and construction sites. Yet, most of the employees in construction sites are blue-collar male employees. Doğuș Construction is an epitomic in its sector due its high female employment rate. Distribution on the Basis of Gender Female 4% Famele 31% Male Male 69% 96% HEAD OFFICE HEAD OFFICE AND CONSTRUCTION SITES EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY 38 Distribution on the Basis of Educational Level HEAD OFFICE HEAD OFFICE AND CONSTRUCTION SITES 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 0 500 1000 1500 2000 Primary Primary School School High High School School Higher Higher Education Education *Values reveal the data of Head Office as of December 2013. *Values reveal the data of Head Office and construction sites as of December 2013. 39 ANTI-DISCRIMINATION The biggest asset and strength of Doğuș Construction is “the human”. Doğuș Construction, as an apologist of human rights, adopts equality in terms of race, gender, nationality, religion, language, age, disability and political opinion among its employees as a principle. Discrimination of any kind is intolerable. Thousands of employees from various locations, such as Libya, Yemen, Bulgaria, Morocco, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Croatia, Russia as well as hundreds of business partners from different cultures have been working in a harmony for more than 60 years in Doğuș Construction within “International Human Rights Standards”. In its “Ethical Principles Procedure”, Doğuș Construction explicitly states the indispensability of the virtues: “respect for human” and “equality” and shares this principle to be embraced by its employees. Incidents, attitudes and behaviours that could be inconsistent with the Ethical Principles adopted by the Company are notified via e-mail by the employees. Opinions and complaints are being assessed by the Human Resources Department and issues that necessitate interference are reported to the “Committee on Ethics” which is formed by the company executives. Necessary measures and actions are taken after the assessment. Also, as Doğuș Construction, we do not compromise equality of opportunity on recruitment, job placement and wages policy. Doğuș Construction pays attention to employee diversity in the direction of its corporate culture and has been performing its activities in this respect with long-term objectives since 2003. Doğuș Construction’s approach and practices overlap with the “Equality at Work Platform” that was established within the scope of “World Economic Forum: Closing Gender Equality Gap Program” that Doğuș Group put into practice in 2013. The ratio of female employees in Doğuș Construction Head Office is 31%. When construction sector is considered, this ratio is quite over the average. As a company policy, Doğuș supports female employment intensive practices. Furthermore, discrimination with regards to age is intolerable. Since experience is the most critical qualification in the construction sector, Doğuș has senior executives and consultants who are 70-plus that lead the processes with their knowledge and experiences. On the other hand, Doğuș Construction is a school for young graduates where they make a start in their professional life. 40 ANTI-DISCRIMINATION EACH EMPLOYEE OF DOĞUŞ CONSTRUCTION IS EQUAL 41 TRAINING With the objective of being “The Best Place to Work” for its employees, Doğuș Construction has practices that comply with international norms not only on Human Resources but also Occupational Health and Safety, performs its activities and develops new projects on this basis. In Doğuș Construction, training programs are not only designed to improve employees’ technical abilities, but also they aim to make contribution to their business and private lives. Training programs which get even more crucial and comprehensive with every passing year are planned by the Human Resources Department at the end of the previous year through “Training Request Forms” shared with the executives. Also, employees may request trainings following the approval of their managers. Each employee is given the opportunity to follow up the agenda regarding to latest laws and legal regulations through a series of seminars and interviews. Also, employees could improve their level of English through “English Conversation Improvement Clubs” and private lessons. TRAINING 42 The employees in the Head Office and some construction sites had the opportunity to improve their MS Office skills through e-Learning in 2013. Also, easily accessible training environment is created for self-help via mobile training tools. In this context, 104 employees in the Head Office and 105 employees from construction sites benefited from this training program. During January 2013-December 2013, 154 employees from the Head Office attended to the training programs 2457 man/hour. Total hour of training per employee is 16. Total expenditure for this annual training program is 54.450,87 TL. Undoubtedly, Doğuș Construction puts great emphasis on “Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Trainings”. Each employee in Doğuș Construction is subject to various training programs throughout their working lives in order to be aware of potential risks of the working environment, as well as to contribute their own personal development. Moreover, vocational trainings are provided to employees. All types of funds and financial resources are allocated prior to training programs and in case of further financial need extra budgets are generated for additional training requirements. It is an obligation for each employee of Doğuș Construction to have an Occupational Health and Safety Trainings and this is being monitored by the relevant departments. These trainings are conducted by the Human Resources and Management Systems Departments in the Head Office whereas in the construction sites, Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Department is the responsible for the management of the same process. Trainings are provided by the specialists and institutions which are specialized in the field and all documents are recorded regularly. Trainings are one of the most important indicators of the value attached to employees by the Company. Trainings are a good way to encourage them and increase their job satisfaction and efficiency. In 2013, Doğuș Construction provided 23.200 man / hour of trainings on Health, Safety and Environment in its construction sites. Total hour of training per employee in construction sites is 7 and total expenditure for this annual training program is 32.000 TL. 43 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Each employer in Doğuș Construction has an important contribution in the formation of Occupational Health and Safety culture. It is essential to keep “Occupational Health and Safety Awareness” alive in order to popularize this culture and therefore regular trainings are provided to employees in this direction. Doğuș developed systems based on its observations demonstrating the role of conscious and enthusiastic employees in preventing work environment accidents rather than complicated and technical measures. Doğuș Construction, establishes “Occupational Health and Safety Boards” not only in its Head Office but also its inbound and outbound construction sites in compliance with the “Occupational Health and Safety Boards Regulation” in Turkey in consideration of ILO agreements nos.: 155 and 161. An Occupational Health and Safety specialist, an On-Site Physician and Worker Representatives constitute these boards. The number of worker representatives is determined on the basis of the number of Photo by İshak Öztürk employees hired in the Head Office and construction sites in compliance with the regulations. Subcontractors, who collaborate with Doğuș Construction, may establish their own boards on the basis of the number of their employees or may include a Worker Representative in Doğuș Construction’s “Occupational Health and Safety Board”. Furthermore, total workforce of Doğuș Construction and subcontractors (namely 100%) are being represented in these boards. On the other hand regarding to the issues which necessitate extra specialization, managers and relative department executives from the Head Office participate to the board meetings in addition to the Worker Representatives. However, in the construction sites supervisors and workers attend to these meetings too. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 44 Board meetings are held quarterly in the Head Office and every month in construction sites, minutes of meeting are recorded. Following the board meetings, actions are taken against non-conformities, and such non-conformities are monitored regularly. It is a well-known fact that construction is the most dangerous land-based work sector in Turkey and in the world. Turkey ranks 3rd place worldwide whereas 1st place in Europe in terms of occupational injury and incidence rate. In this context, Doğuș Construction’s priority is to prevent occupational incidences and ensure a risk free, safe and healthy work environment for its employees both physically and mentally. 45 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Zero Incident Philosophy Doğuș Construction adopts the “Zero Incident Philosophy” and forms its procedures conforming to this philosophy. ZERO INCIDENT Management Information Systems Department at the Head Office is formed of a staff specialized in Occupational Health and Safety as well as A, B and C Class Occupational Health and Safety and health specialists (On-site Physician, Health Officer) who are in contract with Common Health and Safety Unit (OSGB). The same duty is undertaken by the Occupational Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Department in construction sites. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 46 Zero Incident Philosophy In order to minimize risks to the health and safety of employees, besides to legislations, a hierarchy of control is followed from the beginning of the projects. Health, Safety and Environment Department and other department supervisors evaluate the risks in the work environment and define the necessary measures for the each risk that should be taken. All incident statistics are kept by the Head Office, and necessary corrective-preventive actions are initiated. Construction sites on the other hand, submit reports to the Management Information Systems Department at the end of each month. Utilization Rate (IR) Lost Day Rate (LDR) Absence Rate (AR) Head Office 0 0 0 Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro 0,82 0,61 1,23 Artvin Dam and HEPP 0,98 1,76 2,13 *The table shows the occupational incident rates reported in 2013 including the data of Doğuș Construction Head Office and just two construction sites of the Company. Data does not include slight injuries (first aid) and losses related to other health issues except the occupational accidents. Also, “calendar day” is considered during the calculation of lost day rate, and counting started from the day following the accident. Since no incident took place in Doğuș Construction Head Office, no such incident is included to the evaluation. No occupational accident or disease took place in 2013 that was resulted in death. Incident reports are being issued according to “Doğuș Construction Incident Examination Procedure” that was written in accordance with “ILO Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases” and ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2008, and comply Occupational Health and Safety Code and Social Security Institution Law of the Republic of Turkey. 47 ENVIRONMENT Doğuș Construction controls the impacts of its each activity on the environment as its fundamental principle. All legal requirements are being fulfilled by the Company in order to protect and make the environment a better place for all species through generating awareness by its “livable environment for everyone” motto. In order to preserve the environment, new technologies are being pursued and assessed to be integrated to the present system. Necessary adjustments are made to reduce the amount of the waste originated during the production, assess or dispose them in order not to cause environmental damage, as well as to save energy at each phase of the production. Wastes are documented and necessary procedures are performed. In the direction of generating awareness among its employees towards the preservation of environment, Doğuș Construction provides comprehensive trainings to them within the context of environmental policy, environmental objectives, waste management and environmental management system and monitors the impacts of such trainings. Each employee of Doğuș is aware of his responsibility on the result of his own practices on the environment. He is liable to perform his practices in a way conforming environmental policy and objectives, and to minimize the amount of waste, to store and assess them properly. Materials and Energy Doğuș Construction determines the equipment, materials and raw materials that it uses in its Head Office and construction pursuant to environment and sustainability policy, and monitors purchasing and implementation procedures for the effective utilization of these components. Doğuș Construction uses various natural resources such as oil, water and wood as well as materials such as construction equipment, generators and accumulators for the execution of its activities. Mostly, raw materials such as aggregate and cement required during the production of concrete and steel are purchased and occasionally aggregate is obtained from internal sources. Due to the fact that most of the raw materials are used for production, no waste is originated. On the other hand, almost all the materials except the packages and maintenance lubricants are stored and disposed separately. ENVIRONMENT 48 Materials Used Head Office ¹ARB ²ÜÜÇ Total Direct Materials Aggregate (ton) 1.017.200 167.800 1.185.000 Steel (ton) 9.455 15.800 25.255 Cement (ton) 159.423 36.000 195.423 Non-renewable Materials Fuel Oil (lt) 701.965 701.965 Fuel (lt) 26.000 6.324 32.324 Diesel Fuel (lt) 59.000 6.437.459 1.987.408 8.483.867 Natural Gas (m3) 35.700 435.837 471.537 Electricity (kWh) 5.660 9.717.423 7.236.673 16.959.856 Renewable Materials Water (m3) 3.700 900.000 915.000 1.819.300 * Materials used by the Head Office and two construction sites of the Company in 2013, are categorized as non-renewable materials, direct materials and renewable materials in the table. ¹ Artvin Dam and HEPP ² Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro 49 WATER CONSUMPTION Doğuș Construction puts great emphasis on water consumption not only in its Head Office but also construction sites, acts responsibly towards the efficient consumption of water and the discharge of used water in a way to comply with legal legislations and company principles. A channel is connected to the sewer line for domestic wastewater originated during the production in Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy construction site and in the Head Office. On the other hand, there are treatment systems for the wastewater originated in the Artvin Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant construction site and wastewater is discharged after being treated. What is more, environment consultancy firms and Provincial Environment Directorate make wastewater analysis, and various parameters such as KOİ, BOİ, AKM and pH are measured periodically, and maintenance is performed to ensure system performance. Sedimentation ponds at construction sites enable the water with settled suspended solids to be used for irrigation purposes. The Company has an Environment Management System in compliance with ISO 14001 for the usage of natural resources, such as water. Environment plans and procedures, control forms and monitoring-measurement systems are prepared for each project according to this system and trainings are planned for employees and activities are reported to the Head Office in monthly basis. Head Office and construction sites are audited twice a year by the Management Systems Department, and once a year by external auditors including their compliance to environmental issues. Wastewater (m3) Treatment System Head Office ¹ARB ²ÜÜÇ Total Discharge to Sewage 3.717 12.478 16.195 Discharge after Treatment Plant 193.458 193.458 Transportation with Tankers 102.478 102.478 *Table indicates the total amount of wastewater discharged and treated in 2013. ¹ Artvin Dam and HEPP ² Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro WASTE MANAGEMENT 50 Doğuș Construction categorizes the waste as hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Waste boxes are placed in the Head Office while there are waste sites in construction sites. Wastes are collected separately according to their types and are recorded following the delivery to the authorized institutions for disposal purposes. The Company has Waste Management Plans as a result of ISO 14001 requirements, and they are customized for each project in accordance with legal legislations. Waste management plan data tables are used to record the waste quantity while waste management plan matrix is used to determine where to send each waste for disposal matters. Estimations are made on the quantity of waste generation on a three-year basis and storage spaces are allocated at the construction sites. Most of the waste such as metal, glass and plastic could be recycled because they are being collected separately depending on their types. Thus, by preventing the degree of environmental pollution that is caused by wastes, this contributes to sustainability. In 2013, 5420 kg of waste paper was collected in the Head Office and was donated to Ayhan Șahenk Foundation for recycle. Wastes Disposal Method Head Office 1 ARB ²ÜÜÇ Total Waste Machine Oil (lt) Delivery to the authorized lubricant disposal institution 68.400 57.840 126.240 Waste Vegetable Oil (lt) Delivery to the authorized lubricant disposal institution 1.100 870 1.970 Plastic (kg) Delivery to Municipality 5 140 127 272 Glass (kg) Delivery to Municipality 7 70 55 132 Medical Waste (kg) Delivery to medical institution 10 50 45 105 Used Filter (kg) Delivery to the authorized lubricant disposal institution 9.500 10.140 19.640 *The table shows the amount and disposal methods of the waste that were generated in 2013 in the Head Office and two sites of Doğuș Construction. ¹ Artvin Dam and HEPP ² Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro 51 INVESTMENTS Doğuș Construction has environmental engineers and officers in its Head Office as well as its construction sites for the assessment and management of environmental factors. Also, Doğuș adapts the production method that may give the least damage to the environment in consideration of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) reports of each project. Doğuș makes various investments on its employees and to the region in order to protect the fauna and flora during its activities. In 2013, Doğuș Construction spent approximately 110.500 TL on personnel costs, trainings, treatment facilities, periodic measurements, waste disposal and environmental licenses in order to raise environmental awareness in the Head Office and the construction sites and for the disposal of the polluters as well as to popularize the sense of a sustainable environment and act in parallel with legal legislations. INVESTMENTS 52 53 PUBLIC BENEFIT INVESTMENTS Artvin Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant When one makes a comparison between the condition of sub-provincial centre of Yusufeli, the town that hosts some of the employees working in the construction of Artvin Dam and HEPP, back in 2011 and its current status today, it is recognizable that it has become a centre that has developed and improved day by day due to new residential areas and shopping malls. It is a well-known fact that hydroelectric power plants are reversible and completely renewable sources with very low waste production. Besides to energy that is produced by dams, in spite of very limited damage they may cause on the nature, they create new habitats for living creatures with the reservoir lake and have positive regulating impacts on the environment and climate. Along with great contribution Artvin Dam and HEPP will make on the national economy by generating energy, it provides plenty of employment opportunities to people at the construction stage and is envisaged to employ 20-25 people during its operation, and the direct and indirect benefits it has on various sectors such as tourism and fishing and of affiliated employment opportunities far better exceeds its investment cost. In addition to all these, with the reconstruction of the section of the Artvin-Erzurum State Road which is within the borders of the Artvin Dam reservoir and that was constructed with low standards by using outdated technology many years ago, a significant increase in quality will be realized in this critical transport artery in safer higher elevations with high standards. It is expected that this also will bring great contribution to the economy of surrounding cities. PUBLIC BENEFIT INVESTMENTS 54 Treatment plants in Artvin Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant are subject to periodic maintenance and discharge standards are formed through control samples collected once in every 2 months. Standard values are controlled through dust and flue gas emission measurements at construction site. In order to mitigate the negative impacts on the environment, discharge of concrete waste to the creek is prevented through constructing concrete walls at the river section of power plants. Each type of waste is removed and the disposed of by licensed firms in accordance with the waste management plan. Within the scope of Çoruh River “River Guard Band”, wetland protection permissions are received and affiliated procedures are being monitored regularly. Furthermore, there are works performed by Doğuș Energy, the Client, within the framework of environmental awareness. Since a part of the Artvin Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant site is located within the limits of “Çoruh Valley Wildlife Improvement Region”, observation and inventory practices are being performed in coordination with the Artvin National Park Directorate with the aim to monitor and improve wildlife and protect diversity of the species. The Client also supported and sponsored the “Olive Branch Tale” that was organized by the Provincial Food and Livestock Directorate. Thus, olive types that were submerged under the reservoir will be protected and new olive gardens including young newly grafted olive trees will be created. 55 PUBLIC BENEFIT INVESTMENTS Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro Project The construction of Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro that commenced in 2012, is a very crucial project that will bring solution to Istanbul’s transportation problem. The distance between Üsküdar and Çekmeköy is 27 km. However, this distance can be covered within 1.5 hours due to intense traffic. With the completion of the project, 700.000 people will able to travel the same distance in 24 minutes without being stuck in the traffic due to this metro line compose of 16 stations. Therefore, the completion of this project is of critical importance to Istanbul. There are several measures and responsibilities that Doğuș Construction has undertaken during the implementation of such a huge project in order not to bring life to a halt in the heart of the city, in a region where life flows so rapidly. PUBLIC BENEFIT INVESTMENTS 56 Responsibility to Make Contribution to Urban Infrastructure Projects Doğuș Construction is implementing its fourth metro project besides to Taksim-Șișli, Kadıköy-Kartal, Otogar-Kirazlı-Bașakșehir metro projects that it has undertaken in the most crowded city of Turkey, Istanbul. Aforementioned metro line includes 16 underground stations, double line tube tunnel with a length of 20 km and implementation of all the electromechanical works at vehicle warehouse/maintenance site. This metro line has a route that extends on west-east axis in a way to include the districts of Üsküdar, Ümraniye, Çekmeköy and Sancaktepe. Responsibility to Implement High Technology In the metro line rail systems, high-tech driverless vehicles shall be employed, platform isolator door systems shall be available in each station as well as all types of facilities shall be provided to the handicapped such as lifts and walking platforms. This metro line shall make great contribution to Istanbul’s transportation network due to its integration to current Marmaray and Metrobus lines as well as to Bostancı Metro Line that shall be constructed in the near future. Responsibility to Ensure Minimal Disturbance to Inhabitants By changing the construction methods at sections where station construction works and roads are intersected, necessary measures are taken to release the roads that are blocked due to traffic. Information meetings are held with inhabitants prior to the commencement of road closing works and they are notified via brochures and posters regarding to the works that shall be performed and until when this will continue. 57 PUBLIC BENEFIT INVESTMENTS Environmental Interaction Responsibility Soil movements are monitored regularly on and below the surface in order to minimize environmental effects during the project implementation process, relative measurements on gas, noise, dust are made and necessary measures are taken. Not only washing pools are placed at the entrance and exit points of the sites in order to wash vehicles’ wheels but also surrounding roads are washed and cleaned regularly by street washers. Water that is used at the sites is filtered by means of holding tanks, and transferred to the sewage system cleaned. Hazardous wastes such as chemical materials, used motor oil and batteries are collected and disposed of in hazardous waste collection centres. Also, wastes such as paper and boxes are delivered to recycling plants. Responsibility to Provide Information Information regarding to works that are implemented is provided to the concerned parties via project web site and light boards available at the site entrances. The project is introduced to visitors with an introductory film and brochures, and information is provided on the issues that concerned the inhabitants. SUPPLY 58 Material Supply Doğuș Construction cooperates with subcontractors and suppliers during the implementation of each project not only in ancillary works related to service production but also in some stages of the main works that require advanced technological expertise. During the construction and support processes, there is a buying procedure applicable not only in the headquarters but also in the construction sites in order to guarantee the supply of the products and services with the required quality and quantity within the deadline. It is a priority for Doğuș Construction to purchase the environment-friendly and risk free materials consistent with Occupational Health and Safety procedures. The degree of the products, materials and services can be reviewed under three main headings. Those that have a direct impact on the quality of services and Occupational Health and Safety performance (For example; steel, cement, bitumen and steel mesh, etc…) Those that have an indirect impact on the quality of services (For example; machines, equipment and its parts, maintenance auxiliary materials, fuel, mineral oil and survey instruments, etc…) Materials and services that do not have an impact on the quality of services but that can be purchased from a potential supplier (For example; stationery equipment, basic manual tools, office equipment and cleaning materials etc...) 59 LOCAL SUPPLIERS PROCUREMENT POLICY With embracing manner towards the local communities, Doğuș Construction has adopted its main objective as to make economic and cultural contribution to the regions where it operates. Therefore, Doğuș Construction creates business volume for the subcontractors and suppliers it collaborates, and puts great importance on local suppliers and local labour. With this aim, Doğuș Construction implements various social projects in order to create new resources, labour and business volume. “Local” refers to the geographical regions that are close to where Doğuș implements its projects, and that shelters the manufacturers and suppliers who can provide services to Doğuș in conformity with its criteria. Suppliers, Buraya pie chart birdeployed which are daha ileteceğiz at a distance of 0-400 km from Doğuș construction sites and which satisfy the requirements for establishing a commercial relationship with Doğuș, are referred to as “Local Suppliers”. Other factors that are considered during the selection of local suppliers are as follows: • Business volume in the region • Capacity to provide added value in terms of time and cost • Capacity to provide sustainability in terms of service and supply • Craft knowledge and knowledge in infrastructure Products Amount (000 TL) Cement 20.114 Steel 20.012 Oil 32.040 * The table shows the purchases in 2013 that were made from local suppliers on the basis of basic products. These values correspond to 37 % of the total quantity of purchases made by construction sites. LOCAL PURCHASING RATES 60 Fuel 17% Steel 10% Products Amount (000 TL) Cement Cement 20.114 10% Steel 14.843 Oil 20.920 Other Purchases 63% * The table shows the local purchasing rates that were made by the * The table shows local purchases by the Artvin Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant active construction sites of Doğuș Construction in 2013. construction site in 2013. Doğuș Construction attaches great importance to the local market in terms of suppliers and labour in the regions where it implements its projects. Localization works that are performed throughout the project ensure a decrease in costs and expenses while contributing to the development of local sectors. Therefore, besides to positive impacts of local supplier selection and local employment on the economy of the region, it strengthens the relations with the local community and makes contribution to the sustainability policies of the companies. The local purchase consideration by the Artvin Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant construction site in 2013 corresponds to 82% of the total purchase consideration during the same period. Such high rates do not only provide business volume to local suppliers, but also supports sustainability strategies of the companies. 61 GRI INDEX INDICATORS REMARK DEPARTMENT NAME AND LOCATION REFERENCE PAGES PROFILE Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Senior Management Declaration Message from The Chairman 05-06 CORPORATE PROFILE 2.1 Corporation Name Form of Ownership and Legitimacy 08 2.2 Brands, Products and Services Company Profile 08 Operational Structure 15 Supply 58 2.3 Operational Structure of the Corporation Organizational Chart 10 Processes 11 Operational Structure 15 Joint Ventures and Consortiums 20 2.4 Headquarters Report Profile and Boundary 03 2.5 Countries in which the corporation operates Operational Structure 15 Geographical Breakdown of the Operations 16-20 2.6 Ownership Properties and Legal State Form of Ownership and Legitimacy 08 2.7 Markets serviced Company Profile 08 Operational Structure 15 Geographical Breakdown of the Operations 16-20 Doğuș Construction Affiliate Companies 21 Stakeholders 22-24 Members 25-26 Local Suppliers Procurement Policy 59 Local Purchasing Rates 60 2.8 Corporational Scale Company Scale and Financials 12-14 2.9 Important Changes in Size, Structure and Ownership Situations Form of Ownership and Legitimacy 08 Geographical Breakdown of the Operations 16-20 2.10 Awards Awards and Accomplishments 27-28 GRI INDEX 62 INDICATORS REMARK DEPARTMENT NAME AND LOCATION REFERENCE PAGES REPORT PARAMETERS Report Profile 3.1 Reporting Period Report Profile and Boundary 03 3.2 Date of Previous Report Report Profile and Boundary 03 3.3 Reporting Frequency Report Profile and Boundary 03 3.4 Contact Information about the Report Report Profile and Boundary 03 Limitations and Report Boundary 3.5 Report Contents Report Profile and Boundary 03 Stakeholders 22 3.6 Report Contents Limit Report Profile and Boundary 03 Operational Structure 15 Geographical Breakdown of the Operations 16-20 3.7 Report Scope and Content Limitations Report Profile and Boundary 03 GRI Index 3.12 GRI Index GRI Index 61-63 GOVERNANCE, LIABILITY AND SHARING PRACTICES Governance 4.1 Corporation Governance Structure Organizational Structure 09-10 4.2 Autonomy of the Chairman of the Board Organizational Structure 09 4.3 Number of Independent Members in the Board of Directors Organizational Structure 09 4.4 Stakeholders’ and Employees’ Involvement in Management Stakeholders 22-24 4.9 CSR Performance and the Supervision of its Risks by Senior Management Corporate Social Responsibility Approach 07 Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 Stakeholders List Doğuș Construction Affiliate Companies 21 Stakeholders 22-24 Members 25-26 Joint Ventures and Consortiums 20 4.15 Key Stakeholders Determining Process Stakeholders 22 Local Suppliers Procurement Policy 59 63 GRI INDEX INDICATORS REMARK DEPARTMENT NAME AND LOCATION REFERENCE PAGES PERFORMANCE PARAMETERS Economic Performance EC1 Direct Economic Value Produced and Distributed Company Scale and Financials 12 EC6 Policy, Practice and Rates of Payment Regarding Payments Made to Local Suppliers Local Suppliers Procurement Policy 59 Local Purchasing Rates 60 EC8 Investments made for Public Interest Corporate Social Responsibility Approach 07 Environment 47-50 Investments 51-52 Public Benefit Investments 53-57 Environmental Performance EN1 Materials used by Weight and Volume Materials and Energy 48 EN8 Total Amount of Water Used According to Its Sources Materials and Energy 48 EN21 Total Water Discharge by Quality and Destination Water Consumption 49 EN22 Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Waste Management 50 EN30 Total Amount of Environment Expenses and Investments Investments 51 Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total Workforce Labour 31-34 LA4 Percentage of Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Employment 31 LA6 Percentage of Workforce Represented in Formal Joint-Worker Health and Safety Committees Occupational Health and Safety 43 LA7 Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, Absenteeism Occupational Health and Safety 43-46 LA10 Average Hours of Training per Year per Employee Training 42 LA13 Composition of Governance Bodies and Breakdown of Employees Employee Diversity 35-38 Human Rights Performance HR4 Total Number of Incidents Regarding Discrimination and Precautions Taken Anti-discrimination 39 Contact Nurten Ay Corporate Communications Manager Tel: +90216 538 1598 E-mail: nurtena@dogusinsaat.com.tr Elvan Sezgin Corporate Communications Specialist Tel: +90216 538 1664 E-mail: elvans@dogusinsaat.com.tr Contributors Nermin Sever Corporate Communications Asistant Specialist Çağrı Dinçtürk HSE Responsible Design Lonca 34 Tel: +900212 221 9955 www.lonca34.com
