MA MA Document Registration Number 2015-MA-GP-22-297 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Water for a Happier world 2015 Sustainability Report Through Smart Water Management and Healthy Water Supply, K-water will make a much happier world This report was printed with soybean oil on eco-friendly papers certified by FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). 02 About this Report Membership Activities CONTENTS 1974 Korean Society of Civil Engineers To Begin Purpose of Publication Reporting Boundaries 1976 Korea Electric Association, International Contractors Association of We publish the sustainability report in order to provide information on the This report basically covers business practices of the head office, 9 Korea 04 CEO Message corporate sustainable management openly to our stakeholders. K-water’s regional/business divisions and 60 branch offices. Business performances 1993 Korea Water Resources Association 06 Water Cycle Process and K-water sustainability report contains its sustainable business practices, responding of oversea projects were included. It does not cover subsidiaries and 1995 Environmental Impact Assessment 08 Total Water Service Provider, K-water to stakeholders’ issues of concern, as the only state-owned water service affiliates, while for partnering companies in our corporate supply chain, 1996 Korean Association of Academic Societies, Korean Institute of company of the nation. their performances were partially included in relation with education Landscape Architecture 11 2014 K-water Sustainability Highlights service or subsidies for mutual growth over the corporate supply chain. 1997 Korea Electric Engineers Association 12 Water Business Environment Publication Cycle 1999 Korea Disaster Prevention Association 2001 Korea New & Renewable Energy Association This, K-water 2015 Sustainability Report is the 11th report. K-water has Amendments 2002 Korea Water and Wastewater Works Association K-water’s Sustainable Management published annually since 2005. There were not any significant changes such as corporate structure and 2003 Korean Society on Water Environment 16 Vision and Strategy ownership during the reporting period when compared to the previous 2005 Korea Engineering & Consulting Association Reporting Standard year. However, some figures were amended to reflect changes in 2006 Ethical Management Forum, River Association, Korea Society for 19 Governance and Responsible Management This report has been drafted in line with the GRI G4 Sustainability calculation and application standards. Environmental Analysis 20 Risk Management Reporting Guidelines (Core option). 2007 Korea Society of Environmental Restoration Technology, American 22 Sustainable Management with Stakeholders Report Assurance Water Works Association, International Water Association, UN Global Reporting Period Data and statements included in this report were verified by Korea Compact 24 Sustainable Management Issues identified by Stakeholders The period covered in this report is from January 1 to December 31, 2014 Productivity Center. 2008 Korean Society of Environmental Engineers, Membrane Society of 26 In Depth Analysis of Sustainable Management Issues while for qualitative performance the period covers up to July 2015. Korea, Korean Society of Environment and Ecology 2010 Korean National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage, Korean Society Identified by Stakeholders for Fluid Machinery 2011 Society of Air-conditioning Refrigerating Engineers of Korea 2012 Korea Environmental Policy and Administration Society K-water’s 4 Core Sustainability Issues 2013 Architectural Institute of Korea 30 1st Issue Water Management's New Paradigm, 2014 Korea Society of Mechanical Engineers, Korean Society of Climate Smart Water Management Awards Change Research, Korea Photovoltaic Industry Association, Korea 40 2nd Issue Strategic Plan to Achieve 100 Years of Society of Quality Management, International Hydropower Association Apr. 2008 Korea Management Innovation ‘Grand Prize’ Jul. 2012 Korea Digital Innovation Award ‘Public Sector Grand Prize’ 2015 Korean Society of Ecology and Infrastructure Engineering, Korea Sustainable Growth (Awarded by Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Maeil (Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Society of Hazard Mitigation 47 3rd Issue Responding to Climate Change and Ensuring Business Newspaper) Sep. 2012 Excellent enterprise with an outstanding performance in purchasing Oct. 2008 Korea Social Contribution ‘Grand Award’ (Korea Journalist Forum) goods from small and medium enterprises (Small and Medium Environmental Protection Oct. 2008 Sustainable Management ‘Award of Highest Excellence’ Business Administration of Korea) 54 4th Issue Transparency and Fairness Based on Improved (Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Korea Chamber of Oct. 2012 Family-Friendly Enterprise (Korean Ministry of Gender Equality and Commerce and Industry) Family) Stakeholders' Trust Oct. 2008 Korea Eco-Friendly Company ‘Grand Award’ (Korean Ministry of Oct. 2012 Top 100 Enterprise selected as ‘Great WorkPlace’ (GWP Korea) Environment) Oct. 2012 Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) Appendix Oct. 2008 Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) Nov. 2012 Sustainability Grand Award, Innovation Management Award Jan. 2009 Continuity & Creation Management Award in Environmental (Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy) 68 2014 Economic, Environment, and Social Performance Management (Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy and UN Global Dec. 2012 State-owned Company Award ‘Grand Prize’ (Sisa Journal) Summary Compact) Jul. 2013 13th Korean Digital Green Management Award Oct. 2009 Low Carbon Green Growth Commendation (Korean Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning) 79 Third Party Assurance (Green Growth Association and Korean Ministry of Environment) Oct. 2013 Korea Green Architecture Competition ‘Award of Excellence’ 82 GRI G4 INDEX Oct. 2009 New Regeneration Energy Awards ‘Prime Minister Commendation’ (Presidential Commissions on Architecture Policy) 85 ISO 26000 (Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Oct. 2013 ‘Commendation for Service’ in Renewable Energy Supply Obligation Oct. 2009 Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) System (Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) 86 Code of Ethics, Green Management Policy, Customer Dec. 2010 National Green Technology ‘Grand Award’ Nov. 2013 The Natural Environment Grand Award (Korean Ministry of Charter Statement, Innovation Vision Statement (Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Korean Ministry of Environment) Education) Nov. 2013 Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) 88 UN Global Compact 10 Principles Support Jun. 2011 Korea Green Management Award Dec. 2013 Global Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) (Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Korean Ministry of Feb. 2014 The Most Admired Company in Korea (KMAC) Environment) Aug. 2014 14th Korean Digital Award (Korean Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Jun. 2011 Eco-Star Eco-technology Award (Korean Ministry of Environment) Planning) Jan. 2012 The first public company to be awarded the ‘Smart Work Superior Aug. 2014 Carbon Trust Standard Achieved (UK Carbon Trust) Institute Award’ (Korean Ministry of Public Administration and Security) Sep. 2014 IWA Project Innovation Award (IWA) Feb. 2012 The Most Admired Company In Korea (KMAC) Oct. 2014 Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) Jun. 2012 Environmental Impact Management ‘Grand Prize’ (Korean Ministry of Nov. 2014 Korea Quality Management Enterprise Award Environment) (Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy) Jun. 2012 Global Social Contribution Institute of Excellence Commendation Nov. 2014 Advanced Public Enterprise in Mutual Growth Efforts (Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare) (Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy) Jun. 2012 Selected as an excellent company with an outstanding performance Dec. 2014 Korea Social Outreach Award Prime Ministers’ Commendation in ‘Labor and Management Relations’ (Korean Ministry of Employment (Korean Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs) and Labor) Dec. 2014 Global Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) 04 05 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report CEO Message environment undergoes drastic changes. Due to climate change, drought and floods have become more frequent and intense throughout the world. This change is worsening water-related problems such as water shortages and water quality degradation, and thereby, escalating conflict between regions over water. On the other hand, the domestic water market is being saturated rapidly despite growth of the global market. As a state-owned public service corporation, K-water is required to meet customers’ demands for both improved service quality and higher service efficiency. Under this circumstance, K-water is placing its best efforts on turning unfavorable changes into business opportunities and satisfying its customers. First, K-water is leading the way in developing a new water management paradigm – the Smart Water Management Initiative (SWMI). K-water’s SWMI is to provide “smart” water service to its customers by combining cutting edge ICT (Information and Communication Technology) with existing water management technology, which features the Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) and Healthy Tap Water supply. K-water enhances stability and efficiency of its water service through IWRM, responding to climate change, and supplies Healthy Tap Water, which contains balanced minerals that are good for human health, to meet individuals’ growing demands on health care. In 2014, a pilot project of Healthy Tap Water supply has been successfully conducted in the city of Paju in South Korea with the result that the rate of tap water drinking increased from 1% to 19%. Moreover, detailed cooperation plans modelled on K-water's IWRM are being discussed with Peru, Indonesia and Algeria. K-water’s SWMI facilitated the successful demonstration of K-water’s competency to the world at the 7th World Water Forum which was held last April in Daegu. With its competency based on the SWMI, K-water is making its way to the global water market beyond the domestic market for the company’s sustainable growth. In last July, K-water established a mid & long term road map to become a leading company in the global water market with its SWMI practice. As well as the efforts to grow its business globally, K-water has put the utmost efforts to fulfill its duties as the only state-owned water service provider. Implementing business restructuring and management improvement to ensure its solid financial structure, K-water continues to invest for its water service to reach out to all members across the society including an “Open Communication for Positive Outcome” extension of its multi-regional waterworks to unserved rural areas. Its efforts led K-water to the best rating in business performance evaluation for public service corporations. K-water believes that when many people’s ideas and knowledge are gathered, it can create a much more positive outcome for society and business. With this belief, K-water In this, 2015 Sustainability Report, K-water details its efforts, preparation and results for becoming a global leader along with its plans for communicates with it stakeholders and practices open management. sustainable growth as per our mission, “Make a Happier World with Water”. Going forward for another 50 years, K-water will endeavor to protect people from water risks and lead solutions to global water issues through open communication and participatory engagement I would like to express my deepest gratitude for your interest in K-water, and I am pleased to present to you K-water’s 11th Sustainability of its stakeholders. Report I thank you for your ongoing support and interest in K-water as we strive to become a globally renowned water supplier. K-water, as Korea’s only state-owned water provider, develops and manages water resources efficiently to protect people’s lives and property from water-related disasters such as floods and droughts. Also, K-water continues to provide leadership to promote the July 2015 nation’s sustainable growth and the quality of all its citizens' lives as it has done for the last 48 years. However, K-water’s business K-water CEO Choi, Gye Woon 06 07 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Water Cycle Process and K-water ‌ K-water endeavors to create sustainable value over the entire water cycle, from water sources to household taps, with its water service. Drinking Water Treatment 1.9 Billion m3 Water amount processed by Flood Control Clean Energy 2,209 K-water in 2013 28 GWH Production Clean energy produced % by K-water in 2014 5.0 Billion m3/year Of the nation's total water amount processed in 2013 (6.8 Billion m3) Flood controlled through the dams that K-water operates 13 % Of the nation's total clean energy production in 2014 (16,492 GWH) Reuse Of flood controlled through the entire dams of South Korea (5.2 Billion m3/year) 95 % * The nation's total power generation in 2014: 521,409 GWH Water Source Sewage disposal Water Intake 182 Thousand m3/day Sewage disposal by K-water in 2013 Of the nation's entire sewage disposal in 2013 (1,988 Million m3/day) 1 % 12.2 Billion m3 /year Creating Water resources secured through the dams that K-water operates Waterfront Space 3.7 Billion m3 Raw Water Supply Water intake by (1.8 Billion m3 in 2013) 65 % K-water in 2013 * ‌Unprocessed water, supplying to local government and companies according Use Of total water resources secured through the entire dams of South Korea (18.8 Billion m3/year) Of the nation's entire annual water intake (7.25 Billion m3) 51 % to their needs Tip! Water resources 1.5 Million m2 of South Korea Ground water 11% K-water-created waterfront lots sold in 2014 3.7 Billion m3 (3.7 BIllion m /yr) 3 K-water-supplied water use in 2013 River 32% (10.8 Billion m3/yr) Dam Reservoir 57% 8.6 % 51 % (18.8 Billion m /yr) 3 Of the nation's entire waterfront lots sold Of the nation’s total water use in 2013 (7.2 Billion m3) in 2014 (17 Million m2) ※ Data Source: Water Supply Statics (2013), Sewerage Statics (2013), Electric Power Statistics System (2014), National Industrial Sites Statistics (2014) 08 09 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report K-water, Total Water Service Providers Corporate Overview (As of Dec. 31, 2014) Business Portfolio K-water is a total water service provider, who leads a new water management paradigm the Smart Water Management Initiative the Head office: 4 Business Divisions and 26 Departments Company name Korea Water Resources Corporation, K-water Organization Onsite: 9 Divisions, 60 Regional Offices Smart Water Management Initiative in the global water industry. Integrated Water Resources Healthy Tap Water Supply Business Institution Type Semi-market type state-owned enterprise Sales KRW 3.7 trillion Management Total Number of Domestic: AAA, Flood control by K-water’s operating dams Annual sales 4,308 people Credit Rating Employees Overseas: Moody’s Aa3(Stable), Fitch AA-(Stable) Total Assets KRW 25.4 trillion Subsidiaries and 5.0 Billion m3/year KRW 1.1 Trillion Affiliates Kangsosim Susumu (Ownership 32.5% ) 3 new multipurpose dams are being constructed K-water operates 35 multi-regional & 13 industrial Waterway Plus Co., Ltd. (Ownership 100%) 1 dam is in process of expanding its flood control waterworks (total capacity: 17.6 million ㎥/day), capacity, while 2 dams were completed. And 22 local waterworks (1.4 million ㎥/day) Prunjangryang Co., Ltd. (Ownership 5.0%) Total Liabilities KRW 13.5 trillion P-Waters Co., Ltd. (Ownership 2.0%) Korea Construction Management Co., Ltd. Water resources secured by K-water’s operating dams Composition of Korean Government 91.1 %, The Korea Development Population served by K-water Shareholders Bank 8.8%, Local Government 0.1% (Ownership 18.9%) Angat Hydropower Co. (Ownership 40.0%), KDS Hydro Pte., Ltd. (Ownership 80.0%) 12.2 Billion m3/year 22 Million People Date of K-water manages and operates 18 multipurpose November 16, 1967 * K-water’s annual water supply: 3.7 billion m3 in 2014 Establishment K-water Thailand Co., Ltd. (Ownership 99.9%) dams, 14 water supply dams, 2 flood control dams, KWPP Holdings Co. (Ownership 38.4%), 1 estuary bank and 16 multifunction river weirs. 200, Sintanjin-ro, Daedeok-gu, Daejeon, Star Hydro Power Ltd. (Ownership 80.0%) Location Zip Code 34350, Rep. of KOREA Waterfront Business Clean Energy Business Regional Offices and Overseas Projects Waterfront City constructed by K-water Clean Energy 90 Generation Capacity 1,340.8 Million m2 Sihwa MTV, Sonsan Green City, and Busan Eco-delta MW Ganwon Regional Division Gyeong-in Ara Waterway City are being constructed including residential areas, Business Division Energy sources: hydropower, tidal power, solar theme parks, industry and research facilities. Seoul Metropolitan energy and others Sihwa Regional Division Regional Division * K-water produced 2,209 GWh of clean energy in 2014. Chungcheong Regional Division Uzbekistan Replacing 3.37 million Barrels of crude oil Head Office(Daejeon) Georgia Overseas Business Iraq Pakistan China Algeria Deagu-Gyeongbuk India Jeonbuk Regional Division Regional Division Laos Myanmar Completed Gyeongnam-Busan Cambodia Philippines Floating Photovoltaic System Gwanju-Jeonnam Regional Division Equatorial Guinea Indonesia 54 businesses in 23 countries 1,200 Regional Division Solomon Is. Rwanda MW Conducting SOLATUS (500 kW), world’s first commercialized 26 15 floating solar power panels Investment Having 12 additional dams installed by 2022 Technical Service businesses in countries Official Development Assistance (ODA) 10 11 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report K-water, Total Water Service Providers 2014 K-water Sustainability Highlights K-water's Growth, Accompanying the National Development K-water has contributed to the nation’s development with its growth by developing and managing the nation’s water resources for the last 48 years. K-water has expanded its business territory to water supply business through multi-regional and local waterworks since the 1990s Economic Performance for Sustainable Growth while the corporation relied on the sales of hydropower and industrial complex in the early stages of its establishment. As of 2014, the sales Environment Performance for Sustainable Development in water supply business accounts for over 50% of K-water’s total sales. Social Performance for Shared Growth and Communication with Its Stakeholders 1 January Yeosu Industrial Complex construction was Beginning Take Off Growth Total Water Solutions completed [Korea Water Resources [Industrial Sites and Water [Korea Water Resources Corporation] [K-water] July 7 Best Business Commendation in 2014 National Development Corporation] Resources Development Environmental-friendly Construction Contest Corporation] 1989 ~ 2005 2006 ~ 1967 ~ 1973 “Shared Growth Cooperation Committee” was 1974 ~ 1988 found for open communication and conflict settlement with stakeholders 2 February * 6 meetings were held in 2014 Grand Prize in 2014 Eco-friendly Products August 8 Purchase Promoting Contest for Public Service •Soyang River and Andong •Deacheong, Chungju, •Seoul Metropolitan region, •Waterworks consignment •Completed the 4 Major River Corporations multipurpose dams were Hapcheon, Juam, Imha, and Ulsan, and Gumi Waterworks business based on Total Restoration Project constructed Nam River Multipurpose constructed Water Solutions commenced •Completed the Ara Dams and Nakdong River in Nonsan, Jeongeup, and •Chanwon and Yeosu Industrial sites were developed Estuary Barrage were •K-water's overseas business commenced with the Funhe other municipalities Waterway •Completed the world's 3 March constructed River Valley Investigation •Sihwa and Ansan New cities largest tidal power plant, were constructed •Suwon, Anyang and project in the Shanxi Sihwa Tidal Power Plant Yeocheon Industrial Water Province (China) •Yeocheon Industrial Supply and management •Expanded K-water's Waterworks constructed facilities were constructed overseas business September 9 Smart Water City pilot business agreement with 【 National Income vs K-water’s Sales Trend 】 Paju City Achieved the best rating in the Ministry of Trade, 4 April KRW Billion Sales in Multipurpose Industry & Energy’s Shared Growth Efforts Evaluation 1,000 Beginning in 1967 Take off Growth Waterworks Commercial power generation of Philippine Angat KRW 969 Billion Dam has commenced 800 Waterfront Business October 10 2014 Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise KRW 763 Billion selected by UK Teleos 600 5 May 400 Clean Energy Business 2014 Korea Quality Management Enterprise KRW 367 Billion Award (Presidential Prize) Raw Water Supply 200 Bohyon Mountain Multipurpose Dam completion KRW 264 Billion Sales in Local Waterworks November 11 2014 Korea Great Work Place Grand Prize KRW 135 Billion 2014 Best corporation in the National Disaster 0 1967 1977 1987 1997 2007 2014  est Corporation Commendation in 2014 B Response Training Evaluation National Water Supply Businesses’ Performance 6 June 12.2 Billion m3/year Evaluation 2014 Global Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise Total Water Supply USD 28 thousand selected by UK Teleos by K-water’s Operating Dams Achieved the best rating in 2014 Business December 12 Performance Evaluation for Public Service Corporations Per Capita Gross National Income 2014 Sustainable Science Prize in Environment 2014 Korea Volunteer Work Grand Prize 12 13 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Water Business Environment Water is no longer a resource that humankind can take for granted. Water is an asset which we must Water Crises actively manage. Therefore, there is a need for futuristic smart water management to respond water Global warming and environmental pollution cause water shortages. Globally, water shortages are worsening, yet the demand for water crises and to survive in a competitive market. is increasing due to the acceleration of urbanization. And while water demand is increasing, access and mobility to water resources is becoming more challenging. Therefore, there is a need for proactive approaches to overcome water crises. Characteristic of Water Industry •According to IPCC’s 2014 report, the average temperature of the planet by the end of the 21st century (2081~2100) Water is vital element for the survival of every organism. Therefore, the water industry is a fundamental industry for humanity’s welfare, will be up to 4.8 Celsius Degrees higher and sea levels will be up to 82cm higher compared with the period from 1986~2005. requiring economies of scale. •The World Economic Forum selected water crises as the most significant risk which can cause negative impact for global society in its 10th Global Risk Report. Also, it is important that various industries knowledge and technology are integrated throughout the entire water circulation process. In particular, water related technology has a direct impact on the environment and individuals’ health. Therefore, verified technological Within these global water crises, Korea has its own risk factors. Seasonal and regional rainfall changes can be dramatic, so water usage development is required. In addition, customer demands for the safety, taste and healthiness of tap water need to be satisfied. and management is challenging. Meanwhile, the deterioration of facilities causes a worsening distrust in regards to tap water. As a result, the tap water drinking rate is only 5.4%. Account needs to be also taken of the fact that countries and regions have differing water related laws and regulations as well as differing social and environmental aspects. Therefore, when entering an overseas market, these requirement must be met. Business Opportunities in Water Industry Acceleration of urbanization and climate change may be seen as challenges, but K-water also sees them as presenting business 【 Major Issues in the Water Industry 】 opportunities in the water industry. The OECD predicts that by 2025, the global water market will grow to be a KRW 1 quadrillion market. Due to the advancement of ICT (Information and Communication Technology), smart technology is proliferating in the water industry. In other words, the water industry is changing into an added value creation industry through a combination of existing water industry technology and advanced ICT. In addition, developed countries are leading the management and utilization of multi-purpose water and flood control purpose water with environmental ecology being included in the Integrated Water Resource Management paradigm. Due to this paradigm change, there is growing need for efficient water management from an integrated perspective. Global Issues Domestic Issues •UN Water’s research result showed that by 2012, 68% of countries in the world had adopted IWRM. Meteorological Disasters Caused by Climate Change Decrease of Tap Water Drinking Rate •By 2100, the average temperature is expected to rise Concerns about pollution of water by 4.8 Celsius Degrees and sea levels are expected reserves and decrepit facilities to rise by 82cm (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate negatively impact on the direct tap Smart Water Management Initiatives (SWMI) led by K-water Change, 2014) water drinking rate which accounts for K-water is well prepared to respond to the challenges in water 【K-water’s Smart Water Management Initiative 】 •Water Crises was placed first in the 10th Global Risk 5.4% Report (The World Economic Forum, 2015) management and expand its business in the global water Increase of Water Management Energy Consumption market. K-water provides total services in the whole water cycle Increasing Population and Urbanization 60~70% of entire water supply The World's only total Global Leading Information By 2025, an individual’s average water consumption is operation fee is spent on energy costs process and has the most advanced ICT. K-water’s new water service provider covering the entire water cycle communication technology competency expected to increase by 50% in developing countries, Total Water World-class ICT and 18% in developed countries versus that in 2007. management paradigm is based on a combination of K-water’s Management Technology Water Management Facilities Competency Deterioration 48 years of experience in water management and the application TREATMENT Increase of Developing Countries' Famine and Disease SOURCE Deteriorated facilities cause 500 million of the world's most advanced ICT. K-water is developing a smart Water shortage directly impacts on food production One Stop SWMI based on World Class US Dollars in losses annually (UNDP, 2004) Total Service ICT Technology water grid-based water management paradigm which will allow DISTRIBUTION REUSE Global leader in the application customers to access water quality information in real time. CONSUMPTION of ICT technology as of 2013 P ure Just as Nature Intended Pure water, like K-water delivers nature itself in the form of healthy clean drinking water CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE K-water’s Sustainable 16 _Vision and Strategy 24_Sustainable Management Issues identified 19 _Governance and Responsible Management by Stakeholders Management 20 _Risk Management 22 _In Depth Analysis of Sustainable 22 _Sustainable Management with Management Issues Identified by Stakeholders Stakeholders 16 17 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Vision and Strategy K-water places utmost effort on creating sustainable values to pursue a balance of environmental integrity Sustainable Management System and social responsibility based on economic efficiency. The Management Services Dept. under the Office of the Senior Executive Vice President is in charge of K-water’s sustainable management, and has been annually publishing a sustainability report to provide reliable information to its stakeholders since 2005. Declaration of the new ‘SMART management' to Become Future Global Water Supplier Head office and each regional office prosecute business with economic, social and environmental perspectives in an organic manner and In 2014, K-water led changes in the new paradigm for a holistic perspective of total water management, and also to play a future strengthen major competencies with consideration of business changes. In 2014, K-water introduced the Disaster & Safety Management oriented role to respond to the global water market’s sustainable growth. K-water established challenging and yet achievable goals to Department under the Office of the Senior Executive Vice President in order to strengthen disaster and safety management. Also, an strengthen its role at smart new management. Organizational Culture Department was founded to conduct various organizational culture improvement activities. Along with these internal departments, K-water operates advisory committees and councils that takes into account stakeholders’ various opinions. 【 The need for changes in Management Paradigm 】 【 Sustainable Management Organization 】 CEO Direction Changes in Government Guidelines Water Industry Policy Board of CEO Auditor Directors •The NEW SMART Management was decided on •Steady growth of in the holistic perspective of •Regulatory reform to strengthen debt management, for business direction given the opportunities the IWRM Paradigm (65% of developed countries adopted) management improvements for government owned it presents for sustainable development and future •Increase of water disasters caused changes in efficiency organizations’ sound operation (Management Services Innovation Team) water management leadership. of water resource distribution and water industry structure •Strengthen disaster safety responsiveness, emphasis Senior Executive Vice Management Services Advisory Council Sustainability Management President Department on Government 3.0 and organizational co-operation. Supervisory Business Planing & (Financial Improvement Team) Coordination Department Financial Structure Improvement K-water Management Advisory Council Supervisory Mutual Growth and Cooperation Committee The need for changes in the management paradigm to respond to a rapidly Customer Service Committee changing environment and for a future oriented role Future Strategy The NEW SMART Management Tap Water Quality Council Department Supervisory Regional Dam Construction Council Disaster & Safety Disaster&Safety Services 【 K-water’s Strategy for Sustainable Management 】 Management Department Supervisory Purpose of establishment •Water resource total development and management ㅣ water supply ㅣ water quality improvement Improving the welfare of the public Administrative Water Resources Water Supply Waterfront Business Future Technology Regional Mission •We make a happier world with water Division Business Division Business Division Division Division Divisions Vision •The World-Class Total Water Service Provider (Conflict Management (Corporate Partnership & Team) Diagnosis Team) Responsible for Conflict Responsible for Mutual Leading Customer Management Growth Functions Smart Future Water Satisfaction Management Welfare Management Management Policies 【 Sustainable Management and Related New Organization 】 •Sales KRW 6.4 trillion •Tap Water Drinking Rate 30% •Debt ratio 93% Strategic Goal •Accumulated Value of Overseas Orders •Public-service customer satisfaction index 2012 2013 2014 USD 11.5 billion 98.3 points •Core Performance Indicators. •Safe tap water drinking rate’s result index •State owned company’s normalization core •Based on advanced competencies. •It shows strong will for improvement of tap index Reasons water drinking rate as a water supplier •Highly regarded index which customer related •Advancement of Sustainable Management •Strengthen shared growth policies with suppliers •Sustainable Growth through The NEW SMART Management performance measured objectively and comNeeds •Strengthen Pre-adjustment Conflict Capacity •Sustainable Growth through Financial Restructuring •Strengthen Disaster & Safety Management parable with other state owned companies. KPI (23 Items) •Dam water usage, Overseas sales and •Achieving global water quality standard, •Increase of sales, gross profit rate, social ８others Old pipes improvement, Multi-pipes and contribution activities index, integrity and Newly7 others others •Management Service Innovation Team •Shared Growth Diagnosis Team •Future Strategy Department Established Organization •Conflict Management Team •Financial Structure Improvement Team •Disaster& Safety Management Department 18 19 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Vision and Strategy Governance and Responsible Management Key Performance Indicators Composition of Shareholders for its management goals by taking into account economic, social, To measure sustainable management performance and efficiently improve, 23 key performance indicators have been established. The Korea Water Resources Corporation Act limits K-water’s and environmental issues. The BOD also checks and supports the With these efforts, K-water’s sustainable management received public acknowledgement of excellence in the Korea Business Index investors to the national government, local governments, and the executives concurrently. K-water’s Board of Directors is comprised Sustainability Management Evaluation, for four consecutive years. Korea Development Bank (KDB). The law also states that “the of 15 directors: 7 executive directors and 8 non-executive national government must invest more than 50% of the total capital.” directors. Various specialists are appointed as non-executive 【 K-water Mid-Long Term Sustainable Management Key Performance Indicators 】  Unsatisfactory Good As of 2013, K-water’s shareholders are comprised of the national directors to improve various areas of management. More than 2013 2014 Strategic Direction Key Performance Indicator(KPI) Result government (91.3%), KDB (8.6%), and local governments (0.1%). half the members of the Board, Executive Recommendation Performed Goal Performed •Dam reservoir water supply (100 million m3) Committee, and the Audit Committee are outside directors to * Domestic and Industrial Water Supply is included, Total Water 55.0 55.7 55.2 Responsible Leadership through Internal ensure independence and the role of checks and balances. Supply through Dam is 12.2Billion m2 •Flood control capacity (100 million m3) 49.3 49.5 49.5 External Open Dialog K-water proposed the new SMART management direction for Board of Directors’ Remuneration Policy •Industrial water sales (KRW 100 million) 198 243 249 establishing K-water’s future role and becoming global water The executive directors receive performance-based payments Leader of global water •Urban waterfront complex sales 5,623 9,915 10,407 management (KRW 100 million, Total) supplier. K-water is establishing mutual understanding of the according to the results of government evaluations, which consider •Clean energy supply (GWh) 3,040 2,854 2,209 new SMART management direction through internal and external quantified and non-quantified outcomes and implementation •Overseas sales (USD 100 million) 9.9 58 10.1 communication. efforts. Based on this remuneration policy, K-water’s CEO was paid •Talent fostering Index (%) 40.5 40.0 41.3 about KRW 176 million in 2013, three times more than the average Internal •‘Star Brand Technology’ (Key-technology) project employee compensation. The auditor was paid KRW 142 million and 4 4 4 (number of cases) Management headquarter, on site tour meeting to share The the executive directors were paid an average of KRW 148 million •Water supply (million ㎥) 3,709 3,772 3,722 Sharing new SMART Management each. Non-executive directors were paid based on their attendance •Global Water Quality Standard achievement rate (%) 99.99 99.62 99.73 Communication Frequent Communication through Various Channels rates with payment not allowed to exceed KRW 30 million each. •Retrofitted water pipes (㎞) 32.7 27.6 27.6 Activities “Knock-Knock Plaza” within CEO Portal (Anonymous Bulletin Board) Open Water welfare services with national safety •Flow rate in pipelines of local waterworks (%) 81.4 80.0 82.1 Junior Board of Directors comprised Employees 【 Board of Directors Status 】  (As of August 2015) with less than 10 years of joining the company K-PUB (Working Practice Improvement Discussion) •Level of risk management effort (points) 93.5 95.1 95.2 Hold Regularly Position Name Title Choi, Gye Woon President •Rate of accident prevention efforts (%) 0.52 0.46 0.69 External Choi, Ho Sang General Auditor •Level of corporate integrity (grade) Unsatisfactory Outstanding Outstanding Lee, Hak Su Senior Executive Vice President Future Management Forum for Management Executive Expert’s Han, Kyu Beom Vice President of Administrative Division •Debt ratio (%) 120.6 121.6 points below 112.4 Improvement, Senior Policy Advisory and Technology Director Advice CHoi, Byeong Seub Vice President of Water Resources Business Division Policy Advisory Panels •Sales increase rate (%) Kim, Jae Bok Vice President of Water Supply Business Division 37.9 6.7 16.6 * Excluding profit of private construction investment Cooperation Seo, Eul Seong Vice President of Water and Human Settlement Division Cooperation with Specialized Agency with Experts Chairman/ Professor, Department of Urban Engineering, •Profit rate (%) Kim, Kab Sung Public company 16.7 12.5 11.8 Yonsei University * Excluding profit of private construction investment which is transparet Shared Professor, Graduate School of Public Policy, Hanyang Critical Expert Centered Water Management Conflict Kim, Won Tae transparent and •Trust management index (points) 66 69 56 Cooperation University Resolution empathizing Committee Park, Seung Ki President, Hyundai SNC Co., Ltd Nonwith customers •Environmental performance evaluation index (point) 151 150 points above 153 Committee Member, the Federation of Happy Smart Executive Lee, Won Suk Directors Exercises •Social contribution activity index (point) 89.6 90 points above 92.2 Kim, Keun Sik Policy Advisor, Yeuido Research Center of Saenuri Party Role and Composition of Board of Directors •Public-service customer satisfaction index (point) 97.2 90 points above 96.2 Choi, Yun Ho Secretary, ROTC Political Affairs Forum K-water’s Board of Directors (BOD), its highest decision-making CHo, Young Jae President, Seanuri Party Cities and Provinces Subcommittee •Level of creativity and innovation (%) 81.0 91.8 91.8 Park, Woo ho Chief Executive Officer, Seyoung Accounting Corporation body, deliberates and passes resolutions on K-water’s major issues 20 21 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Risk Management K-water Risk Management System Advancement of Risk Management System Risk is a broad concept of risk and dangers becoming reality. To reflect Korean government policy, K-water selected ‘advancing risk management’ as one of its new SMART management strategic K-water’s risk management can be divided into two major plans and in restructuring the organization. Also, economic, environmental, and social risk factors were identified and necessary activities; preventive activities and risk response activities. Risk measurements were put in place to prevent any risk occurrence ① (Dec. 2007) Establishing ERM K-water defines economic, environmental, social risk factors. RIsk ② (Dec. 2007) Branding KRM ③ (Oct. 2013) Introducing BCM K-water has three prevention systems to prevent risks occurring. Crisis 2014 K-water’s Risk Management Key Performance K-water’s Risk Based Internal Audit manages and mitigates risks in advance by auditing the Divisional Accounting System and the Financial Risk Management System, as well as the financial * ERM: Enterprise Risk Management ** KRM: K-water Risk Management Corporate level of risk management effort was scored 95.2 points above the goal (Goal, 95.1 points ) statements they produce. Also, if risk signs are detected during *** BCM: Business ‌ Continuity Management monitoring, risk levels are evaluated based on an in-house policy (the Risk Management Policy) to enable company-wide action to be taken in accordance with the relevant manuals. Risks are divided into types and levels and then distributed to the governing * RIsk Exchange rate, interest rate, liquidity, debt ratio departments and onsite departments so each can establish its emergency response office to take necessary action. If there is need for a * Response Reduction in debt ratio & Global credit rating improved company-wide response, the Chief Risk Officer calls the Risk Management Committee to oversee the risk. Also, when the state of crisis * Result Reduction in debt ratio & Global credit rating improved is ended, a follow-up management process is conducted. Mooy’s credit rating improved A1(2013)  Aa3(2014) Economical Preventive Risk Management Ex Post Facto Risk Management Exchange Rate, Liquidity, Debt Ratio and Others Risk Level * RIsk Green tide, water quality accident caused change in water quality Detecting Risk Ex Post Facto Economic Evaluation and * Response Daily water quality (Feb) and green tide forecast web services (March, 2015) are introduced to Signs Management Response take preventatives response for water quality in dam and river Algal Bloom, Water Quality * Result Birds at dam reservoir (average annual chlorophyll a quality) reduction , Accidents and •Major Risk : Company-wide •Accident, incident and •Evaluate Level of risk •Report End of Others Monitoring •Departmental Risk Indicators: other risk occurrences Critical, Severe, Crisis Continuous reduction since 2011 Environmental and Response System Automatic Detection Substantial, Moderate Environmental •Vulnerable Facilities: (Management) Rapid •Feedback Inspection change in exchange rate, •Response through Disaster, conflict, strikes and other manual customer information (Conflict) law suit, civil security complaint (Disaster) duct line related * RIsk Disaster (wind, flood, drought), conflict, customer information protection Social accidents, tunnel collapse * Response Disaster and Safety Management Department introduced Company-wide simulating training (May, October), Government joint training (May, June) are conducted to improve response Scientific, prediction-based dam and river integrated operations for prevention of disasters First public company to introduce LED electronic display and text message service to promote safety awareness * Result 2014, Major 4 Rivers (Han River, Nakdong River, Keum River, Seomjingan) flood damaged areas Social ZERO 2014, Major 4 Rivers (Han River, Nakdong River, Keum River, Seomjingan) flood damaged areas ZERO 22 23 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainable Management with Stakeholders K-water’s Stakeholders Strengthen Open Communication and Cooperation with its Stakeholders K-water’s stakeholders include customers that directly receive services from K-water, the Korean government, local governments, The water management paradigm has shifted from government led development to that of public-private partnerships, the local residents, local communities which indirectly influence K-water’s operations, academia which influences K-water’s operations, involvement of local communities and a governance oriented management paradigm. In particular, local meetings have been suppliers involved in K-water’s business processes, and its employees. introduced so K-water can communicate with its stakeholders when constructing dams in local communities, from the planning through to the construction phase. Due to nature of public business, various stakeholders exist during the business process. Therefore, conflicts are unavoidable. K-water defines stakeholders at each level of its supply chain. K-water places utmost effort to strengthen its open communication and K-water proactively communicates with its various stakeholders in response to and in order to lead these paradigm changes. cooperation with stakeholders to meet their needs and prevent any conflicts to operate efficiently. K-water hopes to make positive K-water’s stakeholders may participate indirectly/directly in its business processes through various communication channels. impact on the economy, the environment and society by establishing a multi-dimensional partnership with its stakeholders. 【 2014 Shared Growth Cooperation Committee Meetings and Performance 】 【 K-water’s Major Stakeholders 】 Unit Discussion Topic Dam business deduction process First (February) After national project, need for K-water changes and direction improvement by the government’s Business recommendation, ‘Choongju water Planning and Government Second (April) Korea’s water management policy direction Development capacity enhancement’ technology Third (May) Dam business direction and process improvement meeting Employees Fourth (July) Water supply operation efficiency Conflict Prevention, Conflict Fifth (September) Korea’s water policy and K-water’s reform Resolution Function Sixth (November) Seomjin River water supply operation plan Enhancement Construction Suppliers In particular, in 2014 K-water introduced its Shared Growth 【 K-water’s Stakeholder Communication Channels 】 Production Cooperation Committee to collect various stakeholder’s opinions K-water Supply Chain Employees and Facility Stakeholders Operation and constructive criticisms. During the Shared Growth Cooperation •Union •Organizational Culture TF •S NG •Junior Board of Directors Committee’s general meeting, alternatives were suggested r me mitt Customer ha O, ee C re Ac through discussion. In particular, customer oriented improvements •M omm d Gro ad sto Com •P anag ittee wth em Cu Service were made in regards to dam construction processes. olic em (6 and Use y F ent tim Co ia er oru Ad es) ope om m viso rat ust ry C ion •C OC Local om •V Communities Key Performances through Partnership mit tee Discard & with Various Stakeholders i NGO, un tivities Co G pro opera ove Reuse Academia mm n ac g” s o n in rnm ces tio Co ibutio harin 2014 Government 3.0 Best Practitioner in government cal ontr ve S fb usi entir en Lo ocial C ater Lo ※ connecting lines represent important effect and affect on stakeholders in different stages of the supply chain ne e ss t owned company S “W Th cal e pra Lo ough ties ctic thr Partner Company e •(Domestic) local government (regional water supply K-water places utmost efforts to create future water value by Government •Operation Related Department/ Shareholder system costs, regional water supply system outsourcing)/ Shared Growth Workshop, System Improvement Team Customer tap water customer/ KEPCO/ Waterfront housing buyers including various stakeholders in its governance. In particular, in order •(Overseas) Local governments / Residents/ Development •Domestic and Internal Top-Management/ Employee/ Bank to stimulate public demand to enhance the value of its Waterfront Employees Labor Union •Construction areas/ Operation areas/ Residents in other Local Communities areas development, K-water has been encouraging Waterfront tourism, culture and leisure activities in conjunction with various stakeholders •Material Production/ Equipment/ Maintenance/ including Ansan city and 11 other local governments, as well as public companies, private companies and the local arts and culture Suppliers •Academic Society and Association/ Non Profit Construction Company NGO, Academia Organization organization. This cooperation has resulted in promoting water culture and advancing the local economy along with other positive impacts. 24 25 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainable Management Issues Identified by Stakeholders 【 Materiality Test 】 【 Issues 】 Materiality Test Process 1 Increased demand for more transparent and ethical management 0.92 2 Importance of securing talent 0.92 K-water selected “K-water’s sustainable management materiality High 3 Increase of interest in corporate governance (responsible management) 0.68 4 Natural Resource exhaustion (water resource, mineral resource, fossil fuel) 0.67 issues” based on the interests of internal and external stakeholders. Issue Identification Materiality Test Selection of 1 5 Increased demand for fair trading fair trading 0.67 •In-house policy Assessment Materiality Issues K-water attempts to provide relevant information in this report. 6 Environment protection (air, water quality soil pollution) 0.65 analysis •Relevance evaluation Prioritization of 7 Climate change 0.65 Materiality issues were selected during a three step materiality test •Media analysis •Importance evaluation major issues 8 Acceleration of technology development (water management core technology 0.64 •Leading Company development) External Stakeholder’s GAP 4 2 process which included issue identification, material test and core Benchmarking 6 9 Intensity of business competition (technology development, patents, overseas 0.63 7 5 3 business expansion and others) 9 10 Increased demand for safety of products and services (water quality) 0.63 issues selection. 10 8 11 Increased demand for employees welfare, rights (balanced lifestyle) 0.62 14 12 Demographic changes (aging, low birth rate and others) 0.51 13 Strengthening of environmental laws and regulations 0.51 20 15 13 [Step 1] Issue Identification Sustainable 17 16 14 Increase of health, eco-friendly, eco-social oriented customers 0.51 Sustainable 21 12 15 Increase in variety and strengthening of customer demand 0.47 Management 24 external environment trends issues and 38 operation impact Management Rifle 16 Increase in unemployment rate of young generation and temporary workers 0.43 External 23 19 Effect ** 22 18 17 Increase in demand for fair competition 0.43 issues were identified with consideration of the mid-long term Environment* Expansion of supply chain’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) (Environment, 18 0.39 safety, labor practices, human rights) business strategy, business process improvement, competitiveness 25 19 Anti-corruption 0.33 24 20 Increase in the importance of shared growth with partner companies 0.33 analysis report, media analysis, competitors and global water * Sustainable Management External Environment: external economical, social, environmental Low 21 Water Use 0.27 changes which affect K-Water 11 22 Increased demand for customer information security 0.22 suppliers' issues which related to K-water’s sustainable ** Sustainable Management Rifle Effect: economical, social, environmental changes which are 23 Energy usage reduction (new and renewable energy production) 0.21 effected by K-water Low K-water(Internal)’s GAP High 24 Economic performance (economic value creation and distribution) 0.19 management. Sustainable Management External Sustainable Management 25 Indirect economic effects through water resource development and supply 0.15 Environment Rifle Effect K-water’s Core Issues [Step 2] Materiality Test Assessment 62 issues were prioritized based on their relevance and importance using the ISO 26000 Sustainable Management Guidelines and K-water’s 4 Core Sustainability Issues the Global Report Initiative (G4) guidelines. K-water then analyzed the interests of its stakeholders and its own performance through K-water selected 10 top issues in which K-water did not meet the interests of stakeholders. These issues were then redefined as 4 Core an internal and external survey. K-water then prioritized the materiality issues which showed the interests of its stakeholders against Issues 4 Core Issues and K-water then provide a detailed report on the matters that both internal and external stakeholders deemed to K-water’s lower performance on the issues (i.e. the gap between the interests of its stakeholders and K-water’s performance). be the 10 most important issues. In this report, K-water identified important stakeholder issues each stage of K-water’s supply chain (which was introduced in both the GRI G4 Aspect Boundary Materiality Issues Responsive Strategy Category Aspect Internal External Sustainable Management with Its Stakeholders and In Depth Analysis of identified K-water's Sustainability Issues chapters). K-water then Acceleration of technology development (water Society Customer safety and Domestic, Overseas Customers Core Issue 1 health attempted to understand its stakeholder’s demands and responded to them through K-water’s 4 focus issues included in this report. management core technology development) Water Management's New Paradigm, Increased demand for safety of products and services Product and service Smart Water Management(Pages 30~39) Society labeling Domestic, Overseas Customers (water quality) Government Intensity of business competition (technology Core Issue 2 Economy Economic performance Domestic, Overseas [Step 3] Selection of Materiality Issues development, patents, overseas business expansion and Strategic Plan to Achieve 100 Years of (shareholder) Indirect economic Government, others) Sustainable Growth(Pages 40~46) Economy Domestic impacts Local communities The internal materiality test (Step 2)* result is on horizontal axis and external materiality test (Step 2) result* is on vertical axis in Local communities Environment Energy Domestic NGO·Academia the Materiality test diagram. K-water then provides a detailed report on the matters that both internal and external stakeholders Natural Resource exhaustion (water resource, mineral Core Issue 3 Local communities Environment Water Domestic resource, fossil fuel) Responding to Climate Change NGO·Academia answered as being the 10 most important issues in the Issue chart ** Environment protection (air, water quality soil pollution) and Ensuring Environmental Local communities Environment Emissions Domestic NGO·Academia * Issues which K-water’s performance were deemed to be unsatisfactory in term so of stakeholders' interests. Climate change Protection(Pages 47~53) Local communities ** K-water selected 10 issues which were above data point (gap = 0.50 between interests of internal stakeholders against K-water’s performance, gap = 0.70 between interests of external Environment Waste water and landfill Domestic NGO·Academia stakeholders against K-water’s performance) to ensure materiality issues were equally reflected in the results of materiality test for both internal and external stakeholders. Economy Procurement practices Domestic, Overseas Suppliers Society Employment Domestic, Overseas Local communities Increase in the demand for fair trading Increase Society Welfare Domestic, Overseas in the demand for transparency corporation’s transparency Core Issue 4 and ethical management Transparency and Fairness Based Society Education and training Domestic, Overseas Importance of securing talent on Improved Stakeholders' Trust Diversity & Equal Society Domestic, Overseas Increase of interest in corporate governance (responsible (pages 54-66) Opportunity management) Society Equal payment Domestic, Overseas Government, Suppliers Society Anti-corruption Domestic, Overseas NGO, Academia 26 27 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report SPECIAL ISSUE In Depth Analysis of Sustainable Management Issues Identified by Stakeholders Changes in interests of stakeholders (2011~15) K-water’s Supply Chain and Interests of Stakeholders The interests of stakeholders has changed in terms of K-water's sustainable management issues over the past five years and these are explained below. 【 Stakeholders in the Supply Chain 】 1 2 3 ➊ ➋ ➌ ➍ ➎ Business Production Use Discard & development Construction and facility (Customer) Reuse and planning operation High Expectation in “Business Transparency From eco-friendly development to energy Concerns and interest regarding future (Ethical Management)” and “Shared Growth and resource saving and health and safety growth and financial soundness Government Local communities Local communities Local communities Local communities (Co-operation & Fair Trading)” issues (Residents in construction (Residents in business areas) NGO, Academia Employees supplied to (tap water Concerns and interest has shifted from areas) Supplier (Installment and supplied to local Global customer (Local Supplier (Waste treatment) From 2011~ 2013, environmental issues were Due to the development of dams and business plans and improvement of the governments in overseas) Supplier (Construction) maintenance management) governments and NGO, Academia Customers (Tap water residents) highly ranked. However, a recent materiality rivers, the interest of stakeholders and their management systems to future growth supplied to local Shareholder (Government) test result shows that social issues including concerns around environmental impact and (intensity of competition, new markets and governments and residents) corporate transparency and shared growth the quality of water increased. However, as new business, technology development, were highly ranked in the test. These results the development is finalizing, it is expected innovation and R&D) and financial soundness. suggest that reckless management, tax that concerns on health and safety issues will This shows that stakeholders and concerned evasion and embezzlement occurred during shift. In addition, the interest of stakeholders and interested in K-water’s preparation for 【 Major Issues and K-water's responding 】 the course of the 4 Major River Restoration has placed the corporation’s fundamental future growth in an intensified competitive Project and resulted in stakeholders' concern environment management focus on improving market. and interest in the code of conduct and energy use, resource use reduction, and shared growth. recycling amidst climate change. K-water Responsive Strategy Interests of Stakeholders ➌ ➍ ➊ ➍ 【 Changes in Interests of Stakeholders (2011~15) 】 Water Management's New Increase in demand for customer’s Acceleration of technology Paradigm, Smart Water development (Water management health and safety core technology development) Economy Environment Society Management 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Eco-friendly water resource ➊ ➌ Eco-friendly water resource Eco-friendly water resource Increased demand for more transparent 1 development and dam and weir development development Sustainable Management Initiative and ethical management Intensity of business competition management Strategic Plan to Achieve 100 (Technology development, patents Climate Change Response, New Business strategy and management Years of Sustainable Growth and overseas business expansion) 2 renewable energy development K-water’s business portfolio system improvement Shared Growth Importance of securing talent Business strategy and management Increase of interest in corporate 3 K-water’s business portfolio system improvement Quality of dam and tap water New Market and New Business governance (responsible management) ➊ ➌ ➍ ➊ ➋ ➌ ➍ ➎ Business strategy and management Natural Resource exhaustion (water Responding to Climate Change 4 system improvement Quality of dam and tap water Climate Change and Risk Response Financial Performance resource, mineral resource, fossil fuel) and Ensuring Environmental Climate change Natural resource exhaustion (Water Protection of environment (Air, water resource, mineral resource, fossil fuels) quality and soil pollution) Protection 5 Quality of dam and tap water Technology innovation and R&D Customer satisfaction Climate Change Response Increase of demand in fair trading 6 Water bill Customer satisfaction New Business; Overseas Operation, Local Community Contribution Environment protection ➊ ➋ ➌ New& Renewable Energy Business; (air, water quality soil pollution) Increase in demand for Climate Change Response and Risk Transparency and Fairness Based Strengthen the importance of Increased interest in socially 7 Customer satisfaction Response Technology innovation and R&D Financial Soundness Climate change on Improved Stakeholders' trust talent centered management Fair trading expansion responsible management corporate transparency and ethical management Acceleration of technology Corporate Governance, Ethical 8 Ethical management Management PR and Social Contribution Fair Personnel Policy development (water management core technology development) Intensity of business competition 9 Technology innovation and R&D New Business Creation Stakeholders Communication Social Contribution Activities (technology development, patents, Business development ➊ Construction ➋ Production and ➌ Use ➍ Discard & ➎ overseas business expansion and others) and planning facility operation (Customer) Reuse Increase of demand in safety of product 10 Social contribution Social Contribution and Cooperation Ethical Transparent Management Ethical Management and services (water quality) * Important Relation between Issues and Stakeholders Passion To Live with Ceaseless Inspiration We alone were able to fulfill the technology needed to achieve our mission, and we will carry on our dream. We have created a standard for water technology, done our research, collaborated and achieved in making water available to everyone. Through it all, we have remained committed to the passion and inspiration that has made this all possible. SUSTAINABLE VALUE EFFORTS K-water’s 4 Core 30 _1st Issue Water Management's New Paradigm, 46 _3rd Issue Responding to Climate Change Sustainability Issues Smart Water Management and Ensuring Environmental Protection 40 _2nd Issue Strategic Plan to Achieve 100 Years 54_4th Issue Transparency and Fairness Based of Sustainable Growth on Improved Stakeholders' Trust 30 31 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report DMA(DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH) Smart Water Management Initiative Water Management’s New Paradigm, Smart Water Management What Is the Smart Water Management Initiative? “Combining information communication technology with traditional water management technology will enable us to overcome the existing challenges.” President Park Geun Hye, 7th World Water Forum opening ceremony (2015. 04. 12)  Why Is Smart Water Management So Important? The Smart Water Management Initiative (SWMI) uses cutting-edge information and communication technology to efficiently manage Water is a pivotal resource for every organism, and as the World Economic Forum’s ‘Global Risk, 2015 report’ rightly points out, the entire water cycle, from water sources to household taps. Existing water management practices are conducted separately at each water crises are one of the most influential risk factors that the global community faces, largely due to climate change, with facility and region, resulting in less efficient and effective water management, as per indices measuring quality and volume. people’s health and safety at risk. Water needs to be clean and supplied efficiently in a way that property and life is protected from any water shortages, whether it be due to a weather phenomenon, an energy and resource shortage, or an environmentalK-water hopes to improve the quality, safety and efficiency of water management through its Integrated Water Resources Management pollution issue. As the only company specialized in water supply in Korea, K-water has deep understanding of providing healthy system, which is designed to manage water quality and quantity throughout the entire water cycle. Moreover, K-water is establishing a and safe water to its customers and this is at the center of everything K-water does. Smart Water Grid combining the existing grid with advanced information technology to minimize energy consumption throughout the entire water production and supply system and provide healthy tap water to its customers.  How Does K-water Approach It? In order to secure clean, safe and efficient water supply through advanced water management, K-water is currently pursuing 【 Conceptual Diagram of SWMI 】 Smart Water Management Initiative (SWMI) using advanced ICT technology to manage the entire water cycle. Smart Water Management Initiative K-water has 50 years of Provide healthy tap water total water management for humankind experience covering the entire water cycle Protect society from water disaster Water Resource Usage Recycle World class information technology enable K-water to remotely control Efficient usage of water facilities in real time resource and energy Tap Water Production Tap Water Supply  K-water’s Performance Management 2014 (performance) Healthy Water Service Safe Water Service Efficient Water Service 2024 (Goal) 99.73 100 100 100 8.2 60 82.1 83.1 62 4.8 72 Integrated Water Resources Management Smart Water Grid 27.6 River valley perspective SWG based on ICT Overall consideration of technology, economy, society, culture, Information sharing through smart measurement and net-working environment (flow rate, water pressure, water quality, leakage, facility condition) Global Water Quality Improvement Flood Control Use Water Outage Time Dam Water Water Supply System Resolve regional water conflicts through total governance Standard Achievement of Old Pipes Rate (%) (minute/person/year) Use Rate(%) Flow Rate(%) Ratio(%) (km) 32 33 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Smart Water Management Initiative Healthy Water Service How K-water's Smart Water Management Initiative is progressing Customer Oriented Healthy Water Service K-water’s smart water management initiative is based on a combination of technology, solutions, and services. K-water is developing As peoples’ income levels increase, so does their interest in health. When choosing water, taste and the benefits of water are significant customized water services to meet customer’s demands by combining various advanced information communication devices, influences in water consumption. Implementing an advanced water treatment system with 250 water quality indicators, was much information communication technology and K-water’s 48 years of know-how to collect and analyze data from the source of water to tougher than just complying with the government’s 85 recommended water quality indicators. Despite the effort, Korea’s tap water the tap in real time. drinking rate is only 5.4% (2013 Tap Water Drinking Satisfaction Survey, from the Tap Water Promotion Association) – very low compared to countries such as the U.K (70%), the U.S (56%), and Japan (47%). Results of the 2013 Tap Water Satisfaction Survey shows that the reasons for not drinking tap water include “Concerns regarding old pipelines and water tanks” (30.8%), and “Concerns regarding the water quality of water conservation zones” (28.1%). Furthermore, 34.1% of individuals surveyed said they did not drink tap water because it had a disinfectant-type smell. Therefore, K-water places utmost effort to gain the public’s trust in tap water by upgrading Smart Devices Smart Solutions Smart Services pipelines and water tanks, and by improving water quality management in water conservation zones, and minimizing any remaining disinfectant in tap water. Intelligent sensors and various smart devices are used to identify water flow and share information Operations are based on scientific analyses through a rain prediction system, real time water Not only collect data but also respond to customer demands through two-way communication in Proactive Measure to Conserve Water Sources 【 Upstream Pollution Sources in Rivers improvements 】 via two way communication devices. Also, floodgate information system, flood analysis real time, but also big data is used to proved and Algal Bloom Response Pollution sources (Number) Improvements (Number) Response(%) automated technology and advanced diagnosis system, reservoir water supply system, total hydro customized water services. devices are being used to conduct intelligent power operating system, total water treatment K-water regularly inspects potential pollution sources in upper 98.7 98.4 98.1 water management. operation system, water works diagnosis, 92.1 operation and management system. stream areas of dams to prevent muddy water and water-bloom. Also, in order to prevent pollutant inflows as well as sand and soil 68.8 397 inflows, K-water has put in place wetlands, silt protectors and built 298 361 267 262 Global Effects of the changes will brought to humanity by SWMI water storage units. In particular, K-water has introduced a “saving 215 238 235 205 198 gully” campaign designed to improve river environments for local residents. The Nakdong-river valley gully campaign was conducted Water Saving and in 2014. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Prevention of disaster Energy Reduction and accident Efficient water production With these, K-water established a real-time tidal current and supply system through Anticipative response 【2  9 Dam Reservoirs' Annual Average Chlorophyll-a through information sharing consumption pattern and in real time and prediction monitoring system, to proactively respond to water-blooms Concentration Managed by K-water* 】  (Unit: ㎎/㎥) prediction analyses in water conservation zones. In addition, in partnership with 4,743 the Ministry of Environment and the National Institute of 4,347 4,985 4,415 Clean and Reliable Environmental Research, K-water has introduced a “Governmental 3,996 Efficient Usage of Limited Water Supply Water Resources Department Water-bloom Research Council” to advance water High quality of tap water Optimum usage in supply through bloom suppression and elimination technologies. K-water uses combination with preventative water resource underground water, quality management eco-friendly methods to suppress and eliminate water blooms by sea water, rain water and and optimized water other water resources discharging through coordinated weir and reservoir operations, treatment process as well as up-lift and surface combined collection. Through 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 these efforts, the chlorophyll concentration was reduced by * Each dam reservoir’s annual average chlorophyll-a concentration figures are calculated on each dam’s proportion of reservoir capacity in total dam reservoir capacity is multiplied approximately 9.5% in 2014 across 29 dam reservoirs. 34 35 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Healthy Water Service Satisfying Global Water Quality Standards through K-water’s Fastidious Water Treatment Smart Water City: K-water’s Responsible Services Processes K-water is developing its Smart Water City projects including an improved tap water supply system and individually customized K-water applies the strictest standards among developed countries, including the WHO’s standard and the redefined “global water quality customer services. The Smart Water City project is K-water’s new water management model to gain the public’s trust in tap water by standard”. K-water manages all its water purification plants and processes with the aim of satisfying these global water quality standards. K-water providing a water quality inspection visiting service, open access to water tap water quality information, and safe tap water insurance. places utmost efforts on producing healthy tap water by injecting the optimum amount of chemicals into water and by using its commercialized In 2014, K-water’s Smart Water City pilot project was successfully completed in Paju city, Kyongki province and K-water is planning to high pressure up-lift filtering technology and by establishing a response manual. As a result, 97.3% of water from K-water’s purification plants introduce Smart Water City on a nationwide basis. satisfied the global water quality standards. Meanwhile, there was not a single violation of any related safety and health acts and regulations. 【 Smart Water City 】 Supply Process Management K-water continuously invests in the improvement of old pipe lines. Funds spent on old pipe lines are optimized through improvement methods •Stabilization of tap water supply system with the inside of pipes cleaned to decrease water blooms and odors from remaining disinfectants, so as to create a safe water supply system. •Enhancement of water quality management through Tap water supply process improvement supply system •Establishment of reticulation inspection, diagnosis Old Pipe Line Replacement Inner Pipe Line Cleaning Reduction of Disinfectants Odor improvement system •(Multi regional water supply system) total •(Regional water supply system) 79.1km •(Multi regional water supply system) 260 km, 27.6 km in 2014 cleaned (2014) remaining disinfect equalization was •Improve accessibility of water quality information * KRW3.9 trillion will be invested by 2030 •Muddy water is discharged in a proactive conducted to minimize disinfect odor at a through mobile devices, water quality display Providing daymanner to ensure water quality and prevent total of 7 places •Door-to-door services such as water quality inspection •(Regional water supply system) total 1,204 km, to-day oriented civil complaints * 16 places will be improved by 2016 services visitations and inside of building pipe line diagnosis 178km in 2014 •Tap water responsible services: Introduction of safe tap * KRW 92.1 billion will be invested by 2024 water insurance Tap Water Awareness •Establishment of partnership with NGO providing water Improvement specialist class 【 Old Pipe Line Improvement(multi regional water supply system level 1 line) 】 •Customer involved tap water campaign such as housewife centered “healthy water supporters” •Installment of tap water fountain to promote tap water drinking culture 【 Success of Paju Smart Water City Project 】 Project Contents Project Performance ‌Disinfectant facilities were installed and pipe line flushing for Tap water quality stability improvement and disinfectant odor reduction of disinfectant odor reduction Real time water quality monitoring and open access through Tap water drinking rate: before project 1%. After 19.3% information technology (water quality display) Local resident’s satisfaction index: 80.7% Door-to-door service including a water quality inspection service, Surface cleaning Remaining paint cleaning in side building pipe line diagnosis and flushing 470times 150times 319times 1%  19.3% 1%  92.3% Water quality inspection Endoscope diagnosis on Inside building pipelines Tap water drinking rate Local residents’ satisfaction index visiting service inside building pipelines flushing Painting condition inspection Inner pipe painting 36 37 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Safe Water Service Preventative Perspective of Safe Water Management within 2 hours. As a result, in August, 2014, K-water successfully prevented flood damages despite torrential rains in the southern part of Korea’s average rainfall of 1,277㎜ is 1.6 times higher than average global rainfall of 807mm. But because of Korea’s high population density, Korea including the second highest number of rainfall days in history. Also, K-water places utmost efforts on minimizing inconvenience to rainfall per person stands at only 2,629㎥, just 17% of the global average of 16,427㎥. Indeed, Korea is a ‘water stressed’ country, with it difficult the public through drought prediction. This enabled it to effectively manage dam reservoir levels and dam water supply levels in cooperation to use and manage water efficiently due to substantial seasonal and regional rainfall changes and the significant slope of its rivers, which causes with related authorities, to support emergency water in drought areas during the worst drought situation from June to July 2014. water to move very fast towards the sea, resulting in both flood and drought challenges. In particular, the complexity and uncertainty in regards to water management increased due to frequent occurrence of localized heavy downpours and drought. K-water places utmost efforts to take Preventative Water Management through the Total Prediction System preventative actions in regards to water quality accidents so as to stably supply water to its customers through total flood management, a total Precise prediction of current and water quality is an essential requirement for safe water management. In this regard, K-water developed basin prediction system, preventative water disaster facilities, and by adhering to global standards in regards to water safety management. and introduced a K-HIT package (2012) which is a decision support tool with advanced ICTs and linked it to individual water management technologies and SURIAN (Supercom-based River Analysis Network) a supercomputing-based, three-dimensional water Korea has been categorized in the highest level of serious water stress condition amongst the 34 OECD countries prediction response model. With these prediction technologies, since February 2014, K-water has been conducting daily water quality OECD Environment Prediction 2050 (2014) forecasts (with 6 Indicators: current, water temperature, biotic and chemical oxygen requirement, total nitrogen and phosphorus levels, and suspended solids) for dam reservoirs and 27 rivers in Korea, with the forecast information for the country’s eight major dams being Flood Damage Reduction in Small-to-Medium 2013 2013 provided through K-water’s website from March 2015. Sized Rivers through Total Flood Management In 2012, the National Assembly Budget Office stated that 87% of KRW 1.8 Billion KRW 0.5 Billion Water Disaster Preventative Facility’s Safety Enhancement Jeollabuk-do Jeollabuk-do 2014 1.4 Kunsan Muju natural disasters over the five years of 2007 to 2011 were caused KRW Billion Nakdong River 2 Multi Purpose Water System Dams through Flood Response Capacity and New Water Source Secured by localized heavy downpours and hurricanes – of which 98.7% Gyeongsangbukoccurred in small-to-medium sized river sites. Therefore, K -water do Bonghwa Kimcheon Buhang dam Bohyon mountain dam is planning to establish a Total River Basin Flood Management 2014 1 2011 (Background) hurricane Rusa and Meami caused massive flood (Background) constant flood damage in Yeongcheon region, System with local governments in Korea. In its first step to do this, 0.9 damage, 39 expected casualty, property damage KRW 483.3 190 victims, 24 buildings damaged and other KRW Billion billion and others K-water has shared its 48 years of experience with and provided KRW Billion (Effect) Flood adjustment 3.4 million m3, water supply 14.8 Jeollabuk-do (Effect) Flood adjustment 12.3 million m3, water supply 36 million m3 per year technical skills to its partners to improve flood management in Jinan Jeollabuk-do million m3 per year Namwon small-to-medium sized river areas. In 2014, flood management system improvement was conducted in Bonghwa and Jinan. •Establishment of major rivers water level standards •Sluice observation facility improvement and remote monitoring drainage pup Enhancement of Existing Dam’s Flood Defense Ability to Prepare for Extreme Flood station and subsurface storage K-water will continue to improve its flood management system in •Establishment of disaster status control center, CCTV combined video observation and integrated pipes and sluice information Deacheong dam Andong dam Choongju dam (persuading) 17 areas with its local government partners to build its Total River Basin Flood Management System. 【 2014 Flood Damaged Areas* 】 14,700㎥/sec → 21,742㎥/sec 8,350㎥/sec →15,094㎥/sec 17,500㎥/sec →28,500㎥/sec  (Unit: ha) Also, in order to ensure the identification of flood situations and 16.427 Old Dam Vulnerability Improvement (Inner Structure of Dam and Emergency Discharge Facility Improvement) information sharing, K-water has enhanced its flood warning system by improving data collection network speed from 10 Completion of vulnerability 14 water dams 16 multipurpose dams improvements: 3 places minutes to 10 seconds and replacing a total of 152 old alert 5.319 facilities. With these, K-water has established a ‘first response’ 2.480 0.308 0.000 Angye dam (2003, KRW 5.9 Billion) Vulnerability investigation and Vulnerability investigation(December, 2014) Dalbang, Yeoncho dam (2014, 3.7 Billion) establishment of facility improvement plan Establishment of facility improvement manual and conducted flood response exercises with some 23 (December, 2014) plan (2015~2017) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 local governments to ensure appropriate actions can be taken * Each Water system (Han River, Nakdong River, Keum River, Seomjin River) flood damaged areas are divided by rainfall in flood season 38 39 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Safe Water Service Efficient Water Service From Water Conservation Zone to the Tap; K-water’s Advanced Water Safety Management Energy and Resource Production Improvement All of K-water’s water supply facilities have applied the WHO’s Water Safety Plan (WSP) since 2012 to ensure the safety of tap water. Energy consumption in K-water’s business activities occurs during water intake, water supply and pump generation at booster stations, K-water was the first water supplier to adopt this method and 36th company to apply the guidelines in the world. WSP is designed to and in tap water production and supply. In 2014, total energy consumption was 12,843TJ (0.5% lower than the previous year), with identify hazards prior to the process of production and supply to ensure tap water quality and safety. Korea’s WSP categorizes tap water direct fuel consumption accounting for 67 TJ and indirect electricity consumption accounting for 12,776 TJ. Compared with sales, energy safety levels on the Water Safety Index’s (WSI) five levels of Excellent (0.9), Good (0.9~0.8) Fair (0.8~0.7), Marginal (0.7~0.6), and Poor intensity accounted for 3.47(TJ/KRW HudredMillion), 0.07 TJ less than the previous year. (below 0.6) – with higher safety achieved as the numerical approaches 1. 【 Energy Usage 】 【 Energy Reduction 】 【 Energy Usage Against Sales 】 Direct consumption (Unit: TJ) Water work business (Unit: MWh) (Unit: TJ / KRW 100 million) In 2014, K-water’s 37 multi-regional water works facilities were evaluated higher than the previous year, with the overall WSI average Indirect consumption Development business remaining Excellent across all water conservation zones, purification plants and water supply processes. These results represent 12,905 12,843 56,711 12,005 K-water’s continuous efforts for improvement across a total of 202 tap water quality hazard analysis indicators, including establishing a 12,833 12,776 50,073 11,939 water quality accident response system covering water conservation zones, purification plants and supply processes; enhancing hazard 3.54 3.47 25,362 3.27 substance inflow water conservation zone monitoring; managing disinfection by product in the purification process; reducing remaining 17,765 15,545 disinfectant variability. K-water has placed utmost efforts to supply water to its customers safely and reliably by improving old water 12,955 7,597 works facilities, double tracking tap water supply systems and amplifying emergency connectors from water quality accidents. 66 72 67 6,638 2,590 【 Water Safety Index(WSI) 】  (Unit: point) 【 Water Outage Time 】 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 * 2013~14 Energy reduction performances were collected in 2013 2014 2024 0.827 0.828 4.058 0.805 0.778 Low Carbon Tap Water Production Certification 2.878 2.791 Minimized greenhouse gas emission by less usage of raw materials by injecting the optimum level of purification chemicals and using light weight packaging materials 1.385  As of 2014, K-water’s purification plants achieved a total of 10 certifications in low carbon tap water production Establishing an Efficient Tap Water Supply System that Meets Global Standards 2012 2013 2014 Goal 2014 Result Multi regional water works* Regional water works** Implementing new and renewable energy (solar energy) and high efficiency equipment (LED) during tap water * 100x outage time/ total pipelines production and the supply process, and establishing an intelligent energy management system. ** Σ(individuals experienced water outage (persons) x water outage time (minutes) / individuals received water supply (persons))  First Korean water supplier to receive Energy Management System Certification (ISO 50001) (Keumsan purification plant, May, 2014) BEST PRACTICE Energy Reduction through Joint Operation of Water Reservoirs with Local Governments Efficient water works through reservoir operation information sharing with 23 local 【 Water Flow Rate 】  (Unit: %) governments (total 40 reservoirs)  Total KRW 5.3 billion (electricity cost 4%) reduction per year Multi regional Water Supply System Regional Water Supply System WSP Champion Recorded the Highest Water Flow Rate Achievement through Management In this issue, we feature Mr. Gyewoon Choi, CEO of K-water. K-Water public 99.8 99.9 Innovation in Regards to Regional Water Work Operations enterprise in the Republic of Korea. It plays a vital role to enhance water resources Water leakage exploration expanded by using endoscope, improving old and development and management, besides supplying safe water. Read the full vulnerable pipes, and remote leakage monitoring. 82.1 81.4 interview here.  Regional water works leakage reduced by 1.5 million m3 (with a tap water production cost reduction of KRW 4 billion reductions) in 2014, recorded highest water flow rate 2013 2014 *Water Flow Rate: tap water ratio from the purification plant to the household through the water pipes. If the water flow rate is low, higher water leakage in the pipes occurs. 40 41 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report DMA(DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH) Financial Performance and Recovery of Financial Soundness Strategic Plan to Achieve 100 Years of Sustainable Growth How Much K-water Earns and Where K-water Spends? K-water generates income from a variety of operations, including the construction, operation and management of multipurpose dams, river weirs and other water resource facility constructions, as well as regional water supply facility outsourcing operations, waterfront and special zone developments, new and renewable energy production, and overseas businesses. As per the financial statements for the past 5 years, finalizing work on the four major rivers and the Keongin Ara water way, along with other investments, resulted in a decline  Why Is the Strategic Plan to Achieve 100 Years of Sustainable Growth so Important? in sales over 2012, before sales increased through K-water’s waterfront business, and the development of its new and renewable energy K-water has faced the tough reality of saturation in the domestic water market, within the constraint of being a public company business, along with asset-growth through the development of dam/water works facilities. While the investments saw K-water’s debt causing stagnation in its existing business and shrinking opportunities for new business. K-water started out as the Korea Water rise, this was offset by the increased profitability of its new and renewable energy business. Resource Corporation 48 years ago, in 1967, before breaking through a difficult environment through the industrial estates in 1973, In 2014, development sales declined 33.2% against the previous year due to the extreme drought. However, total sales rose KRW 53 the development of multipurpose dams in 1973, and metropolitan water works in 1989, and regional water works in 2003. Based on Billion through the sale of Waterfront installments, water sales generally, and regional water work sales – albeit with higher electricity K-water’s 48 years of experience and competency, now is the time to for K-water to prepare for its growth over the next 100 years. costs in tap water production which accounted for 60% of total water production cost and higher other operating costs causing net profit to decline against the previous year. Of K-water’s created economic performance, 91.7% was distributed to operating, labor, and  How Does K-water Approach It? capital costs. In particular, Approximately KRW 2.64 trillion was invested to improve the flood defense capability of dams, expansion K-water abandoned it previous domestic/government centered paradigm and took on the challenge of changing into a selfof the water supply system, new and renewable energy facilities, and other indirect social investments in contribution towards Korea’s developing, sustainable growth business. Towards this end, in January 2014, K-water announced its new SMART management economy along with the safety of its residents and the improvement of its environment. system and Smart Management Water Initiatives, and how its mid-to-long term business strategy would be built around these. 【 Comprehensive Financial Statement 】  (Unit: KRW in millions) In December, 2014, as part of the efficiency drive aspect of SMART management practices, K-water reconstructed its business Perspective Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 units and departments. And in July 2015, to become global water supplier, K-water announced its “Global Leading Strategies” Sales 2,144,750 6,325,786 3,668,445 3,645,387 3,698,372 Growth initiative to all its employees. Asset 18,484,424 23,425,915 25,016,383 25,603,907 25,439,099 100 years Stability Debt 7,960,714 12,580,936 13,777,921 13,998,452 13,461,435 Profitability Net income 142,104 293,267 308,295 348,118 299,326 Sustainable Growth and Financial soundness Smart Water Management’s ommercialization Productivity Added value price 1,240,833 1,432,827 1,605,534 1,745,689 1,704,065 * Consolidated standard as per application of K-IFRS since 2011 Improving Financial Soundness The new SMART management Global Leading Strategy •Creating permanent healthy financial structure •Smart water management based reorganization •Expansion of Domestic Water Business Fields 【 Economic Performance Creation and Distribution 】  of operation and organization •Overseas Operation Activation (Unit: KRW in millions) Category Distributed to 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Created Economic Value(1) 2,167,345 6,354,088 3,694,659 3,682,884 3,739,658  K-water’s Performance Management 2014 (Performance) 2024(Goal) a) Net Sales 2,144,750 6,325,786 3,668,445 3,645,388 3,698,372 b) Interest Income, Lease, Asset Sales others 22,595 28,302 26,214 37,496 41,286 【 Sustainable Growth and 【 Smart Water Management’s Commercialization 】 c) Interest Income, Lease, Asset Sales others 4,309 236,679 298,786 309,286 317,196 Financial Soundness 】 2,239 115 112.4 Distributed Economic Value(2) 1,678,756 6,139,990 3,492,452 3,259,297 3,429,512 13.3 11.8 4,628 65.5 a) Operating Cost: Production Cost, Asset Purchase Cost Partner 1,077,896 5,260,373 2,493,275 2,128,902 2,378,105 b) Wage and Welfare: Labor Cost Employees 341,990 357,221 360,591 377,361 359,206 86.2 3,760 55.2 249 10.1 c) Capital Cost : Paid Interest, Dividend Shareholders, Financial Institutes 160,662 399,552 501,674 541,310 537,615 d) Tax: Corporate Tax, Local Tax Payment Government, Local Governments 37,708 68,159 73,677 138,349 79,636 Rate of Operating Debt Ratio Healthy Water Supply Dam Water Supply Commercial Water Sales Total Overseas Business e) Local Community Investment: Donation Customers, Local Communities 60,500 54,685 63,235 73,375 74,950 Profit(%) (%) (million ㎥ / year) (100 million ㎥ / year) (KRW 100 million / year ) Sales (USD 100 million ) Surplus Economic Value(1-2) 488,589 214,098 202,207 423,587 310,146 * Consolidated standard as per application of K-IFRS since 2011 42 43 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Financial Performance and Sustainable Development through Recovery of Financial Soundness the SMART new Management What Efforts Are in Place to Strengthen K-water’s Financial Soundness? Strengthen K-water’s Business strategy for Global Competitiveness K-water has placed utmost efforts on strengthening its financial soundness to become one of Korea’s most trusted public companies. K-water has established and is executing a mid-to-long term plan aimed at achieving 100 years of sustainable growth or K-water– While the four major rivers project and the Keyongin Ara Water Way, along with other national policy and existing business investments with the new SMART management and Smart Water Management Initiative being key pillars of this, through increased brand value. increased debt ratios, these are long-term investments whose 【 Debt Ratio 】  To achieve sustainable growth, the Smart Water Management Initiative in particular is revitalizing business opportunities. In addition, (Unit: %) cost will be recovered over time. K-water has evaluated its internal and external business environment, including a business competitive analysis of other global water K-water has established a midterm financial management plan 122.6 suppliers, the results of which have been reflected in K-water’s overall business operations. 120.6 116.0 to reduce its debt to KRW 1.9 trillion by 2017. Through business 112.4 【 Global Competitiveness Analysis’s Indication 】  restructuring, management improvements and other measures, 75.6 debt was reduced by KRW 5370 Hundred Million or 8.2%. Smart water management based K-water’s efforts in this regard were reflected in the Korean Strengthen global Strengthen safety Profit Improvement Application technique business advancement, expansion 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 of business fields and high added business management against disaster through cost reduction development focused government’s evaluation of public companies, with K-water value creation needed categorized as ‘excellent’ in debt reduction. 【 Business Unit Restructuring 】  【 Effort to Reduce Debt 】  • Water Resource Business • Total Water Management Business • Water Service’s Efficient Operation • Water Works Business • Safe Water Supply Business through Smart Water Management Contents of Plan | Reduced Not essential and Urgent Investment Plans, Improve Investment • Clean Energy • Related Business Paradigm Reflection ImproveChange • Stakeholders' Understanding of Efficiency Through Business Review Previous • Waterfront and Special Zone Clean Energy Business Business Adjustment Development ment Waterfront and Special Zone Reason Business Structure Improvement and Debt Reduction | KRW 324.4 billion • Overseas and North Korea Business Development Business Clear Businesses integration Overseas and North Korea Business Contents of Plan | Diversified sale channels through detailed market analysis Profit Improvement Debt Reduction | KRW 17.5 billion Preparation for the Future through “the New SMART Management” Contents of Plan | Cost reduction including operation cost and advertising expense (20% of material Cost Reduction cost reduction through company-wide innovation) K-water is preparing for the future through business and functional improvement, with new SMART management being established in Debt Reduction | KRW 13.1 billion November, 2014. Meanwhile, new sales channels have been established in K-water’s domestic operations, where there has been an increase Contents of Plan | Property sale including company building and unused sites in demand for our existing services. At the same time, overseas operations are helping to diversify business operations and methods, including Property Sale Debt Reduction | KRW 30.4 billion in regards to raising private capital and financing local government businesses. In particular, to increase the company’s brand value in the global market, K-water has established a road map and declared its “Global Leading Strategy” in July, 2015, as discussed in the next chapter. Management Contents of Plan | Executive’s wage return, pension system improvement and others Improvement Debt Reduction | KRW 12.2 billion Business Unit Business Environment Progress Direction Task Progress ‌•Existing water resource efficiency • ‌ Total water management paradigm ‌•Seomjin river and Keumgang river Total Water Management improvement ‌•Flood and drought increased and legitimating Business ‌•Strengthen water management to worsen because of climate change ‌•Water resource stabilization respond to climate change Effort Towards Financial Soundness Will Not Impact K-water’s Quality of Public Service ‌•Increase of high quality tap water ‌ Smart water city business expansion • • ‌ Healthy water supply expansion and Business Growth Healthy Water Supply Business service demand ‌•Smarter water adaptation through ‌•Regional water supply equity ‌•Providing multi-regional to farming and fishing villages improvement information technology •Clean water supply business prosecute K-water is improving its fundamental structure so that its effort towards financial soundness will not impact the quality of its public Waterfront and Special ‌•Utilization of waterfront space ‌•Sihwa lake, Dam surroundings, Using Ara service and business growth. Above all, K-water is eliminating inefficiencies in its fund raising and investment. K-water is improving its Zone Development demand increase as increase of ‌•Waterfront space value increase Waterway to enhance tourism contents, Business income global theme park maintenance investment efficiency by thoroughly reviewing the value of waterfront developments, its new and renewable business, as well as other Related ‌•Using water temperature to develop thermal Business Clean Energy ‌•Government’s new and renewable ‌•New and renewable energy new energy conversion business model mid-long term investments, and restructuring its water management business – all aimed at fulfilling its role as a public company. Within Business energy supply policy continuous model development •Pursuing old facilities advancement and localization these initiatives, K-water has established and is implementing systematic tools such as internal inspections etc., to manage its total Overseas and North ‌•Prospect of continuous growth in ‌•Overseas business revitalization • ‌ Creating existing business performance investment setting. Korea Business global water market and stability •Leading global water management agenda 44 45 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development through To Become a Global Leading Company in Water Industry “SMART New Management” 【 Total Water Management Business 】 The 7th World Water Forum and K-water The 7th World Water Forum (WWF) at Deagu Keyongbuk declared to resolve global water crises at its successful closing in April, 2015. •River valley total water management WWF is of the water industry’s biggest global event with 170 countries and 46,000 individuals participating this year. At it, K-water, as a •Water resource investigation based strengthen (2014~2018) River valley total water management •Water resource development Vision implementation to prepare for climate Road •River valley total water management Prosecute •Total water management representative of the Republic of Korea, outlined its Smart Water Management Initiative as part of its contribution to the establishment Map full-scale action (2019~2021) Business •Water resource facility operation change •River valley total water management management of a global agenda and policy framework. K-water will use the experience of 7th WWF to expand its SMART Water Management full-scale action (2022~2024) Initiative and other water management businesses overseas, as part of its ‘100 Years of K-water’ vision. “Emphasis on Importance of Information Technology and Smart Water Management and Plan Combination” 【 Healthy Water Supply Business 】 7th WWF Minister Declaration, Keongju “Smart Water Management will play a key role in achieving UN Sustainable Development Goals” •Water works plan and construction Benedito Braga, President of International Water Council, 7th Smart Water Management Launching Ceremony Smart Water Grid based healthy water •Supply stabilization (2014~2018) •Water works facility operation supply implementation Road •Establishing Smart Water Grid (2019~ Prosecute management Vision Map 2021) Business •Tap water quality improvement *High efficiency intelligent pipe network •Healthy water supply (2022~2024) •Water work technology ExPo & Fair Public Information Operation development 30 thousand visitors visited ion tat me mo en Related Business res ria l ce nte np sio 【 Overseas Business 】 ses ro pe ne ole s n r rse •Foundation of overseas business •Water resource development d tio Cou strengthen (2014~2018) Oversea business internalization •Water works facility operation titu 40 Prosecute Wo Road •Overseas business fields expansion Vision strengthen to global leading company management Map (2019~2021) Business •New and renewable energy ins foundation establishment •New market development rld wa st development (2022~2024) Lead 7th Water Forum ter ho for nt • Laying SWMI global agenda and um Joi policy groundwork • Leading water and green growth, total water management, water and 【 Clean Energy Business 】 cty, infrastructure aging and other 13 topics • Continental 57 session and programs and 197 institutions general •Large hydropower tidal power coordinator Sm art center(2014~2018) Leading domestic new and renewable •New and renewable energy • This year’s water key achievement, Road •Diversifying energy resource Prosecute Vision energy business through water and Map (2019~2021) development Business •Securing carbon profit science technology process book wa ter energy combination published •Leading new and renewable business (2022~2024) e ma se ork 5 Ca Cases ne nage tw tw ork men U Ne MO iew 13 n v sio exp t ag ter 【 Waterfront Business 】 an In xp an end sio a l ‌•High quality Waterfront Space n au Establishment nch ing (2014~2018) •Waterfront city establishment Pulling country’s economic growth ecoRoad Prosecute Vision •Waterfront business demand •Ara water way operation friendly waterfront city establishment Map Business creation (2019~2021) management •Global waterfront city establishment Water tour (2022~2024) ADB Vice President, PDB President and other 410 visitors visit 46 47 DMA(DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH) To Become a Global Leading Company in Water Industry Responding to Climate Change and Ensuring K-water; A Global Leading Water Supplier 【 Global Market Environment 】  Environmental Protection Following the 7th WWF, K-water is pursuing its “Global Leading Strategies” both internally and externally. “Global Leading Strategies” is K-water’s road map to become a global water supplier and for sustainable growth in a challenging environment. Fast Growing Davos forum selects Deepening Total water Moreover, K-water is expanding its presence in the global of Global Water water crises as 1st of Water Crisis management  Why Are Responding to Climate Change and Ensuring Environmental Protection so market through a diversified business portfolio including local Market Annual 4.9% global risk & Conflicts in paradigm and smart Countries, Regions, water grid adaptation Important? increasing government’s financial business involvement and technological K-water’s business activities effect and are affected by climate change and environmental degradation/pollution. Climate changes support. This is increasing K-water’s brand value along with other measures such as the provision of global water specialist training, including sudden heavy localized rain, extreme drought, water-blooms, water quality accidents and environmental pollution partnership with global financial institutes and other global companies for the establishment of international consultative organizations. threaten K-water’s safety of water service. However, K-water also produces green-house gases and landfill, and has an impact on water areas and geographical changes which may negatively impact the environment and the climate. Therefore, responding 【 Global Leading Strategies 】 to climate change and environmental degradation/pollution is not only important to K-water’s safety of water service, but also a social responsibility for K-water as a public company managing the public’s water. Strategic Become a smart water management based global leading company Goal  How Does K-water Approach? Strategic Domestic and Overseas Expanding Water Global Standard Water Issue Policymaking Thinking Water, Nature, and Humanity Direction Commercialization Management Network Smart Climate Change Local Environment Protection Response and Value Creation •Clean energy production through •Local resident’s ecological Strategic Smart Water Management greenhouse gas reduction and culture space and new business Global Water Market Entering carbon produce right profit creation through business area Task Integration with Domestic Water Market Fields Expansion creation environment improvement Smart Water Management Initiative Base in consideration with status of each country’s water management, K-water’s unique global water business model Leading total water management by establishing flood disaster (Code name: K-water Program) development total water management system, with local governments and Establishing pan government organizational body (governments, public Expanding Green Management in Entire Supply Chain old reservoir stabilizing companies, private companies, financial institutes and others) and multilateral •Consideration of environmental effect in not only construction and production but also raw Pursuing smart water city business nationally linked with development banks, strengthen its partnership with global companies material supply, product and service’s use and disposal government’s policy Introduction of global strategy team for overseas business revitalization Entering high level of technology required water treatment business including seawater desalination, pure industrial water Creating smart water based smart waterfront city  ‌K-water's Performance Management 2014(Performance) 2024 (Goal) Enhancement of Global Competencies Expanding Green Management in Entire Smart Climate Change Response Local Environment Protection and Promoting K-water’s smart water management technology to establish a presence Supply Chain Value Creation in the global market through establishing Asia water education consultative Strengthen Global Cooperation organization, global water specialized education and research center (Songsan) 153 150 Maintain abnormality 4,784 4,654 through Asia Water Council Multilateral development banks, strategically fostering and managing global 2,958 business specialist and exchange program with global companies Asian Water High Level Round Table created in 2013 was 2,209 reintroduced to Asia Water Council as international consultative organization to lead water agenda Water Management Pending Issues Resolution Opening Asia Water Week to provide shared growth opportunities for water related companies and securing water market Technology development through actively participating in water related national In order to actively enter in global market, diversifying research projects cooperation channels with internal consultative organizations Actively participate in resolving pending issues and commercialization including and international organizations Environmental performance evaluation Index Clean energy supply Waterfront lots sales Mekong river and other asian joint river related conflicts, peaceful management of (point) (GWh) (KRW 100 million/ year) South and North Korea’s joint river 48 49 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Environmental Consideration in Entire K-water's Supply Chain Climate change and environmental pollution have been caused by human activities since industrialization and global development, K-water’s Supply Chain & Environment Management with every human being and all companies being directly and/or indirectly affected by it. K-water is pursuing management activities in Environment Management Environment Performance consideration of not only K-water’s environmental effect, but also the effect of its entire supply chain. K-water places utmost effort on improving environmental safety in K-water’s plans, constructions, production, and facility operations, as well as its usage of materials Promoting resource cyclic (Recycle) product Green product purchasing from partner companies and its disposals. Partner company environmental production (Refer Graph ➊) Supply Persuading partner company’s production management system support in eco-friendly manner Water conservation zone water quality •Unprecedented climate change is observed in all continents and ocean -W  ater conservation zone environment management and supply improvement Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 5th report, 2014 Business Development •4 years ago, radioactive materials from the Fukushima nuclear power generation accident across the Pacific and Planning Ocean were detected on the Canadian coast Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI), April, 2015 Eco-friendly planning Energy and resource cost reduction Eco-friendly construction K-water’s Environment Overview Construction landfill reduction and recycle (Refer Graph ➋) Greenhouse gas emission reduction Construction Partner company environment education (Refer Graph ➌) Minimize energy, resource, labor input Disposal cost of sludge, construction landfill through facility improvement, process reduction improvement (Refer Graph ➍) Minimize, Recycle of filter, waste water Discharge water outfall areas and local treatment sludge environment protection and improvement Discharged water to be filtered and treated (Refer Graph ➎) above legal requirement Production Execution Syste • Acquisition of International Standard Organization (ISO) certifications ISO 9001 (Product and Facility Product quality and Quality), ISO 14001 (Environment Management), KSI 7001 (Green Management)) Operation environment and green • Entire departments are evaluated by specialized external institutions and internal management system corresponding with global specialists in product quality, environment and green management conduct, and standards conduct improvement activities Healthy tap water for human body Light weight package Use Enhancing tap water use to prevent Use Recycled Water price reduction to promote underground water pollution and other recycled water usage (Refer Graph ➏) Social cost reduction for landfill dispose • Measuring of environment management’s performance to Local environment protection overall and quantitative index in entire management area 53% Trash collection during rain in dams and 153 Disuse and rivers (Refer Graph ➐) • Comparing environment performance’s comparative 151 Reuse Performance improvement level with base year (2006) 145 Index 141 • Measuring since 2007 and managing as K-water’s core 137 Environmental Performance performance indicator 【 2014 Green Product 【 2014 Energy Consumption and 【 2014 GHG Emission ➌ 】 【 2014 Landfill Production and Recycle ➍ 】 Evaluation Index (EPE) purchasing Performance ➊ 】 Reduction ➋ 】 • Scoring 153 point in 2014 Environment Performance Evaluation Index. Comparison with 2006 environment Total Purchasing Amount Usage(TJ) Emission(TJ) Recycle rate(%) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (KRW 100 million) Reduction(TJ) Reduction(TJ) Production (ton) performance improved 53% Green product Purchase Amount 12,843 (KRW 100 million) 229 624,660 100 110.397 98.9 Power Generation9 59 212 60,551 Support Base • Since 2007, Providing ISO product quality and environmental management certification Water 42.083 520.149 examiner training opportunities to internally selected employees 47 Fostering internal product Green Purchasing quality, environment • As at end-2014, 149 ISO certification examiners of product quality, environment Rate 92.6% management, green Water Works Sludge Sewage Sludge Construction Landfill management specialist management were fostered 【 2014 Discharged Water Quality ➎ 】  Unit: mg/ℓ 【 2014 Water Service Charge Discount for 【 2014 Trash Collection During Rain in Dam Customers Using Grey Water ➏ 】 and River ➐ 】 Purification Plant Discharge Sewage Treament Facility Waste Water Process Grey water used by customers getting discount Dam reservoir(㎥) Water Discharge Water Facility Discharge Water (thousand m3) River weir(㎥) Water service charge discounted amount 6.6 6.3 (KRM million) 6.0 17,515 18,756 3.4 2.5 1.7 1.6 1.8 7,045 3,955 BOD COD SS BOD COD SS BOD SS Total 25,801 50 51 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report K-water’s Smart Climate Change Action Achievement of Green House Gas Emission Reductions Goal for Three Consecutive Years Korea’s Number 1 Clean Renewable Energy Company K-water is a participating public company in the Korean government’s national green house gas (GHG) emissions reduction goal In 2014, K-water operated a total of 90 various clean energy resourced management, and has been fulfilling its commitments. Since introduction of the GHG emission reduction goal, K-water has met its power generation stations, producing 2,209GWh of clean energy – annual targets for three consecutive years. In 2014, K-water’s GHG emissions were reduced by 624,660 ton of CO2, down 1% on 2013 equivalent to 3.77 Million barrels of crude oil or a reduction of 970 through energy and resource reduction efforts. K-water’s directly emitted GHG is mostly from pump generation for tap water supply, thousand tons of CO2. In particular, K-water has been proactively pursuing 3.37 970,000 and there is not biogenic GHG emission. GHG intensity was 16.9 (tonCO2/KRW Million), down approximately 0.4 tonCO2 on 2013. leadership in new forms of non-environmental damaging, clean energy Million Barrels ton GHG  businesses, with the Shiwa tidal power plant to be the world’s largest by 【 GHG Emission 】  (Unit: Ton CO2) 【 GHG Reduction 】  (Unit: Ton CO2) 【 GHG Emission Divided by Sales 】 installed capacity, and the first floating PV generation system and thermal (Unit: Ton CO2 / KRW 100 million) energy conversion plant. With this, K-water is planning to invest KRW 6,300 Billion on advancing hydropower system by 2032. K-water places Direct Indirect Reduction Goal Reduction Performance 631,431 624,660 79,702 utmost efforts on localized hydropower generation system planning and production technology and is entering the global market in partnership with 69,154 583,655 627,000 620,499 small-to-medium sized companies in Korea through national R&D business participation, technology sharing and other forms of cooperation. 579,282 65,694 60,551 60,551 17.3 16.9 15.9 Profit Creation Through Clean Energy Production The Korean government is proactively participating in global efforts to respond to climate change, and is introducing an emissions trading scheme and has announced a 2030 GHG reduction goal of 37% as submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 4,373 4,431 4,161 15,729 Change (UNFCCC). The emissions trading scheme is designed to buy and sell rights to emit GHG. Risk and opportunity coexist for the 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 participating companies. K-water is developing new growth opportunities to profit from the emissions trading scheme through various GHG * Criteria: Average emissions of past 3 years (for enhancing trust in calculation of emission) reduction efforts. K-water is the first government invested company to be involved in the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Project. ** Reduction Goal Management has been conducted since 2014. Reduction Performance for 2014 reduction and early reduction are included And via the Sihwa tidal power generation station, 16 weir and small hydro power stations, and a total of 12 other large cases, the UNFCCC BEST PRACTICE has recognized K-water’s reduction of 530,000 tons of GHG. In September, 2008, 6,782 CERs rights from small hydro power projects were sold to ABN AMRO Bank. Currently a total of 477,319 CERs have been created generating approximately KRW 1.3 Billion in profit. Best Company in Global Climate Change Response In August 2014, K-water became the first Korean water works & water resource company to receive 【 Clean Energy Generation Facility Operation and Development 】 【 CDM Business Registration 】 the Carbon Trust Standard (CTS) Certification. This certification is public acknowledgement of K-water’s As of December 31, 2014 As of December 31, 2014 efforts in low carbon management. CTS is a certification system developed by Carbon Trust and it is global Operation State Development State UN Annual CO2 Name of Business Subject Registration Generation Reduction carbon management certification that is designed to publically acknowledge companies that systematically Category Facility Facility Date (㎿h/y) (tonCO2/y) Contents Capacity Contents Capacity respond to climate change through energy management and GHG reduction activities. K-water has been Sihwa tidal power Sihwa Tidal Power Plant June 2006 507,629 315,440 (MW) (MW) Andong, Jangheung, Total 1,340.8 5.0 Small hydro power 1 Oct. 2006 13,490 8,103 placing its efforts in establishing a GHG inventory system (certified by DVN), improving its of water supply Seongnam Dam 1st Plant Large Deacheong, Juam, Dalbal, system through the adoption of high efficiency pumps, appointing a dedicated departmental carbon Soyang River Dam and Small hydro power 2 Feb. 2007 13,944 8,331 Hydro 1,000.6 Seongnam Dam 2nd Plant others (in total, 9 dams) manager, and introducing ‘carbon task’ guidelines. As a result, K-water achieved a 4.5% reduction of GHG Hydro Power Sihwa wind power Sihwa Wind Power Plant Nov. 2007 6,293 4,013 Power Small Ilsan, Small hydro power 3 Kosan, Pankyo Plant Nov. 2009 5,557 2,987 Andong Small Hydro Power intensity in 2013 compared to 2011, resulting in its CTS certification. hydro Plant and others (41 plants) 72.8 Yongdam-gosan, 1.1 Seongduk, Kimcheon Buhang power Donghwa Plants Small hydro power 4 Oct. 2010 4,963 2,759 Dam Plant Sihwa Tidal Power Small hydro power 5 Angye, Hoengseong2 Apr. 2012 4,603 3,100 Tidal Power 254.0 (World’s Biggest) Water works efficiency Paldang 3rd Intake Facility Aug. 2012 7,044 improvement Sihwa Bangameori, Keongin Wind Power Port, Kampo Dam and 8.0 Hydro power 6 Ipo, Yeoju, Kangcheon Weir Oct. 2012 76,406 50,772 others (3 plants) Hydro power 7 Sejong, Kongju, Beakje, Sangju Weir Sep. 2010 57,541 38,237 Boryeong-susang, Nakdan, Gumi, Chilgok, Kangjeong Sep. 2010 58,170 38,654 Bonpo Solar Energy and Hydro power 8 Solar 5.3 Deokso, Gumi, 3.8 Koryeong Weir others (25 plants) Koseong Plants Dalseong, Hapcheon Hydro power 9 Changnyeong, Changnyeong Sep. 2010 79,597 52,892 Hydrothermal Hakya Water Treatment Haman, Seungchon, Juksan Weir 585RT* Jangheung Dam 40RT Energy Plant and others (11 plants) Total 828,193 532,332 * Refrigeration Ton: capacity of cooling and heating system using hydrothermal energy 52 53 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Local Communities’ Environment Protection and Value Creation Local Community Environment Protection and Value Creation Restoration of Ecosystem and Eco-network Creation K-water studies its environmental impacts before beginning any development project and conducts environmental impact study/ K-water is pursuing various restoration plans for ecosystems to ensure protection of various animals and plants' habitat in the evaluations through all key stages of business development. In 2014, K-water conducted environmental impact evaluations on the surrounding area of dams (detailed information of ecosystem restoration is included in Appendix) Choongju Dam flood control capacity improvement project, Seongduck Dam, Youngju dam, Pyeonghaui Dam, and Hantan River Dam. 【 Water Resource Development Business Environmental Impact Evaluation Flora Mammal Birds Process 】 Water Environmental Impact •Side slope, surface of slope safety •Create natural habitats for legally protected species •Create a plantation forest in buffered areas Strategic Environmental Resource Evaluation •Conserve protected trees and old big trees •Install animal corridors and resting areas •Create habitats and cultivate feeding places Environmental Impact Evaluation Development •Establish transplant and conservation plan •Establish plans to minimize night lighting Evaluation Plan through experts ➍ Implementation ➋ Feasibility Study Plan Announcement Sustainable Development Land (ESSD) Reptile Fish Insects Environmental Environmentally Soundness Strategic ➊ Dam Construction ➌ Master Plan ➎ Business Friendly Secure Environmental Long-term Plan Announcement Implementation •Create alternative habits of target species •Install fish-ways and spawning ground •Create alternative habits “Biotope” Development Impact Evaluation Post Environmental •Install slope ways (exit) •Maintain gene diversity (discharge fry) •Provide natural wetland Impact Assessment ”Miso habitats” * Environmentally sound and sustainable development (ESSD) Environmental Reduction Improvement Plan and Post Environmental Impact Evaluation Ecological Culture Space with Water Creation K-water has established and conducted environmental impact reduction plans to minimize environmental damage on natural ecosystems, K-water conducts various organism restoration projects and minimizes ecosystem damage when conducting development projects. and to minimize the environmental effects of K-water’s construction sites. Post environmental impact evaluation is an environment Furthermore, K-water is endeavoring to improve local resident’s life by creating ecological culture spaces in dam reservoirs and monitoring system designed to identify and evaluate any environmental impact during and after a project, and also able to respond to surrounding areas that reflect local ecology, culture and history. unpredicted environmental impact. The result of K-water’s 2014 post environmental impact evaluation satisfied environmental standards across all of K-water’s project sites (as per the results of K-water’s post environmental impact evaluation in the appendix) BEST PRACTICE 2014 Ministry of Environment 3rd Construction Management Best Company Gunnam Dam Gunwi Dam Bohyon Mountain Dam Youngju Dam Kimcheon Buhang Dam K-water’s Kimcheon Buhang and Hantan River dams have received public recognition of their efforts in ‘budget reduction through new technology Durumi Theme Park Multi Complex Culture Space Eco-friendly Downstream Park Cultural Experience Space Natural Ecology Walkway development and application towards residential conflict resolution”, fulfillment of agreement to support the national environmental in harmonious BEST PRACTICE construction for three consecutive years. Success of Korean Golden Frog Habitat Before Project After Project Restoration in Center of Ansan City The Korean Golden Frog is a Class 2 endangered species that inhabits an area in the center of Ansan, around the old railroad’s wetland area. However damage to the wetland as well has pollution and negated wastes have caused the population of Korean Golden Frog to decline. K-water has successfully restored Korean Golden Frog habitats through various environmental improvement Ecological Passage Floating Spawning Ground Fish Way Otter Habitat efforts around the old railroad area. The front view of Ecology observation Preserve wetland Trail Experience play project site wetland ground 54 55 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report DMA(DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH) Ethical Management Transparency and Fairness Based on Improve Stakeholders’ Trust K-water is placing utmost efforts on becoming a trusted sustainable company through transparent ethical management. Excellent Excellence in 'Presidential Company in AntiInformation Award in 2014 Corruption Policy Disclosure by National Cyber Evaluation for 9 Ministry of Land, K-water acknowledges that a key element in its value creation and sustainability is through open Consecutive Security Best Infrastructure and Company Transport communication, transparency and acting in a fair manner towards both its internal and external Years. stakeholders. Therefore, K-water places utmost efforts on gaining the trust of its stakeholders through ethical management, with talent centered management and shared growth. Feasible Ethic Vision and Goal Integrated with K-water’s Strategy Establishment K-water is proactively pursuing ethical management by putting in place the highest standards for its business value system and W  hy Are Transparency and Fairness Based On Improved Stakeholders' Trust so establishing ethical goals that are integrated into K-water’s strategies. In 2009, K-water included “pure” as its core value as of Important? determination to live honestly and implement public value that embedded in water. In 2014, K-water enhanced implementation in K-water, as a public service provider, understands the social cost burden when it fails to resolve disputes with its stakeholders. management policy, strategic direction and strategic task in business strategy. Also, when K-water fails to gain the trust of its employees, it can negatively impact the implementation of its strategic business plans. Therefore, gaining stakeholder trust through transparency and fairness in its business operations are fundamental 【 Corporate Strategy Integrated with K-water’s Ethical Management 】 elements for K-water’s sustainable growth. Ethic Vision Sustainable corporation through transparent and ethical management  How Does K-water Approach? Management Policy Strategic Direction Strategic Task K-water is endeavoring to build trust and cooperation with its various stakeholders through stakeholder-centered ethical Corporate Strategy The Viewpoint of Customer Transparent Public Company Transparent Organizational management, talent centered management, and shared growth with partner companies, such as in K-water's supply chain. Management Fulfilling Culture Settled •Information disclosure expansion Stakeholder-centered Ethical Management •Business promotion’s transparency fairness secure External •Partner company shared development Ethical Practice Ethic Dissolution of •Consideration of social disadvantaged group in Goal Integrity Improve Shared Growth Ethical Blind Spot Culture Internalization employment and open employment •Continuous competency development Internal Talent-centered Management •Balanced life Code of Conducts, Implementation Organization, Implementation Diagnosis System  K-water’s Performance Management K-water has code of conduct in place, as well as promotion arrangements and has implemented a diagnostic system to ensure the Classification Internal Inspection External Inspection achievement of its ethical goals. Codes of conduct include one for ethical standards, as well as a code of behavior for employees and 1st in Kobex-SM for four consecutive years Self-ethical index (KEX) a task integrity contract system for its employees. In 2014, K-water enhanced its overall ethical standards by implementing an internal Ethical Management Excellent Company in Anti-Corruption Policy Evaluation for 9 87.1 point in 2014 ( 87.2 point in 2013) Consecutive Years. informant protection system, and by extending its employee code of behavior to outsourced employees. Issuing Performance sharing confirmation Shared growth evaluation for two consecutive years by Ministry of note for performance sharing promotion Trade, Industry & Energy K-water’s ethical management is centered on its high-level Ethical Management Committee, which flows through to business management Shared Growth model revitalization (19 notes in 2014, 8 Commendation of President in public purchasing notes in 2013) Commendation of Prime Minister for best company for shared growth departments that supervise ethical management tasks, as well as audit and inspection which is responsible for anti-corruption and other Excellence award in high school recruitment essay contest by Ministry integrity related tasks. Also, K-water employs departmental integrity leaders and a voluntary ethical implementation task system to ensure Talent-centered Talent foster index of Strategy and Finance Management 41.3 point in 2014 (40.5 point in 2013) systematic voluntary ethical activities. In 2014, K-water established an organizational culture office to promote an ethical organizational Disabled employment quota achieved (3%) and others culture. In particular, K-water has been monitoring and inquiring of various ethical issues through the Ethical Management Committee. 56 57 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Ethical Management 【 2014 Ethical Standards Enhancement 】 Preventative Ethical Implementation Activities Ethical Standards Existing Improvement K-water has been pursuing preventative ethical implementation activities such as through the CEO’s ethical pledge, employees’ task Code of Conducts •The limit of application to K-water employees •Expanded to all employees work at K-water Personnel Policy •Demotion was excluded in disciplinary action •Demotion is included and restriction of promotion integrity contracts, and integrity training activities for employees. In 2014, the ethical pledge was expanded from K-water’s management •When interested party denies accusation, delay Accusation Standard on criminal charge •When included documents are clear, criminal charge is obligated to all its employees, ethical oaths were introduced for new recruits. Also, in order to promote an ethical organizational culture, K-water Internal Report •Internal informant protection basis absence •Internal corruption victims protection standards introduced has enhanced the ethical training of its management and integrity leaders. Existing Improvement 【 K-water Ethical Management Promotion Organization 】 •(Management) Ethical management pledge and task integrity contract •Conducting ethical management pledge and task Ethics Pledge continue integrity contract for executives Board of •(New) Entire employee ethical practice pledge, new employee ethical oaths CEO Auditor Directors •(Executive) external commissioned education and other executive training •Internal training for executives(2.0hr) enhancement (10.0hr) •Departmental integrity leader training program (7.0hr) Ethical Training •(Integrity leader)Competency improvement through internal and external •Mandatory of ethic training in positional and task K-water Management Advisory Council training (21.0hr) training (External Experts/ Executive Directors) •Continuous ethic training in positional and task training Ethical Management Executive Management Service Department (Senior Executive Vice President) Audit & Inspection Department Effort to Reduce Corruption Indicators and Monitoring System K-water proactively conducts internal anti-corruption activities. Firstly, as a preventative measure, K-water regularly does a major system Ethical Management and Public Announcement Anti-corruption and Corporate of Management Information Supervisory Ethical Management Committee Integrity Supervisory analysis to identify areas of potential corruption. Onsite departments identified by these indicators are regulated through an “e-Audit system”. Also, in 2014, K-water published a ‘task handbook’ which contains various mock corruption cases and provides a check list to Headquarter Department Integrity-Ethics Self-regulating System help employees identify and report potential corruption. Regular Countermeasure Team Improvement Team Report · Agenda Also, a confidential in-house 'Integrity Help-Line' is being operated to encourage internal corruption reporting and systemically enhance Customers Employees Environment Society Introduction Each Regional Division Each Department (Activity Manager) (Integrity Leader) standards for an effective response to corruption, as part of its strict zero-tolerance approach towards corruption. Moreover, K-water 8 Departments 3 Departments 3 Departments including the including the including 5 Departments Feedback places utmost efforts on maintaining service discipline by operating a 'Joint Inspection Team' comprised of related departments, including the Management Administrative the Space Public Relations which conduct monthly inspections operated by the head of each department during corruption-vulnerable periods. K-water has also Service Service Environment Department Previous Department Department Department Task and implemented an ‘unreasonable practice’ inspection and audit notice system. Performance Ethical Practice Task on Each Stakeholder Group: Management The Anti-Corruption Leader Program Operation Departmental Responsibility Implementation reflected 【 Inspection Model for Anti-Corruption Induction Factor Elimination 】 Entire Department and Team Performance Reflected 8 points~ 15 points weight in Ethical Management Performance Index (Iintegrity) Measurement Department Evaluation Reflected Departmental Ethical Implementation Task NonTeam Evaluation and Individual MBO Evaluation Reflected Environment Analysis Control Activities Monitoring measurement Regulation Procedure Risk Evaluation Preventative/ Risk Factor Evaluation Share·Feedback Establishment Responsive Activities 58 59 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Ethical Management Talent Based Management for Sustainable Growth Proactive Stakeholder-centered Ethical Management Practices K-water’s sustainable management starts with its people. With this belief, K-water places utmost efforts on K-water is aware that in order to pursue proper ethical management, gaining various stakeholder’s trust is needed. securing, fostering and retaining the best talent for K-water’s sustainable growth. In 2014, K-water carried out an ‘ethical practice assignment’ on each of its key stakeholders. In addition, K-water expanded its open Strategy integrated with Efficient Talent Operation Establishment access to information, as related to Government 3.0, whilst also taking measures to secure K-water’s retained information. As a result, K-water’s employment system is aimed at minimizing talent imbalances, recruiting high quality employees for project execution, and K-water received various public recognitions as an excellent company, such as in information disclosure from the Ministry of Land, predicting requisite employee levels as sourced through various employment channels. Infrastructure, and Transport, and a commendation from the President as a National Cyber Security Excellent Company in 2014. Requiting of employee prediction Mid-Long Term Employment Plan •Requisition Talent Prediction in Water Resource, Waterworks, Overseas •(Operation Direction) Strategy business response in suitable time, part K-water's ethical practice assignments were also given public recognition as was its “Work Smart With Customer” declaration, new and Business Next 5 Years. time employment and social fairness considered recruitment with (Water Source) Talents for New Dam Construction, Disaster Safety integration of government policy renewable developments, and environmentally friendly ecological parks for local residents. Enhancement •(Mid-long Term Plan) Global water management, 512 people will be (Waterworks) New Construction Business Prediction recruited from 2015 to 2018 for water service equity and other task Improvement Performance (Overseas) Indonesia, Georgia & other New Business assignments conduct •Advance Information disclosure expanded (18 Cases), leading in •Excellent institution in information disclosure by government 3.0 by management announcement and self-inspection Ministry of Land, infrastructure and Transport Society •Portion of employee’s payment financed to socially disadvantaged •Social contribution grand prize, Commendation of In particular, K-water has continuously employed high school 【 New Employees 】  (Unit: People) group’s waterworks improvement Prime Minister and others graduates and new university graduates for the organization’s •Excellence in shared growth by Ministry of Trade, •CEO work smart with customers declaration (61 assignments drawn) industry & Energy achieved vitality and long-term growth prospects. 252 261 Customers 222 •Direct Tap Water Drinking Rate Improvement •Healthy Tap Water Supply Pilot Business (Paju Smart Water City) (1.0%->19.3%) •Organizational culture and task process improvement through dedicated •Grand prize in 100 companies of great work place for Employees team (26 innovation assignment conducted) two consecutive years Average 3 years 245 People •Pursuing compensation employee integrity pledge (open to public) and are newly employed •Highest scored in integrity for compensation other compensation satisfaction activities  •Cooperation with civil society and cooperation projects for K-water’s •Sustainable science prize in environment awarded 2012 2013 2014 pending issues resolution Environment •New and renewable energy development and expansion of •Grand prize in Korea's landscape (Kunnam) environmentally friendly ecological park for local residents Competency and Talent-Centered Open Employment K-water has one of the most open employment policies amongst Korean public companies. Candidates, who hold official language Excellent Company in Anti-Corruption Policy Evaluation for 9 Consecutive Years results, can apply regardless sex, age, educational background and certifications. Based on this, new recruit’s competency and personality K-water places utmost efforts on establishing a company-wide anti-corruption and integrity culture, with its anti-corruption are evaluated through K-water’s Task Ability and Competency Inspection for high school graduates, experience essays and interviews, infrastructure being expanded by an integrity incentive system and internal inspections. As a result, K-water has received public and internships. K-water places utmost effort on recruiting the most suitable talents. In addition, K-water operates a specialised recognition of ‘excellence’ in the Anti-Corruption Policy Evaluation from the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission of Korea for recruitment system to recruit experts who have the requisite competency for particular fields. nine consecutive years, since 2006. Social Responsibility Fulfillment and Effort to Respect Diversity during Recruitment Process K-water’s results on the ‘external integrity index’ and ‘customer policy evaluation’ increased on the previous year through customerAs a public company, K-water provides a wide range of employment opportunities, including part-time employment and socially centered business method improvements, a company-wide integrity campaign, and other external integrity awareness efforts. However, considered employment, as part of its social responsibility fulfillment. In relation to these efforts, in 2014 K-water exceeded its 3% the results on the ‘internal integrity index’ declined given a need for more ethical management promotion efforts. K-water will place employment obligation target, and received the Department of Veterans Affairs “Excellence” award in a high school employment essay more efforts to create an ethical organizational culture. contest organized by Ministry of Strategy and Finance. 60 61 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Talent Based Management for Sustainable Growth K-water places effort on fostering a balanced career development •Female recruitment goal •Twice in challenged employees recruitment (8 people) Additional passes until it reaches 30% in 1, 2 stages of Different language condition for severely hearing-impaired for its employees which reflects both the individual’s and the recruitment Female Challenged people to prevent indirect discrimination 64 training hours per person Female interviewer mandatory attendance in open recruitment Individuals organization’s needs. K-water defines excellent talent through analysis of special expertise, appropriate attitudes, and high performance, Total 12,593 employees •Local talent recruitment goal(40%) •Repeated from above and marries these up with K-water’s own competencies. Through Average education budget per person, Additional passes until it reaches 40% in 1, 2 stages of recruitment Local War Recommended excellent talents by Ministry of Patriots and Veterans Affairs reinforcement plans to evaluate professional competency and KRW 1.736 million Local talent 178 employees (11% against 2013) Talent Veteran 448 people (biggest scale in public company, 8.7% of total employees) systemically manage excellent talent, K-water effectively supports its employee’s competency development. •Increased high school graduate employment due to the mid&long •Socially disadvantaged individual consideration term high school graduate employment plan Job sharing in surrounding areas of dam (2,819 people) (86 graduates, 21% increased compared with 2013) High School Socially 70 permanent employees(formal existing temporary employees) 240 new employees past, 5 years Graduates Disadvantaged 【 K-water Education System 】 Group Organizational Task Competency Rank Leader Competency Level Culture and Others Core Task Competency Advance Task Competency Also, K-water diversifies working conditions to provide employment opportunity and also to proactively fulfill government guidelines. Core Negotiation and conflict Domestic and international Part-time positions were identified through internal and external environment analysis and established operational standards. As a Level 1 Newly Appointed Director outsourced training Value resolution Advance result of these efforts, 12 new part-time jobs were created in 2014. Level 2 Newly Appointed General Manager K-water Expert Course Innovation Documenting and •4 Functions: Water quality inspection, accounting, state-owned property management and discharged Level 3 Newly Appointed Manager reporting Group training by business unit Intermediate K-water’s Unique Function Planning Customer water treatment facility management. Newly Appointed Senior Assistant Manager Satisfaction OS( Exel, Power Point) Part Time Employee’s Operation Standard •Same benefit in personnel evaluation treatment, welfare and others (time scale are applied in payment, Below Understanding of task cyber Newly Appointed Junior Assistant Manager Beginner Establishment tenure of office) Level 4 on-site OJT Integrity Languages Recent Recruit This talent fostering system is to prepare for changes in the future and enhance work-force education for improving onsite problem ”12 New Part-time Employees (3.4% of New Employment) to Proactively Fulfill Government Guidelines” solving. Total water management and other fields of education were chosen to proactively respond to changes in the future and foster talents through specialist courses. K-water is also enhancing safety and efficient operation management of facility training for operators. K-water provides a customized education system (3years) that is suitable for existing management positions; employee’s other task Constant Competency Development through Competency Based Talent Management knowledge and employee’s career. Also, K-water continuously operates a customized leadership training course – its “Leadership Academy” for improved problem solving Management System (Policy) Information System skills of future leaders. In 2014, “Change Management Training” was introduced to create sympathy and awareness of a leader’s role and ”2013 Talent Fostering Index, 40.5% Competency Based HRM HR-Bank  management direction. •Competency (General, Leader, Task •Competency, task competency based 41.3 % in 2014 (0.8 % Increased)” competency) model establishment •Fully functional personnel policy total human resource management system Total personnel information including recruitment, duty assignment, management, fully functional personnel 【 K-water Leadership Academy* 】 performance evaluation, compensation and promotion, competency policy information system based management system Info establishment HRM Strengthen lack of ation Sy Mock task solving method of competency planning and K-water has created a competency model and systemically practical training rm reading, cyber training manages competency based talents. K-water effectively operates Competency CRP System HRD m Individual feedback (result of The result is provided to HR Based HRD ste •One-stop talent fostering K-water’s leader competencyand manages an information based “HR-BANK” designed for total •Competency level, positional, system from competency diagnosis based multi-dimension diagnosis multi dimension diagnosis and department, used in promotion education system to educational performance evaluation feedback report) provided and posting materials management including personnel operation, payment, welfare, •Total 324 courses divided into beginner. Individual Competency Core Course intermediate, advanced and experts Diagnosis Selection integrated with task competency, career education development operation Performance Learning Feedback Evaluation * Leadership Academy: DC teaching method based case study oriented training course, various cases are developed and used ** Lack of Competency Development Training: Cyber training and books provided to improve areas of insufficient competency 62 63 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Talent Based Management for Sustainable Growth Motivation of Performance Improvement through a Fair Compensation System childbirth assistance is provided. Employees give notice of K-water has a competency, position and performance-based compensation system. All of its employee’s payment is decided based on their maternity leave to ensure a temporary replacement for their Significant reduction in number of annual performance review. The management team sign a management contract with the CEO, and the rest of K-water’s employees position can be arranged. K-water also considers the period female workers leave because of childcare including the Vice President are compensated based on an internal business performance review. Employees are evaluated in accordance of maternity leave as employee’s regular tenure of office for with a Balanced Score Card, which includes evaluation indicators in relation to customers, finance, processes and learning and development. employees with more than 3 children and has introduced an in(2013, 8 employees ⇒ 20014, 2 employees ) house kindergarten. As a result, the number of female employees K-water has improved the fairness and transparency in the way it deals with personnel by establishing clear performance review guidelines. retiring for the purposes of childcare has been reduced significantly. K-water places utmost effort on operating its human resource policy in an efficient manner through the “Jeonbo Mileage Program”. As a result of its efforts, K-water’s 2014 Human Resource Satisfaction Index was 72.3 points, a 10.6% increase on the previous year. Strong Female Presence in Management K-water is endeavoring to break the ‘glass-ceiling’ via core task positioning for female talent. In particular, K-water has introduced a K-water’s Efforts towards Achieving a Balanced Life Style for it Employees “Female Recruitment Goal”, set at 30% of total new recruits, and has achieved this target for the past 5 years. Furthermore, female K-water’s continuous effort to create a family friendly employees are now well represented in the various core functions of the business including planning, budget, audit, and personnel. As a organizational culture has included the introduction of various result, in 2014 there was 22% increase in female managers compared with the previous year. As a result of its efforts, in 2014 K-water ～ 2013 2014 2015～ programs and policies, including a female worker friendly system, was commended for “Best practice in female talent management” by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family. Salaries for females are flexible working hours, curtailment of a long-hours working basically the same as that for males, on the basis of position and joining year. culture, and a customized welfare system. • Flexible working hours • Flextime standard • Flextime work change early adaptor (2004) establishment expansion Employee’s Needs Met through Various Welfare System Operations • Flexible working • Pregnant employee’s • Improve usage of K-water was one of first state-owned companies to introduce workshop (Every Year) reduction working flextime to prevent K-water’s business sites are spread across Korea, requiring 【 Employee’s Needs Reflected Welfare System 】 • Best flexible working hours support career discontinuity a flexible working hour system and is endeavoring to improve practice company • Weekend couple some employees to work on a rotating basis. In order to solve (2012) mandatory Operation the system. In 2014, in order to expand its flexible working hour employees’ housing issues, K-water provides boarding rooms for Classification Contents System system, K-water improved its flexible working hour policy and single employees. K-water also endeavors to support employee’s •Operating customized medical checkup Medical system conducted an analysis of the flexible working hour operation welfare with a strong belief that 'healthy employees will supply Checkup •Provide discounts through arrangement with 【 Parental Leave Status 】  Health dentists and ophthalmologists near the office which showed that there was a increase on the previous year. healthy water'. In this regard, K-water operates various health Group •Cover fatal accident or death compensation, Classification 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 hospitalization, medical expense, cancer Insurance Also, K-water endeavors to ensure career continuity by reducing Number of employees management programs including a smoking clinic, an obesity diagnosis expense, etc. 8 24 26 37 33 •Operate two recreational centers unnecessary overtime working hours, creating an efficient applied for leave* clinic and an “online mental health checkup” system which was Recreational •Use recreational facilities at a discounted Personnel on Facilities Leisure price by corporate membership Total 8 24 26 37 33 organizational culture through task process improvements, leave(people) introduced in 2014. K-water also provides annual health checkups •Initiate voluntary club activities and leisure Leisure Club Restatements Rate (%) 100 100 100 100 100 activities of employee and easing the burden of childcare via a female worker friendly to its all employees. The percentage of employees with medical Maintenance Rate** (%) 87.5 78.8 80.8 97.3 100 •Operating boarding houses for single Housing employees program. In particular, K-water has introduced and is operating Personnel on leave issues in 2014 was 37.3%, similar to that of the previous year. Support •Operating housing support for employees 2 3 6 6 1 (people) with families a customized maternity leave system. In addition, K-water has K-water also provides various employee support programs Personnel on leave •Lend housing loan expense to support male 2 3 6 6 1 Housing/Living residence of employees improved its maternity leave system by introducing a concurrent (people) including asset management, real-estate management and Expense •Lend ‘Living Stabilization Expense’ in Reinstatement Rate (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Stable Residence emergencies that need money substitute worker arrangement. K-water also operates various business establishment assistance for retiring employees to ensure and Living Maintenance Rate (%) 100 66.7 66.7 100 100 Education for •Operate a day care center in the workplace other programs including infertility leave, infertility treatment leave, Maintenance Rate (%) 6 21 20 31 32 they can prepare for the next chapter in their lives. Children •Tuition support for high school children Personnel on leave •Support expense for congratulations and prenatal diagnosis and a system to reduce the working hours of K-water also operates various welfare programs to take into Expenditure for 6 21 20 31 32 Congratulations condolences (fund), childbirth grant, support Female (Number of people) expense for disabled children, etc. pregnant woman. (regular full pay is provided for 2 hours working) account other needs of its employees, so that they know they are and Reinstatement Rate (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Condolences •Support expense for flood and fire damage, etc. Maternity leave (90 days before/after birth) is guaranteed and Maintenance Rate (%) 83.3 81 85 96.8 100 in great work place. All employees receive the same benefits. 64 65 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Shared Growth K-water endeavors to grow and develop with partner companies within its supply chain. Partner’s Company’s Environmental Management System Creation Support K-water’s environmental responsibility expands from its own responsibility to its entire supply chain. In this regard, K-water supports 【 Shared Growth Rating 】 small-to-medium sized partner companies to be environmental friendly. K-water’s support includes environmental management 2012 2013 2014 Presidential Citation of Public training, an environmental technology support service, certification evaluation, certification fee support, and post management fee Procurement (Oct. 2014) support to create eco-friendly partnerships. Best Shared Growth Company Prime Minister Citation (Nov. 2014) Through these customized environmental management systems, K-water’s partner companies gain in business performance such as Average Excellent Excellent in regards to compliance processes, risk management and response competencies, environment management infrastructure, and eco* 59 state owned companies evaluated: “Rating System Excellent-Satisfactory-AverageImprovement” friendly products and services. Environmental management gains are also expected to accrue in such areas as, productivity, sales and costs. K-water has supported 17 partner companies in regards to environmental management system certification, and will continue to Shared Growth System 【 Socially Disadvantaged Individual Protection and enhance the environmental soundness of its entire business via an eco-friendly supply chain. Preference Performance 】 K-water continuously endeavors to grow with small-to-medium Total Contracts ratio of socially K-water’s Unique Shared Growth Model; A One-Stop Support System disadvantaged individual protection sized companies. K-water’s partner K-water has created and is operating a unique shared growth model; a “One Stop Support System” in accordance with K-water’s midcompanies can be separated by 66.1 % 878 Total to-long term strategies to foster small-to-medium sized companies in the water industry. The One Stop Support System is designed 1,713 way of raw material companies, Number of contracts evaluated by the 2,591Cases to provide support from technology, to marketing, and financial support. K-water was the first Korean companies to announce a list of socially disadvantaged scoring program and facilities inspection and suitable technologies to develop SMEs (ranging across 13 technologies, and with associated financing of KRW 1.8 billion) and including Number of contracts not evaluated maintenance companies. a “Technology Development Notice System “. Notably, with a dedicated assignment manager, and some KRW2.9 billion in technology 2014 development support, there was an 11% increase in customized technology development and technology transfer in 2014 versus that of K-water has introduced a merit the previous year. system to ensure support for socially disadvantaged companies (e.g. SMEs, companies owned by females, social-oriented companies) when outsourcing. K-water expanded its joint venture contract amount from KRW 8.7 billion to 26.2 billion in 2014. Regional contracts 【 Cooperation to Improve Fair Trading Practices 】 stood at KRW 90.99 billion, 8.8% of total contacts (KRW 833 billion). The Construction System 31 Items of Construction Unfair Trading Companies Improvement Creation of Shared Growth through Improvements in Fair Trading Practices Shared Team Site Meeting Practice Committee Improved K-water conducts various shared-growth activities such as developing its departmental growth plans in conjunction with an annual, onsite meeting of the “Construction Companies Shared Committee” which comprises 63 construction companies and subcontractor •K-water, 69 construction companies and subcontract companies •K-water department in charge (15 people), external advisory (5 people) •K-water, 16 construction companies •Task practice 6 cases •Construction System Improvement companies. K-water has also introduced a “System Improvement Team”, including an external specialist, which identifies areas for •System improvement •Including onsite departmental annual •Unfair trading practice improvement Sharing and on site meeting shared growth plan, shared growth assignment identification, improvement 13 cases improved fair trading practices. In 2014, 31 items in regards to fair trading practices were improved. activities and feedback •Construction fee 3 improvement case •Subcontract management K-water has also established an “Unfair Trading Subcontract Conflict Resolution Center” to ensure 100% use of standard subcontractor 9 improvement cases contracts (with a total 81 projects and 329 cases being dealt with in 2014). To prevent payment delays to subcontractors, K-water was one of the first state owned companies to introduce a monitoring system in conjunction with various financial institutions (involving 9 Construction Projects worth a total of KRW 67.9 billion). 66 Shared Growth 【 K-water’s Unique Shared Growth Model 】 Technology 1.Technology Development Notice (Korea’s First) Technology Development Notice 2.Technology Discovery Online Assignment Contest Development Content K-water notify shared technology development list for SME Tool ‌KThrough K-water’s share growth platform “Waterpedia” through “Technology Development Notice” Improvement Existing + Email + SMS + Official Information Document Notice 5 areas, 17 technologies, 68 items [ Assignment contest 144 cases, 218 % against [ 13 item discovery, KRW 18 billion financing ] previous year ] 4.Onsite Verification Onsite Test-bed Provide 3.Technology Support (K-water’s first) Customized Technology Support through Assignment Manager and Training Regulation Reform Performance inspection support by opening 95 water works, dam Assignment Manager Customized technology support conduct through dedicated onsite test-bed places assignment manager *Market limitation due to water quality accidents and etc. Technology Training Provide free training when small-medium company develops technology development Cost Technology development financing through small medium [ 23 companies, 32test-beds provided ] company support systems Performance [ 35 assignment managers, Verification 49 employees of SME received training, 5.Performance Test Provide Performance Verification Infrastructure technology development financing KRW 2.9 Billion ] Creation Infrastructure 5th largest international correction system in the global fluid flow industry 7.Strengthen Cooperation [ 2,699 ndustrial valve and others performance test support ] Cooperation Promotion Support through product exhibition and shared growth workshop *Ministry of Environment, Metro, Multi-regional, K-water, Water Works association and other 12 institutes 6.Promotion Support [ 120performance Metro, Multi regional Test-bed place and expanded sharing items market entrance ] Exhibition Promotion support through product exhibition and shared growth workshop Nature of Industry Excellent product promotion through technology diagnosis report expand sales in local market. The Trickle Down Effect [ 79 companies 79 item display, Market Expansion 8.Purchasing Expansion Harmony in creating pure water 14 technologies contained 4 reports ] Optional Contract Performance sharing assignment 100% optional contract Water flows down from high places, and with issuing to expand sales * ‌(Other companies) operating “add point system” caused sales limitation VS (K-water) optional contracts to expand sales soil, water creates and sustains new life. Public Purchasing Expanding technology development products purchase Public Just as water trickles down, so does the virtue of 9.Financial Support Financial support through K-water loan purchasing public purchasing master *(2013) 65 specialists at headquarters, (2014) Entire department (260 employees, 400%) K-water's service, which reaches from the often Partnering with financial institutions, technology development and operation cost overlooked segments of our society, all the the loan support. [ Market support of 11 optional contract confirmations issued way to mutual growth with our stakeholders. [ 115 companies KRW 50.7 billion support, and optional contract KRW 11.6 billion ] 445% compare with previous year ] Financial Support (Technology Development) Firstly introduced technology development notice system →13 items discovered and KRW 1.8 billion support SHARE SUSTAINABLE VALUE (Regulation Reform) 32 key national facility waterworks, dam sites Test-bed opened and provided *Test-bed provide vitalization through Internal Evaluation (Government recommendation policySME fostering) integration Appendix 68_ 2014 Economic, Environment, and Social 85_ISO 26000 (Market Expand) 11 optional contract confirmations issued and optional contract KRW 11.6 billion(352% ↑compared with previous year) Performance Summary 86_Code of Ethics, Green Management Policy, Customer (Financial Support) 115 companies to KRW 50.7 billion support through Water + loan (445% ↑compared with previous year) 79_Third Party Assurance Charter Statement, Innovation Vision Statement 82_GRI G4 INDEX 88_UN Global Compact 10 Principles Support 68 69 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report 2014 Economic, Environment, and Social Performance Summary Economic Performance Financial Performance Sustainable Growth through Innovation 【 Statement of Financial Position 】  (Unit: KRW in millions) 【 Business Revenues 】  (Unit: KRW in millions) Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) Healthy Tap Water Supply Business Current assets 3,431,065 4,352,289 5,213,014 5,785,518 5,631,464 907,729 1,122,180 Asset Non-current assets 15,211,945 19,073,626 19,803,369 19,818,389 19,807,635 891,207 Total 18,643,010 23,425,915 25,016,383 25,603,907 25,439,099 814,308 789,374 Current liabilities 1,085,573 1,351,280 2,722,666 3,358,548 2,161,443 1,071,776 Liabilities Current liabilities 6,999,797 11,229,656 11,055,255 10,639,904 11,299,992 983,458 Total 8,085,370 12,580,936 13,777,921 13,998,452 13,461,435 949,342 Capital stock 6,672,837 6,694,987 6,815,621 6,898,731 7,016,965 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 others 3,875,964 4,140,105 4,411,461 4,697,176 4,945,222 Equity attributable to Related Business Equity 10,548,801 10,835,092 11,227,082 11,595,907 11,962,187 owners of the Company Waterfront business Clean energy business Overseas business Non-controlling interest 8,839 9,887 11,380 9,548 15,477 763,387 Total 10,557,640 10,844,979 11,238,462 11,605,455 11,977,664 * Consolidated statement as per application of Korea-International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) since 2011 543,560 491,597 463,036 387,285 【 Condensed Income Statement 】  (Unit: KRW in millions) 366,764 Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 137,846 222,934 Revenue (Sales) 6,399,217 6,325,786 3,668,445 3,645,387 3,698,372 7,178 5,733 7,389 10,741 Cost of sales 6,059,690 5,843,977 3,117,070 2,989,350 3,178,494 Selling, general and administrative 2011 2012 2013 2014 94,638 115,403 117,048 123,920 129,419 expenses Gross profit 244,889 366,406 434,327 532,117 390,459 Other income 26,685 242,315 296,308 315,516 323,280 【 Patent and Research Projects Achievement 】  Other expenses 6,221 8,881 3,856 43,087 6,826 Other gain -947 -2,557 -5,296 2,078 -13,221 Patents Research Projects Financial income 136,673 87,393 195,182 97,870 91,264 Application for a patent (case) Registration (case) Research Research development Number of research Financial costs 213,929 317,628 515,371 449,185 400,656 projects (case) budget (KRW 100 million) paper publication (case) Share of profit of equity accounted -2,451 219 395 1,565 33,248 investees 480 Profit before income tax 184,699 367,267 401,689 456,874 417,548 390 365 Income tax expense 36,551 74,000 93,394 108,756 118,222 419 313 Net profit 148,148 293,267 308,295 348,118 299,326 185 86 81 143 144 155 79 80 Other comprehensive income -103,968 -7,251 13,386 -9,901 18,874 65 70 58 52 Total comprehensive income 44,180 286,016 321,681 338,217 318,200 44 49 91 87 83 74 82 66 Profit attributable to owner of the 148,148 293,333 308,247 346,443 298,554 company Profit attributable to non-controlling 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 -66 48 1,675 772 interest * Consolidated statement as per application of Korea-International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) since 2011 70 71 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report 2014 Economic, Environment, and Social Performance Summary 2014 Economic, Environment, and Social Performance Summary Economic Performance Environmental Performance Sustainable Growth through Innovation Enhanced Environmental Management over the Entire Corporate Supply Chain 【 Employee Education Status 】  【 Input 】  Educated employees (person) 1,630 1,569 1,660 1,736 Eco-friendly Product Purchasing Water Energy 1,480 Average investment in Total Purchased amount(KRW in 100 millions) Water usage(thousand ㎥) Consumption(TJ) 71 education per person 69 69 64 Eco-friendly product purchased amount(KRW in 100 millions) Recycled water (thousand ㎥) Reduction(TJ) (KRW in thousands) 63.8 Average time of education 15,662 Eco-friendly purchasing rate(%) 15,261 per person (hour) 14,623 90.6 92.6 12,593 49,176 81 9,880 75.8 204 40,995 64.5 39,275 91 34,616 78 66 56 234 233 229 199 212 197 189 177 180 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 116 12,005 12,905 12,843 10,142 10,605 【 Average Time of Education per Person 】  (Unit: hour) 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sex Employment Status * Energy reduction result from 2013 to 2014 is collected in 2013 Male Female Executives General officers Specialists 80 75 【 Output 】 70 68 65 63 Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Discharge standard* 47 BOD(㎎/ℓ) 1.8 2.1 2.1 2.0 1.7 10 and less Drinking waterworks COD(㎎/ℓ) 3.8 4.1 4.1 3.3 3.4 20 and less 22 24 SS(㎎/ℓ) 3.1 3.2 3.2 2.4 1.6 10 and less 19 Quality of BOD(㎎/ℓ) 1.9 2.6 1.9 1.5 1.8 5 and less discharged water Sewage treatment plant COD(㎎/ℓ) 3.8 7.7 6.9 6.8 6.6 20 and less 2013 2014 2013 2014 SS(㎎/ℓ) 2.1 2.8 2.6 3.0 2.5 10 and less Waste water BOD(㎎/ℓ) 6.8 6.5 7.0 6.0 6.3 20 and less processing facility SS(㎎/ℓ) 6.9 6.5 6.8 5.4 6.0 20 and less 【 R&D specialist management 】 * Applied highest requirement standard in “Water Quality And Aquatic Ecosystem Conservation Act” and “Sewerage Act” Bachelor Bachelor Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 degree holder Research Research General General 24% PhD 26% specialist officers PhD specialist officers Emission(tonCO2) 527,666 549,711 583,655 631,431 624,660 38% Total 33% Total 38% Total 36% Total 32% Green house gas 34% Reduction(tonCO2)* 69,154 79,702 60,551 228 228 218 218 PM-10(㎏) 224 218 244 226 220 Master Appointed researcher Master Appointed researcher SOx(㎏) 1,527 1,495 1,678 1,628 1,443 36% 33% 38% 32% Air pollution CO(㎏) 4,019 3,446 3,533 4,568 4,223 substance HC(㎏) 1,042 883 896 1,197 1,106 2013 2014 NOx(㎏) 10,280 8,924 9,235 11,566 10,892 * Introduced green house gas emission reduction target since 2012 72 73 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report 2014 Economic, Environment, and Social Performance Summary Economic Performance Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 【 Post Environmental Impact Study on Construction Sites 】 Generated amount (ton) 104,976 131,615 111,414 110,027 110,397 Hantan River GimcheonSeongdeok Youngju Boheonsan Environmental Category Water Dam Buhang Dam Dam Dam Dam standard* Amount of sludge generated per 1㎥ water 61.9 73.1 59.5 54.2 55.3 quality BOD (㎎/ℓ) 1.2 1.2 2.2 1.5 1.5 3 and less processed(g/㎥) Drinking COD (㎎/ℓ) 2.2 2.9 3.6 2.3 2.9 5 and less Recycling rate(%) 100 100 100 100 100 waterworks sludge recycled to Cement raw materials 56.4 76.7 77.5 83.8 40.0 Hantan River GimcheonSeongdeok Youngju Boheonsan Environmental Category Dam Buhang Dam Dam Dam Dam standard* recycled to Cover soil, fill materials 28.2 2.5 3.6 12.4 57.0 Atmospheric environment PM-10 (㎍) 51 44 44 53 36 100 and less recycled to Green soil, Pebble and etc. 15.4 20.8 18.9 3.8 3.0 NO2 (ppb) 12 13 14 18 7 60 and less Generated amount (ton) 36,347 44,288 42,876 39,565 42,083 Sewage sludge Recycling rate(%)* 36 40 46 49 59 Hantan River GimcheonSeongdeok Youngju Boheonsan Environmental Category Noise / Dam Buhang Dam Dam Dam Dam standard* Generated amount (ton) 371,194 583,519 471,366 496,260 520,149 Vibration Noise (dBA) 48 44 49 45 51 65 Waste Waste concrete generated 225,726 312,996 272,580 255,578 258,881 Vibration (dBV) 19 13 24 25 27 65 Waste asphalt generated 97,469 187,295 114,453 121,827 218,061 Wood waste generated 12,345 20,315 50,649 69,669 1,646 Animals and plants Category Hantan River Dam Gimcheon-Buhang Dam Seongdeok Dam Youngju Dam Boheonsan Dam Synthetic resin generated 1,169 10,166 2,709 1,314 183 Total (species) 16 11 15 14 12 Mammal Legally protected species 1 2 2 2 2 Construction Mixed waste generated 34,485 52,747 30,975 47,873 41,377 Total (species) 40 14 19 23 17 waste Recycling rate ** 95.8 93.8 94.8 96.8 98.9 Fish Legally protected species 5 0 0 1 0 Waste concrete recycled 99.5 100.0 97.7 98.9 99.5 Total (species) 26 10 12 13 13 Reptiles Waste asphalt recycled 100.0 100.0 99.0 99.2 99.7 Legally protected species 3 0 0 0 0 Wood waste recycled 79.2 98.4 100.0 100.0 100.0 Total (species) 71 57 43 68 45 Birds Legally protected species 7 6 1 7 2 Synthetic resin recycled 16.6 0.8 0.0 14.1 100.0 Mixed waste recycled 68.1 51.6 53.1 76.7 91.5 ** Waste processed by an authorized waste treatment company in accordance with the “Wastes Control Act” Ecological Restoration Measures Taken Fish path (site) Artificial marsh (site) Wildlife passage (site) Fish spawning ground (site) Alternative habitat (site) Effort to Improve & Protect Local Environment Total Gunwi Dam Gunnam Dam Hantan River Dam 4 4 【 ‌Water rate discount for customer inducing grey water 【 ‌Floating debris collection in dam reservoirs 17 17 6 6 116 116 system 】  and rivers 】  (Unit: ㎥) 1 1 6 6 1 1 6 6 Reusing water (grey water) (thousand ㎥) Collected amount in rivers Collected amount in dam reservoirs 5 5 7 7 Reduction Amount (KRW in millions) 108,814 8 8 12 11 7,620 6 6 45 52 5,744 84,654 3,955 3,373 72,203 2,685 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 171,515 45,028 157,278 41,171 25,801 Gimcheon-Buhang Dam Seongdeok Dam Youngju Dam Bohyeonsan Dam 12,451 133,604 138,819 135,356 34,797 18,756 2 2 45 7,045 45 6,374 3 3 4 4 4 4 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 46 46 5 5 3 5 2 3 22 4 4 15 1 1 12 12 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 74 75 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report 2014 Economic, Environment, and Social Performance Summary Social Performance Beyond Customer Satisfaction Equal Partnership, Vertical Growth 【 Customer Satisfaction 】  (Unit: point) 【 Local Business, Contract Amount 】  【 Ratio of SME Product Purchasing 】  (Unit: %) Total contract amount (KRW in millions) Total customer Regional water supplied customer Local business contract amount (KRW in millions) 52.1 53.2 53.5 K-water Evaluation group average K-water Evaluation group average Ratio (%, Local business contracted / Total contracts) 45.0 11.5 10.9 96.6 97.2 96.2 96.1 1,035,329 93.9 94.4 80.3 80.4 80.4 93.7 93.0 79.1 832,939 73.0 73.0 71.0 72.0 119,338 90,992 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 2013 2014 【 Customer Communication 】  【 Socially Disadvantage Protection, Preferential System Operation Result 】  Written civil complaint case (case) 99.9 100.0 100.0 100.0 Total cases 66.1 Electronic civil complaint case (case) 99.6 Reviewed cases 90.8 97.4 96.0 61.0 Civil complaint processed in a timely Number of contracts evaluated by the socially 56.5 manner rate 94.4 disadvantaged scoring program 84.9 88.4 91.6 2,710 Customer service quality 2,591 2,476 index(SQI, point) 1,414 1,372 Information disclosure rate (%) 1,227 1,654 1,713 1,398 1,011 922 898 937 786 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 【 Customer Informaiton Protection 】 With Local Community Together with Local Communities Size of Social Contribution Investment Number of Cases of personal Information Protection Violation and Received Complaints 0Cases Number of participated employees(person) Size of social contribution investment (KRW in 100 millions) Participated employees ratio against total employees(%) Social contribution investment rate against sales(%) Participated hours per employee Adjustment of In-House Personal Information Clause Practice(Delete) 66 Cases Deleted 99.6 2.8 99.5 98.4 97.7 97.4 2.4 2.34 2.31 13.8 14.2 0.9 764.3 Personal Information Destroyed without Legal Ground 33 Thousand Cases destroyed 13.0 13.2 12.0 747.6 639.1 4,348 4,428 596.9 4,128 4,185 4,265 551.9 Clarification of Personal Information Collection Period based on law, nature of task Expired Personal Informaiton 30 Thousands Cases destroyed 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 76 77 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report 2014 Economic, Environment, and Social Performance Summary Social Performance Fair and Diversified Workplace 【 Minority Employment 】  (Unit: person) 【 Distribution of employees 】  (Unit: person) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Category Number of Ratio Number of Ratio Number of Ratio Number of Ratio Number of Ratio people (%) people (%) people (%) people (%) people (%) Fixed number of employees Current number of employees 4,615 Total new recruits 212 5.1 173 4.1 222 5.1 252 5.7 261 5.7 4,451 4,334 4,308 4,032 4,149 4,072 4,200 4,169 4,272 Female 36 0.9 32 0.8 40 0.9 47 1.1 42.25 0.9 Physically challenged person 2 0.1 19 0.5 2 0.1 4 0.1 7.5 0.2 Minority Engineer 164 3.95 128 3.1 136 3.1 134 3.0 146 3.2 groups Regional talent 104 2.51 107 2.6 128 3.0 161 3.6 175.5 3.8 High school graduate 19 0.46 13 0.3 51 1.2 71 1.6 86 1.9 * Ratio(%): current number of employees based 【 Non-Regular Employment 】  (Unit: person) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010년 2011년 2012년 2013년 2014년 Category Number of Ratio Number of Ratio Number of Ratio Number of Ratio Number of Ratio people (%) people (%) people (%) people (%) people (%)  comparison with current number of employees (%) Total nonregular employees 342 7.5 426 9.3 364 7.8 414 8.5 403 8.1 Sex Age Position Fixed-term employees 342 7.5 355 7.8 293 6.3 340 7.0 322 6.5 Minority Executives Short-period employees 71 1.6 71 1.5 74 1.5 66 1.3 Male Female Below 20s 30~40s Above 50s groups 69.6 68.1 General officers Short-period employees 15 0.3 65 62.7 60.1 Specialist * Ratio(%)=Non-regular employee (non-regular employee+ non-fixed-term contracted employees+ regular employees) 89.8 89.3 88.8 88.3 88.0 91.9 【 Turnover 】  26.9 28.0 24.2 26 22.4 Total General Officers Specialists 10.4 11.9 10.2 10.7 11.2 11.7 12.0 8.0 7.7 9 8.0 Male (person) Female (person) 0.1 Total (comparison with current number of employees, %) 2.4 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Male (comparison with current number of employees, %) 2.4 Female (comparison with current number of employees, %) 1.83 2.05 1.34 1.12 1.35 0.80 0.72 1.10 4.8 【 Age in Positions, Sex Composition Ratio 】  3.39 1.96 2.2 1.71 2.3 2.95 4.5 1.25 2.24 0.85 Age Sex 3.28 1.82 1.07 1.32 2.79 0.75 0.67 Below 20s(person) 30~40s(person) Above 50s(person) Ratio(%)* Male(person) Female(person) Ratio(%)* 2.10 0.25 0.10 0.12 0.09 0.2 1.53 0.05 0.05 0.02 0.04 0.1 100 100 89.2 61.8 73.7 0.29 0.3 58.0 0.14 0.17 0.12 3,782 42.0 220 109 26.3 2,619 207 111 106 25.3 89 12.9 10.8 147 101 77 56 85 49 58 124 142 72 38 1,073 457 52 47 93 117 81 33 32 547 272 45 57 155 214 97 7 7 68 87 31 30 11 10 3 13 13 5 6 7 5 4 4 2 2 2 1 Executives General officers Specialist Executives General officers Specialist 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * Rate(%) Employment Type, Sex Composition Rate * Ratio(%): Calculate based on current number of employees 78 79 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report 2014 Economic, Environment, and Social Performance Summary Third Party Assurance Social Performance Happy Workplace where Work and Family are Harmonized Independent Assurance Statement for “K-water Sustainability Report 2015” 【 Creating Corporation Culture to Harmonize Work and Family 】 Flexible work Smart work center expansion and telecommuting on alternating workdays To K-water’s stakeholders extension Part time, introduction of various flexible working K-water commissioned the Korea Productivity Center (the “Assurer”) to provide an independent assurance of its Sustainability Report Introduction of Family day (every Wednesday) Work practice 2015 (the “Report”). ‌Conducting shut-down and PC-off program on weekdays after 9PM, PC-off on weekend Improvement Improve task efficiency through improving work conduct Meeting culture improvement Respond to Parental leave notice system childbirth policy ‌In-house daycare operation (reintroduction of empty office space to daycare facility, increase number of children) Responsibility and Integrity Work and Family Couple coaching, father school and other family related education K-water is responsible for the reliability and accuracy of all information and opinions presented in this “Report”. The Assurer holds the responsibility balanced Various leisure clubs, culture and show support, additional recreation facilities that lies solely in providing third party verification of the content in the “Report”. As an independent assurance agency, the Assurer was neither involved in the process of preparing this “Report” with K-water nor in any conflicts of interest that may undermine our independence. 【 Workplace Safety 】  (Unit: comparison with current number of employees, %) Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Assurance Standards Injury 0.31 0.14 0.23 0.22 0.16 Occupational disease 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 The independent verification process was planned and performed in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008) Assurance Standard to Industrial accident ratio 0.25 0.12 0.22 0.08 0.06 provide Type 2 moderate level of assurance. This is achieved through the evaluation of the organization’s adherence to the AA1000APS Prevalence rate 6.4 9.2 7.1 7.0 6.7 Accountability Principles (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality, and Responsiveness. Additionally, the assurance was performed to ascertain the 【 Flexible Working Status 】  organization’s adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. (Unit: Person) *  AA1000AS (2008): Enacted by Accountability, the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) is a global standard for verification and provides methods for reporting issues on sustainable Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 management by assessing the operation of organization for management performance, compliance with principles, and credibility of information on performance Part-time New (recruits) 0 235 551 620 465 **  AA1000APS (2008): Enacted by Accountability, the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008) is a global standard for verification and provides the principles for the foundation employment of the AA1000 standard. Change 0 0 9 9 28 Flexible working hours 0 360 525 662 858 Assurance Limitations Alternative work schedule 0 0 0 0 0 Flexible working Based on the aforementioned assurance standards, the Assurer performed verification of the organization’s sustainability performance and Compressed work 0 0 3 3 3 credibility during 2014. As for some environmental data such as greenhouse gas emissions and amount of water usage, we deliberated on Discretionary work 0 0 0 0 0 Telecommuting 0 4 0 0 0 materials which were submitted to the Independent Assurance agency. As for economic data such as financial data, financial statements, Telecommuting Smart work 0 1 0 7 0 which was audited by auditing institutions, the data on ALIO were checked. In terms of social data, we checked the moderate level of * Ratio(%): calculated based on current number of employees the verification by using Type 2 and sampling. Site inspection was performed at the head office in Daejeon. Therefore, the Assurer clearly 【 Labor Union Relationship 】 【 Labor Practices Grievance Process Performance 】 states that any additional verification conducted in the future may issue varied results. (Unit: Case) Labor union distribute case (case) Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Assurance Methodology Labor union joining rate Total cases 78 73 78 63 56 The assurance was undertaken by following the methodology specified below. 85 83 83 81.2 82.1 Resolved cases 56 52 56 53 50 1. Verified compliance with the requirements for Core Options in the GRI G4 Guidelines. 2. Verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and quality of sustainability reports based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. Cases which received last year but resolved 13 10 3. Verified the appropriateness of identifying key issues and the responsiveness to the content presented in the Report by the various analysis 0 0 0 0 0 in following year methodology. 4. Verified the appropriateness of the report content with other sources and searched for incorrect information through comparative analysis. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Processing rate(%) 71.8 71.2 71.8 84.1 89.3 5. On-site verification at the head office and plant has been conducted to confirm evidence for key data and information as well as internal processes. 80 81 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Third Party Assurance Findings and Conclusions 3. Responsiveness: Responding to Issues by the Organization It is the Assurer’s opinion that the Report fairly and accurately presents the sustainability efforts and performance of K-water. It is The principle of responsiveness articulates that organizations should be responsive to issues that may have impacts on stakeholders’ also verified that the Report complies with the requirements for Core Options in the GRI G4 Guidelines. In terms of General Standard performance. K-water prepares its report under four different themes: environmental analysis, response process, strategy, and Disclosures, the Report is found to comply with the requirements for Core Options. For Specific Standard Disclosures, Disclosure on performance. As a result, the company is demonstrating its commitment to each subject in a transparent manner. When introducing its Management Approach (DMA) and indicators for material issues drawn by the decision process, the items for the Report are as follows. objectives, K-water stresses the importance of water, encouraging stakeholders to take a more in-depth approach to issues related to water. Contents Material Aspect DMA & Indicators New Prospect in Water Management, Smart Water · Customer Health and Safety DMA, PR1, PR2 Management · Product and Service Labeling DMA, PR3, PR4, PR5 Recommendations · Economic Performance DMA, EC1, EC2, EC4 The Assurer commends K-water for carrying out a variety of efforts to improve sustainability and resulting performances, and presents New Growth Power for 100 Years of K-water · Indirect Economic Impacts DMA, EC7, EC8 the following recommendations to enhance future sustainability reports and sustainable management. · Energy DMA, EN3, EN6, EN7 · Water DMA, EN8, EN9, EN10 Respond to Climate Change and Environment 1. K-water uses various communication channels in the process of identifying its issues while actively undertaking its response activities. · Biodiversity DMA, EN13 Protection · Emissions DMA, EN15, EN16, EN19, EN20, EN21 It is essential to manage its stakeholders' interests and expectations more efficiently by further developing these systems. It is advised · Effluents and Waste DMA, EN22, EN23, EN24 to establish a reporting system and process to incorporate various issues and disclose the result of communications with stakeholders · Anti-corruption DMA, SO4, SO5 instead of relying on surveys. · Employment DMA, LA1, LA2, LA3 2. To make sure that stakeholders truly understand K-water’s internal activities for sustainable management, it is necessary to disclose · Occupational Health and Safety DMA, LA6 Transparency and Fairness Based Stakeholders’ · Training and Education DMA, LA9, LA10, LA11 more information about its future plans and goals. To do this, K-water needs to build an official process for collecting and managing data Trust Gain · Diversity and equal opportunity DMA, LA12 as part of its on-going performance management system. If performance is reviewed continuously under this process, K-water will be · Equal remuneration for women and men DMA, LA13 able to present its future plans and goals in its next reports. · Procurement Practices DMA, EC9 1. Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement July 2015 The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and Chairman Korea Productivity Center Hong Sun-jik strategic response to sustainability. K-water divides its stakeholders into six groups: employees, customers, government, local communities, NGOs & academia, and partnering companies to ensure full compliance with its diversity rules. Through its communication channels for each group, K-water introduces its commitment to actively responding to any issues brought to its attention. As part of its efforts to discuss the matters that require its immediate attention, K-water has organized the Mutual Growth Committee to listen to its stakeholders’ opinions on water, and this is considered as one of its best practices. 2. Materiality: Selecting and Reporting Major Issues The principle of materiality articulates that organizations should focus on issues relevant and material to both the organization and its Kim Dong-su, Park Tae-ho, Park Ju-mi, Lee Chang-hyun, major stakeholders. In addition to its internal activities and sustainable management performance, K-water uses external environmental Director of Sustainability Team Leader Expert advisor Researcher Management Center analysis to introduce the importance of key issues. The importance evaluation starts based on the premise that issues with a large gap The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by Accountability, which established AA1000, the international standards between the levels of concern and performance from both internal and external perspectives are important. This is a new approach to for Stakeholder engagement and verification, and has qualifications to perform independent assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is also comprised of competent experts identifying key issues that are formed based on the DMA, such as their selection background, internal approach and key performance. It who have in-depth experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance and completed the relevant professional training. is, however, advised that plans for the future are included as a way to evaluate the approach to key issues. 82 83 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report GRI G4 INDEX General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures External External Aspect Indicator Contents of index Page Note Aspect Indicator Contents of index Page Note Verification Verification A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the Category: Economy Strategy and G4-1 organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability 4~5 √ analysis G4-DMA Generic DMA 40 √ G4-2 A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 12~13 √ G4-3 The name of the organization 8 √ G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 41 √ Direct G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 9 √ Economic Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters 8 √ Impacts G4-EC2 12~13 √ organization’s activities due to climate change The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization G4-6 has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. 8 √ G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 41 √ G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 8, 19 √ G4-8 the markets served including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries 8 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 40 √ Organizational G4-9 The scale of the organization 8 √ Indirect Development and impact of infrastructure investments and G4-EC7 41, 75 √ Profile G4-10 Report the total number of employee 59~60, 76~77 √ Economic services supported G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreement 78 √ Impacts Significant indirect economic impacts including the extent of G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 27 √ G4-EC8 41, 75 √ impacts Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its G4-13 supply chain No changes 2 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 54 √ Procurement G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 20~21 √ practices Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the G4-EC9 75 √ G4-15 organization subscribes or which it endorses 88 √ operation G4-16 List memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization 3 √ Category: Environment G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 2 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 47 √ The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. how the organization has implemented G4-18 the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content 24~25 √ Identified G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 49, 71 √ G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 25 √ Energy Material G4-EN6 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 39, 49, 71 √ Aspects and G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 25 √ Boundaries G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 25 √ G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 39, 49 √ G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 2 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 47 √ G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 2 √ G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 71 √ G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 22 √ G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 22 √ Non of the water sources Stakeholder Water significantly affected by G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 22~23 √ G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water √ Engagement withdrawal of water in Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that 26~27 √ Domestic Operation raised each of the key topics and concerns G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 71 √ G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 2 √ G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2014. 7 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 47 √ Biodiversity G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 √ G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 52~53, 73 √ Report Profile G4-31 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 89 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 47 √ G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 2 √ G4-33 The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 2 √ G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (Scope1) 50, 71 √ The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any G4-34 committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts 19 √ G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 2) 50, 71 √ G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees 19 √ Emission G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emission 50, 71 √ Governance G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 19 √ No emissions of OzoneReport the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the G4-EN20 Emissions of Ozone-depleting substances √ G4-40 criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body member 19 √ depleting substances G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of 19 √ G4-EN21 NOX, SOX,and other significant air emissions 71 √ significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of G4-DMA Generic DMA 47 G4-56 ethics. 55~58 √ Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related Effluents and G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 49, 71 √ Ethics and G4-57 55~58 √ to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Waste Integrity G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 72 √ Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, G4-58 and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing 55~58 √ mechanisms or hotlines. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills No significant spills √ 84 85 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report GRI G4 INDEX ISO 26000 Specific Standard Disclosures ISO 26000 is an international standard guideline on seven core topics about corporate social responsibility based on basic principles using External the method of integrating social responsibility throughout the organization with the recognition of social responsibility, identification, and Aspect Indicator Contents of index Page Note Verification participation of stakeholders. The following are reported contents of K-water about seven core topics of social responsibility. Category: Social Labor practices and decent work G4-DMA Generic DMA 54 √ Core topics Issues Page Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, G4-LA1 59, 76~77 √ Governance Decision making process and structure 19 gender and region Employment Benefits provided to full time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Duties with special attention 58, 63, 88 G4-LA2 62~63 √ employees, by significant locations of operation Threats to human rights 20~21, 88 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender 62~63 √ Avoidance to public participation 63~65, 88 G4-DMA Generic DMA 54 Occupational Health Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total Grievance settlement 78, 88 and Safety G4-LA6 78 √ Human rights number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Discrimination and disadvantaged group 75, 77, 88 G4-DMA Generic DMA 54 √ Civil political rights 88 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 61, 70 √ Training and Economic, social, and cultural rights 88 Program’s for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability Education G4-LA10 60~61 √ of employees and assist them in managing career endings Basic principles and rights in workplaces 59~63, 88 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by Employment and employment relationship 59~60, 77, 88 G4-LA11 60~61 √ gender and by employee category G4-DMA Generic DMA 54 √ Working condition and social protection 59~63, 78 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Labor practice Social conversation 59~63, 86~88 G4-LA12 63, 76~77 √ according to gen, age, group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Health and safety in workplace 78 G4-DMA Generic DMA 54 √ Equal Payment Human development and education in workplace 60~61, 70 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant G4-LA13 63 √ locations of operation Pollution prevention 47~53, 71~73, 88 Grievance Number of grievance about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Use of sustainable resources 47~51, 71~72, 88 G4-LA16 78 √ Mechanisms grievance mechanisms Environment Mitigation and adaptation to climate change 47~51, 71~73, 88 Category: Human rights Total hours of Employee Training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of Protection and restoration of natural environment 52~53, 73, 88 Investment G4-HR2 57 √ human rights Corruption prevention 55~58, 86 Category: Society Responsible political participation 88 G4-DMA Generic DMA 54 √ Fair operation custom Fair competition 64~66, 86 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 55~58 √ G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 57~58 √ Activation of social responsibility in value chain 64~66 Compliance with Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonRespect for property rights 86 G4-SO8 None √ Regulation compliance with laws and regulations Fair marketing, real and fair information and fair contract custom 87 Category: Product Responsibility Health and safety protection of customers 33~35, 87 G4-DMA Generic DMA 30 √ Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts Sustainable consumption 31~35 G4-PR1 31~35 √ Customer, Health are assessed for improvement Consumer issues Customer service, support, complaint and dispute solution 74, 87 and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning G4-PR2 the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of None √ Customer information protection and privacy 74 outcomes Access to mandatory services 31~39 G4-DMA Generic DMA 30 √ Customer citizen education and recognition 33~35 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s Procedures for product G4-PR3 and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service 31~35 √ Community Participation 75, 87 Product and Service categories subject to such information requirements Labeling Education and culture 60~61, 70, 87 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning G4-PR4 None √ Development of employment and function 60~61, 77, 87 product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Participation and G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 35, 74 √ Development and access to technology 65~66, 69, 87 development Customer Information G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of 74 √ Creation of wealth and profit 41~46, 68~69, 87 Protection customer data Health 63, 87 Compliance with Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning G4-PR9 None √ Regulation the provision and use of products and services Social investment 40, 75, 87 86 87 K-water 2015 Sustainability Report Code of Ethics, Green Management Policy, Customer Charter Statement, Innovation Vision Statement Code of Ethics Green Management Policy Customer Charter Statement Innovation Vision Statement K-water is a business of the people that contributes to the quality of We deeply recognize that this is a time that needs the best effort to K-water will make best efforts to practice customer-oriented We declare the following in order to provide clean and safe water to life of the citizens and the development of the country by developing, make sustainable development that harmonizes with environment management by approaching its customers based on the citizens, protect the lives and properties of citizens from water-related managing, and preserving water resources of Korea to be sustainable in order to create a clean and livable environment. Our company, management philosophy ‘The values of customers are our values.’ disasters, and to become the best water service organization through in environmental, economic, and social aspects and by providing the which handles water, the source of life, declares the policy of green continuous changes and innovations. best products and services. With this confidence and pride in this ‘21st management with the participation of all employees in order to We will provide water and territory of best quality that customers can century period of water,’ we promise the following to become a global become an eco-friendly business that receives the trust and love of trust in a stable manner. We place customer-satisfaction management first in everything we professional water business. citizens by developing and managing water resources in eco-friendly do, we ensure customer-oriented values are embedded in our values, ways. We will provide information and services for the safety and ownership our code of conduct, and systems. We accomplish our missions through creative thinking and challenges protection of customers even before customers request them. and make efforts to actualize transparent management by processing We proactively involve ourselves in protecting clean water, air and the In order to become a trusted public enterprise, we process tasks in an tasks with honest and fair attitude. protection of the environment. We will always be open to the advice and suggestions of customers, honest and fair manner without violating conscience, common sense, regularly accept opinions, and use them for improvement of customer or the law, and actively participate in social contribution activities in We recognize that the Earth is a precious heritage for our offspring We take the responsibilities and duties of preventing natural pollution, services. order to be together with the local community. and is a healthy and clean shelter of life and practice eco-friendly promptly addressing natural pollution that occur from business management. activities, and always keeping in mind that these kinds of practices are We will perform our tasks without any discrimination to any With confidence and passion that do not fear change, we will secure the foundations of our business ethics. customers and will secure the profit of customers to the maximum by global-level competency to accomplish the vision and establish a We provide the best products and services to customers and seeking the most efficient management. continuous and stable foundation for growth. actualizes consumer-oriented policy through customer satisfaction We secure a healthy consumption culture of saving and reusing and management of new value creation. resources and energy, and seriously consider at all times so that we We promise that we will set the best service performance standards We recognize the importance of nature for health, life, and sustainable will not destroy the environment through inattention. that K-water can provide and practice them in order to realize ideal growth of future generations and make efforts in order to preserve As a part of the local community, we respect the tradition and the goals on the side of customers. this. culture of the community and enriches the lives of local residents by We reflect the opinions of the citizens as best we can in making plans contributing to the development of the local community. that relate to the environment, and we disclose information and By putting this declaration into action, we focus all of our capabilities materials so that we will increase the trust on the organization as well to make K-water a business that does its job well, a business that has We comply with ethical/legal values, respect market order of free as the transparency of the task. competitiveness, and a business that is loved by the citizens. competition, and seek realization of fair competition. We fully take responsibility of our obligations to prevent We comply with ethical/legal values, respect market order of free environmental damages. If and when environmental damage occurrs, competition, and seek realization of fair competition. we place utmost effort to resolve the damage. We respect each personality of all people without discrimination, and We provide continuous environmental education, so that our activities respect characters and creativity. reflect our code of ethics and we make our best efforts for research development of conserving and improving the environment. * ‌Please refer to the ethics management section in the website for details about our principles of ethics and principles of employee behavior. All employees of K-water practice this declaration so that all of our future generations will enjoy prosperity in a clean environment. 88 89 K-water 2015 지속가능경영보고서 UN Global Compact 10 Principles Support The principles of Global Compact are based on the following international agreements. •The Universal Declaration of Human Rights •The International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work •The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development •The United Nations Convention Against Corruption The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Labor Standards Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Environment Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. You can download this report in PDF format from Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and K-water’s website. Anti-Corruption bribery. Please contact us with the following contact information if you want more detailed information about sustainable management activities of K-water. Thank you for your support on our sustainable business practices. K-water practices and complies to the ten principles of UN Global Compact. Contact Information K-water CEO Choi, Gye Woon Management Services Innovation Team, K-water Shintanjin-Ro 200, Daedeok-Gu, Daejeon 34350, Republic of Korea TEL. 82-42-629-2356~8 / Fax. 82-42-629-2399 E-mail : sustainability ＠ kwater.or.kr Web-site : english.kwater.or.kr
