IKEA Group Sustainability Report FY14 Contents 0 2 CONTENTS 0 3 IN T RODUC T ION 0 4. A B O U T T HE IK E A G RO UP 06. A MESSAGE FROM PE TER 0 7. A M E S S A G E F R O M S T E V E 08. THE YE AR IN BR IEF PAGE 11 Read about how 0 9. T H E I K E A P E O P L E & P L A N E T P O S I T I V E S T R AT E G Y we are inspiring and enabling people to live a more sustainable 1 1 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E life at home. 13. PRODUC T S A ND SOLU T IONS 19. E N G A G I N G C U S T O M E R S 21. C O -WO R K E R E N G AG E ME N T PA G E 7 9 2 3 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Learn about how we work with 43 our suppliers to maintain high 25. R ESP ONSIBL E SOURCING standards for workers and the 3 7. M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E P R O D U C T S environment. 4 3 . M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E B U I L D I N G S A N D T R A N S P O R T 6 2 . E N E R G Y A N D W AT E R I N O U R S U P P LY C H A I N PA G E 10 7 The complete overview of progress See how we are transforming our 7 0 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES towards the goals in our People & business by investing in renewable energy, reducing waste and cutting 7 3 . A B E T T E R E V E R Y D AY L I F E AT W O R K Planet Positive strategy. energy use and CO2 in our supply 7 9. B E T T E R L I V E S F O R W O R K E R S chain. 88. SUPP ORT ING HUMAN R IGH T S 92. L A S T ING C H A NG ES FOR COMMUNI T IES 9 6 GOVER NANC E AND E T HIC S 9 7. H O W W E W O R K PA G E 9 2 9 8 . S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y G O V E R N A N C E A N D M A N A G E M E N T 10 2 . B U S I N E S S E T H I C S Find out how the IKEA Foundation creates lasting change for millions 10 2 . P U B L I C P O L I C Y of children in the world’s poorest 10 5 . A B O U T O U R R E P O R T I N G communities. 1 0 7 P E R F O R M A N C E A G A I N S T TA R G E T S CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > About the IKE A Group > A message from Peter > A message from Steve > The year in brief > People & Planet Positive Strategy 0 3 Introduction At IKEA, sustainability is central to our business. Over seven decades, our company has grown from small beginnings in the woods of southern Sweden to being a major global retailer. But the influence of our Småland origins remains strong – a region where the people have a reputation for working hard, being innovative and making the best use of their limited resources. In this report, you’ll read about how we’re building on many years of working with social and environmental issues to ensure we have a positive impact on people and the planet. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > About the IKE A Group > A message from Peter > A message from Steve > The year in brief > People & Planet Positive Strategy 0 4 IN T RODUC T ION 716 million Store visits About the IKEA Group In FY14, IKEA Group store visits increased 4.7% over FY13. The IKEA Group has operations in 42 countries 270 million visits to our 14 Shopping As of 31 August 2014, we had a total of Centres in Russia. 315 stores in 27 countries; 27 Trading 315 Service Offices in 23 countries; 34 Distribution Centres and 13 Customer Distribution Centres in 17 countries; IKEA Group stores 1.5 billion 44 IKEA Industry production units in In FY14, the IKEA Group opened 12 Visits to IKEA.com 11 countries. In total, we have 1,002 new stores in 10 countries. As of IKEA.com had more than 1.5 suppliers, including external suppliers. August 31, 2014, the IKEA Group billion visits during FY14, up had 315 stores in 27 countries. 15% from FY13. FY04 FY13 FY14 €28.7 billion Total sales FY14 179 303 315 Number of IKEA Group stores Total sales increased by 5.9% in local currencies to €28.7 billion. Translated into Euros, sales 1,002 Suppliers1 In FY14, the IKEA Group had increased by 3.0%. 1,002 home furnishing suppliers in 51 countries. FY04 FY13 FY14 12.8 27.9 28.7 Billions of Euros 147,000 Total co-workers Europe: 114,000; Americas: 19,000; Asia & Australia: 14,000; Russia (included in Europe total): 12,000. 1 Includes IKEA Industry which accounts 76% 41% for 12% of the total production with 44 production units in 11 countries. 2More Wood from more sustainable sources for cotton are: Cotton from more sustainable sources 3 Better Cotton, cotton grown to other sustainable sources 2 sustainability standards in the US and We’re on track to reach 50% cotton from farmers working towards More sustainable cotton production by 2017. This is in addition the Better Cotton Initiative standards. uses less water, chemical fertilisers to the requirement that all 3 More sustainable sources for wood are: and pesticides, while increasing suppliers meet our IWAY Forest Stewardship Council® certified profit margins for farmers or recycled. Forestry Standard. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > About the IKE A Group > A message from Peter > A message from Steve > The year in brief > People & Planet Positive Strategy 0 5 IN T RODUC T ION 100% Forest Stewardship Council certified paper ™ 75% The IKEA Catalogue is now the largest print production ever to be printed on of all lighting 100% FSC™ certified paper. 217 million products sold in copies of the IKEA catalogue were FY14 were LED or printed in 32 languages. LED compatible. IKEA Industry 46 million app visits IKEA Industry manufactures wood-based furniture and boards. It’s part of the The IKEA catalogue app was IKEA Group and its role is to develop and opened 46 million times. manage production capacities. In total, IKEA Industry has 20,100 co-workers in 44 production units located at 36 sites in 11 countries. €104 million Donated by IKEA Foundation The IKEA Foundation donates to projects €1.46 billion that work to protect children from child IKEA Food turnover labour, provide a better life for refugee IKEA Food is comprised of the children, and empower girls and women. IKEA Restaurant, IKEA Bistro, 100 million children will benefit from IKEA Swedish Food Market and current IKEA Foundation-funded the IKEA co-worker restaurant. programmes by FY15. 224 Wind turbines We have now committed to own and operate 224 wind turbines around the world, up from 137 in FY13. And there are 700,000 solar panels installed on our buildings worldwide. 9,500 products The IKEA range consists of about 9,500 products. Every year we renew our range, launching about 2,000 new products. We have 15 in-house designers and 75 external designers via contracts. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > About the IKE A Group > A message from Peter > A message from Steve > The year in brief > People & Planet Positive Strategy 0 6 IN T RODUC T ION A message from Peter IKEA is about creating a better everyday must be well designed, functional, good quality life for the many people. That’s our mission and be affordable for the many, not a luxury and starting point. Last year we had about for the few. 716 million visits to our stores. While that We are guided by the principle of ‘demomight sound like a lot, with over seven billion cratic design’, which incorporates these four people on the planet, most people have not elements along with sustainability. It has to be had the opportunity to visit IKEA. about better, affordable products that improve If we are to continue to grow and be people’s everyday lives, for example home successful in the long term, it is essential solar systems that can enable a family in the that we work within the limits of the planet. UK to cut their electricity bill by half. This is why sustainability is an integral part We want to make IKEA completely sustainof our business strategy. We have decided able which is why we go all-in with 100% that rather than simply reducing the harmtargets, for example for LED lighting in our ful impact of our business, we will go further. range, key raw materials and renewable We want to make a positive difference for energy. When you go all-in, it creates transforour customers, co-workers, suppliers and the mational change. planet. I’m very proud of our People & Planet Some may find going all-in a little bit scary Positive strategy. The thinking around it is well at first, but the scale of the challenges facing anchored in everything we do, whether it’s society demands bold action. When I particideveloping products, selecting materials or pated in the People’s Climate March in New planning our investments. And great things York in September, it was clear that action is are happening as a consequence. what the many people want from businesses While we have achieved a lot, we still have and government leaders. It was powerful to a long way to go. As we move forward we will see so many different people come together – share our plans, successes and challenges. parents, kids, grandparents, business leaders, And by collaborating with other businesses actors and politicians. People are asking and organisations, we can learn from one all leaders to demonstrate real action and another and have a greater impact. move forward. We know that our customers want to live That’s why companies have a very important more sustainably at home and this is an area role to play. We are determined to grow our where we can make a significant difference. business by becoming people and planet posiWe also know that people won’t accept comtive, and always acting in a responsible way. promise, which is why ‘sustainable’ products Peter Agnefjäll President and CEO, IKEA Group CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > About the IKE A Group > A message from Peter > A message from Steve > The year in brief > People & Planet Positive Strategy 0 7 IN T RODUC T ION A message from Steve Many challenges shape society and the We have made huge savings in energy, for world of business today. More and more instance by transforming the way we light our people are lifted out of poverty yet many stores, using LED which is the next best thing people remain extremely poor. Our large to daylight – the bulbs are up to 85% more global population and growing economy efficient than conventional lighting. As part demands more natural resources, like timber, of People & Planet Positive we decided that by cotton and water. And, of course, we can September 2015, LED will be the only kind of see very real impacts as climate change lighting we will sell. We have worked hard to goes from a future threat to today’s reality. reduce the price of LEDs and make great qualBut where there are challenges there are ity, long lasting lights affordable. LEDs last for also great opportunities, and at IKEA we can up to 20 years, and last year we sold many milcontribute to a more sustainable world. lions of years’ worth of light! We know that to I am co-responsible for sustainability at the make sustainability accessible for many people, IKEA Group with 147,000 co-workers in 42 it has to be affordable and attractive – it has to countries. At IKEA we always do our jobs be about better products and smarter choices. knowing that we can achieve great things We want to be energy independent and have when many people work together and so far committed to own and operate 224 wind we only make progress with everyone’s turbines and have installed 700,000 solar pancontribution. els on our buildings. These are helping us meet I believe our sustainability strategy – our goal to generate from renewable sources People & Planet Positive – is solid and well– as much energy as all the energy we use. tested; it lays out our plans and goals, and We also want to make renewable energy more it is well understood by our business leaders available for home-owners and, in partnerthroughout the company. Working in collaship with the energy company Hanergy, we’ve boration, we have taken sustainability from a started selling affordable solar panels in some topic that some people worked on to the focus markets, so that our customers can have their of the many. own energy production. Our supplier code of conduct, called IWAY, The world is in the middle of a clean revoluis an important example of how sustainability tion and I’m convinced any challenge we face is integrated into the way we work. It is a can be solved with the solutions we have core part of business relationships with our today. But to be successful, businesses like partners and we only work with home furnishours need to ‘go all-in’ on sustainability, and ing suppliers that are approved according to fully embrace the innovation and reinvention it IWAY. We are now expanding IWAY beyond entails. Sustainability is no longer about being our direct product suppliers and further into incrementally less bad, but it is about transthe supply chain. formational change and making business fit for the 21st century. Steve Howard Chief Sustainability Officer, IKEA Group CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > About the IKE A Group > A message from Peter > A message from Steve > The year in brief > People & Planet Positive Strategy 0 8 IN T RODUC T ION 41% of wood from The year more sustainable in brief sources We’re one of the world’s largest buyers of FSC certified wood in €66 the retail sector. In FY14, 41% of the wood we used was from more million saved sustainable sources (FSC certified or through energy efficiency efforts in recycled). All suppliers must meet our stores and warehouses since FY10. our IWAY Forestry Standard. Over ¾ of cotton 100% IWAY approved EUR 104 million from more sustainAll home furnishing suppliers IWAY donated by the able sources approved, being phased out or pending a scheduled audit. IKEA Foundation This funded projects supporting millions We invested EUR1.34 million in of children and refugees in some of the projects to help 110,000 farmers world’s poorest communities. improve their incomes and produce cotton using less water and chemicals. 100% FSC certified catalogue Generated renewable Halved the price of one of energy equivalent to 42% our most popular LEDARE of the total energy used bulbs (the 40W equivalent) 58% We’ve installed 700,000 solar panels We’re making energy efficient LED on our buildings, and committed to The IKEA catalogue is now the largest lighting more affordable, enabling own and operate 224 wind turbines. print production ever to be printed many more people to live more susBy 2020, we will generate – from on 100% Forest Stewardship Council tainably and reduce their electricity increase in sales of products that renewable sources as much energy certified paper (FSC Mix Credit) and to bills. 3⁄4 of all the lighting products contribute to a more sustainable life as we use. carry the FSC logo. sold in FY14 were LED or compatible at home, compared with FY13. with LED bulbs. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > About the IKE A Group > A message from Peter > A message from Steve > The year in brief > People & Planet Positive Strategy 0 9 IN T RODUC T ION munities where we source materiWe measure the success of People & als and using resources within the Planet Positive with a number of targets, limits of the planet. Produce as which are discussed throughout the rePeople & Planet much renewable energy as the enport. Our key performance indicators are Positive strategy ergy we consume and drive energy defined on page 10 and give a snapshot efficiency throughout our value chain. of the progress we are making towards See page 23. our goals. 3 Take a lead in creating a better life for the people and communities The IKEA journey impacted by our business. Extend Our vision is to create a better everyour supplier Code of Conduct throughout day life for the many people. Our longour value chain; be a good neighbour, term strategic direction, Growing IKEA support human rights and act in the best Together, outlines our aim to create a interest of children. See page 70. better IKEA, and to be the leader in life at home with long-term growth and profIn FY14, we updated our People & Planitability. Sustainability is one of the four et Positive strategy to strengthen our cornerstones of our Group strategy, and commitments and challenge ourselves working together is an essential part of even further. For more information this. We have already achieved a lot, but about how and why we have made these we have big challenges ahead, and meetchanges, see page 100. ing these would not be possible alone. To be the leader in life at home OBJECTIVES Growth and long-term profitability A better IKEA We want our business to have a posi1 Inspire and enable millions of custive impact on the world. For many years tomers to live a more sustainable 1 2 PEOPLE we have been focused on economising with life at home. Take the lead in develop...through developing all co-workers, strengthening our culture and making IKEA a great place to work resources and helping to create a better ing and promoting products and soluGROWING CORNERSTONES everyday life for the many people; and a tions that enable customers to save or better life includes living more sustainably. generate energy, reduce or sort waste, IKEA 3 SUSTAINABILITY ...through becoming “people and planet positive” ...through offering better products and always acting in a responsible way We have done a lot over the years but with use less or recycle water: at the lowest at lower prices, developing a more our People & Planet Positive strategy we possible price. See page 11. vital IKEA and becoming more accesible 4 LOWER COSTS are taking the next big step and are going 2 Strive for resource and energy to the many people ...through lowering our overall cost structure and simplifying the way we work to do even more. Our strategy focuses on independence. Securing long-term three areas: access to sustainable raw materials, having a positive impact on the comGOALS CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > About the IKE A Group > A message from Peter > A message from Steve > The year in brief > People & Planet Positive Strategy 1 0 IN T RODUC T ION PEOPLE & PLANET POSITIVE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FY13 FY14 GOAL Enabling change We collaborate with customers Share of IKEA co-workers that agree with the statement that 70% 79% 95% by FY17 to develop solutions that work ‘sustainability is a natural part of my everyday work’ best for them, and their homes Share of co-workers that view IKEA as a company that takes social and 82% 1 83%2 95% by FY17 are the starting place for all environmental responsibility of our product development. Share of suppliers that view IKEA as a company that takes social and 89% NA3 95% by FY17 environmental responsibility Share of customers that view IKEA as a company that takes social and 41%4 41%5 70% by FY15 environmental responsibility The average length of our supplier relationships is currently 11 years, and A more sustainable life at home together we discover new ways of workSales value of products classified as ‘more sustainable life at home’ products EUR 641 EUR 1,015 EUR 2,600 ing that make IKEA and their companies million million million by FY20 more sustainable. The success of IKEA Resource and energy independence depends on the contribution of every Share of wood used in IKEA products from more sustainable sources 6 32% 41% 50% by FY17 co-worker and it’s up to all of us to take Share of cotton used in IKEA products from more sustainable sources 7 72% 76% 100% by FY15 responsibility. Lastly, we collaborate on Renewable energy produced as share of total energy consumption 37% 42% 70% by FY15, a wide range of social and environmen100% by FY20 tal issues with governments, NGOs and Home furnishing materials, including packaging, made from renewable, recyclable 98% 98% 100% by FY15 other organisations. (in at least one IKEA market on an industrial scale) or recycled materials Share of waste from stores and other IKEA operations sorted for recycling 8 88%9 89% 90% by FY15 Share of the total sales value coming from home furnishing products 39% 52% 90% by FY20 classified as ‘more sustainable’ (using our product scorecard) Reduction in carbon emissions from our own operations (compared with 19% 24% 50% by FY15 FY10 baseline and relative to sales) Reduction in relative carbon emissions from 0%10 11.4% 20% by FY15 our tier 1 HF suppliers compared to FY12 (%) A better life for people and communities Share of home furnishing suppliers that are IWAY approved 11 99% 98.6% 100% by FY12 and maintained thereafter Share of suppliers (within the IWAY scope) that are IWAY approved 68% 92% 100% by FY15 Share of tier 2 home furnishing sub-suppliers identified as providing 20% 91% 100% by FY17 critical materials and processes and compliant with IWAY Musts 1 FY13 Data based on 82,488 participants of our VOICE survey. Not directly comparable with FY12 as different parts of IKEA participate in VOICE each year. 2 FY14 Data based on 87,644 participants of our VOICE survey. Not directly comparable with FY13 as different parts of IKEA participate in VOICE each year 3 This data is collected every second year. 4 FY13 Based Read the full strategy: on response to Brand Capital survey. Calculated as average between two questions “IKEA takes responsibility for the environment” and “IKEA takes responsibility for the community” 5 FY14 Based on response to new question in Brand Capital survey. IKEA “is committed to operating in a way that is better for society and the environment” 6 More sustainable sources for People & Planet Positive wood are: Forest Stewardship Council certified or recycled 7 More sustainable sources for cotton are: Better Cotton, cotton grown to other sustainability standards in the USA and cotton from farmers working towards the Better Cotton Initiative standards. 8 Excludes waste wood used for energy recovery or reused in products. 9 Figures restated from FY13 due to changes in the methodology used in Division Board, and the integration of Division Board and Divisions Flatline and Solid wood (formerly Swedspan and Swedwood). 10 Restated from FY13 (-0.01) IKEA Group Sustainability due to fine-tuning of calculations 11 Data for home furnishing suppliers includes IKEA Industry factories. Excludes new suppliers that have up to 12 months to be approved. Suppliers where a non-compliance has been identified and are within the 90-day period allowed to correct the non-compliance are categorised as approved. Suppliers pending a scheduled audit are Strategy for 2020 categorised as approved (applies to 0.5% of the total in FY14). In FY14, the remaining 1.4% applies to suppliers being phased out. In China we are working with suppliers to reduce working hours to comply with working hour limits. As an interim step, suppliers can become IWAY approved if working hours do not exceed 60 hours a week including overtime. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > About the IKE A Group > A message from Peter > A message from Steve > The year in brief > People & Planet Positive Strategy 1 1 A more sustainable life at home We are in a unique position to enable millions of people to live a more sustainable life at home. This is a responsibility we take seriously – we are encouraging our customers to save and generate energy, use less water, reduce waste and live healthy lives. Small changes made by each of the 716 million visitors to our stores will make a big difference to the planet. By the end of FY20, our goal is to increase by four times the sales of products and solutions for a more sustainable life at home, compared with our baseline of EUR 641 million sold in FY13. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement 1 2 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E SAVING WATER SAVES HALF THE WATER2 SAVING ENERGY ENASTÅENDE DISHWASHER SAVES 9/10 THE 1 WATER 50% 3 ENERGY SAVING REDUCTION IN ENERGY INDUCTION HOBS 716 million EACH LED BULB SAVES €160 4 people visit our stores every year, COMPARED TO finding products and ideas that inspire INCANDESCENT a more sustainable life at home. BULBS Many small changes add up to make a big difference for the planet and to people’s wallets. REDUCING WASTE €500 WORTH OF FOOD IS THROWN AWAY BY EACH HOUSEHOLD EVERY YEAR5 Space-saving solutions Food storage containers help cut food waste, make recycling easy. saving money on food bills. 1 Our ENASTÅENDE dishwasher uses 10 litres of water compared to 120 litres needed to wash-up using a running tap without an aerator. 2All our taps use an aerator that reduces water flow by up to 50% (compared with the EU standard) while maintaining water pressure. 3Our energy consuming products are on average 50% more efficient than our range was in 2008. 4Over the life of a bulb at average EU electricity costs. 5Based on UK and Netherlands data (WRAP/Zero Waste Europe). CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement 1 3 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E PEOPLE & PL ANET P E R F O R M A N C E i n F Y 14 P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S Products and Take the lead in developing and promoting In FY14, sales from products for a more solutions products and solutions that inspire and enable people to live a more sustainable sustainable life at home were EUR 1,015 million, compared with EUR 641 million life at home, and achieve more than a in FY13. In FY13, we allocated EUR 20 fourfold increase in sales by August 2020, million for the development of products compared to FY13. for a more sustainable life at home across a five-year period. Our energy-consuming products will be, Energy-consuming products are on averon average, at least 50% more efficient age 50% more efficient than our range in than our range was in 2008 by August 2015. 2008. By September 2017, offer the most This score reflects our progress on energy energy-efficient home appliances at the efficiency. There are some uncertainties in lowest price. our calculation methodology, and we are reviewing this so that we can implement a new approach from FY15. By September 2016, all our electric hobs 55% of the electric hobs in our range are will be energy-efficient induction hobs. now induction hobs. By September 2015, our entire lighting In FY14, 75% of all lighting products sold range will switch to LED offered at the were LED or were compatible with LED lowest price. bulbs (e.g. lamps which customers can use with an LED bulb). PEOPLE & PL ANET NEW targets P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S Offer leading water and energy saving solutions in our range of taps, showers, sink accessories and dishwashers by September 2016 – all at the lowest possible price. Take action in more sustainable food by enabling and encouraging a more balanced diet. Our customers want to live more suscustomers in the following areas: tainably at home and our research shows • Energy management – including saving, they want IKEA’s support.* We believe that home generation, and using energy more We have added healthy living to the list Where to go for they should not have to spend more money efficiently because we want to play our part in prosustainable living or time doing so. We create products that • Water management – including saving moting and enabling healthy diets, growing We are improving our products to offer combine form, quality, function and affordand reuse your own food and encouraging movement even more savings on energy, water and ability with sustainability benefits. We call • Waste management – including reducing in your everyday tasks. Read more about waste, and options for healthy living. We this ‘democratic design’. Our solutions for food waste, recycling and reusing how we source the food in our stores and have introduced new ways for our cusa more sustainable life at home benefit our • Healthy living. restaurants on page 34. tomers to live more sustainably, including * From IKEA research: Over 70% of consumers surveyed care about sustainability. They want to live sustainably and would welcome IKEA playing an active role to support them. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement 1 4 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E ENERGY-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS FY13 FY14 We want to make it easier for our % of all lighting products which were LED or 51 75 customers to live active and healthy were compatible with LED bulbs lives. Here are two examples: % of electric hobs available in range that are 43 55 induction hobs solar panels purchased and installed in Energy collaboration with Hanergy and electric Managing energy use to reduce greenbikes, and we are working with our cushouse gas emissions plays a really importomers to develop ideas for eating, living, tant part in living more sustainably. Every sleeping and working more sustainably – action helps, whether it is changing a light see page 19. bulb or installing solar panels on the roof. We measure sales of products that We are reducing the amount of enenable people to live more sustainably at ergy our electrical products use, including home. This enables us to improve customer information and track progress towards our target to increase sales of these products. In FY14, products classified as ‘more S A L E S VA L U E O F sustainable life at home’ products had a PRODUC T S CL A SSIF IED combined sales value of EUR 1,015 million, A S “ M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E ” P R O D U C T S compared with EUR 641 million in FY13. (m i l l i o n E U R) Promoting This rise is due in part to the increase in the number of products classified as enahealthy living bling people to live a more sustainable life at home. It is also due to focus in our retail EXERCISING ON THE MOVE E AT H E A LT H Y organisation on communicating and marketing these products to customers. Sales The FOLKVÄNLIG rechargeable We are combining healthy food options of products classified as ‘more sustainable electric bicycle is on sale at some in stores with products that enable stores in Sweden and Austria. These our customers to grow their own food life at home’ products grew at more than battery-assisted bikes are ideal at home. For example, our ÄPPLARÖ the average across our whole range. for covering great distances with storage benches and wall panels make AUG 2,564 Sustainability is integral to our product 2020 less effort than a normal bike gardening possible in a small space, design, alongside form, function, quality GOAL and they are emissions-free! allowing our green-fingered customers to plant and grow their own herbs and low price. These are all important to FY14 1,015 and plants. us, and we do not compromise on any. We FY13 641 call this ‘democratic design’. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement 1 5 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E lighting, televisions and appliances such as hobs, fridges, ovens and dishwashers. For What will the kitchen example, our new VÄLGJORD dishwasher is A++ rated for energy efficiency. It saves of the future look like both energy and water by washing up to 15 place settings at once using only 7.5 Society never stands still, always They produced conceptual ideas litres of water. evolving new ways of living. We want based on sustainable behaviour to understand how sustainable living in the kitchen of the future, encourFrom more efficient pots and pans might change so that we can conaging life around food through a to insulating window coverings, here are tinue to provide relevant products multi-functional, adaptive space: some examples of our products that save and solutions. That’s why we wanted equally suited to cooking, working to explore what the kitchen of the and socialising. energy indirectly: future could look like. We are now developing protoOur SENSUELL cookware works on all We worked with the people who types. We will show these in Milan hob types and retains heat really well, usmight have the answer – students at during the spring and summer of ing less energy to6 cook a delicious dinner. Lund University in Sweden and Eind2015, coinciding with the Design hoven University in the Netherlands. Week and the World Expo 2015. In FY14, 55% of the electric hobs in our 6 range were induction models, compared project mässa with 43% in FY13. The great thing about induction technology is that energy is hen project mässa Defining We’ll ne transferred ed the kitcdirectly to pans and pots, so We want our customers a ry. project mässa tu Behaviors ing r sa nc of 2025 ou Behaviors We’ll be wasturces. to b e less heat is wasted. to be able to generate their far less reso of 2025 Phase 1 hen 6 d the kitc a Several of our taps, including our new own power at home. project mäss We’ll nee sanctuary. he future at ing more time finintg We’ll be spend Behaviors kitchen is where to be our home, and the DANNSKÄR mixer tap, feature a ‘cold start’ most active, of 2025 we will be at our ssive. We will y conception of social and expre in the The 20th centur prepare, cook and eat y as seemingly will also do work water and energ kitchen. But we will have come energy-saving design. It automatically infinite resources than we do now. there far more tant to a close. the most impor And it will be for families to project mässa expensive, room in the house Food will be more get togeth er sociall y. time at cuts of meat, ding more releases only cold water when the lever is especially prime We’ll be spen the kitchen is where which will chang project mässa e our cooking Our solar panel purchase and installaWe’ll be wasting home, and active, . and storing habits Behaviors at our most future we will be We will of 2025 expressive. We’ll need the kitch social and the and eat in far less resources. Behaviors lifted straight up, without the need to turn tion service in collaboration with Hanergy are, cook prep do work to be our sanctuary.en of 2025 we will also kitchen. But we do now . more than there far important 6 be the most project mässa And it will families to house for the tap totethe cold position. This uses 30% in the We’ll navigawith helps our customers save up to 50% on room socially. get together project mässa Behaviors ng more gy water over time compared to taps of 2025 We’ll be doi . nolohot The 20th century conceptio techless n of their energy bills – see page 17. water and energy as seemingly r senses. infinite resources will have Behaviors We’ll be spending more come time at a ce all ou to a close. of 2025 in less sp home, and the kitchen is where we will be at our most active, ining a without a cold start function and saves the At the end of FY14, our energy-conproject mäss Food will be more expensive social and expressive. igate , We will especially prime cuts of We’ll navgy with 6 meat, prepare, cook and eat in the which will change our cooking kitchen. But we will also do work s will be and storing habits. there far more than we Even simple device s Behaviors do now. CPUs and sensor equipped with energy used to heat it. suming products are on average 50% And it will be the most o lo of 2025 important networked. techn and will all be terviews, We’ll room in the house for families and project mässa project mässa to in be quantified nses. get together socially. us will be living Everything will The majority of information than all our se in r, have more will be smalle g we’ll We’ll n cities. Households to do with. So c ti we know what u be wasting need the kitchen of urban d cost The HOPPVALS window blind helps more efficient than our range in 2008. This sing logy will be the n and the increa c o Behaviors Behaviors us to live in the best techno After of 2025 of 2025 prope rty will force it will invisibly s. We’ll be workin g most unobtrusive: communicating nd smaller space improve our lives, far less resources. to be our sanctuary. are more than we rtsmo project mässa from home far sound, smell oing with through touch, future in often doing so bep will be We’llre le devices do now: most insulate rooms against heat loss, offering indicates that we are on track, and we have studying treinndless nspth Even simp and sensors will need to as well as sight. with CPUs the kitchen, Rooms project mässa equipped d. al and quickly be networke be multifunction do Behaviors and will all tified and change with our will be quan adaptable, to of 2025 Everything mation than ace.sised the day. We’ll navigate more infor needs throughout a potential 22% energy saving.* reached our goal a year early, although we’ll have e Behaviors t to do with. So of 2025 we know wha sy the gy will be , we tech nolo The 20th century conception of We’ll be spending more time at the best invisibly tec du literasttuinre hnology with trusive: it will cting interviews, most unob unicating water and energy as seemingly home, and the kitchen is where n project mässa we synthesised ed the kitche all our senses. lives, comm improve our sound, smel l infinite resources will have come we will be at our most active, We are working on a range of feauncertainties in the calculation methodole gh touch, We’ll neth with throu to a close. social and expressive. We will hobw sight . as well as ion of to prepare, cook and eat inmässa the a ry . project mässa project tu Behavio rs nc Food will be more expensive, kitchen. But we will also do work ces.vis g e our sa ally rend reports and of 2025 tuurre Theprime majority We’ll habitu cuts of of us wa especially meat, will be living in there far more than we do now. We’ll befu tures to enable more effective use of ogy mean that this figure is an estimation. cities. far lea which will Household change s will be smaller, our cooking And it will be the most important n d and habits. a the increasing cost of urban , and storing room in Even the house simple familieswill fordevices to be 5 Behavio rs Behaviors in 202 stant property will force us to ss reso live in get together equipped of 2025socially. in of 2025 with CPUs and sensors er world will look behaviours d smaller spaces. We’ll be or working and will all be networked . energy around the home. For example, Improvements in the energy efficiency of from home far more than Everything will be quantified y. we home deliver do now: most often doing and so in we’ll have more informatio n than wlohie the kitchen, Rooms will we know what to do with. need to So be multifunctional and at quickly ing more time the best technology will adaptable, to change with We’ll be spend be the whicbehdoing more kitchen is where we are launching energy management lighting products remain the main reason most unobtrusive: it will our home, and the invisibly needs throughout the day. most active, cruicially, We’ll improve our lives, communic sion of how the project mässa we will be at our project mässa ating ssive. We will with through touch, sound, we know it will have y conception of social and expre ing assmell The 20th centur and eat in the as well as sight. Shopp ed. We will y as seemingly prepare, cook dramatically chang g and water and energ will also do work We’ll navigate meters in Sweden in FY15 and plan to for this increase see feature on page 16. will have come kitchen. But we go to shops for learnin than we do now. t. infinite resources our ordering will n Behaviors Behaviors there far more le inspiration, but a tant in v of 2025 of 2025 to a close. the most impor ated re And it will be lly and autom p be done digita will be We’ll habitually for families to ok in 2025, and less space. s will have items technology with expensive, project mässa room in the house trucks and drone Food will be more er sociall y. homes whene ver delivered to our expand sales to other locations. cuts of meat, get togeth especially prime e our cooking within minutes. all our senses. which will chang . Behaviors and storing habits of 2025 ucting interviews, ch beha viours ord er The majority of us will be living in home delivery. cities. Households will be smaller, and the increasing cost of urban ins tan t project mässa Even simple devices will be equipped with CPUs and sensors and will all be networked. v end alen reports t. and We’ll navigawith te property will force us to live in Everything will be quantified and smaller spaces. We’ll be working Compared to a window with no curtain. we’ll have more information than * project mässa from home far more than we Behaviors e we know what to do with. So m or gy of 2025 ng lo do Shopping now: mostas often doing itsowill in the best technology will be the oi no we know d ch have We’ll b e te thedramatica kitchen, Rooms will need lly changed. Wetowill most unobtrusive: it will invisibly we synthesised es. bego to shops for learning multifunctional and quicklyand improve our lives, communicating sens Behaviors ss space. all ourLIFE of 2025 inspiration adaptable, to, but change with our our ordering with through touch, sound, smell will in>leINTRODUCTION be done needs throughout digitallythe day. and automated as well as sight. trucks and drones will have CONTENTS > A MORE SUSTAINABLE delivered to our homes within minutes. items whenever AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS ion of how the > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement Even simple device equipped with s will be CPUs and sensor s networked. and will all be and project mässa be quantified us will be living in Everything will The majority of r, information than will be smalle we’ll have more cities. Households to do with. So g cost of urban we know what 1 6 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E Encouraging the switch to LED lighting Using less energy reduces greenAMOUN T OF ENERG Y NEEDED house gas emissions. It also saves TO PRODUCE 400L M1 our customers money on their energy bills. We focus on reducing costs so that more people can afford energy-efficient products. For exam40W ple, our LEDARE LED light bulbs use 85% less energy and last 20 times longer than incandescent bulbs. In FY14, we halved the price of one of our most popular LED bulbs (the 40W equivalent), which contributed to many more customers investing in these energy-efficient light sources. We launched nine new LED bulbs and about 25 new LED products in FY14. 8.5W 6.3W In FY08, 25% of the bulbs we Through the Brighter Lives for renewable energy and primary educasold were low energy and 75% were Refugees project (see page 94), the tion in refugee camps across Africa, halogen and incandescent. This IKEA Foundation donated EUR 1 to the Asia and the Middle East. In its first trend has now reversed: 68% of the Old incan2011 LEDARE 2014 LEDARE UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) for every year, this campaign raised EUR 7.7 bulbs sold in FY14 were low energy descent LED LED LEDARE light bulb sold in February and million for UNHCR, while encouraging and LED, and 75% of all lighting March 2014 – providing sustainable more people to adopt energy-efficient products sold in FY14 were LED or lighting, LEDs. were compatible with LED bulbs (compared with 51% in FY13). 1 For comparison, a low-energy bulb gives about 40 lm for each watt. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement 1 7 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E Water We have already increased water Water is precious and, in some parts of efficiency by up to 50% across our dishthe world, a scarce resource. Energy is washer range, compared with our range required to clean, heat and transport wain 2008. We are working on new ways to ter. We enable our customers to use less reduce water consumption. This includes water, without compromising the quality using grey water from showers, baths and of our products. Our taps and dishwashbasins, and water filtration systems for ers are designed to save water. Our cusshowers. tomers can also use less water by using Our washing up bowls and drainers ofa water-efficient dishwasher rather than fer simple ways to save water and energy. washing up by hand. The bowls reduce the amount of hot water needed to wash dishes (saving energy), and cold water used for washing fruit and All IKEA taps use a pressure vegetables. compensating aerator. This reduces the consumption of water by up to 50% compared with EU Making home solar standard taps, without affecting the customer’s experience. affordable “There’s really no excuse not to install installing solar panels. The payback Each IKEA tap used in the average Eurosolar in your home,” says Alan Cotton, time for our solar panels can be as litpean household saves between 1,800 and who has Hanergy solar panels sold tle as seven years and we expect this through IKEA on his roof near Southto fall as energy prices rise. After that 3,000 litres of water per year*. This reampton in the UK. point the system will produce renewduces costs for customers through lower “Installation was so easy. It took just able energy for free and the panels energy bills for hot water and lower water one day to get it up and running, and have a lifespan of at least 25 years. we’ve halved our electricity bills within We’ve teamed up with global solar bills where water use is metered. In FY14, two months. It’s changed our lives.” energy specialist Hanergy to offer the taps we sold resulted in a combined Solar energy is a great way for in-store advice and easy installation. saving of between 173 and 288 million families and businesses to reduce IKEA FAMILY members get big dislitres of water, compared with conventionenergy costs and cut their carbon counts on the price of a system, and emissions. During FY14 we completed a solar loan enables customers to pay al taps without an aerator. the roll-out of our solar panel offer to for the system with the money earned From September 2014, four of our all 18 UK stores at prices affordable from UK feed-in tariffs. There is also bathroom taps had a cold start function. to people with smaller homes than the a handy monitoring app that enables average solar customers. This enables users to keep an eye on their energy This saves hot water, which saves enermore people to invest in solar, someconsumption via their mobile phone. gy (see page 15). All new bathroom taps thing which was previously out of We are rolling out the service at will be equipped with cold start, and from their reach. our stores in the Netherlands and An average UK household can save Switzerland, and will cover six more September 2015, so will one model of up to 50% on their electricity bills by countries in FY15 and beyond. kitchen taps without an aerator. * Compared with EU standard taps without an aerator. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement 1 8 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E Waste away 290 million* fewer batteries as a We want to help reduce or stop waste from result, if they use their new batteries for homes. That is why we provide our custheir full life span. We plan to do this intertomers with products, services and advice nationally, using our Swedish experience to that make it easy for them to recycle more make sure we engage the greatest number and waste less. of customers. Food containers are good for storage but can also reduce waste and save money. For example, our FÖRTROLIG jars can In an increasing be used to store, reheat and serve food, number of markets, we offer all in a single container. This reduces food customers the opportunity to waste and saves on washing up. recycle, sell or donate their Our space-saving kitchen furniture has furniture at the end of its life. integrated sorting systems, which make it easier to recycle. Our RATIONELL and VARIERA waste sorting systems can be For example, in Romania there is no inused with IKEA or non-IKEA kitchens, and frastructure for people to recycle their even outside the kitchen. furniture. IKEA Bucharest invited customWe sell our LADDA rechargeable baters to bring in old furniture, co-operating teries pre-charged and ready to use. In with a local NGOs to recycle or redistribFY14, we experimented by selling only ute it. In four weeks, 22 tonnes of furniLADDA batteries in our Swedish stores. ture was collected. See page 60 for more The many more customers that bought information about our furniture take-back LADDA instead of single-use batteries programmes. during this period will theoretically throw * Calculations are based on all batteries being recharged 500 times. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement 1 9 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E PEOPLE & PL ANET P E R F O R M A N C E i n F Y 14 P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S Engaging customers Take a lead, together with our customers Six out of eight test families have completand others in society, in re-thinking the ed their time in the Living Lab trying out nature of future homes and communities the Flexible Space concept – see page 20. to provide examples of attractive, affordable and sustainable living. Walking the talk with a sustainable cook-off We inform our customers about how IKEA Food organic products, producing our products can save energy, water zero waste and using minimal water. and money, and reduce waste, but can Customers voted for their favourite we prove it? and Chef Damien, from recipe-sharing Our success at encouraging a more suster use, but less than half of that number In April 2014, 29 IKEA stores in website 750g.com, chose the winner. France participated in a ‘Zero Waste The cook-off was followed on social tainable life at home depends on us getwas aware that IKEA had the solutions. Cook-Off’ to demonstrate how IKEA media, with several sustainabilityting our customers excited and engaged. We have set goals to increase customer products can be used to create delifocused posts on blogs, and is esawareness of this. cious, sustainable food. timated to have reached almost 13 Each store formed a team consistmillion unique visitors with messages Increasing customer We spend a lot of time learning how ing of a local food blogger, an IKEA coabout more sustainable food. IKEA engagement our customers live by visiting homes all worker and a blog follower. The teams France was awarded the Sustainability In FY13, our consumer tracker survey over the world. This helps us understand cooked simultaneously across all 29 Leadership Prize at the TOP/COM Constores. They each created 50 sustainsumer Awards 2014 for this innovative showed that more than 85% of consumers how we can enable people to lead more able canapés every hour, integrating promotion of sustainable cooking. wanted to reduce energy, waste and wasustainable lives by designing suitable CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement 2 0 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E Future homes The Living Lab is our test apartment. It’s solutions and products, and then commuIn February 2014 we launched our first where we invite people to come and live nicating their many benefits. ever sustainability marketing campaign, in and help us evaluate new concepts for an We know that our co-workers are our the UK and Ireland. The campaign includeasier and more sustainable life at home. best ambassadors and we make sure that ed a television advert and used radio and Our focus is on what we call Flexible Livthey are inspired by our products so that they can tell our customers about the bensocial media to give tips and ideas to our customers on how to make their homes ing and one of its concepts is Flexible Space, which enables living comfortably millions efits (see page 21). more waste, energy and water efficient. in a smaller space. We are experimenting of IKEA FAMILY members around the world receive information and discounts During the campaign, sales of LED bulbs with moveable walls, so that rooms can be to encourage them to live a more Inspiring our customers to more than tripled, and the number of visits converted from one function to another as sustainable life at home. live a more sustainable life to IKEA UK’s People & Planet Positive web needs change. For example, a living room at home pages grew by over 30 times. We also held could double as a bedroom, saving both We include sustainability information on an ‘Ideas Festival’ in our stores with workmoney and energy. solar installation service in collaboramany of our price tags, on our website, shops, activities and promotions showWe are testing Flexible Living with tion with our partner Hanergy (see page in-store and in our catalogue. IKEA stores casing a more sustainable life at home. eight families of different nationalities and 17). We communicate regularly with IKEA around the world tailor sustainability mesCo-workers took the lead in inspiring cusbackground – asking them to host a party FAMILY members across all countries, sages to the needs of their customers. tomers with ideas for saving energy and or dinner and have a sleepover with guests telling them about our ambitions to be For example, IKEA Poland provides online water and reducing waste in ways that enin our Living Lab. We record their emotiona sustainable company, and providing guides to LEDARE lights and Lyocell fabrics hance their quality of life. al responses and ask them about how they inspiration and ideas for a sustainable life. – highlighting their practical and environused the different solutions. The reactions We have developed two new ideas to mental benefits. have been very positive, and our next step inspire IKEA FAMILY members to live a will be to refine the ideas using feedback more sustainable life at home: from the families. • The ‘Mega Event’ is a sustainabilitythemed day held at a single store, deIKEA Family signed to engage, inspire and inform. Millions of customers worldwide are part Each event can include sustainabilityof the IKEA FAMILY our club for loyal themed activities, offers on specific customers. Benefits to members include products, and free LED bulbs to IKEA special prices on the IKEA FAMILY prodFAMILY members. In FY14, 19 IKEA uct ranges and selected parts of the stores in the UK and Ireland held IKEA range. We also like to engage IKEA Mega Events. Many more countries FAMILY members in our sustainability plan to run these events in FY15. efforts. • The Home Furnishing Workshop Products in the IKEA FAMILY range, ranges from a quick 10-minute worksuch as a cookbook for leftover food, shop to a longer in-depth discussion. can support our customers to live more It inspires and enables IKEA FAMILY sustainably. In the UK, IKEA FAMILY members to make changes to the members get a discount on our home way they live. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement 2 1 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E PEOPLE & PL ANET NEW targets P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S Co-worker Enable our co-workers to live a more sustainable life at home by using our solutions or engagement knowledge for reducing energy, water and waste at home, through a dedicated global project beginning in 2014. 70% in FY13 and FY12. At some stores, energy or reduce waste in their homes. the change was greater. For example, at To support the project, we produced a IKEA Houston, 80% of co-workers now co-worker engagement handbook, which agree sustainability is a natural everyday provides recommendations on everything part of their work, compared with 66% from budgeting to sharing project results. previously. In FY14, 10 countries joined the project, We think activities at individual stores engaging 1,773 co-workers. These councombined with the global Co-worker Entries will engage more co-workers in FY15, gagement Project (see below) are increasalongside a further 10 countries that are ing our co-workers’ awareness of how we planning to join. We expect thousands of work with sustainability. IKEA co-workers to join the movement in Read more about how: the coming years. • Our Product Sustainability Scorecard Co-workers involved in the project enables our product developers to share their experiences on our internal create more sustainable products, social media platform and Facebook. In on page 38. March and April 2014, the co-worker en• We are engaging co-workers in making gagement project group was the most acsustainability part of the everyday life at tive of all our social media groups within IKEA, on page 44. IKEA globally. • We are improving our stores through Our aim is for the project to reach all the Sustainable Store Project on our co-workers – either as ambassadors page 50. or by being inspired by their co-workers Our co-workers are essential to our vifeels proud to work for us and feels able by FY16. We want them to understand the sion for more a sustainable life at home. to contribute to making IKEA people and Co-worker Engagement Project relevance of sustainability in their personThey are ambassadors for our products planet positive. We launched our global More Sustainal and work lives, in turn increasing sales and services, helping customers live more Each year we run an online survey for able Life at Home Co-worker Engagement of products and solutions that inspire and sustainable lives. The more our co-workers all co-workers in the IKEA Group – read Project in FY14. This is designed to build enable customers to live a more sustainknow about the environmental and cost more on page 77. In FY14, 79% of coco-worker knowledge about living a more able life at home. Read more about our exsavings of our products, the better they workers agreed with the statement “within sustainable life at home. perience with the Co-worker Engagement can communicate with our customers. It is my department sustainability is a natural Co-workers in each country and store Project around the world on page 22. important to us that every IKEA co-worker part in everyday work”, compared with can choose IKEA products to save water, CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement 2 2 A M O R E S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E AT H O M E CREATING INSPIRED AMBASSADORS F O R Around the world, our co-workers S U S TA I N A B L E L I V I N G are becoming better prepared to be ambassadors for all the things we are Test and tell. This was the motto of the project that led to 313 UK co-workers being doing to become more sustainable, chosen to become ambassadors for a more especially in enabling our customers to sustainable life at home. They were given a live more sustainable lives at home. budget of GBP 450 (EUR 560) towards IKEA Sarah Garwell products that save water, consume less energy or reduce waste in their homes over a four-month period. Following the first round of the project, scores from our annual online survey measuring co-workers’ opinions about our approach to sustainability rose significantly, we think directly as a result of this initiative. UK sales of energy-, waterand waste-saving products rose by 29% compared with FY13. Our Contact Centre co-workers worked Chris Messer particularly hard, delivering some great results. Sarah Garwell saved more than 600 litres of water a week by changing her family’s behaviour to have more showers instead of baths. Over a year this would work out to a saving of 31,200 litres and a saving of GBP 120 (EUR 150) per year on energy. Chris Messer saved over GBP 216 (EUR 270) per year by upgrading his old oven to an A-rated appliance. Simon Blakemore saved GBP 21 (EUR 26) a month on his energy bills – GBP A global movement 252 (EUR 316) per year! Simon Blakemore towards sustainable living Our More Sustainable Life at Home for management teams, and aim “I was easily the worst at sustainability Co-worker Engagement Project has to train all co-workers by the end in the entire store. I recycled nothing, created much of this progress: of FY15 wasted food and plugged in everything • Stores in the Netherlands organfor hours on end. I horrified the other • Co-workers in Canada wanted to ised activities around national ambassadors with my disregard for the learn about the sustainability sustainability day planet. But now the whole store – me features of our products and how • Co-workers in Russia have been included – is infected with enthusiasm. this links to our identity discussing ways to create ‘zero We’re all committed to the cause.” • Stores in Italy have rolled out landfill’ lunches. sustainability training workshops Carole Gutherson, Unit Project Leader for Coworker Engagement Project, IKEA Gateshead, UK. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Produc t s and solutions > Engaging customer s > Co-worker engagement 2 3 Resource and energy independence We want to be less dependent on conventional supplies of natural resources and energy. This will help us reduce the potential risks to our business from climate change and keep costs low so that we can continue offering our customers inspiring, functional and sustainable products at affordable prices. We have the most control over our own operations and our products. By focusing on where we can make the biggest difference, we are seeing significant improvements in efficiency across our buildings. Our products are continually assessed to ensure that they are better for people and the planet. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 2 4 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E IKEA GROUP STORES AND BUILDINGS 42% WE PRODUCED RENEWABLE ENERGY EQUIVALENT TO 42% OF OUR TOTAL ENERGY USE EFFICIENT TRANSPORT 15% MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT COMPARED WITH FY10 BILLY BOOKCASE PRODUCT 30% LIGHTER INNOVATION 89% OUR 11 CRITERIA TO EVALUATE PRODUCTS OF WASTE RECYCLED More from less 64% Renewable materials Reused and recycled materials FILL RATE Materials from more sustainable sources SKARPÖ CHAIR Recyclability at end of life Quality 100% MORE 58% SUSTAINABLE Transport efficient Energy use in production RECYCLED SOURCES 41% PLASTIC DIRECT DELIVERY FROM Renewable energy in production SUPPLIERS TO STORES Raw-material utilisation 3/4 SAVING CO2 Sustainable life at home OF WOOD FROM MORE SUSTAINABLE SOURCES OF COTTON FROM MORE 19% SUSTAINABLE . li v SOURCES es IMPROVEMENT IN e’s ENERGY EFFICIENCY pl o pe COMPARED WITH FY12 M an to y sm nd all e ta SUPPLIERS GO RENEWABLE ch p l an an g e es a r th dd u e n c e fo p t o m ak e a b i g di f f e r CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 2 5 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E PEOPLE & PL ANET P E R F O R M A N C E i n F Y 14 P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S Responsible By August 2015, all cotton used in IKEA We sourced 76% of our cotton from sourcing products will be sourced from more sustainable sources such as Better Cotton, more sustainable sources* in FY14, up from 72% in FY13. We support the and we will continuously investigate comBetter Cotton Initiative to train cotton plementary fibres with improved sustainfarmers around the world in more ability performance relative to cotton. sustainable farming methods. * More sustainable sources for cotton are: Better Cotton, cotton grown to other sustainability standards in the USA and cotton from farmers working towards the Better Cotton Initiative standards. By August 2017, all of the leather we use From FY14 we require greater chain of will have full chain of custody and be custody transparency in high risk areas. produced according to standards that help We have developed draft guidelines for protect forests and respect human rights responsible leather sourcing that are and animal welfare. under implementation. By August 2017, at least 50% of our wood We sourced 41% of all wood from will come from more sustainable sources. more sustainable sources*, up from These sources are currently defined as 32% in FY13. FSC certified or recycled wood. * More sustainable sources for wood are: Forest Stewardship Council certified or recycled By December 2015 all palm oil, currently Palm oil from segregated, certified sources used in home furnishing products such made up 32% of the amount we purchased as candles or as a food ingredient, will in FY14. either come from certified segregated sustainable sources or be replaced by more sustainable raw materials. We aim to make a positive difference to able and reliable supply. PEOPLE & PL ANET NEW targets industries that produce the key raw maWe buy a lot of wood and cotton and P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S terials in our products. By working closely focus our attention on these materials. with our suppliers and other partners, we Other important materials are leather, By August 2020, we aim to source 100% of our wood, paper and cardboard from try to ensure the materials we use are propalm oil, coffee, cocoa and natural fibres, more sustainable sources. duced using methods that are better for including rattan, down and feathers. Al* These sources are currently defined as FSC certified or recycled wood. Once the 2017 more sustainable people and the environment. This helps us though we purchase relatively small quansources goal has been met, we will re-evaluate this criteria. to safeguard valuable natural resources tities of these, we take seriously the potenfor future generations and sustains our tial impacts of their production on people, business by providing access to an affordcommunities and the environment. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 2 6 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Wood Wood is essential for our business. And it is WOOD FROM MOR E a sustainable material, as long as it comes S U S TA I N A B L E S O U R C E S * (% w o o d s o u r c e d ) from responsibly managed forests. Wood T O TA L W O O D I N is renewable, recyclable and biodegradable IKE A PRODUC T S and expanding responsibly managed (m i l l i o n m 3 r w e) * 41.4 forests is better for people and the planet. FY14 15.50 FY13 13.97 32.4 As one of the largest FY12 13.56 users of wood in the retail sector, FY11 13.78 22.6 we can use our influence to FY10 12.32 FY14 change things for the better. 15.8 16.2 FY13 * Roundwood equivalent (rwe) is the volume of roundwood (logs) required FY12 to produce our products. Data covers all solid wood and wood-based board used in IKEA products, but excludes wood used in packaging and FY11 printing and paper used in products such as napkins. By August 2017, at least 50% of our wood FY10 will come from more sustainable sources. This means wood that is recycled or certi* From forests certified to the FSC Forest fied to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Management standard and recycled wood. COUN T R IES WE SOURCE T Y P E S O F W O O D S O U R C E D (%) Includes solid wood and wood-based board. standards. And by August 2020, our tarW O O D F R O M F Y 14 (% w o o d s o u r c e d ) get is to buy 100% from more sustainable sources. Our ‘forest positive’ approach (see page 29) goes beyond the immediate needs of Performance in FY14 our business to help change how forests The equivalent of 15.5 million m3 of roundare managed in the long term. We do this wood was sourced for the solid wood by working with partners, such as the globand wood-based board materials in IKEA al conservation organisation WWF, to improducts in FY14 (not including paper and prove forestry management practices and packaging), 11% more than in FY13, due Poland 25.8% Solid wood 42% to fight illegal logging and deforestation. to business growth. The proportion from Lithuania 7.9% Wood based board 58% Suppliers must comply with our IWAY more sustainable sources (FSC certified Sweden 7.0% Forestry Standard so that we can ensure or recycled) increased to 41.4%, of which Germany 6.5% that the bamboo, board material and solid 37.2% is FSC certified. We are on track Russia 6.5% wood in our products has not been grown for 50% of our total wood volume to come Romania 6.1% or harvested in a way that harms the from more sustainable sources by FY17. China 4.9% environment. We support suppliers that Of the wood volumes that underwent an France 3.2% don’t meet our standards, but if they show IKEA audit, 99% complied with IKEA miniOther countries <3.0% 32.1% no improvement we are forced to end mum forestry requirements. the relationship. We will continue to focus on improving CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 0 7 2 0 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E AUDITS OF OUR WOOD SUPPLY FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 practices in areas where there is a high• Annual auditing by accredited FSC certiCHAIN er risk of illegal or irresponsible forestry fication bodies of suppliers who have Share of IKEA suppliers that are 20.3% 34.9% 42.2% 52.5% 66.1% practices, such as Eastern Europe, GreatFSC Chain of Custody (CoC) certification FSC Chain of Custody certified er China and South East Asia. In these • IKEA audits of wood suppliers who are Share of total wood volume from 47.0% 62.0% 63.5% 84.5% 94.8% areas, we have set a separate target to handling wood not covered by FSC CoC FSC Chain of Custody certified reach 100% wood from more sustainable certification, are carried out by us or suppliers sources by FY17. occasionally by independent auditors Number of IKEA audits — under 124 139 116 149 143 • IKEA wood supply chain audits for highIWAY Forestry Standard and IKEA (7) (5) (5) (11) (4) er risk areas, which can cover the entire wood supply chain audits (number All co-workers who supply chain back to the forest. performed by 3rd party auditors) purchase products containing wood Share of total wood volume from 10.3% 12.3% 17.3% 12.4% 19.7% must be trained as part of their Using these procedures, most of our timsuppliers which underwent an IKEA audit during the year professional development. ber suppliers are audited annually (almost 100% in FY14). A small number of suppliWood volumes that underwent an 97.0% 94.0% 95.2% 99.1% 99.0% ers that are considered low risk because IKEA audit that comply with IKEA minimum forestry requirements During FY14, we trained 250 co-workers of their location, or the type of timber they on our standards, relevant laws and FSC provide, are audited every two years. Share of total wood volume 57.3% 74.3% 80.8% 97.8% 94.8% from suppliers audited during certification. Upgrades to our IT systems The Chain of Custody standard verifies the year (as part of FSC chain will improve our data and due diligence FSC certified material and products and is of custody audit or IKEA audit) processes, further supporting our codesigned to prevent illegally logged and workers in all their responsible roles. other types of unwanted wood from enWe use paper in a wide range of prodtering the supply chain. We encourage all ucts and office supplies, including packmanufacturers, processors and traders of In February 2014, the FSC certificate a solution that supports our ambition to aging, products in our paper shop, our products containing wood to achieve certifor our forestry operations in Karelia, create a better life for workers throughcatalogues, and napkins and cups in our fication according to the FSC Chain of CusNorthern Europe, was temporarily susout our supply chain. For example, we are restaurants. In FY14 we mapped all the tody standard by undergoing regular thirdpended. However, the temporary suspartnering with WWF to support smalldifferent ways we use paper across the party audits – this is one way for suppliers pension was withdrawn a few weeks later holders who produce acacia and rattan in IKEA Group and evaluated the relevant to demonstrate IWAY compliance. after the appeal committee judged that a Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam to improve sustainability challenges for each. This The proportion of suppliers that are number of the deviations were incorrectly their forest management, and to move work will enable us to align our paper and Chain of Custody certified increased from classified. towards FSC certification in Laos and Vietwood principles. In FY14, we achieved 52.5% in FY13 to 66.1% in FY14. These Working with smallholders can present nam (see page 30). 100% FSC certification in all editions of the suppliers provided over 90% of the volsignificant challenges. The holdings may IKEA catalogue (see page 68). ume of wood we bought, although not all comprise just one or two hectares of forGovernment relations the wood we received from each supplier est and meeting our requirements may be Forest management is heavily influenced Auditing and compliance was FSC certified. The suppliers not certivery difficult, costly or impossible for the by government policies and regulations. We Auditing in our timber supply chain fied tend to be those that provide a very smallholders. But excluding them from our collaborate with governments so that we includes: small proportion of our wood. supply chain is unfair. We are working on can improve forest management practices CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 2 0 8 0 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E I WAY F O R E S T R Y S TA N D A R D IWAY, the Code of Conduct for all We update IWAY regularly, and in IKEA suppliers, contains specific FY13 added new requirements for criteria for wood and board suppliers. bamboo suppliers. The IWAY Forestry Standard states that these materials should: Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) standards • Only come from forests that have been legally harvested FSC principles and criteria • Not come from forestry outline best practices for operations engaged in forestforest management. These related social conflicts are then applied regionally and • Not be harvested in nationally, taking into account local geographically identified intact conditions, stakeholder Making forest certification natural forests (INF) or high interests and forest types. The conservation value forests, 10 principles outline the FSC’s vision the norm in Russian Siberia unless they are certified as and include: responsibly managed • Not be harvested from natural • Protecting the natural “By changing the attitudes of our forest managers (normally second forests in the tropical and subenvironment and its biodiversity suppliers in China, we have boosted or third tier suppliers and therefore tropical regions being converted • Ensuring long-term economic demand for certification in Russia removed from IKEA), we have been to plantations or for non-forest and social benefits from the where they source their wood. The working with our direct suppliers to use forest entire wood supply chain now unpromote better forest management. • Not come from officially • Upholding the rights of the derstands that good forest manageAny wood in the products they sell us recognised and geo-graphically forest’s indigenous communities ment is critical to doing business with must now be certified to Forest Stewidentified commercial genetically • Implementing and monitoring IKEA.” ardship Council (FSC) standards. modified (GM) tree plantations. a comprehensive forest Mikhail Tarasov is Greater China Kristina Svyazhina works for IKEA management plan. Forestry Manager for IKEA and, tosupplier Liaoyang Ningfeng WoodenWe ensure that all suppliers have gether with his team of forestry and ware in Russia, and has noticed the procedures in place to implement Find out more about the FSC at business co-workers, is making dradifference in the forests where they these standards throughout their www.ic.fsc.org. matic changes in the places our wood source wood. “Forest managers are operations and supply chains. comes from. realising that there’s more to certiThey must demonstrate that they “When IKEA first inspected the fication than following the rules, like can track and report the origin of forestry operations in Russian Siberia, more efficient production and healthitheir wood. we found that many weren’t follower, happier workers.” ing the law,” says Mikhail. “Some We are making good progress in were cutting irresponsibly – outside China and Russia, and Mikhail feels their allowed areas and using poor positive: “Three Russian forest mantechniques. They also lacked the right agement units supplying our Chinese in each country where we source wood (see the regulation varies in each country. We standards for workers’ safety.” suppliers have been FSC certified in page 103). are working with governments where we Through our partnership with FY14. It’s really exciting – and it’s a For example, in the EU, 17 of 28 memsource wood to explain our due diligence WWF’s Global Forest & Trade Network good sign that we’re on track to meet (GFTN), we promote better forest our goal of getting 100% of Chinese ber countries have now fully implemented systems, to minimise the risk of illegally management throughout the supply solid wood products from more susthe new EU Timber Regulation, introduced harvested timber entering our supply chain. chain. Instead of imposing rules on tainable sources by FY15.” in FY13. Interpretation and application of CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 2 9 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E T O WA R D S F O R E S T P O S I T I V E We have a goal to become forest In FY14 we have been supporting 13 positive by 2020, which means going projects in 11 countries that contribbeyond our own supply chain. We ute to increasing FSC certification. want responsible forest management These projects also focus on: to be the norm, not just in the forests we use for our own products. We will • Strengthening the protection contribute to ending deforestation by of high conservation value forests promoting the adoption of sustainable – those that are particularly forestry methods across the whole important because of their bioindustry, not just our business. diversity and other local factors Our forest positive commitment • Raising awareness of responsible includes these targets: forestry management • Promoting responsible trade in • By August 2017, at least 50% of forest products our wood will come from more • Combating the illegal timber sustainable sources – Forest trade. Stewardship Council (FSC) certified or recycled wood. Based We support other initiatives to imon current projections, this is prove forest management through expected to represent more funding NGOs as well as government than 9 million m3. training and education initiatives. • By August 2017, 100% of our These include a conservation study wood sourced from priority centre in the Maliau Basin, Borneo, areas 1 will be from more that will share research with scientists sustainable sources. and students worldwide. • By August 2020, we aim to source We have committed to not source 100% of our wood, paper and wood from areas linked with deforcardboard from more sustainable estation (see IWAY forestry standard, sources.2 page 28). Deforestation is usually • By August 2020, we will contriblinked to land use changes caused ute to FSC certification of another by expanding agriculture. We also 10 million hectares of forest in consider palm oil and leather in our priority areas – which is equivacommitment to becoming forest lent to more than double the total positive (see page 33). area needed to supply IKEA. This is in addition to 35 million hectares of FSC forest already added through our earlier partnership projects. 1 Countries where IKEA, along with our partners, has identified a higher risk of sustainability challenges. 2 These sources are currently defined as FSC certified or recycled wood. Once the 2017 more sustainable sources goal has been met, we will re-evaluate this criteria. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 0 0 3 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E “The IKEA and WWF partnership is unique – in its ambition, its results and the manner in which both organisations have brought together their values, expertise, presence on the ground and solutions for a better future. After 12 years our partnership is more solid than ever and we always focus on delivering results at scale. Our shared ambition is to help secure a real and long-lasting positive impact on forests and the cultivation of cotton, in a manner that benefits nature and its wildlife, people and their livelihoods, and the planet we all live on. Should we be proud of our Achieving impact through collaboration results? Certainly. Will we do more together to achieve our – a partnership for change with WWF shared ambition? Absolutely.” Marco Lambertini, Director General, Collaboration is essential to tackle and communities are supported. In the supply chain has been transformed, WWF International the biggest social and environmental Greater Mekong region, we are working with 76% of cotton now from more challenges we all face. with small-scale producers of acacia, sustainable sources. That is why in 2002 we joined forces rattan and bamboo in developing their Sustainable farming methods can with WWF, a leading conservation business management skills, including make a big difference in reducing the organisation, with a shared ambition to resource planning and market co-ordiharmful impacts of cotton farming. have a positive impact on forests and nation. And in Indonesia, where we buy In Pakistan and India, our projects to the cultivation of cotton. More than 12 wood from smallholders and communiimprove farming practices are helping years later, we are excited to be enterty-owned forests, we are supporting the to protect the environment, improving ing the fifth phase of the partnership. growth of FSC certification. working conditions, and making farmers Working with WWF, we have seCotton is one of the world’s most immore profitable. cured FSC certification for responsible portant natural ﬁbres. But conventional We are using what we have learned management for 35 million hectares of cotton farming techniques can harm to increase the scope and scale of our © WWF-Canon / Richard Stonehouse forest worldwide, and by August 2020, the environment and communities. work, particularly in vulnerable regions IKEA will have contributed an additional Our work with WWF began with a small where a lack of water availability would 10 million hectares of forest in priorgroup of 500 uncertain cotton farmthreaten the viability of communities. ity areas. We have prioritised credible ers in Pakistan. Today, around 110,000 The first projects will begin in Jalna, forest certification, combating illegal farmers in a number of countries have a district in Maharashtra, India, and logging, promoting a responsible timber adopted more sustainable farming in Punjab, Pakistan. For more on our trade and protecting high conservation practices, such as the Better Cotton strategy for becoming water positive, value forests (HCVF). Initiative, which IKEA and WWF joined see page 35. We are also ensuring that people as founding members. Our own cotton CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 3 1 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Cotton We use cotton in many of our home furnishing products, including sofas, cushions, bed sheets and lampshades. Each year we use around 0.6 to 0.7% of the world’s cotton supply. The cotton industry provides jobs and incomes for many, particularly smallholders. But it has also brought problems such as child labour, health issues for farmers, and damage to natural resources including water supplies through the use of agricultural chemicals and wasteful irrigation. We are working to transform the social and environmental standards of cotton production through our partnership with WWF and others (see page 30). As a founding member of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), a multi-stakeholder organisation that sets social and environmental criteria for more sustainable cotton, we are supporting increased traceability Making more of Better Cotton (produced to BCI standsustainable cotton a success ards). We are encouraging better practices and verification through farm audits. IKEA Since 2005, we have been working Cotton, and we are totally committed watering and we’re using less pesticide.” is the largest consumer of Better Cotton in with WWF to make cotton farming more to the initiative – so much so that we Although IKEA’s cotton programme the world, and we want to create positive sustainable. We helped set up the Betset ourselves the ambitious target of is under 10 years old, it has improved ter Cotton Initiative (BCI), which aims procuring 100% of our cotton from more farming livelihoods and the environment. change beyond our business, throughout to reduce the use of pesticide, water sustainable sources by the end of FY15. Our vision is that more sustainable cotthe whole cotton industry. and chemical fertilisers while increasing Farmers like Swarupchand Maher, ton becomes a mainstream commodity earnings and social benefits for workers. who has a 28 acre cotton plantation in before 2020. The Better Cotton Initiative has so far isMaharashtra, India, have increased their We want to promote lasting change sued licences to 240,000 farmers around gross margins by 45% and are using – not only for our customers, but for Our goal is to buy all our the world. 24% less water. He says: “Before, it was everyone in the cotton supply chain. cotton from more sustainable In FY14 we used 134,000 tonnes of hard to make enough money from selling sources by the end of FY15. cotton from more sustainable sources* in our cotton. With the new techniques, our products. This makes us one of the our yields have improved. We don’t have world’s largest consumers of Better to spend so much time on weeding and * This includes Better Cotton (BC), cotton from farmers working towards the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) standards, and cotton grown to other regional sustainability standards. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 3 2 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E more sustainable sources did not increase Working with WWF in developing counproportionally. tries, we are focusing on smallholder farmCOUN T R IES WE SOURCE Cotton from more sustainable sources is We have also developed detailed proders. We are supporting them to apply more C O T T O N F R O M F Y 14 defined as: uct specifications for how we work with sustainable farming techniques, such as (% o f c o t t o n s o u r c e d ) cotton from more sustainable sources in using less water, chemical pesticides and • Better Cotton (BC) new and existing products. These include chemical fertilisers (see page 31). • Cotton grown by farmers working a directive stating that recycled cotton In the fifth phase of our partnership towards the Better Cotton Initiative does not need to have originally been from with WWF we will focus on reducing the (BCI) standards more sustainable sources, and a guide to amount of water it takes to produce cot• Sustainable cotton from the USA the reporting process we require from ton in water-scarce regions, with the aim (such as e3 Cotton Program). cotton suppliers. The specifications should of protecting water levels in reservoirs and clarify and align our practices across the water tables. Pilot projects in India and To support the growth of the Better whole business. Pakistan are developing and implementing Cotton market, we source our cotton from effective water management techniques India 23.1% more sustainable sources in nine countries that can be scaled up and adopted by a Pakistan 19.5% including Brazil, China, India, Pakistan and large number of farmers in both rain-fed Turkey 15.0% Turkey. Spreading our supply in this way We invested EUR1.34 million and irrigated cotton growing areas (see USA 8.8% enables other companies to buy Better in sustainable cotton farming page 30). China 7.0% Cotton, encouraging uptake and demand, projects, and reached around For more on how we are supportBrazil 3.5% and preventing market distortions. 110,000 farmers. ing cotton-growing communities, see Others 23.1% We also look for ways to reduce the page 93. volume of cotton we buy by improving efficiency, blending it with other materials and replacing it with alternative materials such COT TON FROM MOR E as cellulose fibres (see page 38 for more S U S TA I N A B L E S O U R C E S on how we use alternative materials). (% C O T T O N S O U R C E D) 76 Performance in FY14 72 We sourced 178,000 tonnes of cotton, almost 62% more than in FY13. The increase is due to business growth and improved data collection. The share of cotton from more sustainable sources in34 creased to 76%, compared with 72% in FY14 FY13. We sourced 70% more cotton from 24 FY13 more sustainable sources (134,000 tonnes 13 FY12 in FY14 compared with 79,000 tonnes in FY11 FY13), but due to the increase in overall FY10 cotton volumes, the share of cotton from CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 3 3 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E In addition to securing segregated susPerformance in FY14 tainable palm oil for our products, we purFor a number of years, all our suppliPalm oil requirements to include two additional chase GreenPalm certificates for each of ers have been required to document the Palm oil is an ingredient in our candles and criteria: the 44,000 tonnes of palm oil in our prodsource of their leather, right back to the some of our food products, and is someucts. The GreenPalm programme – apslaughterhouse. In FY14 we went a step times used for processing rattan for furni• No deforestation. Forests of high value, proved by the RSPO – supports the profurther, asking for greater chain of custody ture. Its cultivation can cause environmenfor conservation and carbon storage duction of sustainable palm oil and sells in high risk areas, back to farms directly tal and social harm, including deforestation purposes, will be protected. All new tradeable GreenPalm certificates to users. supplying the slaughterhouses. and loss of biodiversity in tropical regions, palm oil developments should be on land We are in the third year of working In FY14 we made progress in defining which is why we are committed to buying where biodiversity and natural vegetawith Johnson & Johnson, Mondelēz and the guidelines with key stakeholders for repalm oil that is produced responsibly and tion are already highly degraded. United Nations Development Programme sponsible leather sourcing related to issues sustainably. • No new development on peat, regard(UNDP) to support the Indonesian govsuch as deforestation, indigenous peoples’ We believe that Roundtable on Sustainless of depth. Peat wetlands also have ernment and the Sustainable Palm Oil rights and animal welfare. We aim to imable Palm Oil (RSPO) certification is curhigh conservation value due to their Initiative, which encourages sustainable plement these guidelines in FY15. This will rently the best tool available to improve the unique biodiversity and ability to store palm oil production, particularly to proresult in all the leather we buy being propalm oil industry. By December 2015 we carbon and methane. tect the environment, reduce greenhouse duced to standards that protect forests, aim for 100% of our palm oil to come from gas emissions and support smallholders in prevent pollution and respect animal welsegregated RSPO-certified sources. This improving their livelihoods. fare. The guidelines will complement our will give us the confidence that our palm oil work with our suppliers on IWAY, our supcomes from certified sustainable sources, Leather plier Code of Conduct, and IWAY Must criand is not mixed with conventional sources. Cattle farming and leather production can teria for critical sub-contractors (see page create environmental problems like defor79 for more on IWAY). Performance in FY14 estation and pollution from tanning. There In FY14, we used 3.7 million m2 of leathPalm oil from segregated, certified are also related impacts on communities, er in upholstery.* Some of the leather we sources made up 32% of the amount we such as the displacement of indigenous buy comes from Brazil, a country where purchased in FY14. people and forced labour. We work closely social and environmental problems in the with our suppliers and other stakeholders leather supply chain have been identified. to improve standards in the production We have been implementing additional We want all of our palm oil to of the leather used in our sofas, rugs and minimum requirements for suppliers there come from certified segregated other home furnishings. on issues such as traceability, deforestasources by December 2015, or to By August FY15, all our leather will be tion and forced and bonded labour since replace it if more sustainable alterproduced using ‘wet-white’ or other alFY13. We will build on these requirenative materials are available. ternatives to chromium. We are working ments as we roll out the leather sourcing with a number of chemical companies to guidelines. ensure continuous improvement in the imWe also want to contribute to the continupact of the tanning process, reducing toxous improvement of standards, including icity, carbon footprint and water impacts. the RSPO Principles and Criteria. To this end, during FY14 we have updated our * Excludes rugs (cattle hides, sheep and goat skins). CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 3 4 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Food “IKEA is an excellent example From the products we sell in our Swedish which includes a new approach to food. of a company that simply wants Food Markets to the famous IKEA meatballs We aim to take a lead in providing a sus‘to do the right thing’. Including animal welfare as a key pillar served in our restaurants, over 600 million tainable and healthy diet by promoting a in its strategy on sustainabilcustomers enjoy our food every year*. We balanced diet of more vegetarian food. ity, People & Planet Positive, estimate the total carbon footprint of our To support this, we are introducing is an important development; food products is around 651,000 tonnes of vegetarian meatballs in stores in 2015. it anchors IKEA’s high aspirations for animal welfare across CO2. We source our food from around 600 These have a lower water and carbon footthe organisation and integrates global and local suppliers. print, and are healthier than the original people, planet and animals into beef and pork variety. humane sustainable food production. It’s not easy securing Reducing the levels of salt, sugar, fat, a higher welfare supply, espeIn FY14 we have been engaging artificial additives and allergens will imcially at a global level, but it’s a with external stakeholders through prove the nutritional value of our meals challenge we are proud to be a part of. And we are delighted to meetings and workshops, to develop and products. Better labelling and combe working with IKEA on their our understanding of important munication with customers will enable ambitions for farm animals in global trends and issues. them to make more informed choices. To “IKEA’s commitment to supply the future.” exclusively certified, sustainably implement this we will create guidelines caught and responsibly farmed that will be used by our product developseafood in all markets is a major Dr Tracey Jones, Director of Food These have included animal welfare, health ers when designing new food products milestone in the history of the Business, Compassion in World sustainable seafood movement. Farming and nutrition, food waste and social condiand dishes. It is essential to think globtions throughout the value chain. This proBy certifying ingredients in more of our ally to achieve a sustainable cess is helping us to develop an effective products, we will continue to ensure that seafood industry. By offering certified seafood in their resFood strategy and plan for how we can be they are produced sustainably. We will taurants worldwide, IKEA will as sustainable as possible in the future – also work more closely with sub-suppliers enable millions of people each see page 99 for more on our stakeholder like farmers to improve standards in aniyear to contribute towards enengagement. mal welfare and shrink their environmensuring that the world’s oceans are teeming with life for future These discussions have informed our tal footprints. generations. updated People & Planet Positive strategy, Having been involved in this project from the early days, I am pleased to see our shared vision is becoming a reality.” CERTIFIED FOOD ITEMS FY14 Nicolas Guichoux, Global % of coffee that is UTZ certified 100 Commercial Director, Marine Stewardship Council % of chocolate that is UTZ certified 25 * Based on 282 million receipts, and at least two customers per receipt. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 3 5 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Coffee, tea and chocolate: The goal of In FY14, IKEA Italy received a Good serving UTZ certified tea in our restaurant Sow Commendation from Compassion in has been extended to August FY15 due World Farming (CIWF) for its commitment to difficulties with supply in all markets. to source its ham from farms with higher UTZ certification stands for sustainable welfare standards. farming, improving working conditions for To make sure we have a secure supfarmers and safeguarding the environply of free-range eggs in all countries, we ment. Building on the existing certificahave extended our deadline for achieving tion for our chocolate products, all three the goal of 100% free-range egg products remaining varieties of our CHOKLAD bars to the end of FY15. In countries where (milk, dark and nut) will contain only UTZ availability of free-range eggs is limited, certified cocoa. Customers can use an onwe will show leadership and work with line tracer (http://utzcertified.org/ikea) to farmers and suppliers to increase supply, find out where the UTZ certified cocoa in and stimulate greater demand to make their chocolate bar has come from. this supply sustainable. Fish and seafood: Our goal is for all the seafood served in our restaurants and During FY15, we will assess our sold in our Food Markets will be Aquaculwhole approach to animal welfare, ture Stewardship Council (ASC) or Marine from the salmon we use in our food, Stewardship Council (MSC) certified by the to the wool we use in our carpets. end of FY15. Achieving our target will be a challenge because there is a limited supply of certified seafood in certain markets. But Strengthening IKEA Food quality Certification and organic food we hope that our commitment can support requirements Berries and jam: The lingonberries, the growth of this market. We are focusing on improving traceabilblueberries and cloudberries in our jams ity and food quality in our supply chain, and beverages are picked in Sweden and Animal welfare ensuring that products only contain the KRAV-certified. KRAV is a Swedish organic Animal welfare is important to IKEA. In ingredients listed in recipes and product certification standard with specific requireFY14, we approved the new IKEA Group labels. We are continuing to strengthen ments on working conditions, including Animal Welfare standard and added two our standards for food suppliers, includforced and child labour, equal treatment existing animal welfare goals to our updating regular and unannounced third-party of employees, and freedom of association. ed People & Planet Positive strategy: auditing of food suppliers and sub-supIt also covers wider environmental, animal pliers. In FY14, we began auditing all our welfare, health and social responsibility is• All eggs served in the IKEA restaurant meatball, hot dog and salmon suppliers, to sues. Three of the jams sold in our Swedwill come from free range hens with ensure compliance with legal and stricter ish Food Markets are already organic, and outdoor access by August 2015 IKEA specific requirements. The audits will all our jams will be organic by the end • Develop and start implementing higher be completed in FY15. of FY15. welfare standards for pigs by August 2016 and for beef cattle by August 2017. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 3 6 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Developing our water strategy Water is an essential resource for stakeholders) to advocate for longour business, and just as we take care term improvements to water manto source other key materials, we must agement. be responsible water stewards. Our greatest water impacts are in our supBeing water positive means that we ply chain, such as cotton farming and will be good water stewards. In FY14, textile production; and customer use of we began to work with WWF to define our products contributes significantly to exactly what water stewardship will our water footprint. mean for IKEA. This water stewardship We have committed to being ‘wastrategy will be complete in FY15. ter positive’ by the end of FY20. This In FY14, we continued to use the means that we will act as responsible World Resources Institute (WRI) Aquewater stewards by contributing to imduct tool and WWF’s Water Risk Filter proved water management in some of to map out the higher water risk areas the most water-stressed areas where in our supply chain and operations. This we operate, so that there is enough will help us to prioritise areas for focus clean water for ecosystems, people and in our water stewardship strategy. communities. We will do this by: Read more about how we are: Animal welfare in producing down and feathers • Improving water efficiency and quality in our own operations and in our • Managing water in our own operations, on page 58 supply chain Around 20% of our pillows and industry is rare. • Supporting our customers to reduce • Managing water in our supply chain, quilts contain down and feather. Duck feathers are a by-product their use of water by developing and on page 64 Live plucking is common in the of the food industry. We trace down promoting innovative and affordable goose down and feather industry. IKEA and feather from the suppliers back products • Helping our customers to reduce their does not accept animal cruelty and to to the slaughterhouse. We audit • Going beyond the boundaries of water use, on page 17. eliminate the risk of feathers and down slaughterhouses for animal welfare our own business, by collaborating from live plucking entering our supply standards and suppliers must ensure with others (such as communities, chain, we only use down and feathers sub-suppliers comply with the same companies, governments and other from ducks. Live plucking in the duck requirements. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 3 7 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E PEOPLE & PL ANET P E R F O R M A N C E i n F Y 14 P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S More sustainable By August 2020, 90% of the total sales 52% of the total sales value was from products value will come from home furnishing products classified as more sustainable. products classified as more sustainable, according to the product scorecard. By August 2015, all our main home 98% of home furnishing materials and furnishing materials, including packaging, packaging were renewable, recyclable* will be either made from renewable, or recycled. recyclable (on at least one market on an * We define materials as recyclable if they can be industrial scale) or recycled materials. recycled on an industrial scale in at least one of our major retail markets. PEOPLE & PL ANET NEW targets P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S By August 2020 the aim is that the plastic material used in our home furnishing plastic products* will be 100% renewable and/or recycled (equivalent to approximately 40% of all the plastic used in our products). * The scope is plastics category products which we sell, textile products, packaging and components for furniture. Product sustainability well. This includes checking to see if the scorecard Scorecard is being used as it should be at Since FY09, we have been using our Prodthe design concept stage, rather than as uct Sustainability Scorecard to continually a checklist later. We will get the results of assess and improve the sustainability of our latest Scorecard review in FY15 and our products. It is an essential tool that use what we learn from them to make imwill enable us to get 90% of our sales provements. value from more sustainable products by So far, 89% of our current product August 2020. range, by sales value, has been scored. ‘More sustainable’ products score Because a proportion of our range changIKEA products are known for their This is good for the environment and more than 120 on the Scorecard. If a new es each year, we may never reach 100%, style, quality, affordability and functional helps us to keep prices low for our cusproduct scores well below the average but we will continue to work towards this designs. We have challenged ourselves to tomers. We give co-workers the necessary score of other products in its category, we target so that we have an accurate picture make our whole range more sustainable, tools and information to create products act to improve the score, or exclude the of how sustainable our products are. The and we do this by looking at all aspects of that meet all our criteria on form, function, item from our range. share of the total sales value that came our products and making improvements at quality, sustainability and a low price. We We review the Scorecard regularly to from products classified as more sustainevery step. call this approach ‘democratic design’. ensure it is up to date and performing able increased from 39% in FY13 to 52% CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 3 8 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E OUR PRODUC T HOW WE IMPROVE in FY14, enabling us to make progress More sustainable materials SUS TA INABIL I T Y PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY towards our goal. The average score for SCOR EC AR D PERFORMANCE products evaluated using the score card Materials from more sustainable increased to 107, from 86 in FY13, showsources We assess our products against We provide our designers with the 11 criteria: necessary guidance and tools to ing an overall improvement in the sustainWe want to make it as easy as possible for make our products more sustainability performance of the range. our designers and developers to choose 1 . More from less (using lightweight able. These include: Our goal is to ensure that the Scoremore sustainable materials. These include materials and applying smart designs that enable us to use The Product Sustainability card and other tools, such as our Materitimber certified by the FSC or recycled fewer resources) Scorecard helps developers and als Guides, can effectively challenge cowood (see page 26), cotton from more technicians assess and improve 2 . Renewable materials workers to take action to help make our sustainable sources (see page 31), seg3 . Reused and recycled materials the sustainability of products. products more sustainable. regated certified RSPO palm oil (see page Criteria relate to how the product 4 . Material from more sustainable is designed, produced and used. See page 13 for more about the prod33) and recycled materials. Our Materials sources ucts that support our customers to live a Risk Council reviews new materials that 5 . Recyclability at product endMaterials Guides explain the of-life sustainability performance of more sustainable life at home. have been identified as more sustainable. 6 . Quality individual materials and help Read more about how we are engaging The results of their assessment, including product teams choose the most 7. Transport efficient (number of co-workers in sustainability on page 21. whether a material can be classified as products per container) sustainable ones. more sustainable, are included in our Ma8 . Energy use in production The Resource Chain framework terials Guides to help developers make the 9. Renewable energy in production – a project launched in FY12 that best decisions. 10 . Raw-material utilisation aims to design products that can be in production easily and repeatedly recycled, so 11 . Sustainable life at home that they can be brought back into Renewable, recyclable and recycled (products that enable our the IKEA product value chain as materials customers to reduce energy raw materials. With billions more people joining the conand water use, reduce waste sumer society, moving to a circular econin their homes, and lead a The Material Risk Council DEMOCR ATIC healthier lifestyle). assesses all potential new materials omy is critical to ensure their hopes and DESIGN for safety, quality and sustainability. dreams can be met whilst staying within the limits of our planet. We are contribFORM uting to this shift by avoiding reliance on QUALIT Y finite materials, with an aim to use only recyclable, and we aim to reach 100% by industrial scale in at least one of our major renewable, recyclable and recycled maAugust FY15. This does not include addiretail markets. Although national recycling FUNC TION terials. But even with these materials, we tives, lacquering or other substances that infrastructure and regulations vary, we SUSTAINABILIT Y can further reduce our impacts and better would finish, glue or surface-treat a prodanticipate that suitable recycling facilities A L L AT A meet customer demands in the long term uct. In FY14, 9.8% of the wood used by will be available in the majority of our marLOW PR ICE by finding ways to make more from less, Division Boards of IKEA Industry Group kets by the time our products reach the and minimising waste. was recycled material, and we aim to end of their lives. In FY14, 98% of the main materials in reach 30% by 2020. We define materials Where the infrastructure exists, our our products were renewable, recycled or as recyclable if they can be recycled on an stores are encouraging customers to CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 3 9 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E return their old mattresses for recycling, choosing the right materials from the start and we are planning the roll-out of a taris crucial. Take-back programmes are also geted take-back scheme in 20 countries in important, because they give us access to FY15. In countries like Russia and the USA, valuable materials to use for making new mattress recycling can be challenging, esproducts. The programmes make it simpecially where the infrastructure does not pler for customers to dispose of old and exist or differs across the country. We aim unwanted products. to stimulate the development of the necWe have made progress on the key essary facilities wherever possible. materials we use that are not renewable or widely recycled, such as polyurethane New sources of materials foam, melamine and silicone. We have We are excited about developing new, been exploring alternatives to replace polhigh-performing raw materials that can yurethane in our sofas and mattresses. We help us keep costs down and reduce enviare on track to phase out melamine from ronmental impacts. all our products, such as plastic tableware We established a Resource Chain proand food storage, by FY15, to be replaced Renewable ject in 2012 with the ambition of developby partly renewable polymers with similar mattress foam ing a framework for how used materials properties. We are replacing silicone with can re-enter our supply chain, and how we thermoplastic elastomers (TPEs) in some Not all plastics are made from fossil known as ‘second-generation’ feedsecure access to secondary raw materials of our products, but we are not yet able to fuels. stocks, such as waste wood. We want to increase our use of We recognise there is increasing in the future. To create suitable products phase it out completely. renewable and recycled materials in global demand for renewable materials, from this process, we have learned that Read more about how we are encourour products. for example for replacing fossil fuels in aging customers to return unwanted items We have been working with two of transport. While the amount we buy for for recycling and upcycling on page 60. our suppliers in FY14 to test a solution making plastic is a very small proporthat will enable us to reduce the protion of the total demand, we want to portion of petroleum-based, non-reensure that we do not harm people or R E N E WA B L E , R E C Y C L A B L E Durability newable foam used in our mattresses. the environment and are working in the A N D R E C Y C L E D M AT E R I A L S * IN Style, quality and functionality are essenFrom FY15, a new foam made of most sustainable way possible. H O M E F U R NI S HIN G P RO D U C T S 15% soy-oil will be used in our foam The results of an independent lifetial qualities of IKEA products. And they mattresses, such as MALFORS and cycle assessment show that replacing 2011 > 88% are always affordable and designed to last. MOSHULT. petroleum-based materials with those We continually develop our product testBecause soy production can be made from soy could enable our foam 2012 > 91% associated with poor environmental suppliers to reduce CO2 emissions siging techniques to ensure we are using the 2013 > 98% and social standards, we buy our soy nificantly. As we find ways to increase latest methods. We evaluate our products oil from segregated, traceable sources the proportion of soy-based material, 2014 > 98% thoroughly before sale and regularly afterin North America, and the suppliers and combine this with a new process GOAL 2015 > 100% wards. Sofas and chairs go through mecomply with IWAY, our supplier Code of for recycling conventional foam, we Conduct. will be able to reduce emissions chanical tests and we assess textiles for One of our long-term goals is to even further. * These are main materials, defined as all colour-fastness and wear and tear. produce plastics from waste materials materials except additives, lacquering or other finishing substances. We monitor the number of product CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 4 0 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E returns and this data is entered into the edge about customer needs and exProduct Sustainability Scorecard. We are pectations, are used to develop our confident that our products have the level product safety standards of durability to meet the required function, • We use thorough assessments during and offer extended guarantees of up to 25 product development, production and years on many items, including kitchens, after products go on sale, to identify knives, selected mattresses, pans and risks taps. • Before full production begins, our rigorous testing programme ensures the Efficiency safety of materials, and of all items At IKEA we are always looking for ways to made by suppliers make more from less, by improving pro• During production and after products cesses and being more inventive in our go on sale, we undertake regular spot use of resources. checks • We train and support co-workers to continually monitor the products in Every day, we challenge ourselves our range and comply with our IKEA to continue making brilliant designs product safety and compliance alarm that require less material and we ask process. our suppliers to do the same. Our dedicated Product Safety and Compliance School works with different Product safety functions across IKEA so that they can If our customers cannot trust our prodidentify, investigate and prevent safety ucts to be safe, we will have failed in our incidents. All co-workers have a duty to aim to create a better life for the many report incidents or concerns about safety people. We stay focused on product safety through our global safety alarm system, Examples of at all stages, from development through to and our central safety team monitors and products made from... production and after-sale. investigates all reports. If needed, they There are several stages to product can stop sales of a product around the development and production: world immediately. We make our SKRUTT desk pad the RISSLA series, consists of 100% Occasionally, we decide to recall a from 50% recycled plastic film, partly recycled paperboard. • We continually monitor all sales marproduct for safety and compliance readeriving from packaging that was used We weave water hyacinth to conto transport our products. struct our RIFFLA basket. By harvestkets for new and updated product sons. To ensure that customers are aware Our MÄSTERBY step stool uses only ing this invasive weed, which can grow safety legislation and other compliand can act on an issue, we communicate 100% recycled, post-industrial plastic double its size in two weeks, we can ance requirements. We also particithrough many channels, including stores, in its construction. improve water flows in rivers, lakes The main body of the RISSLA and ponds and also support their pate in the development of local and internet sites, press releases, our intermagazine file, and other products in ecosystems. global product safety standards nal newsletter, social media sites and our • These insights, along with our knowlIKEA FAMILY network. We always investiCONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 4 1 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E gate the causes of problems with suppliers children in cots and playpens. All customand our safety teams to prevent similar ers responding to our request received a situations from happening again. free repair kit containing a warning label, In FY14, we recalled the following safety instructions and self-adhesive fasitems: teners for fixing the lamp cord to the wall. • Bed canopies for infants and small Chemicals children – after identifying a potenWe always avoid chemicals that could harm tial strangulation hazard. We received people and the environment. Our aim is valuable feedback from customers and to select materials, surface treatments reports of infants becoming entangled and production techniques with the lowwhen the net was pulled into the bed. est possible emissions. As a minimum, we • LYDA jumbo cup – following reports of comply with the strictest laws and regulathe cup breaking when in contact with tions in every country where we make and hot liquid, leading to the possibility of sell products. When one country tightens burns. The affected cups were sold beits rules, we introduce these new requiretween August 2012 and April 2013, and ments in all IKEA markets, if applicable. the recall took place between June and During FY14, we started to implement October 2013. the IKEA Chemical Strategy. We know that • GUNGGUNG indoor and outdoor swings customers, governments, NGOs and other – after four reports of the suspension stakeholders want to know more about fittings breaking when in use, leading the chemicals we use. Therefore the main Chemical-free to risk of injury from falling. focus of our work has been to develop a flame retardants more efficient way of capturing and asWe extended a recall to repair KRITTER sessing data about the chemical content Creativity and innovation is part Accidental surface fires are increasing, and SNIGLAR children’s beds, to include of our products. With access to more inof everyday life at IKEA and we know so many countries are keen to address items made over a longer period than we formation, we can improve our chemical that even the best ideas need help to this problem. Measures to reduce the originally specified. We did this because of risk assessments and be faster to phase get off the ground. risk of accidental fires are mandatory in In FY14, we invested in a collabocountries such as the UK and the USA. reports that the metal rod connecting the out potentially harmful substances. ration between a supplier and external Through our support, the experts guardrail to the bed frame broke, creating We have also encouraged the Euroexperts to support the development of have created an effective flamea laceration hazard. pean Commission (EC) to develop a coma flame-retardant technology for upretardant technology which does not holstery furniture without using flame compromise on safety or compliance, We also identified a possible issue with prehensive policy on endocrine disrupting retardants – chemicals which can be and which helps us to phase out the SMILA and similar models of mounted chemicals (EDCs) for all EU states, which toxic to people and the environment certain chemicals from our products. children’s wall lamps. To prevent the possitakes into account their potential to harm during manufacture and disposal. The We are planning to roll out the bility of strangulation, we encouraged cuspeople and wildlife. new flame-retardant technology can new flame-retardant technology prevent accidental surface fires on in the USA. tomers to check that the cord was securely Read about how IKEA Industry furniture like sofas from spreading. fastened to the wall and out of the reach of manages chemical waste on page 61. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 4 2 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E TIMELINE OF PHASED OUT CHEMIC AL S We have been working on phasing out One of our recent achievements has certain chemicals from our products been to dramatically reduce the amount for decades and we continually look of lead in the brass alloy used in our for alternatives for the chemicals we taps by 84%. EU regulations allow up to use now. The timeline below shows the 3.5% and North America 8%. Our brass progress we have made. alloy now has just 0.25% lead. D AT E O F P H A S E O U T 19 9 5 PVC 1 19 9 6 Azo dyes in textiles and leather that may release carcinogenic arylamines 2000 Brominated flame retardants in furniture 2 2004 Chromium 6 in paint and lacquers 2005 Chromium 6 in the chrome-plating process 2006 BPA containing polycarbonate plastic in children’s products 3 2008 Chromium 6 in metal surface treatments 2 011 Lead in metal fittings 2 01 2 BPA containing polycarbonate plastic in food contact item 1 Exception: electrical cords. 2 For electrical components and products we comply with EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS), which bans poly brominated biphenyl (PBB) and poly brominated diphenyl ether (PBDE). 3 In products for children aged 0-7 years. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 4 3 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E PEOPLE & PL ANET P E R F O R M A N C E i n F Y 14 P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S More sustainable buildings By August 2015, produce renewable enProduced renewable energy equivalent to and transport ergy equivalent to at least 70% of our energy consumption and by August 2020, 42% of our total energy consumption, up from 37% in FY13. on Group level, produce as much renewable energy as we consume. Become 20% more energy efficient in our Compared with FY10, energy efficiency own operations by August 2015 and 30% increased by 15% in stores, 27% in distriby August 2020, compared to FY10. bution centres, 26% in IKEA Components and 17% in IKEA Industry Group Divisions Flatline and Solid Wood. In IKEA Industry Group Division Board energy efficiency decreased by 2%, mainly due to growth and site acquisitions over the last few years. By August 2015, reduce carbon emissions Carbon efficiency increased by 24% from our own operations by 50%, compared to FY10. compared to FY10.* * Compared to FY10 in relative terms, measured by CO2/m3 products sold, or CO2/m3 goods purchased. By August 2016, reduce carbon emissions In FY14, we reduced total carbon from the transport of goods by 20% emissions for transport of goods by compared to FY11, and by 30% compared 12.8% compared to FY11. to FY12 by August 2020.* * Compared in relative terms and measured by m3 transported goods. By August 2020, 90% of the waste from 89% of the total waste generated was our own operation will be recycled or recycled or energy recovered, up from energy recovered, of which 80% of the 88% in FY13. waste from stores and distribution centres At stores, 77% was recycled and 13% and 90% from IKEA Industry Group will be incinerated for energy recovery. At material recycled. distribution centres, 81% was recycled and 11% incinerated for energy recovery. And at IKEA Industry Group, 66% was recycled and 11% incinerated for energy recovery. We want to make sure our business Carbon footprint use to calculate our total footprint helps us This is why we focus on: growth is sustainable by using resources Our total estimated carbon footprint, from identify areas such as raw materials proefficiently and investing in renewable enraw material to product end-of-life, was duction, product manufacturing and prod• Using more sustainable sources for our ergy. This is good for the planet and it around 33.2 million tonnes of CO2 in FY14. uct use (use of products that consume enraw materials (page 38) helps us manage our costs so that we keep This estimated total footprint was higher ergy), that contribute the most to our total • Working with suppliers on managprices low. than in previous years, mainly due to use carbon footprint. ing their environmental impacts and of more complete data. The method we efficiency (page 62) CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 4 4 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E NEW targets PEOPLE & PL ANET P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S • Designing more sustainable products 24% compared to our FY10 baseline. It im(page 37) proved in all parts of the business due to By August 2020, close at least two material loops (not currently existing in a region) • Enabling customers to save or improved energy efficiency and increased for post-consumer waste. generate energy at home through our use of renewable energy, with the excepBy August 2020, reduce waste from our store operations by 10% compared with FY13. products and services (page 14). tion of the IKEA Industry Group Division Board. Carbon efficiency at IKEA Industry But we also know that we can make a big Group Division Board decreased due to indifference by making IKEA buildings more creased production of HDF (high density Energy efficient buildings high density fibreboard (HDF). Technical efficient, managing co-worker travel betfibreboard), which requires more energy Energy efficiency improved by 15.1% in problems with press heating plates caused ter, reducing the energy and water we use to produce than standard board; the fact stores, 27.1% in distribution centres and several months of lower productivity – the and improving our overall process efficienthat our newly acquired Novgorod site 17.2% in IKEA Industry Group Divisions same energy consumption but lower outcy. Even though these areas represent a which uses a gas boiler was operational for Flatline and Solid Wood, compared with put – at our Novgorod site in Russia, and small share of our total carbon footprint, a full year for the first time (see page 53); FY10. It decreased by 1.6% in IKEA Industhe installation and start-up at our new we have direct control over them and can and challenges in accessing renewable try Group Division Board, largely due to its plant in Malacky, Slovakia, consumed enmake quicker improvements. energy at some sites. expansion since FY10 and the acquisition ergy but there was no or very low output. In FY14, absolute carbon emissions Read about how we are enabling our of new sites. These sites have less efficient Proposed energy efficiency projects must in our own operations decreased by 2% customers to reduce their carbon footprint machinery, which we are working to reproduce savings that pay back the initial compared to FY13, to 757,841 tonnes, and when travelling to and from our stores place, and more energy-intensive producinvestment within eight years. Since FY10 our overall carbon efficiency improved by on page 57. tion processes such as the production of we have saved EUR 66 million through Making sustainability everyone’s business We want sustainability to be a to play in meeting our People & Planet with customers. natural part of our everyday job no Positive goals.” “We’ve achieved a lot already, but matter where we work in the store. Pia’s team has found that the key to there is still much to do. In the com“With 315 stores in 27 countries, success is for country operations to ing year we will focus on training and this is not easy. But we are determined have the freedom to develop their own engaging our co-workers, and giving to make it happen,” says Pia Heidensustainability activities, based on the them, and our customers, the oppormark Cook, Head of Sustainability for global framework of People & Planet tunity to share stories about how they Retail & Expansion, IKEA Group. Positive strategy. It has led to some live a more sustainable life at home,” “To create a sustainable business, great results. says Pia. it is important co-workers understand For example, some stores have Read more about how co-workers that engaging customers on how to live conducted sustainability training and are engaging customers in living a a more sustainable life at home is just projects engaging co-workers in living more sustainable life at home on as important as their part in cutting ena more sustainable life at home. They page 19. ergy use or waste at the store. And we have seen big changes in motivation believe that every co-worker, no matter and co-workers are more confident in where they work in the store, has a role sharing the benefits of the IKEA range CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 4 5 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E IKEA CARBON FOOTPRINT FY14 – from raw materials to product end-of-life (tonnes CO2)* Raw materials 15,032,624 FY14 26.2 Production and distribution 3,809,036 FY13 27.6 Suppliers 2,703,957 C A R B O N E F F I C I E N C Y: FY12 27.0 Home furnishing, catalogue and food suppliers C ARBON FOOTPR INT PER PRODUC T SOL D FY11 34.4 Goods transport 1,054,217 Excludes customer delivery suppliers ( k g / C O 2 /m 3 ) * FY10 34.3 Business travel 50,862 * Scope 1 and 2 emissions IKEA 875,225 Buildings 757,841 CARBON EFFICIENCY FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Co-worker commuting 117,384 (% improvement GOAL Customers 12,751,943 against FY10 baseline) Transportation to stores 2,384,752 Stores 9.5 26.9 29.1 36.8 50 Product use 10,367,191 Distribution centres 10.7 38.4 32.0 49.5 50 Products’ end-of-life 731,606 IKEA Industry Group Divi-9.4 8.9 2.7 22.1 50 sions Flatline and Solid Total 33,200,434 Wood * We use reported data for carbon emissions in our operations and tier 1 suppliers, and IKEA Industry Group 25 15 12.8 50 models and estimations to assess our full value chain. Division Board Base year: FY11 IKEA Components 7.8 50 IKEA CARBON FOOTPRINT (tonnes CO2) Base year: 2012 Total -0.4 21.3 19.3 23.6 50 GHG emissions FY14 Scope 1 (IKEA owned energy generation 143,837 from gas, biomass and oil boilers and diesel generators) Scope 1 and 2 emissions FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 – IKEA buildings Scope 2 (purchased electricity and district 614,004 (tonnes of CO2) heat) Stores 435,344 428,997 353,809 359,990 333,576 Total scope 1 + 2 757,841 Distribution centres 47,999 45,151 31,451 35,113 29,273 Scope 3 (raw materials production, 32,442,593 emissions from suppliers, goods transport, IKEA Industry 330,112 380,677 324,225 369,740 390,416 business travel, Co-worker commuting, IKEA Components* 819 1,095 customer transportation, product use and product end-of-life) Offices 4,730 4,791 4,641 3,766 3,481 Total scope 1,2 and 3 emissions 33,200,434 Total 818,185 859,616 714,126 769,427 757,841 * IKEA Components data is reported for the calendar year. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 4 6 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E ANSWER energy efficiency in our stores and lights to LED lamps to save energy, lower “We want to have a positive distribution centres alone. Rising enerinternal air temperatures and reduce the impact on people and the planet, gy prices may mean that some projects risk of fire. A Life Cycle Cost Analysis modand that means going beyond could achieve payback more quickly than el has been developed to enable us to seour direct operations and focusing on the areas where we projected. lect LED suppliers that offer the best value can make the most difference. and the most energy-efficient products. And since we operate across We now have more energy-efficient the whole value chain, we have a unique opportunity, and a Our store designers use the IKEA kitchen ventilation systems in 88 stores, Stakeholder responsibility to do so. Working energy model to integrate energy most of which were installed during FY14. with others, we are helping to challenge efficiency and renewable energy into On average, they save a total of more than transform the sustainability of heating, cooling, lighting and energy 160 MWh per store each year, of which the cotton and forestry sectors. QUESTION This approach benefits people in new and existing stores. 25% is from a reduction in electricity and and the environment and is 75% from a decrease in heating. For most “IKEA already has ambitious helping to make more sustainastores, we expect the investment payback sustainability initiatives, inble sources such as FSC and Betcluding aggressive renewable ter Cotton mainstream commodIn FY14, the tool was used to support 19 to be within two years. energy procurement goals. But ities. We’ve set ambitious goals projects to make both big changes to the In FY14, we have started to test fuel as a leading product design and to reduce energy and water use way stores are designed and smaller imcell technologies in the USA; they use a retail firm with a global reach, and CO2 emissions in production, it is well positioned to drive and have achieved good results provements to everyday activities. This chemical reaction to convert biogas and sustainable change well beyond by working together with some has resulted in lower capital spending and natural gas into electricity and water. We its own business. How will IKEA of our more impact intensive less energy use. expect that a 300 kW fuel cell installation use its influence and expertise suppliers. We also have a unique can generate enough energy to cover 40% to achieve more transformationopportunity to enable millions of The roll-out of energy-efficient lighting al progress across its industry people to live more sustainably, continues, with a total of 62 stores now of the annual energy consumption of an and value chain on issues such for example by making energy fitted with LED and other efficient lighting average store. as energy and water?” efficient LED lighting affordable systems. We have invested over EUR 20 We are extending effective energy and attractive and by offerAndrew Steer, President and CEO, ing affordable home solar to million in the lighting project and expect to management further into IKEA operaWorld Resources Institute our customers. These are good invest another EUR 80 million to improve tions. For some time every store has had results, but there is much more the lighting in 220 stores and other buildan energy goal, but responsibilities for to do. The scale of sustainability challenges like climate change ings by the end of FY17. The investment of who managed energy were not clear or and water scarcity requires EUR 100 million will deliver EUR 15 million consistent. We have now changed our transformational change. As we savings each year and reduce energy working methods so that roles are clearly move forward, we will continue consumption by 15% per store. defined, including who is responsible for to go all-in to transform our business and will work with othThe rest of IKEA Group, including IKEA setting goals and gathering data. This ers to advocate for wider change Industry and Distribution Services, are means we will have more accurate and in society.” joining the LED transformation. So far, complete data on energy management Steve Howard, Chief Sustainability of the six units in IKEA Industry Division and accountability for meeting goals. Our Officer, IKEA Group Board, five now have LED lighting. In our new Energy Performance Year Cycle feeds furniture factories we are changing UV in data from individual stores and distribuCONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 4 7 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Towards climate positive Climate change is one of the biggest nities in the USA and forced us to temOur major commitments to tackle sustainable sources for cotton and challenges facing society, and urgent porarily close nine IKEA stores, leading climate change include: wood action is needed to protect people and to USD 9 million (EUR 7.2 million) in lost • Advocating for ambitious policies to the planet. revenue. • Making a more sustainable home life address climate change, individually Some of the countries we source from affordable and attractive for millions and through coalitions. But the transition to a low-carbon are particularly vulnerable to the effects of customers, including home solar economy offers huge opportunities, of climate change, increasing the risk of and energy-efficient LED lighting We are calling for long-lasting, robust bringing new jobs, economic growth and disruption in our supply chain and harm • Transitioning to 100% renewable policies that will unlock the innovation energy security. For IKEA, taking action to communities. energy, by producing as much energy and investment needed for companies on climate change drives innovation, We are working to make our business from renewable sources as all the to commit to more sustainable business investment and renewal. It is an opporclimate positive. By this we mean becomenergy we consume in our buildings models and a low-carbon economy. We tunity to make our business better and ing energy independent by investing in • Purchasing renewable electricity will continue this in FY15 in the run-up to meet the needs and expectations of our renewable energy and energy efficiency from others the COP21 meeting in Paris, where world customers. (see page 52), cutting emissions in our • Improving energy efficiency and leaders will come together to negotiate a Our direct operations are already besupply chain (see page 62) and inspirencouraging the uptake of renewable global agreement to tackle climate change. ing disrupted by extreme weather. For ing and enabling millions of customers energy in our supply chain Read more about our approach to climate example, in 2012, Hurricane Sandy serito reduce their energy use and generate • Transforming the materials we use, change and public policy on page 102. ously affected co-workers and commuclean energy at home (see page 14). for example aiming for 100% more CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 4 8 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Becoming a leader in sustainable furniture production IKEA Industry – our own furniture for vehicles, by the end of FY20. production business – makes around 15% of our products and is responsible We will do this by increasing the use of biomass to generate Regulating voltage for around half of our energy use. We want to be the leader in sustainable our own energy, purchasing more renewable energy and improving saves energy furniture production. To achieve this energy efficiency. We also want to be by 2020, we have developed the IKEA a great place for our co-workers to The power that comes from the energy bills and repairing or replacing Industry Sustainability Plan, in line work and a good neighbour in all areas grid in many countries has a higher equipment. In countries where elecwith the People & Planet Positive where we operate. To make sure the voltage than needed in most buildings. tricity is not from renewable sources, Strategy, and set ambitious targets materials and services we buy are in Our store in Vantaa, Finland, further reducing voltage can also cut carbon for all IKEA Industry sites. line with our sustainability principles, improved its energy efficiency by inemissions. We want to make boards and we will continue to engage all suppliers stalling a voltage optimiser. This saved In six years, the Vantaa store will furniture from recycled wood or wood to understand and implement IWAY. 5.5% of the energy used in FY14 have saved enough energy to pay coming entirely from well-managed (compared with FY13), without having back the EUR 120,000 cost of the unit. forests. Our products will be made Read more about how we are to change any electrical equipment. The payback period could be quicker without sending any waste to landfill working towards a carbon neutral The unit reduces the mains voltage in stores where energy consumption or discharging wastewater from IKEA Industry on page 49. and regulates fluctuations in voltage. is greater and the cost of electricity production, and using the least This reduces energy consumption and is higher. The results of the pilot are amount of resources possible. We Read more about how we engaged extends the life of electrical equipment being analysed and communicated aim to be carbon neutral in all IKEA policy makers on becoming carbon by protecting it from damage caused across IKEA to encourage the installaIndustry operations, including fuel neutral on page 102. by power surges, saving us money on tion of the units from FY15. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 4 9 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E ENERGY EFFICIENCY FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 tion centres for analysis and informs our Energy management is an integral part (% decrease against FY10 GOAL yearly goal setting for country operations. of the new sustainability training that has baseline*) Store managers now have a clearly debeen rolled out in FY14. Stores 4.1 7.1 9.6 15.1 20 fined role as they approve the action plans IKEA Industry Group has been working Distribution centres 12.4 18.5 9.0 27.1 20 and necessary resources to meet the ento set up an energy management strucergy goals. Store operations managers ture at all sites. Local energy teams were IKEA Industry Group 7.5 14.0 10.3 17.2 20 Divisions Flatline and Solid also have energy management included in formed in FY14, and in FY15 an energy Wood their job profiles. management system will be implementIKEA Industry Group Division 9.6 13.8 3.4 -1.6 20 ed at five pilot sites. Lessons from these Board pilots will help us develop the next phase Base year: FY11 Changing co-worker behaviour of the roll-out. IKEA Components 25.9 20 is essential if we want to meet Base year: 2012 energy efficiency goals. * Historical data (FY11-FY13) has been restated for all areas, due to changes in the methodology. How co-workers go the extra mile Corneliu Andreiev, Maintenance ting heating, cooling and ventilation Manager in IKEA Bucharest, Romaequipment. nia has tirelessly worked on making Michael Schmidt, Energy Specialsmall changes that have a big impact ist at IKEA Germany, has worked on energy efficiency, such as weekly enthusiastically across the country monitoring of the store’s energy throughout FY14 to improve energy consumption and optimising use of efficiency. Each month he provides the lighting, heating, cooling and ventilastores with updates on their progress, tion to improve efficiency. He has also shares best practices and uses his coached co-workers to be more aware many years of experience to support of their energy use. The store was one their efforts. With help from Michael, of the least energy efficient of all IKEA the stores have reduced energy use stores, but he has helped to reduce across Germany by 11% in FY14, more energy consumption by around 30% than double the target. since FY13. During FY16 he plans to cut energy consumption by half, comFor more on how we support our pared with FY13, by installing better co-workers to play a role in making insulation and LED lights, and retrofitIKEA more sustainable, see page 21. Corneliu Andreiev Michael Schmidt CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 5 0 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E SITE SELECTION WATER POSITIVE ENERGY INDEPENDENCE SUSTAINABLE BUILDING STRONG COMMERCIAL OFFER ZERO WASTE MATERIALS Sustainable life at home CHANGE AGENT IN SUSTAINABLE PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY OPERATIONS The Sustainable LOWEST CARBON MEETING THE GOOD NEIGHBOUR Store journey EMISSIONS CUSTOMERS We want to make all our stores more workers who are specialists in sustainable ment all 12 principles. Our ambition is learn how to live a more sustainable life sustainable and we have been making buildings, store operations, materials, to create stores that are relevant for the at home. Inspiring our co-workers will be progress to improve their location, design architecture, working environment, urban community and provide local people with essential to achieving this vision. We will and efficiency. living and mobility to take part in creative a great place to be. We want to achieve share our progress towards achieving our But we want to go beyond efficiency workshops. Working with sustainability this through beautiful store and landscape vision in FY15. and make our stores an important part experts, they established 12 principles for design, implementing sustainable pracof the lives of co-workers, customers and what a sustainable store should be like. tices at every stage of construction and We have already started following some of the community. Our Kaarst store in Germany and throughout our operations. These stores the 12 principles in new stores: In FY13, we launched the Sustainable Maebashi store in Japan, opening in FY16 will become hubs for customers to meet, Store Project by bringing together coand FY17 respectively, will aim to implehave a great shopping experience and CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 5 1 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E A LT O N A S T O R E , H A M B U RG , G E R M A N Y: O PE N E D F Y14 As our first city-centre bike trailers for free if they location – in a pedestrian return them within three zone – Altona is unlike most hours, so larger furniture IKEA stores. items can be taken home Arranged over seven levwithout the need of a car or els, windows let in natural van. A bike courier service light and cars park on the costs between EUR 9.90 and top four levels. Most cusEUR 19.90, depending on tomers travel on foot and by the distance from the store. public transport. The store has required Despite having a sales a bigger investment but it is area of 18,000 m2 – 20% an exciting experiment that smaller than other IKEA will help us develop a bluestores in the Hamburg area print for more sustainable – it will stock the full IKEA stores. range. Customers can rent cargo bikes, wagons and P I S A S T O R E , I TA LY: O PE N E D F Y14 Energy efficiency is at the heart of the store. Z AG R E B S T O R E , C ROAT I A: Installing LED lights at the store O PE N E D F Y14 has the potential to reduce consumption by up to 60% compared with traditional lighting. ‘Assembling dreams toThrough a mattress The photovoltaic plant, the biggether’ – this is the motto take-back service and gest roof array in IKEA Italia Retail, for the Zagreb store project, strong communications has a peak capacity of 690 kW and our first in Croatia. about living a more sustaingenerates around 20% of the store’s Sorting waste and able life at home, customers electricity. recycling are not the norm will be encouraged to think Hot water is produced from heat in Croatia. Also, it can take and behave differently recovered by heat pumps in the significant time and effort to about waste, recycling spring, summer and autumn. install photovoltaic panels and resource efficiency. In addition to recovering rainand geothermal heating This aims to help them water and sorting food, cardboard, systems. save money and reduce wood, plastic film and metal waste, But with state-of-the-art their carbon footprint. the store has facilities to make waste management equipcustomer travel more sustainable ment, including cardboard through a free shuttle bus, two balers, the store aims to electric vehicle charging posts be landfill-free and lead on and plans to become part of the sustainability among local municipal bike sharing network. retailers. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 5 2 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Investing in renewable energy RENEWABLE ENERGY PRODUCED BY TYPE FY12 FY13 FY14 We are working hard to meet our goal of By 2020, we plan to produce Wind (GWh) 290 298 410 energy independence. By the end of 2015, as much renewable energy as Solar PV (GWh) 29 68 90 we aim to have invested and committed all of the energy we consume. Biomass (GWh) 899 1,059 1,310 to invest EUR 1.5 billion in renewable energy projects, mainly offsite wind farms Total (GWh) 1,218 1,425 1,810 and photovoltaic (PV) panels installed on Our investment in energy independence Percentage of total energy consumption (%) 34% 37% 42% our buildings. We have already committed makes good business sense. Being more to own and operate 224 wind turbines and energy efficient and producing renewable RENEWABLE ENERGY (purchased FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 have installed 700,000 solar panels on our energy enables us to reduce costs and electricity and on-site generation) buildings. makes us more resilient by protecting us AS % OF TOTAL CONSUMPTION* from fluctuating energy prices. Stores 35 41 48 50 53 We contribute to the development of Where possible, we use the energy Distribution centres 34 39 51 54 66 renewable energy by: produced by our wind turbines and solar IKEA Industry 60 61 63 61 63 panels to power our buildings, but in most IKEA Components 49 42 • Investing in our own power generacases the electricity is sold to the grid. Total 47 51 56 56 59 tion equipment, including offsite wind This is because in some countries, nationturbines, on-site biomass boilers al regulations and the set-up of electricity and on-site solar panels. This helps grids prevent us from directly using the us work towards becoming energy energy we produce. By purchasing renewindependent. able electricity, we can also indirectly conof renewable energy. These include adding door IKEA distribution centre. In FY14, • Purchasing renewable electricity to tribute to more availability by helping to quality criteria for purchased renewable IKEA Industry Divisions Flatline and Solid supply our stores and other buildings increase demand. energy to or energy purchasing guideWood produced 796,800 MWh worth of (not included as part of our energy In FY14, we produced 1,810 GWh of lines. In FY14, we purchased 1,150 GWh of waste wood pellets and briquettes, which independence goals). renewable energy, a 27% increase comrenewable energy from the grid. were sold to others. pared with FY13 and equivalent to 42% More than 63% of the energy used by We use geothermal equipment to heat of our total energy consumption. That is IKEA Industry is from renewable sources, and cool some of our buildings. While this five percentage points more than in FY13 including 80% of its heat energy. Heat is renewable energy generation, it is not (37%), despite the growth of our business energy is used for drying wood flakes included in our renewable energy goals which caused energy use to increase by for producing particle boards and planks because it represents a small proportion 11% in FY14 compared with FY13 (from for making wood furniture. In FY14, we of our overall production and it is difficult 3,890 GWh to 4,333 GWh). converted to using biomass boilers at to measure output. We are taking steps to make sure that wood board production sites in Slovakia the renewable energy we buy is in line and Sweden. with the World Resources Institute’s guidThe IKEA Industry facility in Esipovo, ance on accounting for greenhouse gas Russia, now gets around 30% of its energy emission reductions through the purchase from a biomass boiler located in the next CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 5 3 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E New renewable energy projects “People talk about renewable enProjects we worked on in FY14 include: ergy as ‘alternative’, but that does it a Making our Novgorod disservice,” says Steve Howard, Chief Sustainability Officer at IKEA Group. • Our new wind farm in Dalarna, Sweden, consisting of seven 120 m factory more efficient “It’s just sensible, mainstream energy.” We have invested in many solar and high turbines capable of producing enough electricity to power 16,000 wind projects to get closer to being Swedish homes Most IKEA Industry sites use boilsignificantly to our carbon footprint energy independent. • Our new 1 MW solar system on a ers fuelled by wood by-products from and throwing away wood as waste was In FY14 we made further investstore roof in Australia is the largest operations. In 2013, we acquired a inefficient and against our sustainments – our biggest so far is the comof its kind in the country new factory in Novgorod, Russia, fitability principles. In FY14, we began mitment to purchase the Hoopeston • We have PV installations in 20 ted with a gas boiler. The site’s wood engineering works to install an 80 MW wind farm in Illinois, USA. Once it is states in the USA and at 90% of by-products were sent to landfill as biomass boiler, which will be running running in early 2015, Hoopeston will our sites there, and are one of the waste. in the second half of 2016. This will regenerate the equivalent of 165% of the top five national solar-generating The low cost of gas in Russia sult in a 75% reduction in the carbon electricity consumed by the whole of companies. Our distribution centre meant that an investment to convert footprint of the factory, and a 30% IKEA USA each year. in Perryville, USA, recently almost the boiler to burn wood (biomass) reduction across Division Board. In a similar project in Alberta, Candoubled the size of its solar array to would not meet our required eightThe decision is in line with our ada, we have committed to purchase a give an output of 4.6 MW. year payback period. goal for IKEA Industry to be carbon 46 MW wind farm which will generate Despite this, we decided to go neutral and to build a business that is more than twice the total energy used ahead because the gas boiler added resource and energy independent. by IKEA Canada. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 5 4 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Transport can have a big impact on the efficiency of Around 7.5% of our total carbon foottransport because the more products we print is from customer and co-worker can fit into a container, the fewer journeys travel and 3.2% is from transporting our we need to make. This lowers our costs products. and our CO2 emissions. In FY14, we reduced CO2 emissions per Product transport cubic metre of products transported by We sell millions of products in countries 12.8% compared to FY11, taking us closer around the world every day – so our serto our target of 20% by FY16. This is a 2% vice providers need to move products improvement on FY13, short of our goal of efficiently from suppliers to distribution 3.5%. The main reason we did not meet centres and on to stores, or direct from our annual goal was a decrease in the utisuppliers to stores, by rail, road and sea. lisation rate (cubic metres of products per Efficiency is essential to the IKEA busishipment) in some regions. We are looking ness idea, and this is reflected in the way for ways to improve by focusing on: we design our product range and ship• Reducing the number of shipments by New trucks reducing ments to minimise the number of journeys improving our ordering process, equipdelivery emissions and distances travelled. Packaging and ment, packaging and net cubic metres the way products are packed into vehicles of transported goods per shipment Moving our products to and from Together with our suppliers, we are IKEA stores contributes to our local investigating the possibility of installemissions. Changing transport mething public biogas refuelling stations. T R ANSP ORT OF PRODUC T S ods and fuels is a way to reduce this In southern Europe, we are replacing pollution. conventional fuels in long-haul trucks FY12 FY13 FY14 GOAL All local customer deliveries from and using compressed or liquefied 2016 our Kungens Kurva store in Stocknatural gas (CNG and LNG) instead. holm, Sweden – around 36,000 a year Compared with regular diesel trucks, Increase in cubic metres of products per 2.5% 1.7% 1.5% – are made by trucks run on biogas the initial investment in these models shipment (m3/shipment) compared with the made from waste. Biogas can be is around 25% more, but they are quiprevious year made from almost any organic mateeter and produce fewer emissions. Reduction in CO2 per cubic metre of products 7.3% 10.8% 12.8% 20% rial, such as agricultural and forestry In Spain, all the trucks that replentransported (CO2 grams/m3) compared with FY11 waste. Using it can result in CO2 savish stock in our Valencia store use % of products delivered directly from 56 60 58 ings of more than 25% and completely CNG and LNG, and by spring 2015, all supplier to stores prevent sulphur dioxide and particuthe trucks we use to transport goods late emissions. in the Piacenza area of Italy will be We are working closely with carefuelled by LNG. We are planning to FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 fully selected partners who provide us extend the use of CNG and LNG across with a reliable source of pure biogas Europe, including in Italy, the NethFilling rate for transport of prod63 64 62 62 64 and efficient vehicles which run on it. erlands, Portugal and Spain. We are ucts (%) We want to create a strong infrastrucalready using LNG for transporting Net cubic metres of transported 55.4* ture for our roll-out of these delivery products in China and will continue to goods per shipment trucks, and encourage more compaexpand this into other parts of Asia nies and customers to use them too. and North America. * In FY15, the m3/shipment KPI will replace the filling rate. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 5 5 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E • Developing common methodologies for deliveries, often in towns and cities, for measuring and reducing CO2 and to customer homes or pick-up points, we other transport emissions, formulating have a maximum vehicle age of five years. approaches to public policy, the use This is because driving in urban areas is of alternative fuels and fuel consumpless fuel efficient than outside cities. tion in partnership with Green Freight In our warehouses, we use shuntEurope, Green Freight Asia and the ing trucks to move shipping containers Clean Cargo Working Group from BSR, and trailers, and forklift trucks to move a sustainable business membership products. They account for around 10% organisation. of CO2 emissions from distribution centres. We have been exploring alternative We increased the volumes per shiptechnologies that produce fewer harmful ment by 1.5% in FY14, compared with emissions, such as hydrogen fuel cells for FY13, and our filling rate increased to forklift trucks and electric shunting trucks 64%. We are replacing ‘filling rate’ with a to test whether they could replace vehicles new key performance indicator (KPI) that using conventional fuels. measures the net cubic metres of transStreamlining our ported goods per shipment, which was 55.4 m3 in FY14. We switched from conTo help us accelerate reductions services for customers ventional containers to high containers of CO2 emissions from the transporwith extra volume, which caused the filltation of our products, we are We want everyone to be able to bly and installation). buy our products whenever, wherever That is why we decided to change ing rate to decrease in some cases, deworking on a strategy for reducing and however they want. Our aim is to how we manage home delivery transspite having more products per shipment. and replacing fossil fuels. ensure it is convenient for customers port and associated services. We are The new KPI better reflects the efficiency to shop online or travel to our stores currently creating new distribution and on public transport and have their supplier structures, and updating our of our transport because it is not affected purchases delivered to their homes IT systems, so that we have a consistby the type of equipment we are using to In FY15, we will involve external stakeby efficient, low-emissions vehicles. ent approach to all the transport sertransport our goods. holders, such as NGOs, policymakers and To make this a reality, our delivery vices we offer, including home delivIn April 2014, the roll-out and implesuppliers who will challenge and inspire us services must be easy to use, flexible ery. By making our transport services and affordable. more efficient, with shorter delivery mentation of IWAY 5.1, our supplier Code to be ambitious. We have some way to go. Our retimes, fewer mistakes and items going of Conduct, was complete and all transOur home delivery service is becoming search shows that our customers love missing and greater choice, we will port suppliers must now meet its requiremore important to our business, especially our stores, catalogue and products, make our customers happier while but they want us to do better on home cutting the number of journeys and ments. Because national engine emisas customer travel habits and expectadelivery and services (such as assemreducing CO2 emissions. sions standards vary, we adapted our road tions of us change (see page 57 for more transport guidelines. Only trucks that fulfil on customer travel). the national engine emissions standards In FY14, IKEA Transport became IKEA • Increasing the use of rail, barge • Working with our transport suppliers may be used. In countries where no engine Transport and Services because our transand sea and moving away from road to explore ideas and test innovations emission standards exist, trucks must be port operations need to reflect the intransport, which produces higher CO2 that can reduce CO2 emissions, such no older than 10 years. For smaller trucks creasing demand for home delivery and emissions as more efficient vehicles and more (weighing up to 3.5 tonnes) that are used assembly and installation services. Bringsustainable fuels CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 5 6 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E ing all our product transport and service tinue to reduce travel where possible. But requirements into one organisation makes sometimes travel is necessary and we enus more efficient (see feature on page 55). sure that our booking tools, information available on IKEA Inside (our co-worker Co-workers’ meetings and travel intranet) and travel companies help coSimplicity, efficiency, safety, sustainworkers select the most sustainable opability, cost-consciousness and common tions for transport, accommodation and sense are the guiding principles for the meetings. Public transport is always the way our co-workers meet and travel. We first choice. avoid unnecessary trips and meetings to We have reduced the number of travel protect the well-being and life balance of management suppliers we work with, so our co-workers, and to reduce our impact that we can be more efficient, and can on the environment. We have invested in work more closely together to make the 134 video meeting facilities, which have right sustainable travel decisions. been installed at IKEA sites worldwide to We have implemented an improved support our ‘green meetings’ approach system for gathering and reporting travel for face-to-face and virtual meetings. In data. This will enable us to understand FY14, virtual meetings – web and phone – costs, travel patterns, booking behaviour increased by 26%. We reduced our busiand policy compliance better and identify ness travel costs relative to sales by 29% how to improve our approach to travel. For Inspiring co-workers to in FY14 (37% in FY13), compared with the example, it will help us weigh up the benchange their commuting habits FY07 baseline. We did not reduce travel efits and costs of rail over air travel and costs at the same rate as FY13 because support us to expand the use of bio-fuel It is not just our customers who As part of the campaign, we made need to access IKEA stores – co-workelectric bikes available to co-workers of business growth, and we aim to conrental cars. ers around the world make thousands in Itingen, Switzerland to encourage of journeys to and from work every them to cycle to and from work. This day. We want to encourage our cowas particularly good for co-workers workers to travel in the most sustainwho would not normally cycle beBUSINESS TRAVEL FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 able way possible. Alternative forms of cause the distance between home and Number of web and 52,000 82,434 104,920 146,015 189,416 235,121 transport are good for the planet and work is too far to cycle on a convenphone meetings they often provide health benefits too. tional bike. There was a prize for the co-worker who travelled the furthest Number of hours of 760 2,800 6,900 12,407 19,081 Across Distribution Services (DS) using either an electric or conventional video meetings in Central Europe, we regularly hold bike, or another alternative mode of co-worker mobility campaigns betransport. Around 300 co-workers Business travel expend. 69 67 66 72 63 71 tween June and August. Co-workers across DS Central Europe participated, index (travel costs in who travel to work using bicycles, raising around EUR 5,000 for charity. relation to sales: public transport or car sharing earn a FY07 = 100) donation for every kilometre travelled, See more about how we engage IKEA sites with video 70 110 130 134 which goes towards local charities runand inspire our co-workers on page 73. meeting facilities ning mobility projects. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 5 7 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Norway Sweden Canada Russia United Kingdom Belgium France Austria United States Germany Switzerland Japan Spain China Italy Netherlands Poland Croatia Australia C O U N T R I E S W H E R E W E H AV E E V C H A R G I N G S TAT I O N S Customer travel affordable home delivery and publicising Most of our stores are located outside public transport information, such as bus Plugging in to town centres, so travel is often part of the and train timetables. Our first city-centre electric transport experience of visiting IKEA. We want the store is in a pedestrian shopping area in millions of customers who visit our stores Hamburg and around 80% of our visitors We want to enable our customers which supplies the electricity. Customevery year to be able to travel easily and and customers travel to the store without to live more sustainable lives, and this ers can recharge their electric vehicles cost-effectively, without affecting local a car, by walking or using public transport journey should begin at our stores. (EVs) for free while they shop – plug in communities or harming the environment. (see page 51). “By 2020, we expect far more of for just 30 minutes to go from empty our customers will travel to and from to 80% charged. Car ownership is declining in some In Poland, we are encouraging customour stores using electric vehicles and Within six months, the IKEA Leeds countries, but currently most customers ers to cycle to our stores by offering free car sharing. We are encouraging them store became the sixth most used of travel by car – this contributes to traffic bicycle maintenance facilities, such as reto make this change now, and investall charging points in the UK. congestion and air emissions, and it can pair tools and pumps. We currently offer ing in the infrastructure to help make In France, we rolled out a fast it happen,” says Radek Pazour, Global charging network across all our stores, also be expensive because of rising fuel this at three stores and plan to roll out to Customer Relations Manager, IKEA in partnership with Nissan. We held prices. more in FY15. Group. events across the country that gave We are encouraging newer ways to We have installed charging points customers a fun introduction to elecin 18 countries and all of our largest tric vehicles, including opportunities travel, such as car sharing, including elecmarkets. Over 25% of our stores now to learn more about alternative Over 90% of our stores are tric car pools. Over a quarter of our stores have charging points. We continue to mobility and even take a test run accessible by public transport and now offer charging stations for electric veroll this technology out across other in an electric car. markets. We installed charging points at this is a must for any new store. hicles. In Paris, customers will be able to During FY14, we became the first many stores during FY14, including at rent an electric van or book zero emission UK retailer to offer rapid electric our Atlanta store in the USA, Klagenhome delivery from autumn FY15. vehicle charging points at all stores. furt store in Austria, Poznań store in We encourage customers to use the We are partnering with Nissan, which Poland, Zagreb store in Croatia and provides the charge points, and with nine stores in Italy. service by providing free shuttle buses green energy provider Ecotricity, between public transport hubs, offering CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 5 8 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E we reconstructed the reservoirs at one of Waste our largest sites to increase its capacity Our long-term aim is to send no waste to for water harvesting and reuse. But this landfill. We set a target of recycling or reWATER USE BY FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 meant that we could not reuse water at covering energy from 90% of our waste by IKEA UNIT (m3) that site during the installation. At another August 2020. The original deadline was the Stores 3,927,551 4,438,075 4,608,175 4,775,309* 4,853,478 site we installed a wet electrostatic precipend of FY15, but we adjusted it because itator (WESP) emission filter, which uses although we were very close to achieving Distribution centres 265,524 228,772 223,292 224,430 197,953 water vapour to filter out gases from proour goal, some countries outside Europe IKEA Industry 766,373 1,014,603 1,315,821 1,280,350 1,468,498 duction and reduce emissions. We plan to do not have the recycling infrastructure IKEA Components 4,830 4,711 adapt it to reuse water. All sites are workneeded for us to reach our target within ing on specific strategies to move towards this timeframe. Total 4,959,448 5,681,450 6,147,288 6,284,919 6,524,640 being water positive by 2020. In FY14 we introduced an even more * Data for stores in FY13 restated from FY13 report (3,853,637) as it was not complete Read more about our water positive ambitious target – 80% of the waste from strategy on page 35. stores and distribution centres and 90% of WA S T E P R O D U C E D H O W WA S T E I S D I S P O S E D Water in our operations I N F Y 14 (%) O F I N F Y 14 (%) We use an estimated 770 million m of 3 We are working on reducing water per year in our own operations and water use and impact in our retail across our extended supply chain. The operations, particularly in methods we use to understand our water waterstressed regions. use and risks helps us to identify the locations and materials that have the biggest water impact. Most water impact is from For example, we have installed a memStores 77.5% Share of total waste recycled 77.2% sub-suppliers who produce raw materials, brane bioreactor treatment plant which IKEA Industry 10.0% Share of total waste incinerated 12.1% such as cotton, and from processing sites can clean wastewater at our new store in for energy recovery Distribution centres 8.2% like dyeing mills. You can read more about Pisa, Italy. The treated water can be reShare of total waste incinerated 2.1% IKEA Components 4.3% how we support cotton suppliers to manused for in-store bathrooms and for irrigawithout energy generation* age water on page 31. Read about how we tion. We estimate the treatment plant will Share of total waste to landfill 8.6% are working with our direct suppliers to rehalve the store’s water use. * Includes small amount sent to aerobic and anaerobic digestion. Figures not available to report separately. duce their water impact and energy use At IKEA Industry Group, we are reuson page 62. ing and recycling the water we use during HOW WASTE IS Recycled Incinerated Sent to Incinerated In FY14, IKEA buildings used 6,254,640 manufacturing and returning some of the DISPOSED OF IN for energy land fill without m3 of water, 3.8% more than in FY13. We storm water to the local water cycle. Our FY14 (%) recovery energy recovery have restated our FY13 data to include all water use increased by 14.7% in FY14. Stores 77 13 8 2 stores, and we have worked to improve The greatest increase was in IKEA Industhe data collection process during FY14. try Group Division Solid Wood, where we Distribution Services 81 11 3 5 have invested in new sites and upgrades IKEA Industry Group 66 11 23 0 of facilities at existing sites. For example, IKEA Components 100 0 0 0 CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 5 9 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E by business units). In the majority of countries where we CONVERTING TO waste from IKEA Industry that is not sent waste material, and make it easier for it to have stores, food waste from customer A CIRCUL AR ECONOMY to landfill must be material recycled, not be recycled. Where possible, we find ways restaurants and co-worker canteens is incinerated or used for energy recovery, to reuse it to make our products. This is sorted for composting or sent to a third IKEA is a part of the Circular party to convert it into biogas that can be Economy 100 (CE100), a global by August 2020. good for the environment and reduces platform established by the Ellen This will be very challenging in some costs. used as fuel for cars and buses, or as aniMacArthur Foundation to bring countries, but with more time, we aim to mal feed. But this still leaves some countogether companies and innovators support the development of the necessary Performance in FY14 tries where food waste is sent to landfill from around the world with a single goal: to speed up the transition to facilities and processes in these countries. In FY14, we generated 477,714 tonnes of because they do not have the necessary a circular economy. Because most of our waste is generated in waste, 13% more than in FY13. Our mateinfrastructure. stores, we have added a new target – to rial recycled rate was 77.2%, and 12.1% IKEA Industry Group produced 6.2% The idea is to move beyond the traditional linear ‘take, make, reduce waste from our store operations by was incinerated for energy recovery. This less waste in Divisions Flatline and Solid dispose’ model, and to create an 10% compared with FY13. is a total of 89.3%, compared to 88.1% in wood (measured in kg of waste/m2 prodeconomy which mimics renewal FY13. This is the first year that we have reuct produced) and 13.8% less in Division cycles of the natural world. A ported the recycling and energy recovery circular economy relies more on Board (measured in kg waste/m3 boardrenewable energy, minimises As a minimum, all stores sort rates separately (see table for breakdown sproduced). Overall, IKEA Industry Group chemical use and eradicates waste. materials such as cardboard, glass, metal, paper, plastic and wood for reBeing part of the CE100 allows us to build on our existing partnerships cycling, and many have implemented and learn from our peers. We are WASTE RECYCLING RATE (% total FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 new initiatives to increase recycling. amount waste recycled or energy a member of the working group on recovered)1 fabric and textiles alongside companies like Aquafil, H&M and M&S. Stores 84 86 88 89 90 We meet regularly and collaborate In FY14, 90% of all waste at our stores Distribution centres 91 90 94 95 92 to develop new opportunities for was sent for recycling or energy recovery. closing the loop in our operations. IKEA Industry 2 79 77 Key facts about the CE100: Because a big proportion of our waste is IKEA Components 98 100 from packaging, we are working on ways • Number of participants: around Total 82 85 86 88 89 to reduce the amount of packaging we use 50 (goal is 100) to transport products to stores and cus• Key stakeholders: corporations, WASTE PRODUCED, FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 emerging innovators and regions/ tomers (see page 54 for more on product governments TONNES3 transport). Two-thirds of our stores have • Focus areas: insight, innovation Stores 279,778 307,877 335,167 338,463 370,040 compacting machines for processing cardand education Distribution centres 34,369 41,758 41,933 39,428 39,196 • Benefits: collective problem board, which makes up a big proportion IKEA Industry 4 41,191 50,798 48,146 43,054 47,983 solving and capability building of our product transport packaging. By in• Outcomes: financial gain, stalling balers – machines that compress IKEA Components 1,391 20,495 resilience, growth, innovation Total 355,338 400,433 425,246 422,336 477,714 and job creation. the materials more efficiently – we can reduce the number of journeys needed to 1 Excludes waste wood used for energy recovery or reused in products. 2 Figures restated from FY13 due to Read about how we are developchanges in the methodology used in Division Board, and the integration of Division Board and Divisions Flatline remove the material from stores by 80%, and Solid wood (formerly Swedspan and Swedwood). 3 Excludes waste wood used for energy recovery or reing products made from recycled increase the amount we can earn for the used in products. 4 Figures restated from FY13 due to changes in the methodology used in Division Board, and and renewable materials on page 37. the integration of Division Board and Divisions Flatline and Solid wood (formerly Swedspan and Swedwood). CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 6 0 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E recycled and recovered energy from furniture to families in need. We be76.9% of their waste. lieve that giving furniture a second life In FY14, we launched a new waste is the right thing to do. But all furnimanagement guideline and reporting systure we sell or give away must be safe tem that will give us data to track perforto use and we are developing global mance and identify areas that need to be guidelines to support stores in every improved so that we can meet our tarcountry to offer used furniture without gets. We also launched Recovery Direction compromising the safety of customFY14-16, a strategy for preventing unnecers. The guidelines will be completed essary costs due to damaged packaging in FY15, ready for roll-out to countries and products, and increasing our revenue in FY16. and reducing waste by giving our products a second chance. In the Netherlands and Norway, stores are collecting unwanted textiles. Dur• New KPIs for recovery introduced in ing the first six months of the project, six FY14 better support stores to take stores in the two countries collected over proactive, preventative measures to 11,000 kilograms of textiles. These are avoid unnecessary waste. currently donated to independent clothing Giving Belgian • We have been installing repacking collection charities for reuse and recycling. furniture a second life machines in 190 existing stores since We are exploring the possibility of using FY12 and they are available in all new these textiles to make products to be sold Half of our Belgian customers buyvoucher and we resell the product. stores. We use spare parts to repair at IKEA stores, and ways to involve our ing new furniture either leave their old • Donate it. Social enterprises that products as well as repackaging them. customers in the design process. The proitems at home to collect dust or take support vulnerable people come to In FY14, we repaired or repackaged ject is being rolled out across all six stores them to a waste collection site. More our stores weekly to collect second26% of the damaged items that were in Norway, and 13 in the Netherlands. than 40% have not considered other, hand items to sell on. more sustainable options for what • Renew it. We run workshops for returned by customers, or damaged happens to their unwanted items. IKEA FAMILY members where they during transport or in-store. By FY16 Old furniture takes up space and is a can learn how to renew or update we aim to repackage and sell 30% Customers can recycle light missed opportunity to save money and their furniture for different uses. material. • Fix it. Spare parts for furniture and which will generate around EUR 7.5 bulbs and appliances when they We did some research to underappliances are available online and million in additional revenue. visit our stores. The items are stand how we can make it easy for in-store. • Customers can return unwanted IKEA collected by specialists. IKEA customers in Belgium to reuse • Give it back. For a small fee, cusand recycle our products and live as tomers can give back appliances, furniture to our stores to be sold again sustainably and affordably as possible. mattresses and sofas when they or donated to charity. This is available The people we talked to came up with receive a replacement by home in Belgium, France and the UK, and at Read more about how we are enabling five ideas, which are now being impledelivery. some stores in other countries. In the customers to reduce waste at home on mented in stores across Belgium: The old items are then donated or UK, customers pay a non-profit fee for page 18. • Sell it. Customers can return their recycled. See page 11 for more on items to be collected when IKEA deRead more about how we are reusfurniture in good condition to how we are supporting customers to livers new ones. IKEA then donates ing waste materials in our products on an IKEA store, where they get a live a more sustainable life at home. the old items to charities who give the page 38. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 6 1 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Putting waste wood to good use hyde can be toxic. Therefore we work to enat IKEA Industry sure that the amount of formaldehyde used IKEA Industry makes products and prodas glue component in our wood-based panuct parts for IKEA, including solid wood, els is as low as possible. To ensure the safety flatline and board for our furniture. of our suppliers, co-workers and customers, In FY14, 922,304 tonnes of waste wood we work within one third of the emissions were produced by IKEA Industry Group, of limits permitted by the EU, and we require which around 2% went to landfill. The rest our home furnishing suppliers to work within was reused internally or sent for energy one half of these emissions limits. recovery. We reuse the waste to make We carefully monitor air emissions of new wood boards or sell it on as a raw maformaldehyde from our board factories terial wherever possible. Waste that is not to ensure they are below our strict limit suitable for reuse is made into pellets or (max. 10 mg/m3, or 50% German TA Luft briquettes that can be used as a renew(German Clean Air Ordinance) air limit of able fuel by other companies. 20 mg/m3). We respond to changes in legislation quickly to ensure we are always in IKEA Industry chemical management compliance. We take great care to manage potentially Our new factory in Novgorod, Rusharmful chemicals used at IKEA Indussia is fully compliant with our air emission try and we look for alternatives wherever standards. Although not required by Ruspossible. We always comply with legissian law, we installed a new wet electrolation and we take the risk of co-worker static precipitator (WESP) emission filter exposure to chemicals particularly seriduring FY14 to keep the factory in line with Getting the most ously. In some countries, classification of the same internal emission standard as in from waste wood how chemicals can harm people or the the EU units. environment and exposure limits are not See page 41 for more on how we use Using recycled material is a great ways to change this by improving controlled by law. But we aim to improve chemicals in our products. way to be more sustainable, but findexisting machines and investing in standards in our factories in these couning clean materials can be hard. new equipment. For example, magnets In Lure, a small town in eastern are used to extract metals and the tries by applying the same classification France, IKEA Industry buys crushed remaining contaminants are separated and exposure limits in all IKEA Industry recycled wood from a waste recycling and then either recycled or burned for sites and ensuring the safety and decent site to make wooden boards. Unfortuenergy recovery. working conditions of all co-workers. nately, glass, metal, plastics and In FY14, after three years, the stones are often hidden in the mix and volume of materials sent to landfill When there is no alternative to using at first, we had to throw away almost has been cut to zero. Now, the potentially harmful chemicals, we take 100kg for every ton of material we 485,000 m3 of particle board made extra safety precautions and have strict were buying. at IKEA Industry Lure each year A team of co-workers investigated contains 55% recycled wood. standards governing their use. For example, exposure to high levels of formaldeCONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 6 2 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E PEOPLE & PL ANET P E R F O R M A N C E i n F Y 14 P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S Energy and water in Encourage and enable our direct suppliers We achieved a 19% increase in energy our supply chain to become 20% more energy efficient by August 2017, compared to FY12. efficiency at tier 1 home furnishing suppliers compared with FY12. Defined as total energy consumed/m3 of goods. By August 2015, reduce carbon emissions We achieved an 11% reduction in carbon of our suppliers by 20%, compared to emissions from tier 1 home furnishing FY12. suppliers compared with FY12. In relative terms, measured by CO2/m3 goods purchased production volumes and then combined S U P P L I E R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y to create an overall Index score. This I N D E X (index score, weighted by gives us a picture of how our suppliers are production volumes out of 100) improving. We have been using the Index since 64 FY12 and supplier results have improved significantly. Every year between FY13 to FY15, we aim to improve the Index score 51 by 20% compared to the previous year. In FY14, we collected data on carbon and 39 water from suppliers covering 97% of our 33 total purchasing volumes. The Index score improved by 25% compared to last year, FY14 exceeding our target. We achieved this by FY13 continuing to support our suppliers to imFY12 We have 1,002 home furnishing suppliers mance of our home furnishings suppliers, prove their energy management and inFY11 and we work with them to reduce their use and plan improvements together. The Increase their use of renewable energy. of energy and water. This effort contributes dex scores feed into the Product SustainThe criteria are not set in stone: we greatly to achieving our overall environability Scorecard (see page 38) – a tool constantly seek suppliers’ feedback to deour workshops focused on the Product mental objectives, while saving money for for improving the sustainability of our velop and improve the Index. Many of our Sustainability Scorecard and improving our customers, suppliers and the business. products. long-term suppliers are keen to add more the Supplier Sustainability Index. SuggesThe Index covers energy management criteria to increase its scope. tions included adding criteria on logistics, Supplier Sustainability Index and energy-efficient production, renewAt our Global Supplier Sustainability water and chemical management. SuppliOur Supplier Sustainability Index enables able energy and raw materials efficiency. Days in May 2014, we brought together ers also wanted to include more challengus to measure the sustainability perforSupplier scores are weighted to reflect suppliers from across the world. One of ing social criteria. See page 64. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 6 3 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Supply chain – energy Suppliers Go Renewable and carbon Certain parts of our value chain, such as raw materials extraction, production We work with all our suppliers to and distribution, produce more carbon improve energy efficiency as part of emissions than others. Our tier 1 home our normal business relationship. furnishing, catalogue and food suppliers represent around 8.1% of our total carbon footprint. Glass and textile proThrough our Suppliers Go Renewable producers are the most carbon-intensive ject, we are working more closely with a sectors. group of higher impact suppliers to enable them to become more energy efficient and to generate and use more renewable energy. The projects are designed to reduce energy use and emissions, and save money. Performance in FY14 Total reported energy consumption and carbon emissions continued to decrease due to improvements in energy efficiency, energy management and more accurate data. In FY13 we introduced more complete reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. Bringing our TIER 1 HOME FURNISHING (HF) FY12 FY13 FY14 suppliers together SUPPLIER ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND CARBON EMISSIONS We learn a lot from working with production. For example, Yuyue Home Energy consumed (MWh) 7,852,933 7,132,305 6,743,521 all our suppliers, and we want to enTextile, a Chinese supplier, explained courage them to share with each other how it has implemented energy-effiEnergy efficiency (kWh/m3 product purchased) 308 274 250 as well. cient technology, waste recovery and Twelve suppliers with good perrecycling. It is exploring innovations Increase in energy efficiency tier 1 HF supplier 10.9 18.8 formance in sustainability attended such as alternative textile dyeing compared to FY12 (%) our first Global Sustainability Days techniques to reduce water and for suppliers in Älmhult, Sweden in chemical use. Renewable share (%) 24.8 25.3 26.6 May 2014 to share their experiences The event included workshops on CO2 equivalent (tonnes) 2,024,195 2,061,295 1,888,114 and best practice across all areas of topics such as the Product Sustainsustainability, including energy and ability Scorecard (see page 38). We Reduction in relative carbon emissions from 0%* 11.4% resource scarcity. listened to feedback on how to imour tier 1 HF suppliers compared to FY12 (%) They highlighted the importance prove this tool, for example providing of new, more efficient technology, and scorecards adapted to each industry. CO2 efficiency (kg CO2/m3) 79 79 70 the opportunities for on-site energy * Restated from FY13 (-0.01) due to fine-tuning of calculations CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 6 4 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E We use what we have learned from these Water in our supply chain projects to support and train other suppliWe target our efforts on water manageers to improve their energy management. ment in areas where we can have the Managed by our regional sustainability degreatest impact. velopers, there were 40 projects in total Among our direct suppliers, textiles and during FY14. metals producers use the most water, and Projects begin with an energy audit to have the greatest water impact. At the raw assess the supplier’s energy use and to materials level, cotton cultivation accounts identify opportunities for greater efficienfor the biggest share of water use and cy and generating or using renewable enimpact among our sub-suppliers. ergy. IKEA and the suppliers split the cost The countries where our suppliers use of the audit, which is usually carried out by the most water are Bangladesh, China, external consultants. Once the opportuniIndia, Pakistan and Turkey – all located ties have been discussed with suppliers we in regions of significant water risk. work together to create an action plan to improve energy performance. Average energy savings identified are around 15%, with payback periods of as little as three years. Supporting suppliers to save energy Return on investments for renewable energy solutions, such as photovoltaic (PV) We have completed 40 energy with external and internal audits, and panels and biomass boilers, tend to be projects with suppliers in more than supporting the implementation of new much longer and are often linked to na15 countries. solutions. tional subsidies. In FY14, we finished fewer projects In FY15, we will continue to deliver than we had planned, but we are conthe remaining energy projects and In FY14, Asian Fabrics, a textiles supfident that we will finalise 60 projects share the knowledge we are gaining plier in India, achieved 100% energy inin FY15 to reach our goal of between so that more suppliers can implement dependence after installing a 1.5 MW PV 90 and 100 by August 2015. some of the tried and tested improveIncreasingly, IKEA’s in-house ments. array and four turbines that generate 20 sustainability developers are gainSome of our more advanced supMW wind energy. The supplier did not reing the skills and experience to lead pliers are already energy efficient but ceive any government subsidies and it esthe audits. To support them, we have do not have easy access to renewable developed an energy assessment tool energy. We will support them with timates that the payback period is up to that identifies and quantifies energy expertise and access to more specialeight years. Asian Fabrics has presented efficiency potential. Eventually, we ist technology so they can continue their project to other IKEA suppliers to hope to expand the support availto improve. support and motivate them to make simiable to suppliers, including assistance lar renewable energy investments. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 6 5 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Building momentum Small changes make for energy saving a big difference “Meeting our sustainability goals For the past four years, Aurora Making furniture can use a lot of “Thanks to our partnership with means working closely with our suphas been working hard to change this energy, which is needed to power tools IKEA, we now better understand pliers,” says Aurora Bossi, one of 12 mindset, and with success. Suppliers and ventilation systems. that sustainability is a company-wide IKEA sustainability developers who across southern Europe have been Nafoco, one of our biggest furnieffort,” explains Mr Tuan. “Small focus on energy projects with supplifinding ways to be more energy efture suppliers in Vietnam, has been changes have made a big difference. ers around the world. ficient. working with IKEA over the past year For example, our ventilation systems “We will never meet our ambitious “These organisations are realising to transform the way it uses energy. used to run round-the-clock but are sustainability goals unless we partner that the initiatives we help them intro“We used to run our factories based now only switched on when they’re with those who share our values and duce can result in a better workplace, on what was required by our customneeded.” extend our positive impact on people saving money, and becoming a better ers and legal regulations. But IKEA Nafoco is on track to save more and the planet throughout the supply business.” has encouraged us to think creatively than EUR 44,000 on its energy bill. chain. Aurora is excited about the future: about saving energy, increasing efMr Tuan is pleased with the project “I focus on energy efficiency and “So far we’ve mainly focused on enficiency and creating opportunities,” and what it means for his company: renewables. When we first began ergy efficiency, but in the future we’ll says Dang Van Tuan, Vice General “By making many small changes over working with suppliers, it was difficult explore the use of better materials, Director of Nafoco. time, we have reduced our energy use to convince them of the benefits of eliminating all waste, and producing IKEA energy-saving experts have and our costs.” analysing their energy consumption. renewable energy. There’s so much worked with Mr Tuan and his team They often saw sustainability as a potential. I’m so proud to be working to find ways to improve operations cost, not an opportunity to save,” with these companies because they without having to invest in costly new she says. are our closest partners.” machinery and processes. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 6 6 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E Improving water efficiency and quality On average, suppliers We collaborate with suppliers to improve can reduce water use by water efficiency and quality, just as we do between 10% and 20%. on energy projects. We have strengthened our water expertise globally and formed a network of Focusing on reducing water use alone can water sustainability developers representbe challenging because its price is genering the areas we source products from. ally very low in comparison to energy, but They meet annually to share best pracstill requires significant capital costs. tices and to develop our approach to water In FY14, total water use by tier 1 home stewardship throughout our supply chain. furnishing suppliers decreased by nearly The group has issued updated guidelines a third and water efficiency improved by for effluent treatment plants, and will de33% compared to FY12. We were able to velop training for IWAY auditors and other report a bigger improvement than in FY13 Greening the supply relevant teams across IKEA to ensure the due to improved data quality, and because chain for textiles in India new guidelines are being followed. of increased awareness of water risk Their work is especially important in and better water management practices For some companies in Southern the results: “Our processing factory is Bangladesh, China, India and Pakistan and among suppliers. India, the only way to get enough in an area of water and energy scarother areas where water is scarce but supOur ‘Water Guidelines for Textile water to your factory is by a 50 km city, which was a nightmare for us. truck drive. And sometimes outdated With support from IKEA, we saw the plier water use is high. Suppliers’ provide a detailed framework machinery and a polluted water supply difference the project was making and In many cases, our supplier projects for suppliers who wish to improve their make production even less energy and we were motivated to look for more combine energy and water management water impacts. We recently updated the water efficient. opportunities. With the commitment of because this is often a more effective way guidelines in all the locations where we Inspired by IKEA’s People & our employees, so far we have saved Planet Positive strategy, Jansons over 285 MWh of energy, and 69 milto improve efficiency and water impacts. source textiles. an IKEA textiles supplier based in lion litres of water.” In FY14, we held a sustainability event Erode, southern India – set out to Further down the supply chain, we for the top 20 suppliers in South Asia and remedy this. are also working with cotton farmers After a detailed energy and water to save resources and improve effilocal experts to discuss water manageaudit and discussions with employees ciency. Together with WWF, we provide – from factory floor to senior managetraining, economic and social awarement – the project, in partnership with ness campaigns for farmers and their the Institute of Industrial Productivity families. Read more on page 30. (IIP) and National Productivity Council The project with Jansons has TIER 1 HOME FURNISHING (HF) FY12 FY13 FY14 (NPC), began. More than 15 measures demonstrated the huge potential for SUPPLIER WATER USE were put in place, including a system further improving the textile industry. to recycle wastewater for printing, a Potential savings of more than USD Total water use (m3) 34,340,809 35,548,668 24,507,975 new dyeing process which uses less 300 million (EUR 241 million) in enWater efficiency (litres/m )3 1,346 1,367 908 water, and a way to save energy by ergy, water and resource costs could making sure that motors are only runbe achieved over the next five years if Improvement in water efficiency -1.5 33 ning when they are needed. such initiatives are replicated by other compared to FY12 (%) Mr Thirukumar, Managing Director South Asian suppliers. of Jansons Industries, is pleased with CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 6 7 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E million visits to the online version of the Performance in FY14 catalogue. We produced the printed version of the ment trends and strategies, and share Working with the IKEA Twice a year, all suppliers conduct a 2015 catalogue using only FSC Mix Credideas on how to engage in water projects catalogue suppliers self-assessment of their compliance against it certified paper for the first time (see involving external stakeholders and the The IKEA catalogue is where we show IWAY and the industry-specific requirepage 68), making our catalogue the bigcommunity. Following the event, all supcustomers our products and provide home ments for pulp, paper, print and digital. gest FSC certified print production in pliers have been more engaged in water furnishing ideas and inspiration. It is availThis information is used by our purthe world. The switch to 100% FSC Mix efficiency projects, with two eager to take able in paper and digital format, and we chasers to select suppliers. We collect enCredit certified paper meant that we part in community projects concentrating are exploring ways to make both as susvironmental data from our pulp, paper and did not use any recycled fibre in the 2015 on water. Our water efficiency initiatives in tainable as possible. In FY14 we printed print suppliers, which is verified by third catalogue. the region, taken together, have resulted 217 million copies of the IKEA catalogue party auditors. Total carbon emissions and carbon in annual savings of 714 million litres. in 32 languages, using 37 paper and print emissions per printed copy increased by See page 35 for more about our aim to suppliers. The catalogue is also available Read more about how IKEA catalogue 85.4% and 76.7% respectively, compared be water positive by 2020. digitally and in FY14 we received 43 million suppliers are meeting our IWAY requirewith FY11. Water use increased by 17.8% visits to the IKEA catalogue app and 53 ments on page 85. compared to FY13. The significant increase in reported carbon emissions and water Passion enables use between FY14 and FY13 is largely due water savings in Asia to improvements to our data collection methodology. IKEA co-worker Sandesh Waje is discuss water. Total energy use increased by 6% really passionate about water. “It’s all about team work. An incompared to FY11 because we printed “I love everything about water – flexible style doesn’t get results – we more copies of the catalogue, but energy I enjoy water sports, drink a lot of can only make changes if we work water, and everyone thinks that I was together.” efficiency remained stable, with a very born to work with water!” Recently, Sandesh has seen atsmall decrease in energy used per copy. Just as well, because Sandesh titudes change. “Many suppliers now Our target was to reduce energy use by works with around 60 suppliers in appreciate the risks and real impacts of 10% and carbon emissions by 20% for Bangladesh, India and Pakistan to help water scarcity, and not just the finanthem work out how to use as little wacial ones,” he says, referring to legal FY15, compared with FY11. ter as possible. Almost 70% of IKEA’s obligations, rising costs and the very Our improved data collection methhome furnishing textiles come from real threat of having no water at all. odologies include third party audits to this region. “Even if our suppliers are usWater shortages are a big worry ing water efficiently in their operacheck the accuracy of data provided by in the area, and Sandesh’s job is not tions, effective change is not possible our suppliers, updated emissions factors always easy. “The cost of water is low, without industry-wide collaboration, used to calculate emissions arising from so there is little financial reason to co-operation and consensus. So we’ve save it. This is why we encourage our started encouraging them to work production and transport from forest to suppliers to think about water for its on water stewardship with nearby paper mill, and calculation methodolovalue, not its price.” factories, and in their communities gies recommended in the Global ReportSandesh works with suppliers and villages. We are confident IKEA ing Initiative’s G4 guidelines. This means ranging in size from 200 to 10,000 suppliers can lead the way in water employees. He visits sites, holds regumanagement, and they have a great that FY14 data is a more accurate relar workshops and runs an annual supopportunity to influence and create flection of the impacts of the catalogue. plier sustainability day in South Asia to wider positive change.” We decided to use a higher quality of CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 6 8 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E paper and this also contributed to the negative trend in carbon emissions since FY11. Improving the accuracy of data has also shown that emissions to water from our pulp, paper and print suppliers in FY14 was less than half what we reported in FY13. The proportion of renewable energy used for the pulp and paper and print production of our catalogue was lower than in FY13 because we decided to prioritise O U R F I R S T F U L LY F S C C ERT IF IED IK E A C ATALOGUE reaching our 100% FSC target. We started working with more FSC certified suppliers The IKEA catalogue is now the to enable us to reach our target, but not largest print production ever to be all of them focus as strongly on renewable printed on 100% Forest Stewardenergy as the FY13 group of suppliers. ship Council certified paper (FSC Mix Credit) and to carry the FSC Since introducing third party audits of logo. This means the entire IKEA suppliers’ environmental data, we have a catalogue production chain, from more accurate picture of our sustainabilforest to printer, is FSC certified to ensure more sustainable origins of ity performance related to producing our A more sustainable the wood. Our goal was to reach entirely printed catalogue. It is not possible to restate our historical data, but we plan to set catalogue? FSC certified paper by 2016. A a new baseline and targets for FY16-18. thorough selection process helped us to identify the paper and print suppliers that perform best in this The IKEA catalogue is an imporconsider. Many of the activities escategory, and this made it possible tant part of the way our customers sential to making our app and website to reach the goal a year ahead of experience IKEA. Whether customers accessible use a lot of energy, which our original schedule. access the paper or digital versions of is rarely from renewable sources. In To secure the effective and our catalogue, we ensure that it is as comparison, we know that in FY14, long-term management of forests sustainable as possible. 44% of the energy used for the pulp providing fibre for the catalogue, inWe have made good progress with and paper and print production of our dependent auditors assess the pulp, understanding the sustainability percatalogue was renewable. paper and print suppliers annually. formance of the printed catalogue and And while the printed version of They must document the origin of this has helped us to identify how we the catalogue is 100% recyclable, the the wood fibres they use so that it can improve. We want to achieve the devices used to access our catalogue is traceable all the way back to the same level of understanding about the digitally can be difficult to recycle. forests it came from. See page 26 production and delivery of the digital We are mapping our digital supply for more about how we work with version. The first step is to measure chain so that we can start gatherthe FSC and how we are integrating the impacts associated with the digital ing and reporting environmental data paper into our responsible sourcing catalogue. from our digital suppliers in FY15. strategy. There are several aspects to CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 6 9 R ESOURC E AND ENERG Y INDEPENDENC E ENVIRONMENTAL DATA, FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 TOTAL FOR PRINT PRODUCTION OF CATALOGUE Printed number of catalogues 197 208 212 211 217 (millions) ISO 14001 certified paper 89 100 94 100 100 suppliers (%) Catalogue paper (tonnes) 102,476 108,450 107,373 107,083 102,077 FSC certified Chain of Custody 21 30 23 68 100 fibre (% of virgin fibre content) Recycled fibre content (%) 11 4 2 2.3 0 Share of renewable energy (%) 50 48 42 51 44 Total carbon emissions from 95,905 88,916 90,744 92,308 164,843 * production of catalogue (tonnes CO2) Total energy used from 584 569 570 587 603 catalogue suppliers (MWh) Total water use from catalogue 2,815,209 2,832,017 2,833,300 2,870,188 3,379,956 * suppliers (m3) ENVIRONMENTAL DATA PER FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 PRINTED CATALOGUE COPY Water consumption (litres/copy) 14.26 13.55 13.39 13.62 15.6 Energy consumption (kWh/copy) 2.96 2.72 2.69 2.79 2.78 Total carbon emissions from 0.49 0.43 0.43 0.44 0.76 production and transport from forest to paper mill (kg CO2/copy) Emissions to air (g Volatile 1.12 1.15 1.12 1.01 1.05 Organic Compound /copy) Emissions to wastewater 3.49 3.47 4.29 3.94 1.92 (gr Chemical Oxygen Demand /copy) * The significant increase in reported carbon emissions and water use is largely due to improvements to our data collection methodology. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > Responsible sourcing > More sustainable produc t s > More sustainable buildings and transpor t > Energy and water in our supply chain 7 0 0 A better life for people and communities Our vision is to create a better everyday life for the many people. With 147,000 co-workers, and millions of people in our extended value chain we have an opportunity to make a big difference. We support positive economic, social and environmental development, promote equality and place respect for people and their rights at the centre of what we do. We want IKEA to be a great place to work and our efforts to involve, reward and develop our coworkers reflect this. It is important to treat each other with respect and dignity, and that we can all enjoy a safe working environment and a good quality of life at work and home. We have continued to extend the reach of our supplier Code of Conduct, IWAY, and to raise the bar on what we expect from our suppliers and ourselves. We especially focus on finding ways to empower people in our extended supply chain whose voices often go unheard such as home workers or migrant workers. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 7 1 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES CO-WORKERS 147,000 IKEA GROUP CO-WORKERS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PEOPLE & PLANET POSITIVE STRATEGY SUPPLIERS OPERATIONS IN 47% 42 OF MANAGERS ARE WOMEN COMMUNITIES ENABLING COUNTRIES 110,000 MORE THAN 100 million COTTON FARMERS TO IMPROVE THEIR INCOMES CHILDREN WILL BENEFIT 100% Ma FROM CURRENT IKEA s FOUNDATION-FUNDED ny PROGRAMMES m OF HOME FURNISHING SUPPLIERS al . lc es APPROVED TO OUR IWAY CODE OF li v ha ng s CONDUCT, BEING PHASED OUT OR es e’ PENDING A SCHEDULED AUDIT ad o pl d up pe o to dt ma an ke a pla ne t b i g di f fer ence for the €10.1 million RAISED THROUGH THE SOFT TOYS FOR EDUCATION CAMPAIGN IN 2013 CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 7 2 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES Working with others to The workshop covered key issues of inimprove our strategy terest to stakeholders, such as fair wages, In November 2013, we invited representamigrant workers and creating sustainable tives of the Institute for Human Rights and communities. We explored opportunities Business, Oxfam, the United Nations Chilfor IKEA to lead in creating a better life dren’s Fund (UNICEF), and the Centre for for people and communities, and shared Child-Rights & Corporate Social Responideas for innovative products and services. sibility to join us for an open discussion The outputs of the workshop fed directly about how retail businesses can have a into our updated People & Planet Positive positive social impact. strategy – see page 100. E Q U I TA B L E WA G E S A C R O S S O U R O P E R AT I O N S We have been working on a concost was more than the legal minimum sistent structure for basic terms and and that we needed to do more to supconditions of employment. Part of this port our co-workers. For example, in entails understanding what a fair wage the USA, we are raising our standard is. Together with the Fair Wage Network minimum wage by 17% – a change that (www.fair-wage.com), we investigated will benefit half of our USA co-workers. the existing salary structure in three This increase is based on the MIT Livcountries: China, Japan and the USA. ing Wage Calculator, which takes into The Fair Wage Network uses a conconsideration housing, food, medical sistent approach, which we can apply to and transportation costs plus annual many countries. It includes a focus on taxes*. In Japan, we have decided to wages, along with other critical factors have the same equivalent salary level such as working hours, social benefits, (equivalent pay for the same work and equity, costs to workers and the opporthe same number of hours) for full-time tunity for progression. The approach is and part-time co-workers, even though inclusive, drawing on input from workit is normal practice in Japan for a parters, managers and external sources. time employee to receive a much lower Our work in FY14 included looking salary than a full-time employee. at the minimum level we are paying in In FY15, we will begin pilot projects relation to the local living cost – how with the Fair Wage Network approach much a person needs for basic food, at home furnishing suppliers in seclothes and housing, as well as essenlected countries. The pilots will give us tials such as education and insurance. insights into supplier practices in the We pay at least the legal minimum in sector and help us understand how we all countries, but in some countries our can extend the approach across our investigations showed the local living supply chain. * The rate used is a single person with no children. Based on the MIT Living Wage calculator (http://livingwage.mit.edu). Rate applies no matter how many hours per week a co-worker works. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 7 3 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES P E O P L E S T R AT E G Y 2 0 2 0 P E R F O R M A N C E i n F Y 14 & O T H E R TA R G E T S A better everyday Ensure every co-worker has an agreed, In FY14, 71%* of co-workers had an life at work individual development plan agreed, individual development plan. * Of the 87,644 co-workers who completed the VOICE survey and answered positively to: “Have you within the past twelve months together with your manager agreed on a development plan for the coming year?” This question is new and not comparable with previous years. By 2020 50% of managers will be women At the end of FY14, 47% of managers were women. By 2020 achieve a Leadership Index result In FY14, we achieved a Leadership Index of 75 in our VOICE survey result of 73. See page 77 for more about our VOICE survey. By FY20 achieve an index of 725 in our In FY14, we achieved a VOICE index result VOICE survey of 704. PEOPLE & PL ANET NEW targets P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S Following the IKEA Group Diversity and Inclusion Approach, every IKEA unit has defined actions to ensure a diverse co-worker population. Our goal is to reach gender balance in key leadership positions and to reflect the diverse nationalities of our market. We enable and encourage co-workers to participate in community involvement activities in their local area. ure includes co-workers on permanent and temporary contracts, but excludes C O W O R K E R S P E R R E G I O N F Y 14 seasonal co-workers. Turnover among full-time co-workEvery co-worker is a valuable talent. ture and values outlined in our Code of ers increased slightly. There was a more We are committed to providing a stimuConduct, ‘Good Business with Common significant increase in turnover among lating, inclusive and diverse workplace Sense’ and describes how we can create a part-time co-workers, which increased to where people are appreciated and have better everyday life for ourselves and our 29.9%, from 15.4% in FY13. This was due the chance to grow. customers. to a larger share of co-workers on tempoEurope 102,000 Our People Strategy outlines the reIn FY14, the total number of co-workrary contracts due to economic uncertainNorth America 19,000 lationships we want to build with our coers at the IKEA Group increased by 12,000 ties in some countries. People on tempoAsia and Australia 14,000 workers and others. It builds on the culto a total of 147,000 co-workers. This figrary contracts usually work part-time and Russia 12,000 CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 7 4 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES stay for less than a year, which contributes and retain co-workers. During FY14 we to an increase in turnover among part-time launched our new loyalty programme for co-workers. Approximately 85% of our all co-workers, Tack! (see right) and we co-workers are on permanent contracts expanded the One IKEA Bonus programme reflecting our ambition to form long-term to include all IKEA Group co-workers with relationships with our co-workers and to the exception of IKEA Industry co-workinvest in their personal and professional ers, who will be included by FY16. development. Turnover among permaOne IKEA Bonus is a performancenent co-workers was stable between FY13 driven bonus system connected to individand FY14. ual salary level and paid out annually upon the completion of set goals. It is based on Values and culture simplicity and togetherness, with everyIKEA is made up of a global team of people one in the same unit working towards the who share the same values. We are comsame objectives. Our new global One IKEA mitted to being a caring, responsible, honBonus applies to all co-workers who have est and trustworthy company, and expect been with us for at least six months1 and our co-workers to reflect this. Read more replaces all existing bonus and incentive about our approach to ethics on page 102. programmes.2 We believe in rewarding good work, and offer a competitive compensation and benefits package that helps attract Tack! CO-WORKER TURNOVER (%) FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 In December 2013, we launched Part-time co-workers will receive a a new loyalty programme for all of proportional amount in relation to Part-time 20.5 22.3 18.0 15.4 29.9 our co-workers. It was built on our hours worked. Full-time 10.6 11.5 10.7 11.5 12.2 founder Ingvar Kamprad’s wish to The fund is divided between our say thank you to co-workers for their countries of operation based on each All 14.8 16.1 16.1 12.8 19.7 contribution and loyalty to IKEA, and country’s proportion of salary and so we decided to call it Tack! – ‘thank wages. you’ in Swedish. We think this is a simple, fair way of GENDER DIVERSITY FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY20 Tack! supports retired co-workers saying Tack! to all of our co-workers (% of women)* GOAL as an additional contribution to their for their hard work and commitAll co-workers 52 55 52 54 54 pension plans. It applies to all co-workment. It goes hand in hand with our ers who have been with IKEA for five performance-driven One IKEA Bonus All managers 39 40 47 47 47 50 years or more. Most importantly, all Programme to create a great place to full-time co-workers within a country work, today and in the future. * Data representing 83% of IKEA headcount. will receive the same amount regardless of unit, position or salary level. 1 Six months during a single fiscal year with no interruptions. Does not yet apply to IKEA Industry. 2 Unless local legislation or agreements with unions or works councils require a specific local bonus programme. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 7 5 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES Diversity and inclusion We recognise and celebrate the value in diversity – of people, ideas and knowledge. We launched the new global IKEA Diversity and Inclusion Approach in FY13, which aims to create an inclusive work environment where co-workers are recognised for their unique contributions. The approach applies to all of our full-time (58%) and part-time (42%) co-workers. It covers diversity in all its dimensions, from gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation and identity, physical ability and age to nationality, educational background, parental status and work experience. Using this approach, each IKEA unit has responsibility for setting its own diversity goals and targets. The IKEA Women’s Open Network (IWON) was launched during FY13 as one tool to support our goal of gender equality. © Magnus Glans IWON aims to inspire, connect, empower and enable women in leadership positions at IKEA, as well as contribute to a more inclusive work climate and better gender balance. Since its launch, IWON has held IKEA Houston – the one global meeting in FY13, followed by four regional meetings in China, Germany, same, but different! Portugal and the USA in FY14. By taking IWON into our regions, we hope that more “Okay, I look different, but that’s a co-workers with the city’s demographics. cities in the USA. English is just one of tribute to you and IKEA USA. Because One noticeable difference, for example, the many languages spoken, as well as co-workers will spread the messages of inI know that here it doesn’t matter was the relative lack of co-workers over Arabic, Chinese, Farsi, French, German, clusivity and be empowered to take initiawhat I look like, what race or religion 55 – most were under 24. Gujarati, Hindi, Spanish, Swahili, PortuI belong to.” “We started by asking our older guese, Punjabi, Serbo-Croat and Urdu. tives that lead to gender balance. That’s what Nabeela Ixtabalan, co-workers what they looked for in an But it doesn’t stop there. Nabeela wearing her hijab, told us during her employer,” Nabeela says. “We wanted to says there is more work to do. “We want job interview at IKEA Houston five learn how to attract older workers so we more female co-workers in the self-serve years ago. could adapt our recruitment campaigns furniture area. Previously this has been In FY14, the share of Nabeela got the job. As Store Managaccordingly.” the domain of men with muscles. And we er at IKEA Houston, she was determined Today, IKEA Houston co-workers need more women in Receiving Goods. If all co-workers who are to let her colleagues know that everyone are about as diverse as it gets – a true women can fly F15s in the US Air Force women was 54%. is accepted at IKEA for who they are. reflection of the local community of I’m sure they can drive forklifts in the She started by comparing the mix of Houston, one of the most multi-cultural warehouse.” CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 7 6 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES Health and safety All management teams within IKEA IndusWe take the health, safety and well-being try have safety performance plans, and The share of managers who are women vance their IKEA career. of our co-workers, customers and visihave been trained in ‘leading safety’. It fowas 47%. These figures are the same as In FY14, 71%* of our co-workers had tors very seriously. Our health and safety cuses on the importance of commitment for FY13. We have integrated diversity into an individual development plan, which instandard, launched in FY13, states our and leading by example. our recruitment and talent approach to cludes regular meetings with their mancommitment that all co-workers shall exIn FY14, occupational accidents at ensure we reach gender balance by 2020. agers to review their career aspirations. perience a healthy and safe workplace at IKEA Industry Group increased by 4.5% In 2013 we participated in the Battle of This figure is not comparable with previall times. to 1,739, from 1,664 in FY13. This is due to the Numbers project, partnering with nine ous years as it is based on the answer to a We take a preventative approach to the growth of IKEA Industry, and increase major Swedish companies to achieve betdifferent question in the annual VOICE health and safety issues, combining forin the number of hours worked, which ter gender balance at senior levels. As a survey, and FY14 was the first year that all mal structures and everyday actions with rose by 5.6% compared to FY13. The ocresult of taking part in the project , our of IKEA Industry participated. a strong focus on training and awareness. cupational accident rate at IKEA Industry President and CEO Peter Agnefjäll highThis approach has contributed to a Group per million hours worked was 4.57 lighted next steps for IKEA such as cardecrease in the number of occupational in FY14 compared with 6.27 in FY13. rying forward work with IWON, working We encourage our co-workers to test accidents at our stores – from 1,398 in There were no fatalities among IKEA more actively with diversity ambassanew ideas and challenge the norm, FY13 to 1,287 in FY14 – even though IKEA Group co-workers or contractors working dors and role models, and ensuring diand this produces some of our best is growing. on our behalf during FY14. versity and inclusion are integrated into and most innovative ideas. IKEA Industry has a strong focus on all leadership development programmes. co-operation, learning and support beIn FY14 we formed a working group tween all units. This includes cross-unit on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender The IKEA Group Talent Approach was health and safety networks that share (LGBT) rights at IKEA. As a result, we have introduced in FY14 starting with IKEA good practice and accident preventions. decided to recruit a project leader during managers and with plans to roll out to FY15 who will work to ensure that our all co-workers in FY15. We offer a range LGBT co-worker community feel respectof on-the-job training and courses, and ed, valued and appreciated for who they e-learning courses relevant to specific IKEA GROUP OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS (number FY13 FY14 are. The project leader will work with a functions. of accidents requiring 3 days or more absenteeism) team to analyse the situation in all parts of We want our co-workers to be inspired Stores 1,398 1 1,287 the world and to suggest ways of working by our sustainability efforts and to be well that communicate support and inclusion. trained to contribute to making IKEA more Supply 143 2 146 sustainable. In FY14, we rolled out a new IKEA Industry Group 3 1,664 1,739 Learning and development sustainability training package, tailored to 1 Figure restated from FY13 (1,277) as figures reported were preliminary We offer a wide range of learning and casuit individual roles and divided into bite2 Figure restated from FY13 (124) as figures reported were preliminary 3 Accidents requiring one day or more absenteeism reer development opportunities to enable sized modules. This included a range of everyone to reach their potential. We want different delivery methods, including small IKEA INDUSTRY GROUP OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT FY13 FY14 to lead the way in training, enabling our lectures, group discussions, guided tours RATE (accidents requiring one day or more co-workers to develop new skills and adand films. absenteeism per million hours worked) * Of the 87,644 co-workers who completed the VOICE survey and answered positively to: “Have you within the past IKEA Industry Group 6.27 4.57 twelve months together with your manager agreed on a development plan for the coming year?” This question is new and not comparable with previous years. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 7 7 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES Communicating with co-workers Open dialogue improves understanding of what motivates and inspires people and lets them know what is expected of them. Good communication enables us to face in the same direction, with shared goals and values. Our managers are responsible for keeping their teams up to date, ensuring they have the right information to do their jobs. We provide communications training and tools to support this process, and expect manListening to our agers to make good communication with co-workers co-workers a priority. Our intranet site, IKEA Inside, is accesVOICE is our online survey for all the survey. The survey showed that 79% The results of the VOICE survey feed sible to two-thirds of all co-workers, and co-workers in the IKEA Group. It enaof co-workers agree with the statement, into an overall VOICE index and leadincludes a new blog that enables co-workbles us to better understand co-worker “within my department sustainability is a ership index. These help us to gauge ers to follow our President and CEO Peter views, assess how engaged they feel with natural part in the everyday work” (FY13: overall progress and identify ways to imtheir work, and identify areas where we 70%), 83% agree with the statement, prove our business. In FY14, our overall Agnefjäll. We also have an extranet which can do better. VOICE is conducted by “I am proud of the way that IKEA works VOICE index was 704 (711 in FY13), This co-workers can access from home, availan independent organisation to ensure with sustainability” (FY13: 82%), and included results of 718 for Retail, 740 able in 21 countries. We use these chanconfidentiality. Each part of the busi80% agree with the statement “I feel for Range & Supply, and 618 for Indusness participates at least once every two responsible for minimising the negative try – included this year for the first time. nels to keep our co-workers informed and years. FY14 was the first year that all of impact on the environment in my daily A result of 700 or more for the overall engaged, along with internal magazines, IKEA Industry participated in the survey, job” (FY13: 78%). The results of VOICE VOICE index is classified as excellent by meetings, video screens, closed-circuit rawhich followed the merger of Swedwood, are not directly comparable between the company that conducts the survey, Swedspan and IKEA Industry Investment years as different parts of IKEA and and suggests the organisation is “well dio and notice boards. and Development (IIID). different numbers of people participate, equipped to generate business value”. Our quarterly internal magazine, ReIn FY14, more than 87,000 out of a toand in FY14 we also updated the VOICE Our VOICE leadership index in FY14 was adme, discusses company and prodtal of 147,000 co-workers participated in questions. 73 (74 in FY13). uct news from a co-worker perspective. Translated into 20 languages, we print 60,000 copies for worldwide distribution, VOICE RESULTS FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 GOAL and make it available on IKEA Inside. To VOICE index 659 716 712 711 704 725 by FY20 complement the magazine, we produce Leadership index result 73 74 74 74 73 75 by FY15 short films with additional content and angles on Readme stories. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 7 8 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES We respect the rights of co-workers to ENTRE TODOS Queremos un mejor día a día para ti y para los tuyos join, form or not to join a co-worker association of their choice without fear of reprisal, interference, intimidation or harassment. Dialogue between co-workers and their managers is the most important element for creating an open culture and there are different forums in place in the countries where we work to further facilitate this dialogue. We actively communicate all developments in IKEA affecting co-workers, providing clear information about the implications and establishing opportunities for dialogue. In FY14, following the merger of Swedwood, Swedspan and IKEA Industry Investment and Development (IIID) into IKEA Industry Group, we invited co-workers worldwide to ask questions about the merger, or share concerns with managers. During the year, we also created a separate magazine for IKEA Industry – ReadmeTOO – which is distributed to all IKEA Industry co-workers, in addition to Readme. Co-workers can use our trust line to Spanish co-workers supporting report any concerns they feel unable to each other in hard times raise through their manager or human resources – see page 102. Life in Spain can be hard because of the your colleagues and their families, using online space for co-workers to advertise Our co-workers are often at the forestruggling economy. Many families are IKEA power?” their second-hand products they no front of our efforts to create a better life feeling the pressures of unemployment ‘Together’ means just that – worklonger need, and request others they for people and communities – read more and poverty. ing together with colleagues to create a would like. And financial aid – grants Co-workers at IKEA Spain decided to better everyday life for themselves and that do not need to be repaid – that on page 95. We encourage co-workers do something positive to help. They call their relatives, through small actions co-workers can apply for in confidence. to participate in community engagement it the Together project. Elena López, and creative solutions, and always in There have been more than 80 applicaactivities in their local area. Compensation & Benefits Manager at the IKEA spirit. tions for financial aid, with more than IKEA Spain, explains: “We decided to All functions were asked to think 40 co-workers receiving this so far. Read more about how we engage create a ‘favours chain’. It’s about about how they could help IKEA co-workers on the sustainability benefits asking – what can you do to support co-workers. The ideas include a free of our products on page 21. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 7 9 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES PEOPLE & PL ANET P E R F O R M A N C E i n F Y 14 P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S Better lives Maintain the social and environmental 100% of home furnishing and transporfor workers improvements reached through the 100% IWAY approval of all suppliers of home tation suppliers IWAY approved, being phased out or pending a scheduled audit furnishing and other key products and (applies to 0.5% of the total). services.* 98% of global food suppliers and 99.2% of IKEA Components suppliers IWAY * Suppliers related to Home Furnishing, IKEA Components, Transportation and Global Food. approved. By August 2015, expand the reach of our 77% of Indirect Material and Services supsupplier Code of Conduct by securing IWAY pliers and 40% of retail suppliers are IWAY approval at all local IKEA Food, Indirect approved. 29% of local food suppliers are Material and Services and retail suppliers IWAY approved, which means we are not within the scope of IWAY.* on track to meet the 2015 target, but we are working hard to address the challenge. * For the retail operations, the current IWAY focus is on cleaning, home delivery, security and waste management suppliers. By August 2017, go further into our supply In FY14, 91% of critical home furnishing chain by securing compliance to IWAY sub-suppliers were approved as complying Musts* at all subsuppliers of critical with IWAY Musts. This is based on audits materials and processes. of 1,085 of the 1,691 sub-suppliers we have identified as ‘critical’. * IWAY Musts are the immediate requirements that IKEA suppliers must meet before a contract can be signed. How IWAY supports better ply chain, beyond the first tier. lives for workers Since its launch in 2000, IWAY has The IKEA Way on Purchasing Products, evolved to reflect our increasingly ambiMaterials and Services – IWAY for short tious expectations of suppliers – most – sets out our minimum requirements for recently with the new IWAY 5.1 standard. environmental, social and working condiFor example, IWAY requires tions. It is based on United Nations and suppliers to: International Labour Organization conOver 600,000 people in more than 50 makes our expectations clear. Working ventions, legal requirements and IKEA’s • Meet strict requirements on labour countries work for our home furnishing with suppliers to implement IWAY has own specifications. All new suppliers (59 rights, working conditions, safety and suppliers.* Together with our suppliers, helped us develop strong, long-term partin FY14) must comply with a core set of environmental protection, including we are determined to contribute to betnerships. We have worked with 64% of our ‘IWAY Musts’ before we agree to work IWAY Musts on child and forced later lives for workers by supporting decent tier 1 home furnishing suppliers for over with them. IWAY applies to the whole facbour, preventing severe environmental jobs for all. five years. The average length of supplier tory or site, not just the area supplying pollution and safety hazards, keeping Our supplier Code of Conduct, IWAY, relationship is 11 years. IKEA. We have also expanded the scope records of working hours and wages, to include suppliers further down our supand having social insurance * This refers to our first-tier suppliers, who work directly with IKEA, providing goods and services specified by us, without an intermediary. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 8 0 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES are piloting a project in partnership with core element of our work with suppliers. one textile supplier to increase tailoring We run focused programmes to support Our work does not stop once a supplier skills and motivation in the workforce. suppliers to reduce their water and energy QUICK GUIDE TO I WAY T E R M S achieves IWAY approval. We keep working Preventing child labour and supportuse and CO2 emissions (see page 62). Our together to maintain compliance and we ing home and migrant workers are impordedicated IWAY Forestry Standard sets look for opportunities to support further tant areas of focus. Read more about our out strict environmental and ethical standIWAY: the IKEA Way on Purchaseconomic, environmental and social develwork with these groups on page 88. We ards, including guidance on legal logging ing Products, Materials and Services, which sets out our minimum opment in our supply chain. For example, also support the social and economic deand the protection of high value and prorequirements for environmental, in China our suppliers are now providing velopment of the communities in our wider tected forests (see page 28). social and working conditions. social insurance to all workers. A big chalsupply chain through the IKEA Foundation lenge in India is the limited availability of (see page 93). Read the full IWAY standard online. IWAY Musts: an essential set of requirements new suppliers have skilled and highly skilled workers, so we Environmental performance remains a to meet before we sign a purchase agreement. IWAY60: an interim step towards IWAY AUDIT DATA FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 IWAY relating to working hours, requiring a maximum of 60 hours Number of IWAY audits/of which are unannounced per week, including overtime (only applicable in China). Europe 365/29 341/144 348/198 337/55 485/87 Americas 29/1 26/12 31/15 31/5 53/8 Asia 645/501 626/55 607/517 549/434 617/501 Total 1,039/531 993/711 986/730 917/494 1155/596 • Ensure their workers do not work more Number of IKEA Compliance and Monitoring Group calibration audits than 60 hours per week (including overtime) or comply with working hour Europe 21 24 19 19 7 limits, if that is lower; in China we are Americas 2 3 2 2 2 working towards IWAY approval on adAsia 32 25 29 19 22 herence with working hour limits (40 Total 55 52 50 40 31 hours per week, maximum 36 overNumber of third-party audits (unannounced) time hours per month, maximum three Europe 12 12 9 23 32 hours overtime per day) for suppliers Americas 0 0 2 2 3 by the end of FY15 Asia 35 32 45 66 88 • Comply with local laws and regulations, including those relating to workTotal 47 47 56 91 123 ing hours and pay Terminated businesses, number of suppliers • Allow freedom of association for workDue to IWAY non-compliance 10 8 47 26 18 ers (except in China and Vietnam Due to non-compliance and other reasons 17 11 25 10 3 where we are unable to fully apply this Number of third party child labour audits requirement because of legal restricTotal 365 370 365 416 305 tions in these countries). CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 8 1 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES • New or strengthened requirements ers into the IWAY scope, for example IKEA on business ethics, freedom of assoIndustry suppliers (see page 86). On the N U M B E R O F S U P P L I E R S B Y C AT E G O R Y ciation, grievance mechanisms, ergofollowing pages we provide information nomics and recruitment practices for about IWAY approval at different supplier CATEGORY FY14 migrant workers types. IKEA Industry 1150 • Meeting the legal minimum for wages, Home furnishing 1002 1 which is now an IWAY Must. Home furnishing suppliers IWAY has been at the heart of our relaIKEA Food (local suppliers) 4812 This new standard is designed to support tionships with home furnishing suppliers Total number of retail cleaning, security, waste management and 448 suppliers as they integrate IWAY into their for almost 15 years. As our expectations customer delivery service providers own routines and procedures through evolve, we provide training and support to Indirect Material and Services 301 management systems and risk assessenable our suppliers to meet new requireIKEA Components 242 ments. ments and compliance. We ran a programme of workshops, We require that our home furnishing Transport service providers – land and ocean 233 seminars and presentations for co-worksuppliers are approved according to IWAY IKEA Food (global suppliers) 121 ers in FY14 to make sure they are up to to supply IKEA and at the end of FY14, all Transport service providers – customer delivery 63 speed with the latest IWAY requirements – home furnishing suppliers were IWAY aphelping them communicate with suppliers proved, were being phased out or were IKEA Catalogue 37 and assist with the integration of IWAY as pending a scheduled audit (applies to 1 1002 suppliers includes IKEA Group’s own production operations which stands for 12% of the total a way of working. Our buyers visit suppliproduction with 44 production units in 11 countries 2 Additional mapping of local suppliers in ongoing in FY15 er sites regularly and around 90 full-time auditors and developers support the implementation of IWAY, in addition to thirdPerformance in FY14 party auditors who verify audit results. TOP 5 HOME FURNISHING PURCHA SING COUN T R IES To ensure IWAY remains effective, we sur(% o f t o t a l F Y 14) veyed or conducted in-depth interviews Extending IWAY to more types with more than 300 suppliers globally durof suppliers ing the latest update of the standard. This Our goal is for the following types of supallowed us to incorporate their experience plier to achieve IWAY approval by FY15: from implementing IWAY into changes in the requirements. IWAY 5.1 was rolled • Home furnishing suppliers out to all our suppliers in FY14. Updates • Global transport suppliers include: • Food suppliers • Selected retail suppliers and Indirect China 25% • A new requirement for suppliers to enMaterial and Services (IMS) suppliers Poland 18% sure their own suppliers of critical ma• IKEA Components suppliers. Italy 7% terials and processes – our sub-supSweden 5% pliers – are compliant with the IWAY Since setting the 2015 target, we have Lithuania 4% Musts brought additional categories of suppliCONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 8 2 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES 0.5% of the total). The graphs on the next page show the Our goal is for suppliers to FUNCTION ROLE average compliance rate with the IWAY maintain continual compliance with IWAY Council > Has ultimate responsibility for IWAY 4.1 requirements between FY10 and FY12 all of the requirements of IWAY. > Discusses and decides on critical IWAY related issues and between FY13 and FY14. In the period FY10–FY12, the average compliance rate > Approves all IWAY Standard documents and goals during initial audits was 78%. After the We have made good progress in many ar> Members include the IKEA Group President and CEO, Chief Sustainability Officer and Corporate Communications Manager initial audit, suppliers had 12 months to eas, for example in FY13 and FY14 there reach 100% compliance with the requirewas near 100% compliance with the reIWAY Council > Develops the IWAY Code of Conduct and supporting materials Working ments. Our business teams and sustainquirement to have the right systems in > Reviews audit results Committee ability teams work closely with suppliers place to prevent child labour and protect > Provides clarity on interpreting IWAY standards and resolves disagreements on audit results and provide training to help them achieve young workers. > Is responsible for the IWAY auditor training programmes IWAY approval within the first year. FollowHowever, some areas continue to be a > Approves all IWAY Working Methods up audits for existing suppliers are conchallenge, for example ensuring continual > Reports to the IWAY Council ducted at least once every two years (and compliance with issues relating to working once per year in high-risk areas, such as hours, particularly in Asia. We are working IKEA auditors > Conduct announced and unannounced IWAY audits of suppliers Asia) and suppliers have 90 days to corwith our suppliers to reduce working hours > Review action plans submitted by suppliers in cases of noncompliance rect any areas of non-compliance identiwithout cutting wages or jobs, for exam> Conduct follow-up audits and give final IWAY approval fied. Audits following approval show that ple, finding new mechanical efficiencies in > Support IKEA business teams with IWAY questions suppliers maintained an average level production has helped to compensate for of compliance of 86% which meant that increased labour costs, and optimising the Regional/country > Have regular contact with suppliers in their region and are IKEA business regularly on-site at factories / facilities these suppliers needed to make corrective sub-supply chain has enabled better prounits > Support suppliers with understanding and meeting actions after each audit to maintain IWAY duction planning. We also continually look requirements approval. to improve the ways that we work with or> Are accountable for ensuring IWAY is fully implemented at In FY12, we introduced the rule that ders and capacity planning. suppliers under their responsibility we would only work with suppliers that Audits contribute to maintaining high Compliance and > Is independent from IKEA auditors and business units are IWAY approved. This means that new standards, but achieving the goal of conMonitoring Group > Monitors the degree to which internal IWAY Working Methods suppliers that fail to reach 100% complitinual compliance depends on the com(CMG) to support IWAY compliance are followed ance with IWAY requirements within 12 mitment of the supplier and whether they > Performs audits to ensure that judgements by IKEA auditors months, and existing suppliers that do not have well-developed policies and processare consistent globally and results are accurate correct non-compliances within 90 days, es in place. For example, unannounced > Supports training and development of IKEA auditors are phased out of our supply chain. The inaudits of IWAY Well Developed Suppliers > Reports compliance results to IWAY Council and IWAY Council Working Committee (ICWC) troduction of this approach has improved (a group of the best-performing supplioverall levels of compliance. During the ers) showed high average compliance with Third-party > Drawn from external audit companies independent from auditors IKEA period FY13-FY14, audits following apIWAY requirements in FY13. We want all > Verify IKEA audit results proval show that the suppliers maintained our suppliers to reach this level by bring> Conduct unannounced audits and calibration audits an average level of compliance of 88% ing the IWAY requirements into their own > Report results to Compliance and Monitoring Group (CMG) compared to an average compliance rate business processes in this way. In FY14 we during initial audits of 74%. rolled out a new version of IWAY (IWAY CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 8 3 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES R E S U LT F R O M I N I T I A L A S S E S S M E N T AT N E W S U P P L I E R S A N D F R O M A U D I T R E S U LT 5.1) as part of our efforts to further imAT I WAY A P P R O V E D S U P P L I E R S , F Y 10 F Y 1 2 prove standards. IWAY 5.1 is designed to help suppliers integrate IWAY into their 10 0 % own routines and procedures, for example through risk assessments. Audit (average 86%) 90% An important area of focus is for all home furnishing suppliers in China to fully comply with working hour lim80% its. We have achieved 98.8% approval Initial assessment (average 78%) to IWAY60 at suppliers in China, and 24% approval with IWAY. Our goal is to 70% achieve 100% IWAY approval by FY15. In FY14, we started with a pilot project 60% with 19 suppliers and identified 11 focus areas to support Chinese suppliers 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 to integrate more stringent working hour requirements in to their business (see page 86). Our suppliers are increasingly talking R E S U LT F R O M I N I T I A L A S S E S S M E N T AT N E W S U P P L I E R S A N D F R O M A U D I T R E S U LT AT I WAY A P P R O V E D S U P P L I E R S , F Y 1 3 -J A N U A R Y F Y 14 about the link between a more sustainable approach to business and the bottom line. 10 0 % IWAY is a framework they can use to beAudit (average 88%) come more competitive by improving effi90% ciency, reducing quality issues and helping to retain valued employees. In FY14 we held a Supplier Week, 80% which included our first Global SustainInitial assessment (average 74%) ability Days for suppliers. We hosted 46 participants, representing 11 suppliers 70% from eight purchasing regions. We invited some of our best-performing suppliers to 60% discuss the most important sustainability issues we all face, and to share knowledge 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 that could benefit each other, and even contribute to IKEA’s sustainability plans. 01. Start-up requirements 05. Hazardous & Non-Hazardous 09. Wages, Benefits & Working 13. Freedom of Association Read more on page 63. 02. General Conditions 06. Fire Prevention 10. Prevention of Child Labour 14. Harassment, Abuse & 03. Environment 07. Worker Health & Safety 11. Forced & Bonded Labour 04. Chemicals 08. Housing Facilities 12. Discrimination CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 8 4 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES vide the ingredients for the Swedish menu options in our restaurants and the food I WAY A P P R O VA L O F IWAY approval at home FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 range available in the Swedish Food MarFOOD SUPPL IERS furnishing suppliers, %* (% I WAY a p p r o v e d ) ket shops. Europe 89 90 100 100 99.5 For our 481 identified local suppliers, Local food suppliers, % approved Americas 85 94 100 100 96.2 the IWAY approval rate is currently around Global food suppliers, % approved 29%. We have not made as much proAsia, total 26 41 92 97.8 97.8 gress as we hoped due to the complexity 100 100 100 100 100 China 7 30 90 99.2 98.8 of the food supply chain and are unlikely South Asia 62 65 93 92.2 95.9 to meet our target for all local food sup67 pliers to be IWAY approved by FY15. DurSouth East Asia 68 65 97 96.7 94.7 ing FY15 we will take further steps to map All regions 57 67 96 99 98.6 the supply chain, assess risks and identify where we need to go several layers back 27 29 * Data for home furnishing suppliers includes IKEA Industry factories. Excludes new suppliers that have up to 12 months to be approved. Suppliers where a non-compliance has been identified and are within the into the supply chain. 90-day period allowed to correct the non-compliance are categorised as approved. Suppliers pending a 7 scheduled audit are categorised as approved (applies to 0.5% of the total in FY14). In FY14, the remaining Read more about how we source our 0 0 1.4% applies to suppliers being phased out. In China we are working with suppliers to reduce working hours to comply with working hour limits. As an interim step, suppliers can become IWAY approved if working food products responsibly on page 34. FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 GOAL hours do not exceed 60 hours a week including overtime. FY15 Indirect Materials and Transport suppliers proval rate for our centrally-contracted Services (IMS) suppliers with IMS suppliers and build long-term We work with 233 directly contracted supcustomer delivery service suppliers was IKEA IMS purchases the products and serrelationships with them. The ‘IKEA Plugpliers that transport our products to stores 100% in FY14. vices needed to run our business. This inin Solution’ initiative, launched in FY13, is and distribution centres by road, rail, river cludes equipment in our stores (such as IKEA IMS’s way of moving towards fewer barge and sea. No airplanes are used in Food suppliers trolleys, racking and lighting), uniforms for suppliers, each providing higher volumes our goods supply chain. In FY14, the IWAY We achieved 98% IWAY approval of our our co-workers and services such as cleanof products and services. This approach approval rate for these suppliers was 121 global food suppliers in FY14. These ing, security and waste management. brings practical business benefits like sav100%. are the direct suppliers to IKEA that proLike all our suppliers, we work closely ing money on invoicing costs, providing In April 2014, we completed the rolla more standardised product range, and out of the revised IWAY standard, which improving IWAY compliance and sustainacontains more specific emissions requireI WAY A P P R O VA L O F 96 100 100 100 bility performance. But more importantly, 95 93 TR ANSPORT SUPPL IERS 91 ments for trucks (see page 54). This has it allows us to create strong partnerships (% I WAY a p p r o v e d ) 83 82 helped keep us on track to meet our transwith our suppliers, where we can learn port carbon emissions reduction targets from each other. Customer delivery suppliers, by FY16. % of centrally contracted 53 We continue to focus on IWAY audits Our Service Business category works suppliers approved among suppliers that pose a higher risk for closely with the 63 transport suppliers Ocean transport providers, IWAY non-compliance. These include pro% approved 21 who deliver directly to customers, and viders of store lighting equipment, cleaning Land transport providers, and waste management services. In FY14 the suppliers of product picking in-store, % approved assembly and installation. The IWAY apFY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 we conducted 58 audits at IMS suppliers. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 8 5 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES IWAY approval of retail cleaning, security, waste FY13 FY14 We are focused on our FY15 target to vice providers. The customer delivery sermanagement and customer delivery service suppliers have all suppliers in China approved to vice providers managed by our retail opTotal number of IWAY audits conducted at retail suppliers 136 179 IWAY. In FY14 we improved levels of superations are in addition to those managed Total number of retail cleaning, security, waste management 539 448 port for our China-based suppliers by ofby our Service Business (see page 84). In and customer delivery service providers fering training on IWAY, covering details FY14 we conducted 179 audits and 40% of Retail cleaning, security, waste management and customer 19 40 about the IWAY requirements and advice the 448 suppliers in these four categories delivery service providers, % IWAY approved on good practice, working to improve and were IWAY approved. We will continue to maintain compliance. We are also moving conduct audits and aim to achieve 100% IWAY approval at FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 some production from non-compliant supIWAY approval for suppliers in this categocatalogue suppliers pliers to other IWAY approved suppliers in ry by FY15. Share of catalogue paper and print 86 90 89 82 55 China. suppliers that are approved according to the IKEA Catalogue Sustainability The IWAY approval rate for IMS supIKEA catalogue suppliers Requirements (%) pliers at the end of FY14 was 77%, comThe IKEA catalogue is produced by Share of catalogue paper and print 65 72 70 66 68 pared with 53% in FY13. We have seen Inter IKEA Systems, the owner of the IKEA suppliers that are approved according to considerable improvements, not least in Concept and worldwide IKEA franchise the industry specific requirements (%) China where 22% of our suppliers moved provider. from IWAY60 to IWAY compliance. Twice a year, all suppliers conduct IWAY approval at IKEA Components and suppliers FY13 FY14 a self-assessment of their compliance Retail suppliers against IWAY and the industry-specific IKEA Components units, % approved 100 100 In our retail organisation we continue to requirements for pulp, paper, print and Total number of IKEA Components suppliers 226 242 focus on securing IWAY approval in higher digital. We compile the results of these asTotal number of IWAY audits conducted at IKEA 146 187 risk categories: cleaning, security, waste sessments before negotiating contracts so Components suppliers management and customer delivery serour purchasers can use this information to IKEA Components suppliers, % approved * 100 100 select suppliers that support our sustain* Includes suppliers pending a scheduled audit (applies to 0.8% of the total). ability goals. I WAY A P P R O VA L O F In FY14, IWAY approval was 55%, comI N D I R E C T M AT E R I A L S A N D pared with 82% in FY13. In FY13, data was audits in FY15, putting us on track for our catalogue suppliers, including achieving S E RV IC E (IM S) S U P P L IE R S (% a p p r o v e d ) based on supplier self-assessments, but ambition to audit all catalogue suppliers by 100% Forest Stewardship Council certified in FY14 we carried out 20 IWAY audits in August 2016. paper (FSC Mix Credit) for the catalogue, co-operation with IKEA Indirect MateWe also introduced third party audits on page 68. rial and Services (IMS). This means the for environmental data gathered from GOAL FY15 100 FY14 data is more accurate than what we pulp, paper and print suppliers, carrying IKEA Components suppliers FY14 77 reported in FY13. out a combined total of 23 site visits and IWAY applies to IKEA Components and FY13 53 We anticipated this decrease in IWAY desk reviews in FY14. These audits helped all its suppliers. These companies proFY12 32 approval and have agreed corrective acus to further increase the reliability of the vide components and materials to IKEA FY11 27 tion plans with catalogue suppliers where environmental data. Read more about suppliers and sub-suppliers that are used FY10 20 needed. We plan to complete a further 30 the environmental performance of our in IKEA home furnishing products. In this CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 8 6 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES IWAY approval at IKEA Industry and suppliers FY13 FY14 IKEA Industry units, % approved 100 100 Total number of IKEA Industry suppliers 1300 1150 Total number of IWAY audits conducted at 30 100 IKEA Industry suppliers IKEA Industry suppliers, % approved 8 60 way we have extended the scope of page 87). In FY14, we conducted 100 IWAY to include a greater number of subIWAY audits at IKEA Industry supplisuppliers. ers. Out of a total of 1,150 supplier proIn FY14, all our IKEA Components units duction sites, 5% have achieved IWAY and their suppliers achieved 100% IWAY approval. approval or were pending a scheduled auIn FY15, we will continue to impledit. The IWAY scope so far did not cover a ment IWAY with IKEA Industry suppliers, small number of after-sales suppliers; they focusing particularly on board suppliers. will be included from FY15. In China, all We plan to undertake approximately 200 suppliers have achieved IWAY60, but we further audits in FY15 and will continue Tackling working hours did not collect information on the number that achieved IWAY (see page 85). to work with those suppliers not reaching IWAY standards to implement improvein our supply chain See box for more about our pilot ment action plans. As a supplier to IKEA, project towards IWAY. IKEA Industry Group must also comply We want to make sure people cies in production helped to compenwith IWAY and all sites are IWAY approved. do not work excessive hours in our sate for increased labour costs. supply chain. IKEA Components is Teamwork was key to the sucIKEA Industry suppliers engaging with suppliers in China to cess of the project. Having made the IKEA Industry supplies solid wood, board Working with sub-suppliers reduce working hours without reducchanges needed to achieve IWAY, on frame and board-based furniture to We know that we can have a big impact on ing wages. In FY14, we began a pilot the supplier says it now has a better IKEA and companies in the IKEA supply the working practices of our wider supply project with suppliers to move towards reputation with a more stable and ef100% IWAY compliance, which means ficient production base. Its employees chain. Since the merger of Swedwood, chain by working with the companies that fully complying with working hour have improved relative salaries, health, Swedspan and IKEA Industry Investment supply us directly to expand IWAY to their limits. One of the first to take part was safety, life balance and job satisfaction. and Development (IIID) to form IKEA Insuppliers. a glass and mirrors supplier that was “To achieve IWAY, the key is setalready performing well on price, ting clear expectations, securing mandustry Group, purchasing structures are quality and sustainability. agement commitment from suppliers now aligned with IKEA Group and we have We met regularly with the supplier and measuring progress,” says Smith begun implementing a standard approach Our direct suppliers are responand set clear goals to integrate IWAY Yang, Business Developer at IKEA into its day-to-day operations. The Components. for these suppliers. sible for communicating the IWAY challenge was to find ways to reduce We are now extending IWAY to all We have a structured timetable to code of conduct to sub-suppliers. working hours without reducing wagIKEA Components suppliers. reach 100% IWAY approval with all dies. Finding new mechanical efficienrect material suppliers by 2020 (see CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 8 7 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES Tier 2 home furnishing suppliers FY13 FY14 Total number of HF tier 2 suppliers 14,000 16,561 Total number of HF tier 2 suppliers with identified critical 2,200 1,691 materials and processes Share of HF tier 2 suppliers with identified critical materials 20 91 and processes compliant with ‘IWAY Musts’, % They also ensure that critical sub-suppliers IKE A INDUS TRY GOAL S – those involved in higher-risk processes FOR IWAY AT SUPPL IER S or who are based in higher-risk locations – achieve full and verified compliance with Embedding IWAY in our IWAY Musts. We assess compliance By end of FY15: our supply chain with IWAY Musts through an audit led by • All direct material IKEA Industry the direct supplier or a third-party audit Group suppliers will have IWAY Making IKEA products is a comthey fail to meet a certain requirecompany, and provide them with guidance Musts verified. plicated process. More than 1,000 ment, we work with them to solve it. companies supply our home furnishing But if it remains a problem, we won’t • All critical direct material IKEA and training. We also conduct audits to Industry Group suppliers will verify compliance in high-risk locations. products and materials. Each of these work with them.” have implemented IWAY standhas many of its own suppliers – IKEA’s In Poland, upholstery maker SITS In FY14, we consolidated our data on ard 5.1 and be ready for auditsub-suppliers. has been working with IKEA for over ing. sub-suppliers through a new database. Our direct tier 1 suppliers are in 20 years, and uses IWAY to audit a great position to help. They have its own suppliers. Michal Ryszawa IKEA co-workers and supplier representaBy end of FY17: already been through a rigorous explains how the process of working tives are also visiting sub-suppliers to disprocess to make sure they comply with sub-suppliers has evolved: “While cuss and develop a better understanding • All critical direct material supwith IWAY and we have longstanding SITS has been growing with IKEA, our pliers will be IWAY audited and of IWAY Musts. In FY14, 91% of critical relationships with them, which means suppliers have been growing with us. approved. we can trust them to put in place IKEA We know the whole value chain is very home furnishing sub-suppliers were aprequirements across their own supply closely connected, and we want to proved to IWAY Musts. This is based on By end of FY18: chain. We provide support and training maintain that strong working relationfor suppliers on how to perform audits ship. Using IWAY for our own suppliers audits of 1,085 of the 1,691 sub-suppliers • All direct material IKEA Industry we have identified as ‘critical’. themselves. For many IKEA suppliers, is a win–win situation.” Group suppliers will have impleall of their own suppliers have reached It is not always easy – changing We came close to reaching our goal mented IWAY 5.1 and be ready compliance with IWAY Musts. mentalities and bringing IWAY to life for auditing. to secure compliance to IWAY Musts at all Ján Kapec is the Purchasing and can be a challenge – and we work with Sales Manager at Ekoltech, one of our our suppliers to understand what we critical second-tier suppliers by the end of By end of FY20: pigment lacquer MDF (medium density can do better to help them ensure FY14. Considering the challenges of securfibreboard) suppliers in Slovakia. He their own suppliers are up to standard. ing sub-supplier compliance, we are proud • All direct material IKEA Industry is used to working with IWAY, both We are proud of the way in which they within Ekoltech and with its suppliers. treat IWAY as part of everyday work. Group suppliers will be IWAY of what has been achieved and continue audited and approved. to work towards our 100% goal, as well as “Companies must pass IWAY’s basic As Ján from Ekoltech says: “It’s not requirements before we even consider a case of doing something extra, it is aiming for compliance along entire value them as a supplier,” he explains. “If part of who we are.” chains in critical areas by the end of FY17. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 8 8 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES PEOPLE & PL ANET NEW targets P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S Supporting Advocate for children’s rights by influencing policy development, raising awareness human rights and supporting families in vulnerable communities. Develop and implement a transparent and reliable system for the responsible recruitment of migrant workers at first-tier suppliers in identified critical areas by August 2017. Continuously identify and develop setups for home-based workers to improve working conditions, protect labour rights and prevent child labour. By August 2020, all home-based workers are transitioned into improved setups and part of our handmade development programme. Support the development of small-scale social entrepreneurs into IKEA suppliers leading to demonstrable social benefits, such as tackling poverty. Five new limited edition collections from the IKEA Social Entrepreneur initiative launched in three countries before February 2015. The right to be a child own workforce and our suppliers. Every child has the right to a childhood – to The IKEA Way on Preventing Child learn, play and develop. We are guided by Labour outlines our strict stance against the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles child labour and how we work to prevent on Business and Human Rights launched it. It describes how we will act in the best in 2011, and the Children’s Rights and interests of the children involved if any Business Principles launched by UNICEF, cases of child labour are found. We reguSave the Children and the UN Global Comlarly update our requirements and through pact in 2012. IWAY, these requirements are being extended to our sub-suppliers too (see page 79). We strive to make children feel In many countries, young workers, welcome in our stores and provide particularly those between the ages of 15 We want to empower people within our working in our supply chain to better unproducts in our Children’s IKEA range and 18, do not have the opportunity to extended supply chain to create better derstand the challenges they face and dethat promote safety, education, continue their schooling. We support the lives for themselves. velop relationships based on partnership play and development. legal employment of young workers in our The voices of migrant workers, homeand mutual benefit rather than charity. supply chain by providing entry-level jobs based workers and those with limited acProtecting children’s rights is an imporand enabling their career development. All cess to resources or skills development tant focus for IKEA. We do this through The work of the IKEA Foundation centres the younger workers in our supply chain often go unheard. They can end up facadvocacy, raising awareness and by on the rights of children and their famimust be employed under conditions that ing poor working conditions and living in supporting families in vulnerable commulies (see page 93). But our responsibility to support their development and do not put poverty. We talk directly to the people nities. children and young people extends to our them at risk. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 8 9 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES Migrant workers The desire for a better life and a better fuHUMAN R IGHT S GOVER NANC E ture for themselves and their families can often take people far from home on the promise of a job that can provide just that. Respect for human rights is part Far too often this initial promise can turn of how we work. It is integrated into important policies, codes and to hardship, with high fees and recruitstandards such as: ment practices that leave the most vulnerable workers further in debt. • The IKEA Way on Preventing Our IWAY requirements for suppliers Child Labour (see page 79) set clear standards for the • The IKEA Way on Purchasing recruitment and employment of workers, Products and Services (IWAY), for example a requirement that passports our supplier code of conduct should never be withheld from workers. • IKEA Group Code of Conduct We work with our suppliers to ensure these requirements are met and to pro• IKEA Group Standard on Human Rights tect the rights of migrant workers. But we know that recruitment processes in many • IKEA Group Policy on People Leave the countries can involve complex layers and • IKEA Group Standard on People opaque practices that can only be tackled weaving at work by taking a wider approach. For example, • IKEA Group Policy on Sustainability. IWAY includes a requirement that no fees In Thanh Binh, three hours south house, two children, pig, hens, rice and should be paid by workers relating to reIn FY15 we will launch new guideof the Vietnamese capital, Hanoi, is a sugar cane fields, and crocheted to cruitment; however, the lack of visibility of lines on human rights in communibuilding with large skylights and ceiling earn money for the family. cation to provide guidance on how practices back to the home country makes fans. Here, around 1,400 women are Now she has a job outside her to ensure IKEA communications sitting on plastic chairs crocheting amid home, with a contract, flexible workit a challenge to ensure that this requirereflect our values and commitment the background buzz of small talk. The ing hours, Sundays off and accident ment is met and means that the issue can to human rights. youngest is 17 and the oldest is 83, insurance. The weaving centre gives only be tackled in partnership with others. with no intention of retiring – she loves suppliers more control over working We strive to prevent any negabeing part of the Thanh Binh weaving conditions, increases productivity and tive impacts on human rights ascentre community. enables craftworkers to have jobs outHome based workers sociated with our business. Where The centre, which opened in July side their homes with regulated hours, The informal sector is an important conrisks are identified, we strengthen 2013, makes products only for IKEA. a safe working environment and higher our due diligence processes and, Using just crochet hooks and their wages than before. tributor to family income for people in arewhen necessary, provide access skills, the women here make beautiful For Én, the change has been about as of poverty. Short term jobs like working to a remedy – the steps an organiproducts they have designed themmore than money: “I earn more now, at home to weave or sew handicrafts prosation takes if it finds it has caused selves together with IKEA designers. but the biggest change is that I feel or contributed to human rights vide flexibility and the ability to combine Én Nguyèn Thi, 41, was one of the happier. I have friends here and we violations. first women who learnt to crochet when get the chance to talk about life while tasks that are part of home life with work. IKEA production began here. Like many we are working. I’m more of an equal However, it often offers limited job secuother women in Vietnam, Én used to sit partner with my husband now.” rity and poor working conditions. alone at home looking after the family’s We have started to implement new CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 9 0 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES working methods in parts of our supSocial entrepreneurs ply chain that traditionally rely on homeSocial entrepreneurs are guided by a widbased workers. In some cases, this iner social mission in the way they do busivolves collaborating with our suppliers to ness. To them, making a profit is not the develop completely new ways of working. only goal. For example, a decade ago we began a In the past our supply chain model has journey to consolidate production for our not allowed for collaboration with smallhandmade carpets in the Bhadohi region scale suppliers as their production cannot in India, changing from more traditional meet the demands of our global business. village-based small scale production to But we have realised the huge potential of in-house production at our suppliers’ faworking with these small groups – busicilities. Today we work with around four ness benefits for both us and the supsuppliers located near the villages, there plier, combined with social development. are no middle men and outsourcing of proIn the poorer areas where we work with duction is not allowed. This has improved social entrepreneurs, there are generally working conditions, wages, and ergonomhigh rates of unemployment for women. Creating opportunities ics for the people in the Bhadohi region Working with IKEA through our partners and we are able to work even more closely gives social entrepreneurs an opportunity for artisans in Thailand with the suppliers to ensure production to make their own living and improve the Life in the Doi Tung area of Chiang to develop a self-sustained livelihood meets our IWAY standards. quality of life for themselves and their chilRai province in Thailand used to be away from opium production. It emTogether with our suppliers, we have dren. It also nurtures local craft traditions very different. ploys 1,700 people, including 470 artialso set up weaving centres in Vietnam and prevents migration to big cities for “In the past, people in Doi Tung sans working with handicrafts, and its to bring home workers together into a viwork. did shifting cultivation. They cut down social mission is to revive lost natural trees to plant corn, rice and opium. It forests and to improve healthcare and brant community (see page 89). The cenOver the last two years we have been was a very difficult time and we lived education in the community. tres offer improved working conditions, working with social entrepreneurs to proday by day. There weren’t any doctors “I was part of the first group who flexible working hours and higher wages. duce limited-edition collections to be sold so people used opium as the remedy started textile weaving when we only for pain killer for toothache or stomhad 12 people,” Come explains. “When Contracts for workers and full compliance in selected IKEA stores. We focus on social ach ache. When they used too much the Doi Tung Project started, everywith applicable IWAY requirements are entrepreneurs who: opium, they became addicted to it. thing changed – roads, electricity, helping to transform this informal workAt that time, we didn’t have nationwork and income.” ality so we couldn’t work, couldn’t We wanted to support this work, force into a more formal sector. We are • Work with handicrafts (textiles, natural go anywhere. We were stuck in Doi while creating business value for both training suppliers, mapping home-based fibres and ceramics) Tung. Some people even traded their us and the artisans. So in 2007, IKEA workers and working with third-party au• Contribute to social change, poverty daughters for money,” recalls Come partnered with DTDP who have since ditors to create a verification plan. We are reduction and women’s empowerment Takcomesing, a woman who lives in created three ranges for our stores. the area. Most recently, the INVERKAN range – at the beginning of the journey to create in some of the world’s poorest commuCome has been working with the a selection of hand-woven textiles and new working methods in areas that tradinities Doi Tung Development Project (DTDP) ceramics – was launched in 20 IKEA tionally rely on home-based workers, and • We can form solid, long-term business for 22 years. The project aims to enstores in autumn 2014. able the tribal villages in Chiang Rai we look forward to developing in this area. relationships with. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 9 1 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES ANSWER “Respect for fundamental human rights is an essential part of the IKEA vision: to create a better everyday life for the many people. This means that we look for opportunities to promote human rights through our actions and the way we communicate, and must also avoid negative impacts, for example by unintentionally discriminatStakeholder ing against a minority group. The removal of woman from the Saudi challenge Arabian version of the IKEA Catalogue was a regrettable mistake. QUESTION We have since strengthened our routines and guidelines to ensure that the IKEA catalogue reflects “As a Swedish company, IKEA what we stand for, while at the has a reputation for being broadly same time showing respect for the liberal. But a number of recent cultures of different markets. incidents caused shock. In Saudi We believe everyone should be Arabia, IKEA airbrushed women treated equally and we want to from the catalogue, and in Russia it play our part in ending discrimiremoved the story featuring a Britnation. Reflecting diversity in our ish family with lesbian parents from communications is an important the IKEA Family Live magazine. Short product runs match the protions from the IKEA Social Entrepreneur part of promoting human rights. Is IKEA caving into discriminaWe believe that publishing an duction capacity of our partners, and initiative in three countries before Februtory laws in repressive regimes? article in our customer magazine What moral responsibility do you we spread production over the year with ary 2015. During the coming year we will in 24 countries featuring a lesbian have to use the power of your global couple was a good example of that. working hours that suit those involved. We launch the first collection from Indonesia. brand to affirm your commitment to We were unfortunately unable to international human rights standsupport the social entrepreneurs in develWe sell collections mainly made by women ards, including non-discrimination, publish the article in Russia due to legal restrictions. Whilst this conoping skills such as design, production, through these partnerships in 20 stores wherever you operate?” flicts with our commitment to proenvironmental management and export. and plan to increase this number to 29 moting diversity, we comply with Frances House, Director of Programmes, We collaborate with the local artisans on stores by March 2015. the law where we operate and the Institute for Human Rights and Business only way we could legally run such designs and patterns to produce commerWe also work with local co-operatives articles would be to adapt the concial items – local crafts with global appeal. and social entrepreneurs in developed tent in a way that is incompatible with our values. To raise awareOver time, we build lasting relationships countries such as Denmark, Sweden and ness about the issue, we included and work with our partners to develop the USA, with women who are immigrants a letter about our commitment to equal rights in the magazine in 25 their businesses and become self-reliant. and find it tough to get into the labour countries, including Russia. As we This allows us to move on and support the market. In the Rosengård area of Malmö in move forward, we are firmly committed to promoting diversity and next generation of social entrepreneurs. Sweden, with a very high unemployment inclusion for our co-workers and to We currently launch two collecrate, we are working with a local co-operapromote human rights through our tions from India and one from Thailand tive association of women to develop busicommunications and actions.” each year and have achieved our goal of ness skills and local collaboration through Petra Hesser, Human Resources launching five new limited-edition colleccraft and sewing services. Manager, IKEA Group CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 9 2 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES PEOPLE & PL ANET NEW targets P O S I T I V E TA R G E T S Lasting changes Engage customers and co-workers in annual local and global campaigns for a good cause for communities to improve children’s lives in the developing world. Annual donations will reach EUR 20 million by August 2020. By June 2015, the IKEA Foundation will implement programme(s) to promote children’s rights, fight child labour and create opportunities for families living in Brazil’s leather supply chain communities. By December 2016, the IKEA Foundation will develop programmes to help families and communities secure access to quality drinking water in water stressed areas. By 2015, the IKEA Foundation aims to have launched a programme to help women in India develop the skills they need to improve their income and succeed in India’s changing economy. By August 2020, more than 500 co-workers from around the world will have participated in IKEA Foundation IWitness trips by visiting schools and communities that are supported by IKEA’s annual good cause campaigns. All IKEA Group units will engage in local community activities in line with People & Planet Positive, based on local needs assessment and co-worker engagement. charitable causes, by providing know-how, Performance in 2014 co-workers’ time and donation of prodIn 2014, the IKEA Foundation donated ucts. Both to receivers shared with IKEA EUR 104 million through funds from IKEA Foundation and others. profits to 40 organisations globally. Our stores, distribution centres, factoThe Foundation entered the City ries and trading offices work with local and A.M. /KPMG World Charity Index as the global partners and community groups – 14th biggest private sector donor in the particularly those supporting children, refworld in December 2013.2 We are proud of We want to empower others to creent charitable foundation that focuses ugees and homeless people. this achievement. But we know that comate better lives for themselves. Globally, on protecting children from child labour, We host community events and work mitment, partnership and good ideas are the IKEA Foundation supports projects providing a better life for refugee chilwith NGOs to help improve the local envijust as important as money for creating in some of the world’s poorest communidren, and empowering girls and women. ronment. Co-workers and customers give lasting change. ties. Locally and nationally, our stores and Through grants and product donations their time and resources to support these other facilities form partnerships with key from the IKEA Foundation, conditions activities. Innovating together organisations to create changes, large and for families living in some of the world’s Creative thinking can lead to high returns small. poorest communities are improved. IKEA on social investment. Innovation is The IKEA Foundation1 is an independGroup supports IKEA Foundation in its essential to reach more people and 1 The IKEA Foundation manages philanthropy for the Stichting INGKA Foundation, the owner of the IKEA Group. 2 Based on total grant giving in 2012. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 9 3 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES T H E I K E A F O U N D AT I O N The IKEA Foundation is a charity • Better lives for refugee children and registered in the Netherlands. It aims families. Projects that address chilto improve opportunities for children dren’s need for a safe place to call and youth in the world’s poorest comhome, and sharing IKEA’s specialist munities by funding holistic, long-term logistics knowledge to help partprogrammes that can create substanners get emergency supplies where tial, lasting change. they’re needed quickly. The Foundation works with strong • Fighting the root causes of child strategic partners applying innovalabour and promoting children’s tive approaches to achieve large-scale rights. Programmes that promote results in four fundamental areas of children’s rights, giving them aca child’s life: a place to call home; a cess to education, healthcare and a healthy start in life; a quality educasustainable family income so they tion; and sustainable family income. can create more opportunities for These partners range from small themselves and their families. NGOs working on innovative solutions • Empowering women and girls. to larger organisations such as the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) and Investments that empower women – through education, skills training, From cotton fields Médecins Sans Frontières, which better healthcare or providing a loan to classrooms enable these innovations to reach to set up a small business – in order the many children that need them. to improve children’s health, educaBy 2015, more than 100 million tion and future opportunities. “My friends used to ask me to go young people in India to move out of children will have benefited from • Emergency response. Donation to school with them,” says 10 year-old work and into education. The procurrent IKEA Foundation-funded of IKEA products and provision of Tejas Atote. “They would tease me gramme reached 600,000 children, programmes. financial support for humanitarian for not being able to go. What could I enabling more than a quarter of them The programmes funded by the relief efforts. have done? I had to work.” to access learning. IKEA Foundation fall into the following Tejas’ parents were earning less Tejas is one of these children. With broad areas: For more details on the Foundation than EUR 2 a day between them, support from Save the Children and and its innovative partnerships, go working in the cotton fields near their funding from the IKEA Foundation, his to the IKEA Foundation website village home in Maharashtra, India. village set up a children’s group that www.IKEAfoundation.org. This was not enough to support the supported his return to school. Today, family, so the boy had to leave school Tejas goes to school regularly, and to join them. aspires to become a police officer. He hated the work. “My back But there are many more young ached every day... and I was frightpeople still working in fields and ened that snakes or spiders would bite factories across India. That is why we A N N U A L D O N AT I O N B Y * Based on total grant giving in 2012. me. I wanted to study.” Tejas was not increased our funding by EUR 7 million I K E A F O U N D AT I O N * alone. In India, more than 12 million in 2014. Targeted at the 790,000 chil2014 €104 million children work, the majority in the agridren living in cotton communities in 2013 €101 million cultural sector. India, this support should help many At IKEA, we believe in a healthy, to get an education and, like Tejas, 2012 €82 million secure childhood, when young people fulfil their potential. 2011 €65 million can learn, play and develop. Five years 2010 €45 million ago, the IKEA Foundation partnered See page 31 for more on how we * Includes donations relating to the Soft Toys for Education and Brighter Lives with Save the Children to enable more are sourcing cotton responsibly. for Refugees Campaign. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 9 4 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES create real change with limited resources. develop a safer, more durable emergency We encourage dialogue internally and with shelter for refugee families. Some of the our partners to share ideas and best pracworld’s most vulnerable families are testtices. We invest in programmes to come ing around 50 prototype shelters in the up with new solutions to known probfield, with the feedback gathered informlems and develop proof-of-concept proing design modifications. The Foundation grammes that will help governments and also supports UNHCR’s quest for other other funders increase reach. innovations such as solar street lights to The IKEA Foundation’s partnership improve life in refugee camps. © UNHCR/ S. Baldwin with the UNHCR and the Refugee Housing For more details of other innovative Unit is a ground-breaking example of colprojects, see the IKEA Foundation website laboration, technical innovation and pracat www.IKEAfoundation.org. tical application. The partnership aims to Making lives DONAT ION S AF TER DISA S TER S brighter for refugees All children should have the opportunity to learn and play. But when “It’s lighting that we need most,” says co-workers and customers with a natural disasters and conflicts turn Um Fadi, a Syrian refugee living in campaign to support this initiative. their lives upside down, they lose Jordan’s Al Azraq camp. In sole charge For every LEDARE LED light bulb the chance to simply be a child. The of her niece Rama, 12, and nephews sold in February and March 2014, the IKEA Foundation provides funding Anas, 11, and Malek, 8, poor lighting is Foundation donated EUR 1 to UNHCR. and donates products for humania problem: “The children get anxious And in Australia, UNHCR representatarian relief efforts that support at night-time, and when darkness falls, tives all former refugees – went into children and their families affected you don’t always feel safe.” IKEA stores to share their experiences by disasters. In 2014, we: Today, there are nearly 11.7 with customers and their children. million refugees under UNHCR’s care, The campaign has raised EUR • Donated IKEA children’s products and around half are children. Every 7.7 million in its first year alone. The to go in UNICEF’s early childhood year, millions more families are forced funds are supporting the installation of development kits for around 1.2 to flee their homes because of consolar street lights, which are lighting million children flicts or natural disasters. Many find up the pathways and enabling com• Committed EUR 1.3 million to Save safety in UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) munities to come together for events the Children’s innovative pilot camps. Darkness can make even more frequently. The donation will also programme to protect children’s everyday activities like using the fund the distribution of solar lanterns, rights in humanitarian crises toilet or collecting water dangerous, allowing children to study after dark, • Supported Médecins Sans especially for women and girls. and enabling refugees like Um Fadi to Frontières with a donation of EUR Home-working and studying also earn money at home in the evenings 5 million to help them fight the suffer in poorly lit environments. through activities like weaving, sewing Ebola outbreak in West Africa. The IKEA Foundation is working or running small shops. • Sent 150,000 blankets, quilts with UNHCR to improve lighting, reWith the campaign now set to and pillow cases to UNHCR for newable energy and primary educacontinue over the next two years, we refugees in Iraq to provide tion in camps across Africa, Asia and hope to create brighter futures for some comfort to people who the Middle East. IKEA has engaged many more refugees. are suffering. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 9 5 A BE T TER L IFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNI T IES Customer and co-worker campaigns I W I TNE S S Co-workers and customers play a big part in our efforts to create a better life for peoIKEA co-workers around the world ple and communities, and to contribute to work hard to promote campaigns a more sustainable world. Here are some such as Soft Toys for Education (see recent examples of their involvement: left) and Brighter Lives for Refugees, helping to raise more money and increase impact. Every year, • Norway: More than 87,000 school the IKEA Foundation’s IWitness children participated in the Tea Light programme invites small groups of co-workers to see first hand what Hunt, contributing to the collection of a difference these campaigns make around 30 million used tea lights for and share their experiences with recycling, raising awareness of recyother co-workers, customers, friends and family on the IWitness Global cling among the children and their parCitizens blog. ents, saving more than 170 tonnes of In 2014, 105 co-workers in 17 CO2 and reclaiming 20 tonnes of alucountries experienced IWitness trips minium (see page 60 for more on how to countries including Bangladesh, Indonesia, Kosovo and Sierra Leone. we are making the most of waste in Norway). Read the IWitness Global Citizens • Romania: Co-workers helped to reblog at blog.ikeafoundation.org. furbish three houses to improve the lives of children living in SOS Children’s Village Bucharest – a safe and supportive community that provides • US: Since FY11, more than 120 chariWorking together homes for children who are no longer able to live with their biological family. ties have received over USD 1 million (EUR 846,000) in IKEA products, defor 12 years of soft toys • Spain: IKEA Food is encouraging chilsign expertise and time as part of the dren to support other children, with Life Improvement Challenge. IKEA US Every year, the IKEA Foundation children in 46 countries. In FY14, IKEA EUR 1 (or ‘one smile’) for every healthy co-workers nominate local charities to donates EUR 1 to Save the Children Portugal increased sales of soft toys children’s menu sold going to Menudos win an IKEA makeover of a space that and UNICEF for every soft toy sold in by 60% thanks to a strong focus on IKEA stores in November and Decemcustomer engagement and education Corazones, a non-profit foundation for helps to improve the lives of others in ber. The money is spent on children’s about this project. children with heart problems, along the community. educational projects in some of the The Soft Toys for Education with further funds raised through aucworld’s poorest communities. Educacampaign in FY15 will feature five new tion is a powerful and effective way fairy-tale characters, as well as our tions, collection boxes and other activito enable children to escape poverty. first-ever global drawing competition ties. Since FY12, over 250,000 ‘smiles’ Since the Soft Toys for Education for children. Ten winning designs for have funded accommodation, hospital campaign began in 2003, our co-worksoft toys will be brought to life to rooms, psychological support and a ers and customers have raised EUR 67 create a limited collection of toys by million supporting more than 11 million kids for kids. new centre providing specialist facilities for children and their families. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > A bet ter ever yday life at work > Bet ter lives for worker s > Suppor ting human right s > L asting changes for communities 9 6 Governance and ethics Our culture, based on the spirit of togetherness, enthusiasm and fun, defines the way we work and is key to our success. We recruit capable people who share our values and we expect a lot of them. Their commitment and passion mean we can give everyone more responsibility, which leads to quicker, better decisions and more effective actions. We want to make sustainability an integral part of every co-worker’s daily work as this is essential for creating a more sustainable IKEA. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > How we work > Sustainabilit y governance and management > Business ethic s > Public polic y > About our repor ting 9 7 GOVER NANC E AND E T HIC S How we work Charity Stichting IKEA Foundation Stichting INGKA Foundation Owner of the IKEA Group Management of financial assets Stichting IMAS Foundation The IKEA Group of companies (INGKA Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) has an ownership structure that ensures independence and a long-term approach. Stichting INGKA Foundation in the Netherlands is our owner, and its funds can only be used in The IKEA Group two ways: reinvested in the IKEA Group or (INGKA Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) donated for charitable purposes through the Chairman of the supervisory board, Lars-Johan Jarnheimer* Stichting IKEA Foundation. President and CEO, Peter Agnefjäll INGKA Holding B.V. is the parent company of the IKEA Group, located in Leiden, Netherlands. As per 15 January, its Supervisory Production Range & Retail & Group Functions Board consists of: Lars-Johan Jarnheimer Supply Expansion Business Navigation & Finance (Chairman); Stina Honkamaa Bergfors; Tore Corporate Communications Bertilsson; Luisa Delgado; Jonas Kamprad; 44 9,500 315 HR Göran Lindahl; and Lone Fønss Schrøder. InProduction Units Products IKEA Group Stores IT gvar Kamprad, the founder of IKEA, is senior 20,100 27 110,800 Legal advisor to the Supervisory Board. Co-workers Trading Service Co-workers Risk Management & Compliance The IKEA Group is led by its President and CEO, Peter Agnefjäll, together with Group Offices Strategy & Process Management. Sustainability 13 The IKEA Group operates throughout the Customer Distribution whole value chain from range strategy and Centres product development to production, dis34 tribution and retail. This includes our own manufacturing units, trading service offices, Distribution Centres Centres customer distribution centres and 315 stores 16,100 Shopping centres in 27 countries. In total, the IKEA Group has Co-workers operations in 42 countries. Asset Management The IKEA Group franchises the IKEA retail Financial & Core related assets system from Inter IKEA Systems B.V. in the Netherlands. Inter IKEA Systems B.V. is the *Replaced Göran Grosskopf as new chairman of the IKEA Group from January 2015. owner of the IKEA Concept and the worldwide IKEA franchisor. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > How we work > Sustainabilit y governance and management > Business ethic s > Public polic y > About our repor ting 9 8 GOVER NANC E AND E T HIC S Each business unit and country retail Working with others organisation has a sustainability organisaWe can achieve many things on our own, tion, and the larger business units have but often we choose to collaborate with Sustainability governance their own sustainability team. They are others to maximise our impact and creand management supported by the central Group Sustainate lasting change. Wherever possible, ability team, which reports to Steve Howwe partner with governments, industry ard and focuses on sustainability policy organisations, NGOs and trade unions to and compliance, reporting, and communistrengthen our sustainability efforts. cations and innovation. Together with our partners, we are The Sustainability Management Group, striving to transform how we work across chaired by Steve, brings together sustainour value chain – from factory and farm, ability managers from the main business to stores, to customers’ homes and, evenareas – Retail and expansion, Range and tually, to our products’ end-of-life. LongSupply, IKEA Industry and IKEA Food – as term partnerships with WWF, the Forest well as the Heads of Policy and CompliStewardship Council (FSC) and the Betance, Sustainability Communication and ter Cotton Initiative are increasing the Sustainability Innovation. The group helps level of responsibly sourced materials and to co-ordinate efforts and make key deciresources we use across our global supsions on sustainability. ply chain. The IKEA Foundation’s partProgress against our sustainability obnerships with UNICEF, War Child, Mejectives is reported to Group Management decins Sans Frontieres and others focus and the Board of Directors every three on improving the lives of children and months. refugees in some of the world’s poorest Any risks or concerns relating to suscommunities. tainability and climate change are flagged We established new partnerships in FY14: by sustainability managers to the IKEA Group Risk Committee. The committee in• Business and climate change. IKEA cludes three members of Group Manageis part of, and helped to form We Mean Sustainability is one of the four straSteve is a member of Group Management ment, and meets around four times a year. Business, a newly launched coalition tegic cornerstones of the IKEA Group diand reports directly to the Group PresiThe most serious risks are communicated of organisations that brings together rection, ‘Growing IKEA Together’, and is dent and CEO, Peter Agnefjäll. to the Group Sustainability team for furglobal businesses to accelerate action fundamental to our success. The business ther action if needed. on climate change. See page 104 for plan for every IKEA business unit specifies Read more about how sustainability is more information. how it will contribute to our sustainability All co-workers are responsible for becoming a bigger part of everyone’s daily • Fair wages. We are working with the objectives. sustainability in their area of work. work on page 44. Fair Wage Network (FWN) to underOur Chief Sustainability Officer, Steve stand how we can ensure fair wages Howard, has overall responsibility for perand working conditions across all formance against our sustainability comHundreds of people across IKEA have soour countries of operation and in our mitments – within Growing IKEA Togethcial and environmental objectives as part supply chain. See page 72 for more er and People & Planet Positive strategy. of their formal job description. information. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > How we work > Sustainabilit y governance and management > Business ethic s > Public polic y > About our repor ting 9 9 GOVER NANC E AND E T HIC S Engaging co-workers and As well as our co-workers talking to customers customers directly about sustainability, • Product impact. We are members World Resources Institute. Every IKEA co-worker, in every store, diswe communicate using in-store informaof the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, We took the group’s feedback on our tribution centre, production unit and oftion (for example on leaflets and price which is expanding its focus to include People & Planet Positive Strategy in FY13 fice, plays a role in achieving our sustaintags), discounts on more sustainable home textiles. The vision is an apseriously and conducted further meetings ability goals. To enable everyone to make products, interactive experience days and parel, footwear and home textiles inthrough FY14 to build on their input. sustainability part of their everyday work workshops, and other channels such as dustry that produces no unnecessary While our environmental focus is seen at IKEA, we are creating opportunities for our catalogue and our website. IKEA FAMenvironmental harm and has a positive as well developed, some members of co-workers to contribute their ideas and to ILY members receive additional discounts impact on the people and communities the Advisory Group felt that we could be learn about sustainability. Our new trainon products like our Hanergy solar panassociated with its activities. bolder and clearer on our work with peoing package is designed to ensure that all els. Read more about how we inspire our • Product innovation. We are a foundple and communities. We recognise that co-workers understand and are inspired customers to be more sustainable on ing partner of LAUNCH Nordic, an ineverything we do at IKEA – from food to by sustainability – see more on page 76. page 19. novation platform launched in 2014. It forestry – involves people and our stratbrings together industry leaders and egy should reflect this. During the year, we innovators to identify scalable sustainhave made our commitment to People and We run regular co-worker able technologies in materials, such as Communities clearer by redefining our focampaigns to raise awareness using recycled cotton fibres and new cus areas and targets (see page 107). and encourage participation dyeing techniques. The Advisory Group reconvened in in sustainability. • Renewable energy. IKEA is a foundMay 2014 to give their feedback on our ing partner of RE100, an international updated People & Planet Positive stratinitiative to support companies aiming egy. They met with our President and CEO In FY14, we held a global competition to to be 100% renewable. See page 104 and three other members of Group Manencourage co-workers to increase sales for more information. agement (our Chief Sustainability Officer, of LEDARE LED light bulb for the Brighter Group HR Manager and Range & Supply Lives for Refugees project (see page 94). Learning from stakeholders Manager) and senior sustainability experts The IKEA People & Planet Ideas webWe are always open to feedback – by lisfrom around the business. We made some site is where we encourage co-workers in tening to others, we can make positive further updates to our strategy as a result distribution, food and retail to share their changes and develop long-term plans. We of these discussions (see page 100). inspiring stories about being more susregularly invite our customers, suppliers, We also held a larger ‘Future Search’ tainable. Read more about how we comNGOs and other stakeholders to discuss meeting for stakeholders that brought municate with our co-workers on page 76. what they think about our sustainability together NGOs, customers, industry repWe want our co-workers to live and performance. resentatives and others. The goal of this breathe sustainability so that they can be In FY13, we set up a dedicated Advisory dynamic session was to paint a picture the best ambassadors for our work. See Group to challenge and inspire us to conof the sustainable IKEA of the future and page 21 for more on our More Sustainable tinually improve our strategy. The Advisory work out how to get there. The first meetLife at Home co-worker engagement camGroup is made up of senior representatives ing outlined issues in food sustainability, paign. And find out how we encourage all from NGOs such as The Climate Group, and we will hold sessions later in the year our retail managers to measure their local the Institute for Human Rights and Busito discuss our plans for the future. sustainability performance using annual ness, Oxfam GB, Save the Children and the KPIs on page 49. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > How we work > Sustainabilit y governance and management > Business ethic s > Public polic y > About our repor ting 1 0 0 GOVER NANC E AND E T HIC S F E E D B A C K F R O M T H E P E O P L E & P L A N E T A D V I S O R Y G R O U P I N F Y1 4 People and Communities Feedback What we are working on IKEA has a significant opportunity to lead We revised the People and Communities section of our People & Planet Positive strategy to reflect more specific on social impact issues, just as it has priorities in four key areas: A better everyday life at work (see page 73), better lives for workers in our supply chain on the environment. IKEA should reflect (see page 79), supporting human rights (see page 88) and creating lasting change for communities (see page 92). this in the language and commitments In FY14 we developed additional People & Planet Positive commitments which focus on diversity, community relating to People and Communities in involvement, children’s rights, supporting migrant and home-based workers and social entrepreneurs, and the strategy. engaging customers and co-workers in more fundraising campaigns. Climate Change Feedback What we are working on All members of the Advisory Group Action and advocacy on climate change are priorities for IKEA and we are working to become climate positive. agreed that IKEA should prioritise action Without urgent action, the threats climate change poses to people, business success and global prosperity will on climate change due to the scale of increase significantly. Many countries we source materials and products from are particularly vulnerable to climate the challenge for the environment and change, and co-workers and communities are already feeling the effects. the risks to communities around the Acting on climate change will create innovation, economic benefits and business opportunities for a more prosperous world. IKEA should use its position as a future. We also want to encourage others to act, so climate change advocacy is one of the priorities in our global public business leader to call for action from affairs strategy. We are calling for robust policies to unlock the investment needed to accelerate the transition to a other businesses and governments. low-carbon economy. Read more about our other priorities for advocacy on page 102. We are engaging with national policy makers and business associations in the countries where we operate, and at EU level. We are also involved in key international events such as the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Conference of the Parties (COP) meetings and the UN Climate Summit held in New York in September 2014. See page 104. Human Rights Feedback What we are working on IKEA works in some places with Respect for human rights is at the centre of everything we do and we have updated our People & Planet Positive complicated human rights issues (see strategy to better reflect this commitment. page 88), and as it expands into new Using the UN and International Labor Organisation (ILO) principles as a starting point, we are establishing a consistent markets, new concerns relating to human position on all human rights risks. We are working to ensure we have the right processes in place to react quickly and rights will arise. IKEA should plan for responsibly to any human rights issues that arise. these future scenarios and understand how best to respond. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > How we work > Sustainabilit y governance and management > Business ethic s > Public polic y > About our repor ting 1 0 1 GOVER NANC E AND E T HIC S F E E D B A C K F R O M T H E P E O P L E & P L A N E T A D V I S O R Y G R O U P I N F Y1 4 Advocacy and leadership Feedback What we are working on People & Planet Positive gives IKEA the We recognise that as well as taking action in our business we can have a positive impact by advocating for wider opportunity to stimulate wider change change in society. by becoming an advocate and thought We are engaging more on social and environmental issues by working individually and in partnership with others. leader. It should take a stronger stance We have identified climate change as an immediate priority and are urging for bold action from policy makers in the on the issues that matter most to its countries where we operate, and on a global scale (see Public policy, page 102). business – particularly climate change, given the increasing momentum of international climate talks and potential to drive positive change. Corporate tax Feedback What we are working on There is considerable and increasing Our company structure was created to ensure we remain independent and to secure our long-term existence. The social concern on the subject of IKEA Group pays corporate income taxes in accordance with laws and regulations, wherever we are present as retailer, corporate tax avoidance. IKEA is manufacturer or in any other role. We have a strong commitment to contribute to the societies where we operate. In vulnerable to this because its business FY14, the IKEA Group corporate income tax charge amounted to EUR 801 million. The effective corporate income tax structure can seem complicated. It rate was 19.3%, up from 18.9%. In addition, we incurred local and other taxes such as property taxes, business taxes, should be aware of public concern over custom duties and environmental taxes. These taxes amounted to EUR 715 million in FY14. So, in total, the tax charge in tax and engage with the debate in an FY14 for the IKEA Group amounted to more than EUR 1.5 billion. During the last five years (FY10-14), corporate income open and transparent way. tax and other taxes amounted to about EUR 6.8 billion for the IKEA Group. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > How we work > Sustainabilit y governance and management > Business ethic s > Public polic y > About our repor ting 1 0 2 GOVER NANC E AND E T HIC S Business ethics Public policy We work hard to make sure the strong can use the IKEA trust line to report a conWe want to use our scale and influence mate change, and unlock the business IKEA culture is felt throughout our busicern anonymously. to help bring about significant change for innovation and investment needed to ness, wherever we operate around the The trust line, launched in FY13, is the benefit of people and the planet. An accelerate the transition to a low-carworld. The success of our business is built available in 41 countries. It provides coimportant way we do this is by taking part bon economy. on a solid foundation of honesty, respect, workers with the opportunity to raise conin public policy debates and working with 4. IKEA as a great place to work. We fairness and integrity. cerns confidentially in their own language, governments and other organisations to support our co-workers’ right to freeWe encourage leadership by example, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, either tackle the big issues that affect our busidom of association and promote posiand all co-workers must understand and by phone or online. All concerns are evaluness and communities. tive and constructive relationships with comply with our Code of Conduct, ‘Good ated by the trust line managers, and where In FY14, we developed a Corporate trade unions. We also work with our Business with Common Sense’. This reinappropriate they are escalated to the reCommunication and Public Affairs Strateown stakeholders including partners forces the IKEA Group way of doing busisponsible HR or risk manager. See page 76. gic Plan to streamline our public policy and and trade associations of which we are ness and what we expect of everyone. We advocacy activities which will be rolled out members. have a zero-tolerance policy for corrupAnti-corruption from FY15. This identifies four key areas of tion, alcohol and drug abuse, and harassHonesty is an important IKEA value. Coraction: Advocacy ment, and we strive to make sure that all ruption in any form is contradictory to our During FY14, we met a number of governour co-workers act in a way that is consistgoal of achieving low prices and being a 1. IKEA’s contribution to investments ment officials and Members of Parliament ent with our values. We give clear guidgood corporate citizen. and growth in society. We explain at the regional, national and local levels. ance for managers and co-workers on how No one acting on behalf of the IKEA how our growth, expansion and investOur main areas of public policy activity reto follow up any suspected misconduct. Group may accept or offer bribes, kickment plans bring value to society at lated to sustainability were: Regional or country-level risk managbacks or loans, or engage in other similar large, including job creation, purchasers regularly conduct risk assessments in corrupt practices. Our Code of Conduct and ing power, sourcing and investments • Climate policy. We want to help drive relation to co-worker misconduct, and any detailed Rules on Prevention of Corruption in environmental solutions (renewable more proactive climate change polisuspected breaches of policies are investioutline our expectations of co-workers and energy, public transport, etc.). cies, including aggressive decarbonigated and dealt with promptly. suppliers, and explain what to do if corrup2. Product market requirements. We sation of business. Our Chief SustainWe strive to communicate openly and tion or misconduct is suspected. In FY14, are working on product safety, standability Officer, Steve Howard, attended honestly at all times. This is a core foun18 crime or corruption incidents were ardisation, chemical requirements, and spoke at the UN Climate Change dation of our business. Co-workers are submitted via the trust line, of which 15 labelling and communication for conConference of Parties (COP19) in Warencouraged to raise any concerns in good were investigated. Seven of the cases sumers. We advocate for policies to saw, Poland. Steve and Peter Agnefjäll, faith, and they can expect to be treated examined further were allegations relating support our ambition for healthy, safe our President and CEO, attended the with respect and fairness. They can disto corruption. and sustainable food. UN Climate Summit in New York in cuss issues with their manager, senior 3. People & Planet Positive. We advoSeptember 2014 (see page 104). IKEA management or representatives from the cate for change in society that benefits represented the private sector in the Human Resources (HR) or Risk teams. If people and the planet. This includes Petersberg Climate Dialogue, hostnone of these feel appropriate, co-workers advocating for policies that tackle clied by the German Chancellor Angela CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > How we work > Sustainabilit y governance and management > Business ethic s > Public polic y > About our repor ting 1 0 3 GOVER NANC E AND E T HIC S Merkel, involving representatives from The Climate Group’s Clean Revolution 35 countries that account for 85% of initiative, a partnership of international global greenhouse gas emissions. We statesmen and governments, business contributed to the European Commisleaders and corporations, thinkers and sion (EC) proposal on energy and cliopinion formers, calling for a swift, mate targets for 2030, and sent letters massive scale-up of clean energy and to five European Heads of State calling infrastructure with smart technologies. for an early agreement on the climate See page 47 for more on our approach and energy package. See page 47 for to creating a low carbon economy. more on our approach to tackling cli• Resource efficiency and waste mate change. policy. We participated in a number of • Forestry. Around the world, we adevents and platforms, including Ellen vocate for effective legislation to conMacArthur Foundation working groups, serve forests and prevent illegal logpresenting our objective to turn waste ging. By partnering with governments, into secondary raw materials. IKEA regional authorities, NGOs and other also became a member of the Extendstakeholders in Australia, China, Eued Producer Responsibility (EPR) Club, rope, Russia and the USA, we are influwhich encourages manufacturers to be encing forestry policies and improving responsible for collecting, reusing and forest management. For example, we recycling their own products and packworked closely with the EC to support aging. See page 58 for more on our the introduction of the EU Timber Regapproach to resource efficiency and ulation, which came into force in FY13 waste. and requires companies to ensure all the inclusion of non-listed companies and search bodies, came together to establish wood entering the EU is from legal These are some examples of how we a stronger focus on the value chain. The five commonly agreed priorities for ensursources. See page 26 for more on our engaged with European policy in FY14: directive was adopted by the EC in Seping product safety and effective market approach to sourcing wood from more Together with EuroCommerce (an organitember 2014, and member states have surveillance. sustainable sources. sation that represents the retail, wholesale two years to make the necessary updates From FY15, Pia Heidenmark Cook, • Low-carbon economy. We supportand international trade sectors in Europe), to national legislation. our Head of Sustainability for Retail, ed proposals for the reform of the EU we contributed to EC consultations on the Other activities included participating will be co-chair together with a direcEmissions Trading Scheme, and conrevision of the eco-design directive and in EU discussions on the safe use of entor from the European Commission of tributed to consultations on the 2030 energy label. docrine disrupting chemicals, which can the Retailers’ Environment Action Proframework for climate and energy A letter from our Chief Sustainabilharm humans and wildlife. gramme (REAP), an EU multi-stakepolicy in Europe. IKEA called for bolder ity Officer Steve Howard to the UK BusiWe convened a major event on prodholder initiative exploring sustainable targets and a bigger push for innovaness Secretary pledged our support for uct safety in Älmhult, Sweden, in April. production and consumption. tion and investment in the low-carbon the new European Parliament directive on Around 100 participants, representing economy. We are a lead partner in non-financial reporting. IKEA pushed for a mix of policy makers, industry and reCONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > How we work > Sustainabilit y governance and management > Business ethic s > Public polic y > About our repor ting 1 0 4 GOVER NANC E AND E T HIC S “The role of leaders is to set visionary targets. We need bold commitments from policy makers about the direction we should move as a society.” Peter Agnefjäll at the launch of We Mean Business “We are a home furnishing company, but we are also becoming a renewable power company. Renewable energy is common sense energy. There is no peak sun or peak wind.” Steve Howard at the launch of RE100 IKEA at Climate Week NYC and the UN Climate Summit Nearly half a million people took to Initiative plenary session, and over Climate Week also saw the launch of ported the #Walkthewalk social media the streets of New York for the People’s the week both Peter and Steve were two global initiatives to encourage the campaign. This gave people around Climate March on 21 September 2014, involved in many more discussions, move towards a low-carbon future. We the world the chance to get involved urging world leaders to take action on speeches, and campaign launches. Mean Business is a coalition of global through Facebook, Twitter and IKEA. climate change at the UN Climate SumLater addressing the UN Climate businesses and organisations includcom. Customers and co-workers could mit on 23 September. Peter Agnefjäll, Summit, Peter emphasised that busiing BSR, CDP, CERES and WBCSD, that post pictures of themselves walking, our President and CEO, and Steve nesses like IKEA stand behind policy creates a united voice for business to adding the hashtag to join the People’s Howard, our Chief Sustainability makers who want to see a solution to speak to governments and encourClimate March virtually. Officer, were among the marchers. climate change and that bold, long-term age climate policy. RE100 is a group of It was the first time IKEA has ever During Climate Week, Peter reflectclimate targets are good for business. global corporations including BT, H&M, participated in this kind of global clied on the march: “It was truly great to He highlighted the importance of enand Mars, who are working towards mate change campaign, and we plan to see all the people out on the streets of couraging all parts of society to play a using 100% renewable power. IKEA is a be involved in more of the world’s most New York. There can be absolutely no role in tackling climate change. Compafounding partner and active member of important debates on climate change. doubt what direction they want policy nies like IKEA are in a great position to both these initiatives. makers and businesses to take.” He spur innovation and renewal. But policy For customers and co-workers who was speaking at the Clinton Global leadership is crucial to accelerate this. could not make it to New York, we supCONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > How we work > Sustainabilit y governance and management > Business ethic s > Public polic y > About our repor ting 1 0 5 GOVER NANC E AND E T HIC S About our reporting This sustainability report updates data for water use and carbon emissions by a foundation, which means we do not stakeholders on the progress IKEA is makin our operations and tier 1 suppliers, and have shareholders. ing in creating positive change for people models and estimations to assess our full This report is an account of our perforand the planet. We are ambitious in our value chain. mance against our People & Planet Posiobjectives, which means that we may not During FY14, we opened 12 new stores. tive strategy. Key performance indicators always achieve our goals. We are open IKEA Industry opened one saw mill. Data (KPIs) and content relate to this strategy. about our challenges and setbacks, as well from these units is included from when When additional information is necessary as our successes, and listen to feedback they began operation. to give a full account of our sustainability to help us improve. Sometimes we make performance or to meet the needs of our mistakes, and when this happens we are Defining the report’s content stakeholders, we include content and KPIs committed to putting things right. The commitments and targets in our Peorelating to other strategies like the IKEA The information in this report, unless ple & Planet Positive strategy are based People Strategy. otherwise stated, is for the financial year on the most significant sustainability is2014 (FY14) from 1 September 2013 to 31 sues across our value chain, and the areas August 2014. Data from the IKEA Foundawhere we can make the greatest positive tion applies to the calendar year from 1 difference. The strategy defines our viJanuary 2014 to 31 December 2014. sion for ensuring the long-term success of The information and data in this report IKEA – how we are making the company cover all wholly owned companies in the fit for a sustainable future and how we can IKEA Group, except for our Russian shopcontribute to accelerating that change in ping centre organisation which is excluded society. due to lack of internal reporting systems We have sought input to the strategy to gather this information. We are taking from our key stakeholders to ensure that action to be able to include data from the its focus and commitments are as close Russian shopping centre organisation in to their expectations as possible (see our future reporting. Data for IKEA stores page 99). operated by franchisees outside the IKEA The document is designed primarily for Group is not reported. Any other excluour partners, customers, NGOs and other sions are stated in the text. In some casstakeholders who want a detailed account es, data has been estimated and this has of our approach and performance relatbeen indicated in the text. ing to our sustainability strategy. We also Our value chain approach means that produce a version for our co-workers. The we take account of all impacts where we IKEA Group of companies (INGKA Holding can make a difference. We use reported B.V. and its controlled entities) are owned CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > How we work > Sustainabilit y governance and management > Business ethic s > Public polic y > About our repor ting 1 0 6 GOVER NANC E AND E T HIC S GRI and the UN Global Compact We use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines on sustainability reportU N G L O B A L C O M P A C T R E F E R E N C E TA B L E ing to inform our reporting. We welcome the GRI’s G4 focus on materiality and reporting of impacts across the value chain, Location in FY14 Report We align with this approach by focusing Human rights our reporting on our People & Planet PosiPrinciple 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection Supporting human rights, page 88 tive strategy, which covers our material of internationally proclaimed human rights; and impacts across the value chain. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Supporting human rights, page 88 IKEA is a signatory to the United abuses. Better lives for workers, page 79 Nations Global Compact, a set of 10 Labour principles in the areas of human rights, Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association A better everyday life at work, page 73 labour, environment and anti-corruption. and the effective recognition of the right to collective Supporting human rights, page 88 The UN Global Compact Reference Table bargaining; Better lives for workers, page 79 (left) shows where we report our progress Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Supporting human rights, page 88 regarding the 10 principles. labour; Better lives for workers, page 79 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Responsible sourcing, page 25 Supporting human rights, page 88 Better lives for workers, page 79 A better everyday life at work, page 73 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of A better everyday life at work, page 73 employment and occupation. Supporting human rights, page 88 Better lives for workers, page 79 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach Resource and energy independence, page 23 to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental A more sustainable life at home, page 11 responsibility; and Resource and energy independence, page 23 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of A more sustainable life at home, page 11 environmentally friendly technologies. Resource and energy independence, page 23 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its Business ethics, page 96 forms, including extortion and bribery. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS > How we work > Sustainabilit y governance and management > Business ethic s > Public polic y > About our repor ting 1 0 7 Performance against targets Enabling change COMMITMENTS GOALS FY13 FY14 Transforming our business and moving towards being By August 2017, 95% of IKEA co-workers state that “sustainability is a natural 70% 79% 1 people and planet positive by making sustainability a part of the everyday work” natural part of our everyday work. By August 2017, at least 95% of co-workers view IKEA as a company that takes 82% 2 83% 3 social and environmental responsibility By August 2015, 70% of customers view IKEA as a company that takes social 41% 4 41% 5 and environmental responsibility By August 2017, at least 95% of our suppliers view IKEA as a company that 89% N/A 6 takes social and environmental responsibility A more sustainable life at home COMMITMENTS GOALS FY13 FY14 Take the lead in developing and promoting products We will achieve more than a fourfold increase (from FY13 levels) in sales EUR 641 million EUR 1,015 million and solutions that inspire and enable people to live a from products and solutions inspiring and enabling customers to live a more more sustainable life at home sustainable life at home by August 2020 Our energy-consuming products will be, on average, at least 50% more efficient 41% 50% 7 than our range was in 2008 by August 2015 By September 2016, all our electric hobs will be energy-efficient induction hobs 43% 55% By September 2015, our entire lighting range will switch to LED offered at the 51% 75% 8 lowest price By September 2017, offer the most energy-efficient home appliances at the A to A++ offered in N/A 9 lowest price all categories 1, 3 Results are based on the VOICE survey of 87,644 co-workers. Results are not directly comparable between years as different parts of IKEA and different numbers of people participate, and in FY14 we also updated the VOICE questions. 2 FY13 Data based on 82,488 participants of our VOICE survey. Not directly comparable with FY12 as different parts of IKEA participate in VOICE each year. 4 FY13 Based on response to Brand Capital survey. Calculated as average between two questions “IKEA takes responsibility for the environment” and “IKEA takes responsibility for the community” 5 FY14 Based on response to new question in Brand Capital survey. IKEA “is committed to operating in a way that is better for society and the environment” 6 This information is collected every two years so is not available for FY14. 7 This score reflects our progress on energy efficiency. There are some uncertainties in our calculation methodology, and we are reviewing this so that we can implement a new approach from FY15. 8 75% of all lighting products sold were LED or were compatible with LED bulbs (e.g. lamps which customers can use with an LED bulb). 9 We are adjusting the methodology for measuring energy efficiency of home appliances, so there is no figure reported for FY14. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS 1 0 8 P E R F O R M A N C E A G A I N S T TA R G E T S Resource and energy independence COMMITMENTS GOALS FY13 FY14 Strive for resource independence; securing longBy August 2015, all cotton used in IKEA products will be sourced from more 72% 76% term access to sustainable raw materials, ensuring a sustainable sources , and we will continuously investigate complementary fibres positive impact on the communities where we source with improved sustainability performance relative to cotton and using resources within the limits of the planet. By August 2017, at least 50% of our wood will come from more sustainable 32% 41% sources By December 2015 all palm oil, currently used in home furnishing products such 32% as candles or as a food ingredient, will either come from certified segregated sustainable sources or be replaced by more sustainable raw materials By August 2020, 90% of the total sales value will come from home furnishing 39% 52% products classified as more sustainable Take a lead in turning waste into resources. We will By August 2015, all our main home furnishing materials, including packaging, 98% 98% develop reverse material flows for waste material, will be either made from renewable, recyclable (on at least one market on an ensure key parts of our range are easily recycled, and industrial scale) or recycled materials take a stand for a closed loop society. By August 2020, 90% of the waste from our own operation will be recycled 88% 1 89% or energy recovered, of which 80% of the waste from stores and distribution (Stores: 77% material centres and 90% from IKEA Industry Group will be material recycled recycled, Distribution centres: 81% material recycled, IKEA Industry: 66% material recycled) Be energy independent by being a leader in renewable By August 2015, produce renewable energy equivalent to at least 70% of our 37% 42% energy and becoming more energy efficient energy consumption and by August 2020, on Group level, we will produce as throughout our operations. Strive towards energy much renewable energy as we consume independence in the supply chain. Become 20% more energy efficient in our own operations by August 2015 and 8% in stores 15% in stores 30% by August 2020, compared to FY10 2 Encourage and enable our direct suppliers to become 20% more energy efficient 10.9% 19% by August 2017, compared to FY12 2 By August 2015, reduce carbon emissions from our own operations by 50%, 19% 24% compared to FY10 3 By August 2015, reduce carbon emissions of our suppliers by 20%, compared 0% 4 11% to FY12 3 By August 2016, reduce carbon emissions from the transport of goods by 20% 11% 13% compared to FY11, and by 30% compared to FY12 by August 2020 4 1 Breakdown for FY13 not available as data for material recycling was not collected separately. Figures restated from FY13 due to changes in the methodology used in Division Board, and the integration of Division Board and Divisions Flatline and Solid wood (formerly Swedspan and Swedwood). 2 In relative terms, measured by energy consumed/m3 products sold or goods purchased. 3 In relative terms, measured by CO2 /m3 products sold or goods purchased. 4 In relative terms, measured by CO2 /m3 goods transported. 4 Restated from FY13 (-0.01) due to fine-tuning of calculations. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS 1 0 9 P E R F O R M A N C E A G A I N S T TA R G E T S Better life for people and communities COMMITMENTS GOALS FY13 FY14 Be a great place to work for our co-workers. Ensure every co-worker has an agreed, individual development plan 71% 1 By 2020 50% of managers will be women 47% 47% By 2020 achieve a Leadership Index result of 75 in our VOICE survey 74 73 By FY20 achieve an index of 725 in our VOICE survey 711 704 Contribute to better lives for workers by supporting Maintain the social and environmental improvements reached through the 99% 98.6% decent work throughout our supply chain. 100% IWAY approval of all suppliers of home furnishing and other key products and services 2 By August 2015, expand the reach of our supplier Code of Conduct by Local IKEA Food Local IKEA Food securing IWAY approval at all local IKEA Food, Indirect Material and suppliers: 27% suppliers: 29% Services (IMS) and retail suppliers within the scope of IWAY 3 IMS suppliers: 53% IMS suppliers: 77% Retail suppliers: 19% Retail suppliers: 40% By August 2017, go further into our supply chain by securing compliance to 20% 91% IWAY Musts at all subsuppliers of critical materials and processes 4 1 Of the 87,644 co-workers who completed the VOICE survey and answered positively to: “Have you within the past twelve months together with your manager agreed on a development plan for the coming year?” This question is new and not comparable with previous years. 2 Data for home furnishing suppliers includes IKEA Industry factories. Excludes new suppliers that have up to 12 months to be approved. Suppliers where a non-compliance has been identified and are within the 90-day period allowed to correct the non-compliance are categorised as approved. Suppliers pending a scheduled audit are categorised as approved (applies to 0.5% of the total in FY14). In FY14, the remaining 1.4% applies to suppliers being phased out. In China we are working with suppliers to reduce working hours to comply with working hour limits. As an interim step, suppliers can become IWAY approved if working hours do not exceed 60 hours a week including overtime. 3 For the retail operations, the current IWAY focus is on cleaning, home delivery, security and waste management suppliers. 4 IWAY Musts are the immediate requirements that IKEA suppliers must meet before a contract can be signed. IWAY Musts are the immediate requirements that IKEA suppliers must meet before a contract can be signed. CONTENTS > INTRODUCTION > A MORE SUSTAINABLE LIFE AT HOME > RESOURCE AND ENERGY INDEPENDENCE > A BET TER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES > GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS > PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS Read the IKEA Group People & Planet IKEA Yearly Summary Positive Foundation Find out what happened at IKEA in FY14 Visit the People & Planet Positive Discover what the IKEA Foundation is — get facts, hear stories and see where section of IKEA.com doing to improve the lives of children we’re headed in the future. around the world. © Inter IKEA Systems B.V. 2014
