2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENTER REPORT < Previous Page Next Page > Table of Contents 2 Table of Contents Introduction 3 Caring for Our People 29 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Respecting Human Rights 91 About This Report 4 Management Approach 30 Management Approach 67 Management Approach 92 Letter From Our CEO 5 Diversity and Full Inclusion 34 Stories of Impact Around the Globe 68 Our Operations 92 Employee Safety 37 Education Transformation 69 Influencing the Electronics Supply Chain 94 Our Business and Compensation and Benefits 38 Empowering Girls and Women 71 Product-Related Security, Privacy, Integrated Value Approach 6 and Human Rights Issues 94 Career Growth and Development 41 Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship 72 Company Profile 7 Performance Summary and Goals 95 Performance Summary and Goals 43 Health and Life Sciences 74 Risk Management and Empowering Our People 75 Business Continuity 11 Appendix 96 Caring for the Planet 44 Performance Summary and Goals 77 Strategy and Governance 12 Report Scope and Profile 97 Management Approach 45 Ethics and Compliance 14 GRI Content Index 98 Climate Change and Energy Efficiency 50 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Public Policy and Top 75 Production Materials, Capital, Political Accountability 15 Responsible Water Management 54 Management Approach 79 and Logistics Suppliers 113 Stakeholder Engagement 18 Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 58 Assessment and Audit Summary 83 United Nations Global Compact— Corporate Responsibility Product Energy Efficiency Supplier Environmental Impact 85 Communication on Progress 114 Materiality Analysis 21 and Product Ecology 60 Conflict-Free Products 87 Report of Independent Accountant 115 Key Corporate Responsibility Applying Technology to Supplier Diversity 88 Challenges and Opportunities 22 Environmental Challenges 62 Performance Summary and Goals 90 Financial Results Performance Summary and Goals 63 and Economic Impact 23 Recognitions, Performance Summary, and Goals 25 Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Introduction 3 Table of Contents 2 Introduction 3 About this Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Caring for Our People 29 Caring for the Planet 44 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 The Intel® brand is consistently ranked as one of the most recognizable and valuable brands in the Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 world. We relentlessly pursue Moore’s law to push the boundaries of smart and connected technology to outdo what’s been done before. As the world leader in computing innovation, Intel makes amazing experiences possible for every person on Earth. Below are a few key highlights: In 2014, we reported record We announced a goal to Since 2008, Intel has been the In 2014, we set a goal The Intel® She Will Connect In 2014, 39% of our revenue of $55.9 billion, up achieve full representation largest voluntary purchaser to validate that all of program, launched in Subemployees volunteered 6% from 2013, and achieved of women and underof “green” power in the U.S., our products are DRC Saharan Africa, aims to 1.25 million hours in 38 record annual shipments for represented minorities at according to the U.S. EPA. We conflict-free for tin, connect millions of women to countries around the PCs, servers, tablets, phones, Intel in the U.S. by 2020. have achieved Leadership in tantalum, tungsten, and new opportunities by closing world, at an estimated and the Internet of Things. Energy and Environmental gold beginning in 2016. the Internet gender gap. value of $28.8 million. Design* (LEED*) certification Access the Report Builder for more than 40 buildings with over 12.5 million square 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report feet of floor space. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > About this Report 4 About This Report Table of Contents 2 Introduction 3 About this Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 We prepared this report using the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) Sustainability How to Use This Document Reporting Guidelines, and self-declare the report to be prepared “in accordance” Caring for Our People 29 We created this report in Portable Document Format (PDF) to facilitate searching with the G4 guidelines at the comprehensive level. A GRI Content Index is Caring for the Planet 44 and customizing it, and have also optimized the design format for viewing it on provided in the Appendix, along with information about the report’s scope and Inspiring the Next Generation 66 tablets. Readers can create customized reports and download individual sections approach to assurance. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 and supplemental materials through our Report Builder web site. We continue to integrate sustainability information into our Annual Report and Respecting Human Rights 91 For best viewing results on a PC, we recommend using Adobe Acrobat* Version 7.0 or 10-K and other investor communications. The Our Business and Integrated Value Appendix 96 above and QuickTime.* For best viewing results on a tablet, we recommend using Approach section of this report covers content recommended by the International Adobe Acrobat Version X or above and QuickTime. For best printing results, use Integrated Reporting Committee for inclusion in “integrated reports,” and can be legal-size paper. downloaded as a standalone document or read as an interactive part of the full 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report. Please refer to the text at right for more information about navigating and customizing the report. + This icon indicates interactive content in the report. Click (or tap touch-enabled devices) the icon to access the interactive content or to view additional information. Additional information about Intel’s operations and financial statements is available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K . References to “Intel” Click or tap to play the video. throughout this document pertain to Intel Corporation. Intel Foundation is a separate entity. Past performance does not guarantee future results. This Corporate Responsibility Report contains forward-looking statements, and actual results could differ materially. Risk factors that could affect Intel’s results are included in Intel’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K and earnings release. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Letter from Our CEO 5 Letter From Our CEO Table of Contents 2 In 2014 Intel once again topped the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s list of Introduction 3 “green” power purchasers in the U.S., a position we have held since 2008. We also About this Report 4 continue to work toward achieving our ambitious 2020 environmental goals. In 2014, both our absolute water use and solid waste generated decreased, and although our Letter from Our CEO 5 chemical waste generated increased, we sent just 5% of that waste to landfill. Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 In 2014 we donated 43,000 Intel® Galileo development boards to 1,900 universities Caring for Our People 29 If it is smart and connected, it is best with around the world to encourage students to become makers of technology. We also Caring for the Planet 44 Intel. That’s our corporate vision, but launched the global Make It Wearable challenge, aimed at spurring young people to become entrepreneurs and inventors of wearable technologies. The $500,000 grand Inspiring the Next Generation 66 to us, “best with Intel” goes far beyond prize winner developed the first wearable camera that can fly. Based on the success of Supply Chain Responsibility 78 just delivering great products. We are the challenge, Intel will premier an expanded Make it Wearable program in late 2015. Respecting Human Rights 91 committed to developing energy-efficient We continue to make significant investments in employee training and development, Appendix 96 technology solutions that can be used programs to encourage employee volunteerism, and great-place-to-work initiatives. In to address major global problems while support of our belief that a diverse workforce helps us advance our leadership in both technology and corporate responsibility, in early 2015 we announced a bold new goal reducing our environmental impact. to achieve full representation of women and under-represented minorities at Intel in the U.S. by 2020. As part of this initiative, we plan to invest $300 million in programs aimed We seek to empower people and expand economic opportunity through education at building a pipeline of female and under-represented technical talent. and technology access. And we cultivate a work environment in which engaged, We remain strongly committed to reporting transparency and continuing leadership energized employees can thrive on the job and in their communities. These initiatives in corporate responsibility that creates value for our company, our stockholders, and aren’t an afterthought—they are integrated into the way we work, because they are society. This report provides a summary of our 2014 performance and the goals we good for our business. have set for our future. We welcome your feedback. I am proud to work for a company that profoundly impacts the lives of people around the world every day. A great example is our six-year quest to ensure that our products do not contain tantalum, tin, tungsten, or gold derived from sources that benefit armed groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) or adjoining regions. We have accomplished our goal to manufacture microprocessors that are DRC conflict-free for these minerals, and in 2014 set a new goal that all of the products on our roadmap for Brian Krzanich 2016 and beyond will be DRC conflict-free. Non-governmental organizations in the DRC CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER report that lives are already changing in the DRC: Miners’ wages are increasing, their INTEL CORPORATION working conditions are improving, and armed groups are being replaced by hospitals and schools in mining communities. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Table of Contents 2 Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 5 6 Our Business and Integrated Value Company Profile 7 Risk Management and Business Continuity 11 Approach Strategy and Governance 12 Ethics and Compliance 14 Public Policy and Political Accountability 15 Stakeholder Engagement 18 Corporate Responsibility We relentlessly push the boundaries of smart and connected technology to outdo what’s been done before. As the world leader Materiality Analysis 21 Key Corporate in computing innovation, Intel makes amazing experiences possible for every person on Earth. We have embedded corporate Responsibility Challenges and Opportunities 22 responsibility and sustainability into our strategy, management systems, and long-term goals. We believe that this integrated Financial Results approach creates value for Intel as well as our stockholders, customers, and society. and Economic Impact 23 $ 55.9B Recognitions, Performance Summary, and Goals Caring for Our People 25 29 70% IN THE U. S . REPORTED RE VENUE Caring for the Planet 44 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 We launched the Intel® Core™ M In 2014, 70% of our wafer To drive strategic alignment Intel was recognized by Corporate In 2014, we reported record processor family, designed fabrication was conducted with our corporate responsibility Responsibility Magazine as one of revenue of $55.9 billion, up 6% Supply Chain Responsibility 78 for superior performance and within the U.S. at our facilities objectives, Intel has linked a the 100 Best Corporate Citizens from 2013, and achieved record Respecting Human Rights 91 long battery life in razor-thin in Arizona, New Mexico, Oregon, portion of our executive and for the 15th year. annual shipments for PCs, servers, mobile devices. and Massachusetts. employee compensation to tablets, phones, and Appendix 96 the Internet of Things. corporate responsibility metrics since 2008. Access the Report Builder Key Section Links Performance Summary and Goals Intel Code of Conduct Intel 2014 Annual Report Intel Investor Relations 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report and Form 10-K www.intel.com/responsibility Intel Company Information Intel 2015 Proxy Statement Intel® Core™ Processor Family < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 7 Table of Contents 2 Company Profile span the compute continuum, from high-performance computing systems running Introduction 3 trillions of operations per second to embedded applications consuming milliwatts About This Report 4 Our vision is if it is smart and connected, it is best with Intel. As of power. Because computing is becoming an increasingly mobile, personal, and Letter from Our CEO 5 a result, we offer complete and connected computing solutions, ubiquitous experience, we innovate around energy-efficient performance, connectivity, Our Business and Integrated both hardware and software. We continue executing to Moore’s and security. Value Approach 6 Law by enabling new devices with higher functionality and To succeed in this changing computing environment, we have the following Company Profile 7 complexity while controlling power, cost, and size. key objectives: Risk Management and Business Continuity 11 We design and manufacture advanced integrated digital technology platforms. • relentless pursuit of Moore's Law to maximize and extend our manufacturing Strategy and Governance 12 A platform consists of a microprocessor and chipset, and may be enhanced by technology leadership; Ethics and Compliance 14 additional hardware, software, and services. We sell these platforms primarily to • strive to ensure that Intel® technology is the best choice across the compute original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs), continuum, including PCs, data centers, ultra-mobile devices, and the Internet Public Policy and Political Accountability 15 of Things; and industrial and communications equipment manufacturers in the computing Stakeholder Engagement 18 and communications industries. Our platforms are used to deliver a wide range of • expand platforms into adjacent market segments to bring compelling new System-on-Chip (SoC) solutions and user experiences to ultra-mobile form factors Corporate Responsibility computing experiences in notebooks (including Ultrabook™ devices), 2 in 1 systems, Materiality Analysis 21 including tablets and smartphones, as well as PC platforms (including Ultrabook desktops, servers, tablets, smartphones, and the Internet of Things (including wearables, devices, 2 in 1 systems, and all-in-ones), data center applications, and the Internet Key Corporate transportation systems, and retail devices). We also develop and sell software and of Things; Responsibility Challenges services primarily focused on security and technology integration. We serve customers and Opportunities 22 • increase the utilization of our investments in intellectual property and research around the world, and as of year-end 2014, we had 106,700 employees worldwide, with Financial Results and development (R&D) across all market segments; and Economic Impact 23 close to half of those employees located in the U.S. • be the platform of choice for any operating system; Recognitions, Performance Over time, the number of devices connected to the Internet and to one another has • expand data center, security, and big data analytics; Summary, and Goals 25 grown from hundreds of millions to billions. This number continues to grow and the Caring for Our People 29 • scale our manufacturing capabilities into foundry; and variety of devices also continues to increase. The combination of embedding computing Caring for the Planet 44 • strive to reduce the environmental footprint of our products and operations into devices and connecting them to the Internet, known as the Internet of Things, as well as be an asset to the communities we work in. Inspiring the Next Generation 66 as well as a build-out of the cloud infrastructure supporting these devices, is driving Supply Chain Responsibility 78 fundamental changes in the computing industry. As a result, we are transforming our Respecting Human Rights 91 primary focus from the design and manufacture of semiconductor chips for personal Appendix 96 computers (PCs) and servers to the delivery of more complete platform solutions consisting of hardware and software platforms and supporting services. These solutions 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 8 Table of Contents 2 Business Organization and Operations Intel Business Organization and Operating Segments Introduction 3 Our products primarily compete based on performance, energy efficiency, integration, About This Report 4 innovative design, features, price, quality, reliability, brand recognition, and availability. Client Computing Group Letter from Our CEO 5 Unlike many semiconductor companies, we primarily manufacture our products in Our Business and Integrated our own facilities. This in-house manufacturing capability enables us to optimize Data Center Group Value Approach 6 performance, shorten our time to market, and scale new products more rapidly. The Company Profile 7 combination of our network of manufacturing and assembly and test facilities with Internet of Things Group Risk Management and our global architecture design teams enables us to have more direct control over Business Continuity 11 our processes, quality control, product cost, production timing, performance, power Software and Service Operating Segments Strategy and Governance 12 consumption, and manufacturing yield. Ethics and Compliance 14 McAfee Software and Services Group Intel is headquartered in Santa Clara, California and incorporated in the state of Public Policy and Political Accountability 15 Delaware. We have over 300 facilities located in more than 60 countries. Our principal executive offices are located in the U.S. and a majority of our wafer fabrication activities All Other Stakeholder Engagement 18 are also located in the U.S. We completed construction of our new development Non-Volatile Memory Corporate Responsibility New Devices Group Corporate Solutions Group Materiality Analysis 21 fabrication facilities in Oregon during 2014 and expect that these new facilities will Key Corporate allow us to widen our process technology lead. Responsibility Challenges and Opportunities 22 In 2014, 70% of our wafer fabrication, including microprocessors and chipsets, was In April 2015, we announced a change to our financial reporting structure to reflect changes in conducted within the U.S. at our facilities in Arizona, New Mexico, Oregon, and our organizational model (shown above). Our financial results here and in our 2014 Form 10-K Financial Results reflect our operating segments prior to this reorganization. For more information, read the press and Economic Impact 23 Massachusetts. Our Massachusetts fabrication facility is our last manufacturing facility release or download our latest financial filing. Recognitions, Performance on 200 millimeter (mm) wafers and is expected to cease production in 2015. The Summary, and Goals 25 remaining 30% of our wafer fabrication was conducted outside the U.S. at our facilities in Following the manufacturing process, the majority of our components are subject Caring for Our People 29 Israel and China. Our fabrication facility in Ireland is currently transitioning to our 14nm to assembly and test. We perform our components assembly and test at facilities Caring for the Planet 44 process technology, with manufacturing expected to ramp in the second half of 2015. in Malaysia, China, and Vietnam. Our assembly and test facility in Costa Rica ceased Inspiring the Next Generation 66 production in the fourth quarter of 2014. To augment capacity, we use subcontractors to We use third-party foundries to manufacture wafers for certain components, including Supply Chain Responsibility 78 perform assembly and test of certain products, primarily chipsets and communication communication and connectivity products. In addition, we primarily use subcontractors Respecting Human Rights 91 to manufacture board-level products and systems. We purchase certain communication and connectivity products. Our NAND flash memory products are manufactured by IMFT Appendix 96 and connectivity products from external vendors primarily in the Asia-Pacific region. and Micron using 20nm or 25nm process technology, and assembly and test of these products is performed by Micron and other external subcontractors. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 9 Table of Contents 2 system—processes system data and controls other devices in the system. A chipset Intel Worldwide Operations Introduction 3 sends data between the microprocessor and input, display, and storage devices, such as About This Report 4 Oregon the keyboard, mouse, monitor, hard drive or solid-state drive, and optical disc drives. Chengdu Letter from Our CEO 5 We offer and continue to develop SoC products that integrate our CPUs with other Our Business and Integrated system components, such as graphics, audio, imaging, communication and connectivity, Value Approach 6 Ireland and video, onto a single chip. We offer a multichip package that integrates the chipset Company Profile 7 Massachusetts Arizona Dalian on one die with the CPU and graphics on another die, connected via a lower-power, Risk Management and on-package interface. In 2014, we introduced our 5th generation Intel® CoreTM processor, Business Continuity 11 New Mexico Vietnam code-named “Broadwell.” Strategy and Governance 12 Ethics and Compliance 14 We also offer features designed to improve our platform capabilities. For example, Public Policy and Intel® vPro™ technology is a solution for manageability, security, and business user Political Accountability 15 experiences in the notebook, desktop, and 2 in 1 systems market segments. We also Stakeholder Engagement 18 Israel Penang, Kulim offer Intel® Iris™ technology, which provides enhanced integrated graphics for our 4th Corporate Responsibility and 5th generation Intel Core processors. In 2014, we announced Intel® RealSense TM Wafer Fab Assembly and Test Materiality Analysis 21 technology, which includes software and depth cameras that enable more natural Key Corporate Our principal executive offices are located in the U.S., and in 2014, 70% of our wafer fabrication and intuitive interaction with personal computing devices. Responsibility Challenges was conducted in the U.S. and Opportunities 22 Communication and Connectivity. Our communication and connectivity offerings Financial Results for tablets, smartphones, and other connected devices include baseband processors, and Economic Impact 23 We have thousands of suppliers, including subcontractors, providing our various radio frequency transceivers, and power management integrated circuits. We also materials, equipment, and service needs. We set expectations for supplier performance Recognitions, Performance offer comprehensive smartphone, tablet, and Internet of Things solutions, which Summary, and Goals 25 and reinforce those expectations with periodic assessments and audits. We communicate include multimode Long Term Evolution (LTE*) modems, Bluetooth* and Global Caring for Our People 29 those expectations to our suppliers regularly and work with them to implement Positioning System (GPS) receivers, software solutions, customization, and essential Caring for the Planet 44 improvements when necessary. For more information about our supply interoperability tests. Inspiring the Next Generation 66 chain, see the Supply Chain Responsibility section of this report. McAfee, Inc. McAfee, Inc. offers software and hardware products that provide security Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Products solutions designed to protect systems in consumer, mobile, and corporate environments Platforms. We offer platforms that incorporate various components and technologies, from malicious virus attacks and loss of data. McAfee’s products include software Appendix 96 including a microprocessor and chipset, a stand-alone System-on-Chip (SoC), or a solutions for end-point security, network and content security, risk and compliance, multichip package. A platform may be enhanced by additional hardware, software, and consumer and mobile security and privacy. and services. A microprocessor—the central processing unit (CPU) of a computer 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 10 Table of Contents 2 Non-Volatile Memory Solutions. We offer NAND flash memory products primarily Customers Introduction 3 used in solid-state drives. Our NAND flash memory products are manufactured by We sell our products primarily to OEMs and ODMs. ODMs provide design and About This Report 4 IM Flash Technologies, LLC and Micron Technology, Inc. manufacturing services to branded and unbranded private-label resellers. Our Letter from Our CEO 5 Intel Custom Foundry. We offer manufacturing technologies and design services customers also include those who buy PC components and our other products through Our Business and Integrated for our customers. Our foundry offerings include full custom silicon, packaging, and distributor, reseller, retail, and OEM channels throughout the world. In 2014, HewlettValue Approach 6 Packard Company accounted for 18% of our net revenue (17% in 2013 and 18% in 2012), manufacturing test services. We also provide semi-custom services to tailor Intel Company Profile 7 Dell Inc. accounted for 16% of our net revenue (15% in 2013 and 14% in 2012), and Lenovo architecture-based solutions with customers’ intellectual property blocks. Risk Management and Group Limited accounted for 12% of our net revenue (12% in 2013 and 11% in 2012). No Business Continuity 11 other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue during such periods. In Research and Development Strategy and Governance 12 2013, 83% of our revenue from unaffiliated customers came from outside the U.S. We are committed to investing in world-class technology development, particularly Ethics and Compliance 14 in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits. R&D expenditures were As part of our Customer Excellence Program (CEP), a third-party market research firm Public Policy and $11.5 billion in 2014, compared with $10.6 billion in 2013. Our R&D activities are administers a web-based survey to obtain and prioritize customer feedback on the Political Accountability 15 directed toward the delivery of solutions consisting of hardware and software platforms quality of Intel’s products and services. In 2014, the company received a 90% “Delighted” Stakeholder Engagement 18 and supporting services across a wide range of computing devices. We are focused on score from customers. We have exceeded our 75% “Delighted” score goal since 2006. A Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis 21 developing the technology innovations that we believe will deliver our next generation portion of every employee’s pay is tied to the survey results and the satisfaction of our Key Corporate of products, which will in turn enable new form factors and usage models for businesses customers. For more information, see “Compensation and Benefits” in the Caring for Our Responsibility Challenges and consumers. People section of this report. and Opportunities 22 Our R&D model is based on a global organization that emphasizes a collaborative Financial Results and Economic Impact 23 approach to identifying and developing new technologies, leading standards initiatives, Competition and influencing regulatory policies to accelerate the adoption of new technologies, The computing industry continuously evolves with new and enhanced technologies Recognitions, Performance Summary, and Goals 25 including joint pathfinding conducted between researchers at Intel Labs and our and products from existing and new providers. Intel faces significant competition in Caring for Our People 29 business groups. We centrally manage key cross-business group product initiatives to the development and market acceptance of our products in this environment. In each align and prioritize our R&D activities across these groups. In addition, we may augment market segment, we have competitors, including other companies that make and sell Caring for the Planet 44 our R&D activities by investing in companies or entering into agreements with companies microprocessors, SoCs, other silicon components, and software and platforms to Inspiring the Next Generation 66 that have similar R&D focus areas, as well as directly purchasing or licensing technology businesses that build and sell computing and communications devices to end users. We Supply Chain Responsibility 78 applicable to our R&D initiatives. To drive innovation and gain efficiencies, we intend to also face competition from OEMs that, to some degree, choose to vertically integrate Respecting Human Rights 91 utilize our investments in intellectual property and R&D across our market segments. their own proprietary semiconductor and software assets. Appendix 96 For more information, see the Intel 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. For more information about our products, customers, competitors, and operations, see the Intel 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 11 Table of Contents 2 Risk Management and Business Continuity periodic briefing and informational sessions on the significant voluntary and involuntary Introduction 3 risks that the company faces and how the company is seeking to control risk if and when About This Report 4 Risk is inherent in business. Intel’s Board of Directors and appropriate. In some cases, as with risks of new technology and risks related to product Letter from Our CEO 5 management consider “risk” for these purposes to be the acceptance, risk oversight is addressed as part of the full Board’s engagement with the Our Business and Integrated possibility that an undesired event could occur that might CEO and management. In other cases, a Board committee is responsible for oversight of Value Approach 6 adversely affect the achievement of our objectives. specific risk topics and reports to the full Board. Company Profile 7 Intel Crisis Management (ICM) handles our end-to-end response to crises and major Risks vary in many ways, including the ability of the company to anticipate and Risk Management and business disruption events. ICM sets the standards and provides oversight for the Business Continuity 11 understand the risk, the types of adverse impacts that could occur if the undesired emergency management and business continuity programs across Intel. Every mission Strategy and Governance 12 event occurs, the likelihood that an undesired event and a particular adverse impact and business critical function at Intel is required to embed business continuity into their Ethics and Compliance 14 would occur, and the ability of the company to control the risk and the potential core business practices. Through ICM, which is sponsored by the CEO, Intel maintains Public Policy and adverse impacts. The types of risks that Intel faces include: an “all hazards” response structure designed to respond to and address any disruption Political Accountability 15 • Macro-economic risks such as inflation, reductions in economic growth, or recession regardless of cause. This structure, along with individual business continuity and siteStakeholder Engagement 18 • Political risks such as restrictions on access to markets, confiscatory taxation, specific plans, are regularly tested across all aspects of the company. Corporate Responsibility and expropriation of assets Materiality Analysis 21 As a global corporation with locations and suppliers all over the world, Intel must be • “Event” risks such as natural disasters Key Corporate prepared to respond to a wide range of disasters and keep the business running. Our Responsibility Challenges • Business-specific risks related to strategic position, operational execution, programs are designed to provide quick response and help ensure the safety of our and Opportunities 22 financial structure, legal and regulatory compliance, corporate governance, personnel, safeguard our facilities, and begin the return to “normal operations.” In the Financial Results and environmental stewardship and Economic Impact 23 event of a business disruption, our plans are designed to enable us to quickly recover Not all risks can be dealt with in the same way. Some risks may be easily perceived and Recognitions, Performance critical business functions, such as handling customer orders, overseeing production controllable, while others are unknown; some risks can be avoided or mitigated by a Summary, and Goals 25 and deliveries, and managing our supply chain. particular behavior; and some risks are unavoidable as a practical matter. In some cases, Caring for Our People 29 a higher degree of risk may be acceptable because of a greater perceived potential for Intel’s mergers and acquisitions process incorporates a screen that assesses Caring for the Planet 44 environmental, governance, “conflict minerals1,” and a number of other factors reward. Intel engages in numerous activities to align voluntary risk taking with company Inspiring the Next Generation 66 that could impact the company’s acquisitions. Intel Capital, our global investment strategy, understanding that projects and processes may enhance the company’s Supply Chain Responsibility 78 organization and Intel’s mergers and acquisitions team, have integrated additional business interests by encouraging innovation and appropriate levels of risk taking. Respecting Human Rights 91 criteria into our due diligence process to identify potential environmental, governance, Management is responsible for identifying risk and risk controls related to significant Appendix 96 and social risks in new investments and acquisitions. business activities; mapping the risks to company strategy; and developing programs and recommendations to determine the sufficiency of risk identification, the balance of potential risk to potential reward, and the appropriate manner in which to control risk. 1 “Conflict minerals,” as defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), is a broad term that means tin, The Board implements its risk oversight responsibilities by having management provide tantalum, tungsten, and gold, regardless of whether these minerals finance conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 12 Table of Contents 2 Strategy and Governance Intel’s Corporate Responsibility Oversight Structure Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Corporate responsibility is part of our integrated management approach. We have taken steps to embed corporate + + Letter from Our CEO 5 Board of Directors, Our Business and Integrated responsibility into our corporate strategy, corporate objectives, CEO Corporate Governance, and Nominating Committee Value Approach 6 governance and compensation systems, and value chain. Company Profile 7 Risk Management and We believe that our focus on corporate responsibility creates value for Intel and our + Business Continuity 11 stakeholders. It helps us manage our business more effectively and identify ways to Sustainability Committee Strategy and Governance 12 apply our technology and expertise to benefit the environment and society, which in Ethics and Compliance 14 turn helps us mitigate risks, reduce costs, protect brand value, and identify market Public Policy and opportunities. We believe that we can apply our technology and experience to help + Political Accountability 15 improve energy efficiency, address critical environmental challenges such as climate Management Review Committees Stakeholder Engagement 18 change, and improve education access and quality worldwide. Designing products with Corporate Responsibility improved energy-efficient performance helps us meet customer needs and identify Materiality Analysis 21 market expansion opportunities; improving energy efficiency in our operations helps + Key Corporate us reduce our emissions and energy costs; and investing in training, diversity, benefits Business Group and Cross-Functional Teams Responsibility Challenges programs, and education helps us to attract and retain a talented workforce. and Opportunities 22 Click or tap the + symbol for additional information. Financial Results Our business success has always depended on our ability to build strong relationships and Economic Impact 23 with all stakeholders, including employees, customers, stakeholders, suppliers, We have integrated oversight and management for corporate responsibility issues at multiple Recognitions, Performance governments, and communities. We work to develop a strong culture of trust through levels of the company and across different countries where we operate. Summary, and Goals 25 open and direct communication, and are committed to operating with transparency. Caring for Our People 29 We regularly engage with external organizations to gather feedback that helps improve Governance and Management Approach Caring for the Planet 44 our performance and increase the economic and social impact of our programs and Intel’s Board of Directors oversees, counsels, and directs management in the long-term Inspiring the Next Generation 66 initiatives over time. interests of the company and our stockholders. Matters in which the Board is actively Supply Chain Responsibility 78 engaged include business strategy, risk oversight, succession planning, and corporate Frameworks such as the United Nations Millennium Development Goals have helped Respecting Human Rights 91 responsibility and environmental stewardship. Since 2003, the Board’s Corporate inform our corporate responsibility strategy and approach. Intel is a member of the Appendix 96 Governance and Nominating Committee has had formal responsibility for reviewing United Nations Global Compact, and our Human Rights Principles reference external standards such as those of the International Labour Organization and the Guiding and reporting to the Board on corporate responsibility and sustainability issues at Intel. Principles on Business and Human Rights endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council. A number of directors have expertise in key corporate responsibility areas, including corporate governance, education, and environmental sustainability. Director biographies 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report are available on our Biographies web site and in our 2015 Proxy Statement. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 13 Table of Contents 2 We use a distributed model for managing corporate responsibility across our company, Integrated Value Framework Introduction 3 as we believe that embedding responsibility within specific business groups is the most effective management approach. Many Intel business groups have established Risk Management Operations Brand Revenue About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 teams dedicated to corporate responsibility issues, and we have also established crossLicense to Cost Reputation Growth and functional Management Review Committees (MRCs) consisting of senior executives who Operate and Savings and and Goodwill Innovation Our Business and Integrated Governance Continuous • Differentiation • Market Value Approach 6 manage corporate responsibility and sustainability activities across the organization. Our • Regulatory risk Improvements expansion global Corporate Responsibility Office acts as an internal adviser to the business groups • Trusted Company Profile 7 (i.e., environmental) • Operational partner • Product Risk Management and and MRCs to drive strategic alignment and incorporate external stakeholder feedback • Community efficiency • Goodwill innovation Business Continuity 11 into decision processes. engagement • Management • New • Supply chain quality customer Strategy and Governance 12 As part of our commitment to governance best practices, Intel pays for performance. • Employee needs Ethics and Compliance 14 engagement We provide a majority of executive compensation through arrangements in which Public Policy and the amounts ultimately received vary to reflect Intel’s performance. Our executive Integrating corporate responsibility and sustainability into our business and decision-making Political Accountability 15 creates value for Intel in four main ways. It helps us: reduce risk and protect our license to operate, compensation programs evolve and are adjusted over time to support Intel’s business improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations, protect and build brand value, and drive Stakeholder Engagement 18 goals and to promote both nearand long-term profitable growth of the company. revenue growth through innovation and identification of market opportunities. Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis 21 In addition, since 2008, we have linked a portion of every executive’s compensation to corporate responsibility factors, just as we do for all other employees. For more The concept of shared value is consistent with how Intel has defined corporate Key Corporate Responsibility Challenges information on our governance systems and compensation approach, see the responsibility for many years: a management approach that helps us better manage and Opportunities 22 Caring for Our People and Caring for the Planet sections of this report, as well risks and identify opportunities in order to create business value for the company and Financial Results as our 2015 Proxy Statement. for society. Intel has been recognized in a number of forums and publications as an a and Economic Impact 23 leader in this area, and we helped develop a white paper on shared value measurements Recognitions, Performance Summary, and Goals 25 Creating and Measuring Shared Value that provides companies with a step-by-step process and a pragmatic approach to In recent years, investors have become increasingly interested in the connection measurement and implementation of the shared value concept. Caring for Our People 29 between corporate responsibility performance and business value creation. As such, Caring for the Planet 44 In 2014, we continued to advance the concept of shared value, communicate bestIntel is a supporting member of the Shared Value Initiative, created by the nonprofit Inspiring the Next Generation 66 practice examples, and identify opportunities to leverage the concept and measurement consulting firm FSG and Harvard Business School professor Michael Porter to bring Supply Chain Responsibility 78 approaches for Intel initiatives. In early 2014, FSG highlighted Intel in a research paper, together leaders from companies, civil society, and governments to build a strong and Respecting Human Rights 91 “The New Role of Business in Global Education,” and Intel published two shared value engaged global community and further develop the concept of “shared value.” Shared Appendix 96 case studies on the Intel Education Service Corps and our Code for Good programs. We value is a framework that helps companies leverage the full range of their internal assets are also applying the shared value framework to our Intel® She Will Connect program. to address social and environmental impacts and identify opportunities, with the end goal of creating more value and increasing a firm’s competitiveness. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 14 Table of Contents 2 Ethics and Compliance Intel’s Ethics and Compliance Oversight Structure Introduction 3 About This Report 4 The Intel Code of Conduct guides the behavior of our employees, officers, non-employee directors, wholly owned + + Letter from Our CEO 5 Board of Directors, Our Business and Integrated subsidiaries, and suppliers, and is a cornerstone of our culture. CEO Corporate Governance, and Audit Committee Value Approach 6 Through the Code of Conduct, which we review annually, we seek to promote honest Company Profile 7 Risk Management and and ethical conduct, deter wrongdoing, and support compliance with applicable laws + Business Continuity 11 and regulations. The principles embodied in the Code reflect our policies related Ethics and Compliance Oversight Committee Strategy and Governance 12 but not limited to conflicts of interest, nondiscrimination, antitrust, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, privacy, health and safety, and protecting our company’s assets and Ethics and Compliance 14 Public Policy and reputation. The Code directs employees to consider both shortand long-term impacts + Political Accountability 15 on the environment and the community when they are making business decisions, and Ethics and Legal Compliance Group Ethics, Antitrust, Anti-corruption, and Global Compliance Programs Stakeholder Engagement 18 to report potential issues as soon as they arise. Corporate Responsibility All employees are expected to complete training on the Code of Conduct when they join Materiality Analysis 21 + the company and annually thereafter. The Code is available in 15 languages, and training Business Champions Business Champions Business Champions Key Corporate Business Units Regional Site Level sessions incorporate real case scenarios. Employees are encouraged to raise ethical Responsibility Challenges and Opportunities 22 questions and concerns, and have multiple channels to do so—anonymously, if they prefer, and as permitted by law. They assert adherence to the Code through an annual Click or tap the + symbol for additional information. Financial Results and Economic Impact 23 disclosure process for targeted populations across the company. In addition to these groups, Intel organizations such as Finance, Audit, Human Resources, Recognitions, Performance and Legal provide essential expertise and support to help management and employees Depending on their roles and geographical locations, certain employees are assigned execute the company’s ethics and compliance expectations. Summary, and Goals 25 more in-depth ethics and compliance training courses, such as those covering antiCaring for Our People 29 corruption, import-export compliance, insider trading, and antitrust. For example, in Intel’s CEO sets the tone for our ethical culture and holds managers accountable for Caring for the Planet 44 2014 approximately 30,000 employees—about 30% of our workforce—received communicating ethics and compliance expectations. Each year, our CEO communicates Inspiring the Next Generation 66 additional training on our anti-corruption policies and procedures. As part of our with employees and senior managers about the importance of ethics and legal Supply Chain Responsibility 78 anti-corruption program, we conduct risk-based due diligence screening on selected compliance. This “tone from the top”—combined with our annual ethics and compliance Respecting Human Rights 91 suppliers and distributors. We also communicate our ethical expectations, including training, regular communications throughout the year, and educational resources on our Appendix 96 compliance with our Code of Conduct, to our suppliers and other third parties. employee intranet site—helps to create an ethical and legally compliant culture. In 2014, Intel has published a set of Human Rights Principles to complement the Code of Conduct we also conducted an ethics culture survey of employees that monitored their perception and express our commitment to human rights and responsible labor practices. The Code of manager tone and comfort level in raising concerns. of Code also references and covers our Human Rights Principles. For more information, 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report see the Respecting Human Rights section of this report. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 15 Table of Contents 2 Intel’s Ethics & Compliance Oversight Committee (ECOC), which is chartered by and In 2015, as we expand into new markets and businesses, we will continue to assess risk Introduction 3 reports to the Audit Committee, is responsible for Intel’s Code of Conduct. The ECOC and execute our programs globally for current and new employees to help ensure that About This Report 4 includes senior representatives from across the company and is co-chaired by Intel’s we act with uncompromised integrity worldwide. Letter from Our CEO 5 Chief Compliance Officer and Director of Internal Audit. Each year, Intel’s ECOC invites Our Business and Integrated various Intel organizations to assess and report on ethics and compliance in their Public Policy and Political Accountability Value Approach 6 respective businesses or sites, and reviews risk topics that span business groups. Company Profile 7 In 2014, four Intel business groups and two sites completed comprehensive risk Intel works with governments, organizations, and industries Risk Management and assessment reviews with the ECOC. Business groups also monitor their performance around the world to advocate policies that encourage new ideas, Business Continuity 11 (including training, management tone, risk assessment, and more) on a quarterly basis, promote fair commerce, and protect resources. Strategy and Governance 12 and send results to the Ethics and Legal Compliance Group. Ethics and Compliance 14 The following is a brief summary of a few of our key areas of interest and engagement We regularly recognize teams and individual employees for their contributions to in the public policy arena. For more information, visit our Public Policy web site and our Public Policy and Intel’s ethical and compliant environment through the Intel Ethics and Compliance Public Policy blog. Political Accountability 15 Excellence Awards program, launched in 2010. In 2014, four teams and individuals Stakeholder Engagement 18 Tax and Trade. We support tax policies that enhance the ability of innovative companies received the award, and one team received the first-ever Achievement Award for Corporate Responsibility to compete in the global marketplace and, in turn, produce economic prosperity. Intel Materiality Analysis 21 ethics and compliance sustainability. We also have an internal Ethics and Legal Compliance Group speaker series and newsletter, which in 2014 covered themes engages in a highly capital-intensive business, and the location of our facilities can Key Corporate such as privacy and security, antitrust, insider trading, product regulations and be substantially affected by the tax and economic development policies of potential Responsibility Challenges and Opportunities 22 standards, and export compliance. host countries. Modernization of customs and trade procedures is important to major Financial Results global supply chain participants. Intel depends on the ability to move products across and Economic Impact 23 Intel maintains a robust process for reporting misconduct, including online channels, international borders quickly, cost effectively, and with minimal burdens. Recognitions, Performance and has a clearly communicated non-retaliation policy. Processes for informing senior Summary, and Goals 25 management and the Board about allegations of misconduct include periodic reports Intellectual Property. Intel owns over 40,000 patents worldwide. Innovation, and the of overall misconduct statistics, as well as details about key investigations that are intellectual property (IP) that underlines it, are central to our business. Intel believes that Caring for Our People 29 in progress or completed. Our Ethics and Compliance Business Champions review a balanced, fair approach to IP systems is the best way to incentivize innovation. Intel’s Caring for the Planet 44 quarterly investigative packages with the leaders of their respective business groups. objective is to achieve balanced protection and enforcement for intellectual property— Inspiring the Next Generation 66 The largest categories of verified cases in 2014 were corporate travel card misuse, including patents, copyrights, and trade secrets—globally. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 expense reporting misconduct, conflict of interest, falsification of documents, and misuse Respecting Human Rights 91 of assets. Consistent with our commitment to maintain the highest levels of ethics and Appendix 96 compliance, we are addressing these concerns through senior management discussions, employee communications, and individual corrective action measures. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 16 Table of Contents 2 Privacy and Security. Intel recognizes that innovation, growth, and the continued Political Accountability Introduction 3 success of its business and the high-tech industry depend upon individuals’ trust in The Intel Political Accountability Guidelines outline our approach to making political About This Report 4 their use of technology and in the responsible, protected collection and processing of contributions, including details about accountability at the senior management and Letter from Our CEO 5 their data. Intel supports cybersecurity and privacy legislation and regulation that will Board of Directors levels. In early 2013, as a result of stakeholder dialogue, we also Our Business and Integrated promote trust in Intel products and technology and help governments, businesses, updated the Intel Political Accountability Guidelines to clarify certain aspects of our Value Approach 6 and individuals better secure their networks, intellectual property, and data. We have review processes and disclosure, including our processes to review the congruency Company Profile 7 advocated against regulatory approaches to critical infrastructure or supply chains that of our political contributions with our corporate policies. Risk Management and could impact product design and development and set bad precedents globally. Business Continuity 11 Environment and Energy. As an environmentally responsible manufacturer of energyStrategy and Governance 12 Intel Political Accountability Practices at a Glance efficient products, Intel works with governments worldwide to help shape progressive Ethics and Compliance 14 Guidelines and Oversight. Intel Political Accountability Guidelines (which include energy policy. Technology has made a significant impact on driving environmental Public Policy and information on executive management and Board oversight processes) are publicly efficiencies throughout the world. Intel believes that government policies should disclosed on our Corporate Governance and Ethics web site. Political Accountability 15 recognize and encourage a bigger role for the ICT industry in devising climate change Stakeholder Engagement 18 Direct Contributions. We disclose our direct corporate contributions and IPAC mitigation and adaptation solutions. Corporate Responsibility contributions twice a year. Historical archived political contribution reports are also Materiality Analysis 21 publicly disclosed on our Report Builder web site. Workforce. We want to create the best, most productive workplace environment that Key Corporate we can for our employees, so that our organizations can be as efficient, productive, Trade Association Dues. Trade association membership dues and payments Responsibility Challenges to other tax-exempt organizations such as 501(c)(4) organizations are disclosed and competitive as possible. To ensure that the U.S. has access to the highly skilled and Opportunities 22 annually, including the reported portion of dues used for political purposes for talent needed to remain competitive, we advocate for immigration reforms to enable annual dues over $50,000. Financial Results and Economic Impact 23 businesses to recruit, hire, and retain highly skilled foreign nationals in job fields that Lobbying Expenses. Intel files quarterly reports with the Secretary of the U.S. Recognitions, Performance have a shortage of qualified U.S. workers. We support initiatives that enhance the Senate and the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives that detail our lobbying Summary, and Goals 25 science, technology, engineering, and math skills of students and workers worldwide. activities. These reports can be found in the Senate’s Lobbying Disclosure Act Caring for Our People 29 Database. In 2014, our reported lobbying expenditures totaled $3.8 million, We also believe in treating our employees equally, regardless of sexual orientation. In compared to $4.4 million in 2013. Caring for the Planet 44 early 2014, along with 47 other organizations, we filed an amicus brief with the 10th Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Independent Political Expenditures. Intel has a policy of not making independent Circuit Court of Appeals on the impact of bans on marriage equality. In 2015, we also political expenditures or funding electioneering communications, as those terms are Supply Chain Responsibility 78 signed onto an industry letter that asks state legislatures to add sexual orientation defined by applicable law. Respecting Human Rights 91 and gender identity as protected classes to their civil rights laws. Corporate contributions, IPAC contributions, and trade association membership dues payment Appendix 96 reports are available on our Report Builder web site. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 17 Table of Contents 2 Intel works to educate political candidates about the implications of public policy Our memberships in industry and trade associations help us work collaboratively with Introduction 3 decisions for our business, and provides financial support to candidates who other companies and groups to address key public policy issues. Intel is a member of About This Report 4 support or advance positions that are consistent with our business objectives. Intel these trade associations; however, the positions of these organizations do not always Letter from Our CEO 5 makes relatively few direct political contributions using corporate funds. In 2014, completely align with Intel’s. Our Business and Integrated our corporate contributions to state and local candidates, campaigns, and ballot We annually evaluate our political spending for alignment and effectiveness, although Value Approach 6 propositions totaled $65,000. we recognize that it is impractical and unrealistic to expect that we or our stockholders Company Profile 7 The Intel Political Action Committee (IPAC) accepts voluntary contributions from its and stakeholders will agree with every issue that a politician or trade association may Risk Management and members and uses those funds to contribute to political candidates’ campaigns. No have supported. Business Continuity 11 corporate funds are contributed to IPAC other than for administrative expenses, and Strategy and Governance 12 To address potential misalignment issues, we have put systems in place (including employee participation in IPAC is voluntary. Donations are divided evenly between the Ethics and Compliance 14 executive and Board-level review), increased disclosure about our trade association two major political parties, and are part of Intel’s efforts to enable employees to support Public Policy and dues and areas of potential misalignment, and posted our positions on key public candidates who understand our business concerns and will be open-minded to our views Political Accountability 15 policy issues to ensure that they are available to all stakeholders. regarding our public policies. IPAC supports candidates who have an understanding of Stakeholder Engagement 18 issues that are important to Intel, have demonstrated leadership, have a leadership role, We believe that the overall benefit of our memberships in these organizations outweighs Corporate Responsibility or have Intel employees or facilities in their voting districts. In some instances, candidates our differences, although we continue to evaluate our memberships during the planning Materiality Analysis 21 that IPAC supports may vote against us on one issue and be our most active proponents process each year. We have also taken proactive steps to educate associations on our Key Corporate Responsibility Challenges on other issues; however, IPAC does not correlate contributions to any specific official positions and provide background information on key issues. For example, we signed a and Opportunities 22 government action. Our Vice President of Global Public Policy reviews the congruency multi-stakeholder agreement to clearly articulate our position on “conflict minerals.” Financial Results of our political contributions with our corporate policies on an annual basis. The sum of and Economic Impact 23 In recognition of our political accountability practices, Intel tied for fourth-place rank political contributions from IPAC to candidates in 2014 was $491,000. among 300 companies evaluated in the 2014 CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Recognitions, Performance Summary, and Goals 25 Accountability and Disclosure. Caring for Our People 29 Caring for the Planet 44 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 18 Table of Contents 2 Stakeholder Engagement comments directly with members of our corporate responsibility team. Through this Introduction 3 account, we receive and respond to hundreds of messages each year on a wide variety of About This Report 4 We derive significant value from our diverse stakeholders topics. In addition, members of our corporate responsibility team and leaders across Intel Letter from Our CEO 5 and maintain formal management systems to engage with, discuss their views and opinions, and receive and respond to comments on our external Our Business and Integrated listen to, and learn from them. When appropriate and relevant CSR@Intel blog, Facebook page, and Twitter account. Value Approach 6 to our business, we incorporate their feedback into our thinking To leverage the power of technology for our stakeholder engagement efforts, our Company Profile 7 and planning. interactive Explore Intel web site provides real-time disclosure and information for Risk Management and communities surrounding our campuses in Arizona, China, Costa Rica, Ireland, Israel, Business Continuity 11 We prioritize our stakeholders and their concerns by looking at both the relevance New Mexico, Oregon, and Vietnam. Featuring a mix of videos from our senior leaders and Strategy and Governance 12 of a stakeholder’s relationship to our business and the importance of the issue being environmental managers, site photos, real-time environmental data for manufacturing Ethics and Compliance 14 raised. By evaluating our community programs based on local input, and adapting our facilities, and contact information, the site makes it easy for community members to Public Policy and reporting methodology and the content of this report, we are better able to meet the engage with our environmental managers and community relations managers. Political Accountability 15 needs of our stakeholders. Stakeholder Engagement 18 For more than 10 years, we have also met with leading environmental, social, and We work with stakeholders to consider the impact of our operations on local communities Corporate Responsibility governance research firms and socially responsible investors to review our Corporate at all phases: entering, operating, and exiting. When entering a community, we work Materiality Analysis 21 Responsibility reports, gain a better understanding of emerging issues, help set priorities, with third parties to conduct needs assessment studies to prioritize our community Key Corporate and gather feedback on our performance. In 2014, representatives of more than 20 Responsibility Challenges engagement activities. During our operating phase, we work to build relationships with firms attended our annual outreach tour in three cities. Key discussion topics included and Opportunities 22 local stakeholders through informal meetings, community advisory panels (CAPs), working transparency, corporate governance and board diversity, climate change and renewable Financial Results groups, and community perception surveys (CPSs). CAP members provide constructive and Economic Impact 23 energy, and privacy and security. input on a broad range of issues, such as education, environmental impact, health and Recognitions, Performance safety, and emergency response and management. CPSs (usually administered by Using a variety of methods to engage with our stakeholders and obtain feedback Summary, and Goals 25 third parties) give us insight over time into a local community’s expectations of our on our performance helps us analyze and prioritize corporate responsibility issues as Caring for Our People 29 company and an external view of our performance. Before making the decision to exit a part of our corporate responsibility materiality assessment process. This information Caring for the Planet 44 also informs the direct actions that we take to improve our performance at local and community, we evaluate potential alternatives, and when closing a facility is necessary, Inspiring the Next Generation 66 we work to minimize the impact on our employees and to properly dispose of the global levels. An overview of our key stakeholder engagement activities is provided on Supply Chain Responsibility 78 affected assets and operations. the next two pages. Respecting Human Rights 91 In addition to face-to-face meetings, a number of web and social media channels provide Appendix 96 us with valuable, ongoing feedback on our performance and strategy. Our corporate responsibility e-mail account enables stakeholders to share their issues, concerns, and 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 19 Table of Contents 2 Stakeholder Engagement Activities Introduction 3 Stakeholders Tools and Processes Benefits and Results About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 EMPLOYEES Our Business and Integrated Open-door policy designed to give employees access to management at all levels. Multiple processes support direct communication up and down Value Approach 6 the organization. OHS and other survey results allow us to track Employee surveys, including our Organizational Health Survey (OHS). our performance in key areas and identify gaps on a regular Company Profile 7 cadence. For more information, see the Caring for Our People Risk Management and Circuit News, our intranet web site, which includes direct feedback tools; and “Inside Blue,” section of this report. Business Continuity 11 our internal employee social media platform. Strategy and Governance 12 Quarterly Business Update Meetings for all employees, and Executive Open Forums Ethics and Compliance 14 and webcasts that include Q&A sessions. Public Policy and CUSTOMERS Political Accountability 15 Customer Excellence Program (CEP), a structured program that uses a web-based survey Objective customer feedback enables us to identify areas for Stakeholder Engagement 18 administered by a third-party market research firm to obtain and prioritize customer improvement, and a portion of employees’ annual variable Corporate Responsibility feedback about the quality of Intel’s products and services. compensation is tied to CEP results. In 2014, employees received Materiality Analysis 21 an additional day of pay based on the customer satisfaction Consumer Support web site. levels under the CEP. For more information, refer to the Intel Key Corporate Quality System Handbook. Responsibility Challenges External blogs, such as Technology@Intel, with discussions of interest to customers; and and Opportunities 22 other social media channels, including Twitter and Facebook. Financial Results SUPPLIERS and Economic Impact 23 Intel’s Supplier Site. Setting consistent expectations for our suppliers reduces risk Recognitions, Performance and improves efficiency across our supply chain. Based on Summary, and Goals 25 Supplier capacity-building activities, including educational resources, webinars, and a stakeholder feedback and benchmarking research, we have Supplier Sustainability Leadership Summit. provided additional detail in the Supply Chain Responsibility Caring for Our People 29 section of this report. Caring for the Planet 44 Participation in industry working groups, including the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). Inspiring the Next Generation 66 GOVERNMENTS AND POLICYMAKERS Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Active engagement in policy and legislative efforts worldwide through individual Our efforts in policy development foster credible, trustworthy discussions and exchanges with joint industry and government committees. relationships; strengthen regard for Intel as a valued corporate Appendix 96 citizen; and create a supportive public policy environment. For Intel Global Public Policy and Intel Corporate Affairs staff engagement with policymakers. more information, see “Public Policy and Political Accountability” in this section. Policy@Intel web site and blog. (continued on next page) 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 20 Table of Contents 2 Stakeholder Engagement Activities Introduction 3 Stakeholders Tools and Processes Benefits and Results About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 COMMUNITIES Our Business and Integrated Community advisory panels and working groups, two-way forums where community Maintaining an open dialogue with our communities has allowed Value Approach 6 members and Intel representatives collaborate to address community issues and us to build positive and constructive relationships at the local Company Profile 7 concerns. Community perception surveys and needs assessments conducted as needed. level. For more information on our community engagement activities, see the Inspiring the Next Generation section of Risk Management and Intel Community and Explore Intel web sites, which include feedback mechanisms. this report. Business Continuity 11 Placement of Intel employees on local nonprofit boards and commissions, and employee Strategy and Governance 12 volunteer activities in local schools and nonprofits. Ethics and Compliance 14 Extensive working relationships with educators and educational institutions worldwide, Public Policy and and third-party evaluations of our education programs. Political Accountability 15 INVESTORS Stakeholder Engagement 18 Corporate Responsibility Regular face-to-face meetings with social responsibility-oriented fund managers Feedback and benchmark data drive improved performance and Materiality Analysis 21 and analysts. help us identify emerging issues and concerns. Key Corporate Timely interaction with investors and research firms through e-mail exchanges, Responsibility Challenges conference calls, regular meetings with management, visits, Investor Day, and and Opportunities 22 detailed investor surveys. Financial Results Online stockholder forum featuring investor surveys on a range of issues and information and Economic Impact 23 about corporate responsibility. Recognitions, Performance Summary, and Goals 25 Intel Corporate Responsibility e-mail account, Intel Investor Relations e-mail account, and CSR@Intel blog. Caring for Our People 29 NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (NGOs) Caring for the Planet 44 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Issues meetings, formal dialogues, joint projects, and multi-sector efforts. Intel’s interactions with NGOs promote mutual understanding on environmental issues, regional education priorities, technology Supply Chain Responsibility 78 options and solutions for developing countries, supply Respecting Human Rights 91 chain management issues, and other topics. Details on our collaborations with NGOs in our main corporate responsibility Appendix 96 focus areas are covered in other sections of this report. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 21 Table of Contents 2 Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis Introduction 3 We incorporate feedback from our stakeholders to inform our analysis of key corporate responsibility issues and their impact on our business. About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Company Profile 7 IDENTIFY PRIORITIZE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Risk Management and Identify issues from a wide range of MATERIALITY MATRIX Financial/ stakeholders and sources. HIGH Economic Health Business Continuity 11 IMPORTANCE TO MULTIPLE STAKEHOLDERS Use a consistent set of filters Conflict Primary Sources Issues to determine the significance Energy-Efficient Products Minerals Strategy and Governance 12 • Employee blogs and forums • Climate change of each issue and develop a list Water Use of the most material issues. Diversity Ethics and Compliance 14 • Customer concerns • Water conservation Privacy and Human Rights Data Security • Corporate Responsibility • Air emissions/quality Key Criteria Supply Chain Public Policy and web site e-mails and • Business continuity Reductions in Responsibility Environmental Political Accountability 15 • Education CSR@Intel blog Energy Use Compliance • Employee relations • Impact to brand/reputation MEDIUM Support for Education Stakeholder Engagement 18 • Social media channels • Applicability to multiple regions and Technology Access • Fair compensation • Results of community Worker Health Corporate Responsibility advisory panels and • Stock price • Alignment with Intel’s business Support for and Safety strategies Local Communities Materiality Analysis 21 community perception performance Taxes surveys • Energy efficiency • Impact on the community Key Corporate Recycling Employee Relations/ • Meetings/feedback sessions • Labor unions • Ability to attract and retain talent Political and E-waste Talent Development Responsibility Challenges Contributions with investors • Materials restrictions • Regulatory impacts and Opportunities 22 • Proxy resolution negotiations • Employee health Financial Results This materiality matrix illustrates the • Ethics and Compliance • Privacy and data topics that we believe are of greatest and Economic Impact 23 Oversight Committee security LOW MEDIUM HIGH interest to our stakeholders, who want to • Strategic chemical review make informed decisions about Intel’s IMPACT ON INTEL’S BUSINESS Recognitions, Performance • Political contributions process environmental, social, and economic Summary, and Goals 25 • Taxes/incentives Social Environmental Economic • Community relations performance. • Diversity Caring for Our People 29 • Corporate responsibility/ • E-waste sustainability conferences Caring for the Planet 44 • EHS/human rights REVIEW • Market research on Inspiring the Next Generation 66 in the supply chain Embed the process in internal decision-making and external review. reputation issues • “Conflict minerals” Supply Chain Responsibility 78 • Meetings with government • Product-related human Internal Review External Review Decisions officials Respecting Human Rights 91 rights concerns • Board of Directors and Management • Outreach to socially responsible • Set new performance goals • Review of external standards • Sexual orientation and Review Committee (MRC) reviews investors • Initiate new projects or develop new policy Appendix 96 • Participation in industry gender equlity • Corporate strategic discussions • Corporate Responsibility Report review • Communicate with stakeholders working groups • Business group MRC/planning • SustainAbility participation and • Include in Corporate Responsibility Report, site/ • Scan of industry trends benchmarking local reports, Corporate Responsibility web site We have used the Sustainability Materiality Framework developed by the research firm Accountability to define corporate responsibility materiality, both for this report and for our strategy development. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report (Note that “materiality” in this context does not refer to financial materiality.) www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 22 Table of Contents 2 Key Corporate Responsibility Challenges and Opportunities Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Energy-Efficient Products and Climate Change. As impacts to climate and energy have become major focus areas for businesses and governments, Letter from Our CEO 5 we have taken steps to reduce absolute emissions from our operations and to address the climate change impact of our products. We have set goals to Our Business and Integrated lower our normalized and absolute emissions and increase the energy-efficient performance of our products. Worldwide efforts to reduce emissions and Value Approach 6 address climate change also present potential market opportunities for Intel technologies, including those for smart grids, transportation, and sensing. Company Profile 7 Risk Management and Workforce Talent and Diversity. Our ability to attract and retain top talent is key to our business success. We invest in cultivating a safe, respectful, and Business Continuity 11 ethical work environment that enables employees to thrive both on the job and in their communities. We have set a goal to achieve full representation Strategy and Governance 12 of women and under-represented minorities at Intel in the U.S. by 2020. We are investing in internal initiatives and targeted external programs aimed at building the talent pipeline in engineering and technical disciplines. Ethics and Compliance 14 Public Policy and Political Accountability 15 Privacy and Data Security. We recognize that the continued success of our business depends upon individuals’ trust in their use of technology and in the responsible, protected collection and processing of their data. We have long been committed to respecting privacy, security, and human rights related Stakeholder Engagement 18 to our products and business operations, from software to network equipment and consumer electronics devices. We also support the fundamental Corporate Responsibility human rights of privacy and freedom of expression, and have policies, management oversight, accountability structures, and product design processes Materiality Analysis 21 that address these issues. Key Corporate Responsibility Challenges Water Use. Sustainable water management is a key focus at Intel, and we have invested significant resources in innovative conservation efforts. However, and Opportunities 22 we face challenges in reducing our water use as our manufacturing processes become more complex. In recent years, we have expanded disclosure on Financial Results our water use and conservation efforts, and continue to engage with external organizations to understand emerging best practices. and Economic Impact 23 Recognitions, Performance Summary, and Goals 25 Education Transformation and the Digital Divide. Intel’s success depends on young people having access to quality education and technology. Caring for Our People 29 As a leading technology company, we believe that we can help governments around the world achieve their economic development and educational Caring for the Planet 44 goals by effectively integrating technology into their programs and strategies. Recognizing the lack of access to technology and education that still exists for many girls and women around the world—and the importance of enabling that access Inspiring the Next Generation 66 to spur economic development—we have expanded our engagement efforts and partnerships in this area. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Human Rights, Labor Standards, and Supply Chain Responsibility. In our industry and others, companies are taking a Appendix 96 more active role in pushing for improvements in policies and processes for managing human rights issues, including human rights in the supply chain. Intel, for example, has taken a leadership role in helping to ensure that “conflict minerals”—those mined and sold under the control of armed groups who exploit low-paid mine workers—are eliminated from supply chains. We regularly review our policies, processes, and potential risk areas related to human rights. We are also assessing emerging stakeholder concerns surrounding the use of technology products by governments in ways that raise censorship and human rights concerns. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 23 Table of Contents 2 Financial Results and Economic Impact as our SoFIA SoC targeted for the mobile market segment. In data center products, Introduction 3 revenue was $14.4 billion, up 18% over 2013, and operating income increased 31% as About This Report 4 For 2014, Intel reported record revenue of $55.9 billion, up 6% we capitalized on the growth of cloud computing and big data. We introduced nextLetter from Our CEO 5 from 2013. Net income rose 22% to $11.7 billion, and earnings generation Intel® Xeon® processors that enhance performance, efficiency, and security Our Business and Integrated per share were $2.31. Our operating income of $15.3 billion was for compute, storage, and network workloads in cloud environments. Value Approach 6 up 25% over 2013. We achieved record annual unit shipments We have made investments and established positions in emerging growth sectors such Company Profile 7 for PCs, servers, tablets, phones, and the Internet of Things. as the Internet of Things and wearables before these segments become mainstream. Our Risk Management and Internet of Things revenue grew 19% in 2014, to more than $2 billion. We announced our Business Continuity 11 2014 Financial Results Basis Peak™ fitness and sleep tracker and Intel® Curie™ module, a button-sized computer Strategy and Governance 12 Our strategy for growth is playing out well. We are driving our core businesses in designed for wearables, and have established a growing portfolio of wearable technology Ethics and Compliance 14 personal computing and the enterprise, building on those assets to move into new areas collaborations with several world-class fashion and fitness brands. Public Policy and such as the Internet of Things and wearables, strengthening Intel’s position in mobile, Political Accountability 15 The cash generation from our business remained strong, with cash from operations of and continuing our relentless pursuit of Moore’s Law. The diversity and scale of Intel Stakeholder Engagement 18 $20.4 billion in 2014. We returned $4.4 billion to stockholders through dividends and products today put us in a unique position to compete across the breadth of devices that Corporate Responsibility repurchased $10.8 billion of common stock through our common stock repurchase Materiality Analysis 21 compute and connect. program. Our Board of Directors authorized an increase of $20 billion to the common Key Corporate In 2014, we started growing again across a broad range of products and markets by stock repurchase program. Effective in Q1 2015, our annual dividend rate increased to Responsibility Challenges introducing many new product technologies across all of our businesses. We began $0.96 per share. and Opportunities 22 shipping the world’s first processor on 14nm process technology. We introduced the Financial Results For additional 2014 financial highlights, see “Recognitions, Performance Summary, and Economic Impact 23 Intel® Core™ M processor family, designed to enable superior compute and graphics and Goals” later in this section. For a more detailed discussion of our financial Recognitions, Performance performance and long battery life in razor-thin, fanless mobile devices. In the wireless performance, see our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. Summary, and Goals 25 business, we qualified our first SoC application processor and baseband 3G solution, Caring for Our People 29 code-named “SoFIA.” Caring for the Planet 44 In PC clients, revenue of $34.7 billion was up 4% over 2013. Operating income of $14.6 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 billion was up 25%. In Chromebooks,* Intel now leads in market segment share. In the Supply Chain Responsibility 78 mobile area, we exceeded our goal to ship 40 million units for tablets during 2014, and Respecting Human Rights 91 became one of the largest silicon providers for tablets. In 2015 we look to improve Appendix 96 mobile profitability by further reducing costs through efficiencies and products such 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 24 Table of Contents 2 Economic Impact Assessments have also demonstrated Intel’s economic impact on non-U.S. communities. Introduction 3 Intel provides high-skill, high-paying jobs at our sites around the world. We also impact For example, a 2012 economic impact study showed that Intel Israel directly employed About This Report 4 economies through our sourcing activities, consumer spending by Intel employees, and approximately 8,500 employees and interns, and indirect employment exceeded 17,000 Letter from Our CEO 5 tax revenue. In addition, the company makes sizable capital investments and provides additional jobs. In addition, Intel Israel’s direct and indirect reciprocal procurement in Our Business and Integrated leadership in public-private initiatives to spur economic growth and innovation. Intel’s 2012 totaled $737 million. Value Approach 6 investments in education also help communities and countries advance economic Communities around the world also derive significant economic benefits from Intel’s Company Profile 7 development and improve competitiveness. global investment and mergers and acquisitions organization, Intel Capital. One of the Risk Management and largest venture capital organizations in the world, Intel Capital seeks out and invests in Business Continuity 11 In 2013, we engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers to conduct an analysis of the direct, indirect, and induced effects of our operations and selected subsidiaries in the United promising technology companies. Since 1991, Intel Capital has invested over $11.4 billion Strategy and Governance 12 States over a five-year period. The study, “Intel’s Economic Impacts on the U.S. Economy, in more than 1,400 companies in 57 countries. Ethics and Compliance 14 2008–2012,” found that total impact on the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) from Public Policy and Political Accountability 15 2008–2012 was $408 billion. The study also found that while Intel had 53,200 fulland Stakeholder Engagement 18 part-time employees in the U.S. in 2012, each Intel job supported 13 additional U.S. jobs, $408B resulting in total support of 774,600 U.S. jobs. Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis 21 An IHS Global Insight study commissioned by Intel in 2008 measured direct, indirect, and Key Corporate induced effects of Intel’s own operations, as well as productivity gains that stem from Responsibility Challenges and Opportunities 22 the use of Intel microprocessors. The study found that between 2001 and 2007, Intel INTEL’S TOTAL IMPACT Financial Results contributed $758 billion to the U.S. GDP and $247 billion to the European Union GDP. ON U.S. GDP FROM and Economic Impact 23 Periodically conducting local assessments helps us better understand Intel’s direct and 2008 – 2012 Recognitions, Performance indirect economic impact on the communities where we operate. We have commissioned Summary, and Goals 25 economic impact studies of our operations in Arizona, New Mexico, and Oregon, which Caring for Our People 29 have quantified the significant economic impact our sites generate. For example, the Caring for the Planet 44 Oregon study, conducted in 2011, found that “total economic impacts attributed to Intel’s Inspiring the Next Generation 66 operations, capital spending, contributions, and taxes amounted to almost $14.6 billion Supply Chain Responsibility 78 in economic activity, including $4.3 billion in personal income taxes and 59,990 jobs in Respecting Human Rights 91 Washington County, Oregon.” Appendix 96 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 25 Table of Contents 2 Recognitions, Performance Summary, and Goals Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Awards and Recognitions Letter from Our CEO 5 Third-party recognition gives us valuable feedback on our programs and practices, and helps drive continuous improvement over time. Below is a selection of the corporate Our Business and Integrated responsibility awards and recognitions that Intel received in 2014. Value Approach 6 Company Profile 7 2014 Selected Awards and Recognitions Risk Management and Overall Corporate Responsibility Business/Workplace/Citizenship Business Continuity 11 Strategy and Governance 12 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. Listed on North America and World indices (16th year) Forbes. Most Reputable Companies in the Americas (U.S.) Ethics and Compliance 14 FTSE Group. Listed on the FTSE4Good Index (14th year) (global) Barron’s. World’s Most Respected Companies Public Policy and Fortune magazine. World’s Most Admired Companies (1st in our industry) Fortune magazine. 100 Best Companies to Work For 2014 (U.S.) Political Accountability 15 Corporate Responsibility magazine. 100 Best Corporate Citizens (15th year) (U.S.) Aon Hewitt. Global Aon Hewitt Top Companies for Leaders (global) Stakeholder Engagement 18 STOXX Limited. STOXX® Global ESG Leaders indices (3rd year) (global) Working Mother magazine. 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers (U.S.) Corporate Responsibility Ethisphere* Institute. 2014 World’s Most Ethical Companies Diversity MBA magazine. Top 50 Out-Front Companies for Diversity Leadership (U.S.) Materiality Analysis 21 Corporate Secretary magazine. Best CSR Disclosure, Corporate Governance Human Rights Campaign. Corporate Equality Index (12th year) (U.S.) Key Corporate Awards (U.S.) Responsibility Challenges AMR Research. Top 25 Supply Chains (8th overall) (global) and Opportunities 22 Thomson Reuters. Global Leadership in Corporate Responsibility National Conference on Citizenship. Included in Civic 50 Ranking (U.S.) Financial Results Forbes Korea. 2014 CSR Grand Award (4th year) and Economic Impact 23 Environment GPTW Institute in partnership with The Economic Times. India’s Best Companies Recognitions, Performance Interbrand. Best Global Green Brands 2014 to Work For (2014) Summary, and Goals 25 U.S. EPA. Sustained Excellence in Green Power award Korea Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning. Korea Prime Minister’s Caring for Our People 29 Commendation, STEM Education Newsweek. 2014 Top 500 Green Companies in America Caring for the Planet 44 Center for Political Accountability. 4th in CPA-Zicklin Index (U.S.) Greenbiz Group and Trucost. Natural Capital Leaders Index (2014) Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Pax Ellevate. The Pax Global Women’s Leadership Index Vietnam Ministry of Natural Resources & Environment. Vietnam Environment Award Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 26 Table of Contents 2 Performance Summary Introduction 3 The following table provides a high-level summary of our key economic, environmental, and social indicators. Click or tap the report section names in the table to see normalized About This Report 4 production figures and details that appear in other sections of this report. Letter from Our CEO 5 Key Indicators Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Company Profile 7 FINANCIAL RESULTS AND ECONOMIC IMPACT Risk Management and Net revenue (dollars in billions) $55.9 $52.7 $53.3 $54.0 $43.6 Business Continuity 11 Net income (dollars in billions) $11.7 $9.6 $11.0 $12.9 $11.5 Strategy and Governance 12 Provision for taxes (dollars in billions) $4.1 $3.0 $3.9 $4.8 $4.6 Ethics and Compliance 14 Research and development spending (dollars in billions) $11.5 $10.6 $10.1 $8.4 $6.6 Public Policy and Capital investments (dollars in billions) $10.1 $10.7 $11.0 $10.8 $5.2 Political Accountability 15 Customer survey “Delighted” Score 90% 91% 92% 93% 91% Stakeholder Engagement 18 CARING FOR THE PLANET Corporate Responsibility Greenhouse gas emissions (million metric tons of CO2 equivalent)1 2.08 1.69 1.85 2.01 2.39 Materiality Analysis 21 Energy use (billion kWh includes electricity, gas, and diesel) 5.9 5.6 5.5 5.3 5.2 Key Corporate Total water withdrawn (billions of gallons) 8.4 8.7 9.0 8.3 8.2 Responsibility Challenges Hazardous waste generated (thousand tons)/% to landfill 49.4/0% 41.3/1% 35.5/2% 25.1/3% 23.7/1% and Opportunities 22 Non-hazardous waste generated (thousand tons)/% recycled 94.7/86% 120.7/89% 150.6 /88%2 81.1/85% 58.4/84% Financial Results and Economic Impact 23 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE Employees at year end (thousands) 106.7 107.6 104.7 100.1 82.6 Recognitions, Performance Summary, and Goals 25 Women in global workforce 25% 26% 26% 26% 28% Caring for Our People 29 Women on our Board at year end 18% 20% 20% 27% 30% Caring for the Planet 44 Investments in training (dollars in millions) $265 $300 $299 $299 $254 Safety recordable rate /days away case rate 3 3 0.66/0.11 0.69/0.13 0.62/0.12 0.66/0.12 0.59/0.11 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Organizational Health Survey scores “Proud to work for Intel” 4 84% – 88% 87% 85% Supply Chain Responsibility 78 INSPIRING THE NEXT GENERATION Respecting Human Rights 91 Employee volunteerism rate 39% 43% 47% 50% 48% Appendix 96 Worldwide charitable giving (dollars in millions) 5 $102.3 $109.5 $105.5 $92.9 $125.7 Charitable giving as a percentage of pre-tax net income 0.6% 0.9% 0.7% 0.5% 0.8% SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY On-site supplier audits (third-party and Intel-led audits) 123 142 106 49 8 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 1 Including purchases of Renewable Energy Certificates. An estimated 42% of this total was due to construction waste related to the building of two new fabrication facilities. 2 3 Rate based on 100 employees working full time for one year. www.intel.com/responsibility 4 We did not conduct an Organizational Health Survey in 2013. 5 Includes total giving (cash and in-kind) from Intel Corporation and the Intel Foundation. < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 27 Table of Contents 2 Progress Toward Goals Introduction 3 Discussions of our performance to goals and future goals are integrated into each relevant section of this report. The following table provides a high-level summary of our companyAbout This Report 4 wide goals in key corporate responsibility areas. Click or tap the report section names in the table for details on our goals and performance in other sections of this report. Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Report Section Goal 2014 Progress Value Approach 6 Caring for Our We set a goal to continue to drive improvements in the organizational health While we achieved our OHS participation goal, we did not maintain or Company Profile 7 People of the company in 2013, targeting at least 70% employee participation improve 95% of the survey scores. We continued to engage in good-faith Risk Management and in our Organizational Health Survey (OHS), and maintaining or improving efforts to meet our hiring goals, and in early 2015 set a new long-term goal Business Continuity 11 95% of the survey scores. We also set a goal to drive key improvements in to improve our performance in this space. We maintained our world-class diversity and hiring of technical under-represented minorities and women. safety levels compared to our peer companies and industry benchmarks, Strategy and Governance 12 To maintain our world-class safety performance, we set an aggressive but did not meet our aggressive safety goals. Ethics and Compliance 14 safety recordable rate goal of 0.40, as well as a goal to promote early reporting of ergonomic injuries. Public Policy and Political Accountability 15 Caring for the In 2012, we set 2020 environmental goals to drive reductions in greenhouse We made progress toward our 2020 goals through investments in energy Stakeholder Engagement 18 Planet gas emissions, energy use, water use, and waste generation, as well as conservation and renewable energy, and both our water consumption and increases in recycling and product energy efficiency. non-hazardous waste generation decreased compared to 2013. However, Corporate Responsibility hazardous waste generation continued to rise, due to the increased Materiality Analysis 21 complexity of our manufacturing processes and product design. Key Corporate Inspiring We set a goal to reduce the Internet gender gap by 50% in Sub-Saharan In 2014, we began to develop key foundational elements of the She Will Responsibility Challenges the Next Africa by 2016 through the Intel® She Will Connect program, as well as a Connect program including the partner ecosystem and digital literacy and Opportunities 22 Generation goal to provide ICT training to 1 million healthcare workers in developing training activities, and began work on a new online learning platform. Based Financial Results countries by the end of 2015. on learnings and stakeholder input during the first year of the program, and Economic Impact 23 we decided to redesign certain program components to drive greater Recognitions, Performance social impact and to extend the timeline for reaching our goal to 2020. We Summary, and Goals 25 achieved our goal to provide ICT training to 1 million healthcare workers. Caring for Our People 29 Supply Chain We set goals to complete or review 75 on-site supplier audits, complete a We achieved all of our 2014 supply chain goals related to auditing and Responsibility third-party audit of one of our assembly and test facilities, reach at least capacity-building programs, including PASS. And while approximately Caring for the Planet 44 one-third of our Tier 1 suppliers through our capacity-building programs, 70% of our ground transportation fleet met our “green” requirements by Inspiring the Next Generation 66 and enable 100 of our Tier 1 suppliers to meet our Program to Accelerate the end of 2014, by our estimates, we will not be able to reach the 100% Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Supplier Sustainability (PASS) requirements. We also set a goal to establish “green” goal by 2016 due to local technology availability, implementation, a 100% green Intel ground transportation fleet by 2016. and adoption rates. As such, we have adjusted our goal to reach a ground Respecting Human Rights 91 transportation fleet that is 85% “green” by 2016. Appendix 96 Respecting We set goals to conduct a targeted human rights impact assessment for our In 2014, we rolled out a number of new capacity-building programs for Human Rights software business, work with our subsidiaries to further align our policies our suppliers that focus on human rights issues in the electronics supply and management processes, and influence the electronics industry and our chain, and continued to work with our subsidiaries on human rights issues. supply chain to improve human rights performance. We elected not to conduct a human rights impact assessment for our software business. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Additional information about our progress towards our goals is available in “Performance Summary and Goals” in each section of the report. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 28 Table of Contents 2 Goal Summary for 2015 and Beyond Introduction 3 This table includes a summary of our corporate responsibility goals for 2015, as well as longer term goals. For more information on our performance and goals, click or tap the report About This Report 4 section names in the table for details on our goals and performance in other sections of this report. Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Report Section Goal Value Approach 6 Company Profile 7 Caring for • Achieve full representation of women and under-represented minorities at Intel in the United States by 2020. Our People Risk Management and Business Continuity 11 Caring for • Reduce direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 10% on a per unit basis1 by 2020 from 2010 levels. Strategy and Governance 12 the Planet • Reduce water use on a per unit basis below 2010 levels by 2020. • Achieve cumulative energy savings of 4 billion kWh from 2012 to 2020. Ethics and Compliance 14 • Achieve zero hazardous waste to landfill by 2020. Public Policy and • Achieve 90% non-hazardous waste recycle rate by 2020. Political Accountability 15 • Implement an enhanced green chemistry screening and selection process for 100% of new chemicals and gases by 2020. Stakeholder Engagement 18 • Design all new buildings to a minimum LEED* Gold certification between 2015 and 2020. Corporate Responsibility • Increase the energy efficiency of notebook computers and data center products 25x by 2020 from 2010 levels.2 Materiality Analysis 21 Inspiring the Next • Through the Intel® She Will Connect program, reach 5 million women in Sub-Saharan Africa by 2020. Key Corporate Generation Responsibility Challenges and Opportunities 22 Supply Chain • Complete or review an on-site audit for each of our Top 75 suppliers by the end of 2016. Responsibility • Establish an 85% “green” Intel ground transportation fleet by 2016. Financial Results and Economic Impact 23 • Validate all of our products are DRC conflict-free beginning in 2016. • Increase our annual spending with certified diverse-owned suppliers to $1 billion by 2020. Recognitions, Performance Summary, and Goals 25 Respecting • Complete a third-party audit of one of our facilities in 2015. Caring for Our People 29 Human Rights Caring for the Planet 44 1 Based on the number of die produced and made available for sale. 2 Data center energy efficiency is determined by server energy efficiency (as measured by SPECpower_ssj2008 or equivalent publications and using a 2010 baseline of an E56xx series processor-based server platform) as well as technology Inspiring the Next Generation 66 adoption that raises overall data center work output (such as virtualization technology). Notebook computer energy efficiency is determined by average battery life, battery capacity, and number of recharge cycles of volume notebook computers in that model year. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 29 Table of Contents 2 Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Caring for Our People Management Approach Diversity and Inclusion 29 30 34 Caring for Employee Safety Compensation and Benefits 38 Career Growth and Development 37 41 Our People Performance Summary and Goals 43 For decades, the backbone of our corporate culture has been the Intel Values: Customer Orientation, Discipline, Quality, Risk Taking, Caring for the Planet 44 Great Place to Work, and Results Orientation. Our success depends upon recruiting and cultivating talented people who share these Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 values. Intel is known for its technology, but the people behind the technology are what make the company great. We are committed Respecting Human Rights 91 to helping our people get the most out of their careers—from recruitment through retirement. Appendix 96 In 2014, Intel was once again $ 265 MILLION We invested $265 million We maintain world-class safety We announced a goal to achieve We plan to invest $300 million named to Fortune magazine's in employee training and performance through programs full representation of women and to help build the pipeline and annual “100 Best Companies development in 2014, or an that help employees enjoy a under-represented minorities at support the hiring and retention to Work For” list. average of approximately better quality of life. Intel in the U.S. by 2020. of more women and under$2,500 per employee. represented minorities in technology and gaming. Access the Report Builder Key Section Links Performance Summary and Goals Jobs at Intel Compensation and Benefits 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility Intel Values Life at Intel Diversity at Intel < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 30 Table of Contents 2 Management Approach 2014 Employees by Region Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Intel’s success rests on our employees’ ongoing passion for innovation. We cultivate a safe, collaborative, and ethical work Great Americas 8% Letter from Our CEO 5 environment that enables employees to thrive on the job and Europe, Our Business and Integrated 19% Middle East, Value Approach 6 in their communities. Africa Caring for Our People 29 As of December 2014, Intel had 106,700 employees worldwide (including employees Management Approach 30 United States 48% of our subsidiaries), nearly half of whom were located in the U.S. Intel’s workforce is Diversity and Inclusion 34 highly educated, with over 87,000 people in technical roles. Our employees hold more Employee Safety 37 than 9,800 master of science, 6,000 PhD or equivalent, and 3,800 master of business 25% Asia Pacific Compensation and Benefits 38 administration degrees. Career Growth and Development 41 Our Philosophy and Management Practices Close to half of our employees reside in the United States. Performance Summary Intel invests significant resources to develop the talent needed to keep the company at and Goals 43 the forefront of innovation. We work to build a strong engineering pipeline and attract Our “open door” policy enables employees to speak directly with all levels of management Caring for the Planet 44 top performers, and we offer career development and work/life programs—from about their ideas, concerns, or problems, and to collaborate with managers to address Inspiring the Next Generation 66 recruitment through retirement—that make Intel an employer of choice. workplace issues. We cultivate a culture in which employees feel comfortable asking Supply Chain Responsibility 78 questions and sharing their views about our business directly with senior leaders. To Respecting Human Rights 91 Our Human Resources (HR) organization has primary responsibility for the management foster this culture, we use a variety of open communications channels, including quarterly Appendix 96 of our workplace and talent development activities. Our senior vice president and Business Update Meetings, open forums, and social media. director of HR oversees groups such as Talent Transformation and Diversity, Employee Communications, Compensation and Benefits, and Learning and Development. A Our goal is to provide employees with a flexible work environment that allows them to manage their work responsibilities and their personal commitments with as much ease dedicated research team is responsible for tracking and analyzing HR data to help and as little stress as possible. Managers and employees have a shared responsibility to managers and leaders improve our workplace performance. HR also collaborates closely adopt the appropriate flexibility to accommodate the needs of both the employee and with many other groups across Intel on issues such as organizational health, design, and the organization. Flexible solutions may include adjusting work hours, location, or job capability. In addition, a number of Management Review Committees made up of senior structure to enable employees to meet their unique personal needs while ensuring that leaders from across the company regularly review performance on HR topics such as they meet their work deliverables. diversity and culture. People at Intel grow by continuously learning—on the job, in the classroom, and by We believe that a more inclusive workforce makes us a stronger company, and that our working with others. Regular conversations between employees and their managers help impact on people’s lives around the world is a direct result of our diverse employees. identify development opportunities and objectives. Through our internal Learning and Intel’s goal is to become the technology industry leader in diversity. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 31 Table of Contents 2 Development program, employees connect with one another, acquire new skills, and Appreciation and Recognition Introduction 3 share their knowledge as volunteer instructors. We make significant investments in the About This Report 4 development of strong leaders, recognizing that having skilled managers throughout Intel fosters a culture of recognition and appreciation. Recognition includes corporate-wide programs as well as local programs created by individual business Letter from Our CEO 5 the organization is critical to our success. We also work to set clear management and groups to acknowledge the achievement of critical business behaviors and the Our Business and Integrated leadership expectations, and we conduct succession planning. achievement of specific goals. We host company-wide events to celebrate major Value Approach 6 project milestones, product launches, and company anniversaries. We also have Celebrating the accomplishments of our employees is a top priority, from everyday several corporate-wide recognition programs: Caring for Our People 29 thank-yous to formal reward programs. “Great Place to Work” volunteer teams at Intel Management Approach 30 Intel Achievement Award (IAA). The IAA is the company’s highest honor for sites worldwide plan social events for employees and their families, including parties individual and small-team accomplishments. Less than one-half of 1% of all Diversity and Inclusion 34 and outings to local art and sporting events. Our goal is to empower our employees to employees receive an IAA each year. Winners are rewarded with company stock Employee Safety 37 build meaningful and rewarding careers throughout their years at Intel. and an invitation to a banquet hosted by the CEO. Compensation and Benefits 38 Intel Quality Award (IQA). IQAs are given annually to a few Intel organizations Career Growth and Communication and Transparency that have made long-term commitments to operational excellence and have Development 41 demonstrated performance to Intel Values. Organizations complete applications Open and direct communication has been a hallmark of Intel culture since the company’s that are presented to a panel of executive judges who select the winners. Winning Performance Summary founding and gives employees access to all levels of management to address workorganizations are expected to act as role models and mentors for groups that and Goals 43 related concerns. Employees report that they appreciate being able to speak freely subsequently enter the IQA application process. Caring for the Planet 44 about issues that concern them, and employee surveys indicate that this philosophy Intel Inventor Award. Launched in 2011, Inventor Awards recognize employees Inspiring the Next Generation 66 contributes to organizational health, improves productivity, and decreases turnover. who file high-quality invention disclosures that result in issued patents. Winners Supply Chain Responsibility 78 receive a cash award. Respecting Human Rights 91 Because Intel’s success depends upon all employees understanding how their work contributes to the company’s overall vision and business strategy, we use a broad range Division Recognition Award (DRA). DRAs recognize employees for reaching Appendix 96 critical milestones or completing projects that demonstrate a strong commitment of electronic and interpersonal channels to keep employees aligned with our strategy. to Intel Values. DRAs are presented to employees in front of their peers at quarterly Our overall goal is to ensure that employees receive timely information and candid Business Update Meetings. answers to their questions. Spontaneous Recognition Award (SRA). SRAs can be given by any employee at any time to show appreciation for a peer, subordinate, or manager, and may include Circuit, our employee intranet portal, provides corporate and local Intel news, and cash, a gift card, or other reward. information about workplace services and benefits. It is accessible through a web browser or mobile phone application. We also reach employees through a network Other Awards. Formal programs also recognize employees for performance to Intel Values, years of service, technology innovation, Intel Learning and Development of digital video screens that broadcast news and information in our factories, lobbies, instructor contributions, volunteerism (such as the Intel Involved Hero Award), and and cafeterias. environmental excellence (such as the Intel Environmental Excellence Awards). Employees are encouraged to use Intel’s internal social media channels for business and From simple and sincere personal thank-yous to formal banquets, Intel offers multiple types of recognition that reward employees for their accomplishments. collaboration purposes, and to build a sense of community across our global sites. Senior leaders and other employees publish personal essays to open dialogue about business 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 32 Table of Contents 2 issues, challenges, and opportunities. Employees have the opportunity to comment on It helps us identify strengths and areas for improvement in our business groups Introduction 3 news articles and features so they can add their valuable knowledge and perspectives to and geographies, and provides data for planning and improvement. The survey is About This Report 4 the corporate dialogue. We believe that employees are the best and most knowledgeable conducted on a periodic basis, and results are openly shared with employees. Letter from Our CEO 5 ambassadors for our company, so we also encourage them to participate in external 2013 was a year of significant change for Intel, with a new CEO and President, as well Our Business and Integrated social media channels. as organizational and strategic change, and we elected not to conduct an OHS. In late Value Approach 6 2014 we conducted an updated OHS with a record 77% of our employees responding. Caring for Our People 29 Measuring Our Progress Overall, scores showed a slight decline in most categories. We analyze the results by Management Approach 30 Managing a complex, geographically dispersed workforce is extremely challenging. business group, and take the survey results very seriously. We have put a plan in place Diversity and Inclusion 34 We have instituted a number of ways to regularly assess the health of our overall to address employee concerns and the decline in scores, and are committed to Employee Safety 37 organization and business groups, and obtain feedback so that adjustments can be continued transparency around our organizational health. Compensation and Benefits 38 made as needed. In addition to our corporate-wide OHS, individual business groups also conduct their Career Growth and Our Organizational Health Survey (OHS) tells us what employees think about our Development 41 own surveys to measure progress; for example, our Corporate Ethics Program surveys workplace. This assessment provides insight into current business-specific issues, employees on the state of ethics, and our Corporate Services organization measures Performance Summary historical trending on a core set of questions, and comparisons to external benchmarks. and Goals 43 satisfaction with cafeterias and other services. Caring for the Planet 44 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Selected Organizational Health Survey Results Supply Chain Responsibility 78 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Respecting Human Rights 91 Overall OHS score. 74% 76% 77% – 70% Appendix 96 I am proud to work for Intel. 85% 87% 88% – 84% I would recommend Intel as a great place to work. 80% 83% 84% – 77% My job makes good use of my skills/strengths. 76% 77% 78% – 74% I have the flexibility to balance the needs of my work and personal life. 79% 80% 81% – 76% I would like to be working at Intel one year from now. – – – – 82% I feel comfortable talking about issues and concerns with management. 74% 77% 78% – 73% In my business group, innovation and creative thinking are actively encouraged. 76% 78% 79% – 71% In my work group, management proactively seeks out opportunities to promote diversity within the workforce. 68% 69% 70% – 66% In 2014, we revised several OHS questions. We have provided alternate data to provide additional context. In 2013, we did not conduct an Organizational Health Survey. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 33 Table of Contents 2 Workforce Data Introduction 3 We have published workforce statistics in our Corporate Responsibility Report since 2002. Additional details are available in the Report Data File on the Report Builder web site. About This Report 4 Total Employees by Region1 Global Turnover1 Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated 120 5 Value Approach 6 100.1 104.7 107.6 106.7 Total Employees 4.8% (in thousands) 4 100 Caring for Our People 29 26% 26% 25% 25% Asia-Pacific 3.8% 82.5 PERCENT 3.6% 3.6% 3 THOUSANDS Management Approach 30 80 3.2% 26% 18% 19% Europe, Middle East, 17% 19% Africa Diversity and Inclusion 34 60 2 14% 2% 5% 5% 8% Greater Americas Employee Safety 37 5% 1 40 Compensation and Benefits 38 55% 55% 51% 51% 48% United States 0 Career Growth and 20 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Development 41 0 Performance Summary 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Our turnover rate increased from 3.8% in 2013 to 4.8% in 2014. Regular monitoring of turnover and Goals 43 by performance rating (top, middle, and low) helps us spot and address issues and trends swiftly. Our employees’ faces reflect those of our customers, vendors, and colleagues in the global market. Caring for the Planet 44 1 Includes all regular Intel employees plus approximately 9,600 employees of our software and services operating 1 Includes all regular Intel employees plus approximately 9,600 employees of our software and services operating segments, including McAfee and the Software and Services Group. Does not include Intel contract employees and Inspiring the Next Generation 66 segments, including McAfee and the Software and Services Group. interns, or terminations due to divestiture, retirement, or redeployment. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 2014 Employee by Type Appendix 96 Employee Category U.S. Greater Americas EMEA APAC Total REGULAR1 Exempt2 39,816 3,162 15,892 18,148 77,018 Non-Exempt 3 10,582 467 3,651 5,427 20,127 Regular Total 50,398 3,629 19,543 23,575 97,145 INTEL CONTRACT EMPLOYEES AND INTERNS Exempt 378 231 1,931 1,014 3,554 Non-Exempt 342 26 892 217 1,477 Contract/Intern Total 720 257 2,823 1,231 5,031 Grand Total 51,118 3,886 22,366 24,806 102,176 Close to half of our employees are based in the United States. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 1 Includes all regular employees only, not including approximately 9,600 employees of our software and services operating segments. Exempt employees receive compensation through an annual salary and are “exempt” from overtime 2 3 Non-exempt employees are entitled to the minimum wage and/or overtime pay protections of the FLSA. provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 34 Table of Contents 2 Diversity and Inclusion SETTING A BOLD Introduction 3 DIVERSITY GOAL About This Report 4 We respect, value, and celebrate the distinctive points of view At the Consumer Electronics Show in Letter from Our CEO 5 and opportunities that come with the diverse backgrounds and early 2015, we announced a bold new unique experiences of our employees, communities, customers, hiring and retention goal to achieve Our Business and Integrated full representation of women and Value Approach 6 suppliers, and other partners in the global marketplace. under-represented minorities (URMs) Caring for Our People 29 at Intel in the U.S. by 2020. African The wide range of perspectives that we gain by hiring and developing a diverse Management Approach 30 Americans, Hispanics or Latinos, workforce helps us advance our leadership in both technology and corporate and Native Americans are included in Diversity and Inclusion 34 responsibility. Through active employee resource groups, strategic initiatives, and our definition of URMs. Our broader Employee Safety 37 alliances with external organizations, we demonstrate our sustained commitment to definition of diverse employees Compensation and Benefits 38 workforce diversity. We also develop a number of diversity action plans and reports includes URMs and also Asians and Pacific Islanders, as well as veterans Career Growth and focusing on recruitment, retention and employee development and progression. and individuals with diverse abilities. As Development 41 These plans and reports are reviewed and updated on a regular basis. such, we are linking a portion of every Performance Summary employee’s 2015 Annual Performance and Goals 43 Intel provides equal employment opportunity for all applicants and employees Bonus—from front-line staff to our Caring for the Planet 44 without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, disability, CEO—to the hiring and retention of Inspiring the Next Generation 66 medical condition, genetic information, military and veteran status, marital status, URMs and women at Intel. pregnancy, gender, gender expression, gender identity, sexual orientation, or any other We also plan to invest $300 million $ Supply Chain Responsibility 78 300M characteristic protected by local law, regulation, or ordinance. Intel also makes reasonable to help build a pipeline of female and Respecting Human Rights 91 accommodations for disabled employees and prohibits harassment of any individual under-represented technical talent; to Appendix 96 actively support hiring and retaining on any basis. We strive to continuously advance a work environment that honors, values, INVESTMENT more women and under-represented and respects all of our employees. minorities; and to fund programs to support more positive representation Investing in the Pipeline of women within the technology and gaming industries. For more Intel invests in a range of programs to build the pipeline of women and under-represented information, read the press release. minorities (URMs) in science, engineering, math, and technology fields. Through strong alliances with active national organizations, we drive industry-wide recognition of issues surrounding, as well as support for, the advancement of women; underrepresented Intel leaders serve as advisors, participate in benchmarking surveys, and sponsor targeted minorities; veterans; the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer/questioning events via strategic relationships with major research, policy, and advisory organizations (LGBTQ) community; and individuals with disabilities. In addition to sponsoring many that are working on behalf of diversity. For a list of organizations we work with, see our of the events hosted by these organizations, we also serve as trusted advisors, host Global Diversity External Alliances web site. panel discussions, provide keynote addresses, and collaborate on the development of 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report relevant content. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 35 Table of Contents 2 We also collaborate on initiatives to improve basic access to education and technology Diverse Ability. Our programs to attract and retain individuals with disabilities center Introduction 3 for girls, women, and underserved populations around the world. For more information, on our Intel Diverse Abilities Network employee resource group. This group provides About This Report 4 see the Inspiring the Next Generation section of this report. resources for its members and also drives educational events for Intel employees both Letter from Our CEO 5 locally and globally. Our Business and Integrated Cultivating a Supportive Network LGBTQ. Intel is committed to building awareness and inclusion around our LGBTQ Value Approach 6 We provide managers with tools and resources for rewarding and recognizing diversity community of employees. Intel’s LGBTQ employee resource group provides allies Caring for Our People 29 efforts within their groups. We also encourage members of our workforce—from and mentors for LGBTQ employees, educates employees and others on the unique Management Approach 30 college graduates to long-time employees—to join our 26 chartered Intel employee experiences of members of this community, and brings visibility to Intel’s diversity Diversity and Inclusion 34 resource groups. leadership externally. Employee Safety 37 These groups are organized around ethnicity, national origin, military service, religious Women. Intel strives to deliver programs that foster development and retention of Compensation and Benefits 38 beliefs, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, and other groupings, such as women, and that leverage Intel’s female executives as visible, proactive role models. Career Growth and parenthood and disability. They provide a powerful means of support and integration Development 41 The Women at Intel Network (WIN), an employee resource group with chapters located for employees, as well as opportunities to participate in a variety of programs, such as around the world, plays a key role in developing our women employees. Intel’s Network Performance Summary cultural awareness events, mentoring, and community projects. Intel provides funding and Goals 43 of Executive Women (INEW) advances women’s initiatives and champions efforts that for group activities; dedicated support staff; space for meetings, study, or prayer; and Caring for the Planet 44 are focused on identifying, mentoring, and developing talent. Other successful women’s communications vehicles. Inspiring the Next Generation 66 programs at Intel include the Command Presence Workshop, Women’s Principal Engineer Supply Chain Responsibility 78 In keeping with our goals, we have also developed a series of strategic initiatives to & Fellows Forum, and Act Now: Create Possibilities for Women and Girls/10x10. Respecting Human Rights 91 increase the diversity of our employee population. These focus on delivering programs Veterans. Intel recognizes that military service can give veterans critical, transferable to attract, develop, retain, and connect employees and leverage our leaders to mentor Appendix 96 skills that are highly valued in the technology industry, and seeks to be the tech and sponsor diverse employees. employer of choice for veterans and their families. The real-world, practical experience Diverse Ethnicity Initiatives. Programs to help develop and retain our ethnically that veterans bring to our workplace embodies the attributes that support our success diverse employees include leadership conferences, mentor programs, and the extremely as a company: leadership, dedication, and possibility thinking. We support veterans successful Blueprint for Excellence program—a comprehensive nine-month leadership initiatives both inside and outside of Intel, including a nationwide mentoring program development series aimed at providing actionable tools for advancing the careers of through America Corporate Partners that connects veterans with professionals from African American, Hispanic, and Native American employees. The Network of Intel top corporations and select universities. Intel employs more than 4,300 U.S. military African American employees, Intel Latino Network, and Intel Native American Network veterans—including active members of the National Guard and military reserves— are employee resource groups that play integral roles in our development and retention across all segments of our business, from information technology (IT) and engineering initiatives. Members of the Intel Black and Hispanic Leadership councils also play integral to finance and high-tech manufacturing. roles by serving as role models, sponsors, and advisers. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 36 Table of Contents 2 Diversity Data Introduction 3 We continue to focus on efforts to increase the representation of women in our global workforce, including investing in the talent pipeline for women in engineering and technical About This Report 4 disciplines. Additional diversity data for underrepresented minorities (URMs) is available on our Report Builder web site and our Equal Employment Opportunity Employer Information Letter from Our CEO 5 Report. In our 2015 report next year, we expect to disclose additional diversity data demonstrating our progress towards our 2020 Diversity in Technology initiative and goal. Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 U.S. Hiring Data1 Workforce by Gender1 Caring for Our People 29 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Management Approach 30 75 72% 74% 74% 74% 75% Diversity and Inclusion 34 Under-represented Male Minorities as a 13% 13% 14% 10% 9% 50 PERCENT Employee Safety 37 Percentage of U.S. Hires2 Compensation and Benefits 38 25 28% 26% 26% 26% Females as a Percentage 25% Career Growth and 25% 21% 22% 25% 25% Female of U.S. Hires Development 41 0 Over the past five years, diversity in our U.S. hiring has remained relatively flat. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Performance Summary and Goals 43 1 Regular Intel employees only, not including Intel contract employees or interns. 2 Includes African American, Hispanic, and Native American. Over the past five years, the percentage of women in our workforce has remained relatively flat. Caring for the Planet 44 1 Regular Intel employees only, not including Intel contract employees or interns. Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 2014 Workforce by Reporting Category Appendix 96 Corporate Officers and U.S. Officials Appointed Vice Presidents Top 50 in Total U.S. Workforce and Managers (Global) Compensation (Global) Board of Directors Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male African American 450 1,460 34 102 3 4 1 1 0 0 Asian/Pacific Islander 4,695 11,765 349 1,567 12 40 1 6 0 1 Caucasian 5,761 22,160 723 3,312 34 163 5 32 2 8 Hispanic or Latino 1,001 3,220 60 288 1 6 0 0 0 0 Native American 81 230 4 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other/Unidentified 64 189 25 107 8 35 0 4 0 0 Total 12,052 39,024 1,195 5,390 58 248 7 43 2 9 We have disclosed this summary of our U.S. workforce and governance bodies by reporting category since 2001. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 1 Regular Intel employees only, not including Intel contract employees or interns. 2 “Other”includes employees who reported as multi-racial and those who did not report race. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 37 Table of Contents 2 Employee Safety Recordable and Days Away Injury Rates1 Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Our safety programs help employees enjoy a better quality 0.8 of life and contribute to Intel’s success, since employees RATE PER 100 EMPLOYEES Letter from Our CEO 5 0.7 0.69 Our Business and Integrated who are physically and mentally fit can be more productive. 0.6 0.66 0.62 0.66 0.59 Days Away Value Approach 6 We are guided by the Intel Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) policy to 0.5 Rate Caring for Our People 29 “provide a safe and injury-free workplace” through our core safety programs and 0.4 Management Approach 30 injury-reduction initiatives—not only for our employees, but also for contractors 0.3 Diversity and Inclusion 34 working at our sites. We maintain a fully integrated multi-site registration for both 0.2 Employee Safety 37 ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, the internationally recognized standards for 0.1 0.12 0.12 0.13 Recordable 0.11 0.11 Rate Compensation and Benefits 38 occupational safety and health management systems. 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Career Growth and Employees, contractors, and suppliers receive extensive safety training, starting with Development 41 orientation sessions and continuing on the job. In 2014, Intel invested in more than We continue to outperform U.S. Bureau of Labor injury prevention benchmarks for both U.S. Performance Summary manufacturers and U.S. semiconductor manufacturers. and Goals 43 310,000 hours of EHS training for more than 275,000 attendees. Training helps employees understand their safety responsibilities, and covers materials needed for 1 S ome of the historical figures have been restated due to new cases being reported after the close of the previous Caring for the Planet 44 period. Data is as of March 31, 2015. specific jobs (such as electrical safety, ergonomics, control of hazardous materials, Inspiring the Next Generation 66 and chemical safety). In 2014, nearly 50,000 employees participated in a proactive Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Ergonomic-related or “cumulative trauma disorders” (CTDs) remained the most prevalent ergonomics risk reduction program designed to limit exposure to repetitive strain Respecting Human Rights 91 type of injury experienced at Intel in 2014 and accounted for 54% of all injuries associated with computer use. Business groups share responsibility for driving safety Appendix 96 reported. Despite our emphasis on early reporting, our First Aid to Recordable Ratio for awareness and programs throughout their organizations. CTDs declined from 5.0:1 in 2013 to 4.1:1 in 2014. While our safety performance was again exceptional in 2014 compared to our peer companies, we continue to focus on 2014 Safety Update opportunities for improvement each year and drive toward our aggressive safety goals. Intel ended 2014 with an Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recordable rate of 0.66, which is nearly two times better than the U.S. semiconductor industry average recordable rate of 1.2. Our recordable rate decreased by 4%, and our days away case rate was slightly down compared to 2013. We believe that all workplace injuries are preventable, and our ultimate goal is to achieve zero injuries through continued investment in and focus on our core safety programs; injury reduction initiatives; and our Everybody, Everywhere, Everyday! (E3!) safety culture strategy. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 38 Table of Contents 2 Compensation and Benefits Annual Performance Bonus Plan. Intel rewards employees worldwide for their Introduction 3 performance during the year with incentive cash payments through our Annual About This Report 4 Intel’s comprehensive pay, stock, and benefits program is Performance Bonus (APB) plan, formerly called the Employee Bonus (EB) plan. The Letter from Our CEO 5 designed to attract, retain, and reward our employees to help formula for determining APB payouts is based on financial growth and operational Our Business and Integrated enable long-term growth and a continuing record of innovation. performance. Intel executive officers participate in a plan identical in all respects to the Value Approach 6 We strive to provide tools and benefits that support the many varied needs of our employee plan, with the added feature of an individual performance adjustment. Since Caring for Our People 29 diverse employees—from working parents and those with elder-care responsibilities to 2008, we have included criteria related to environmental sustainability metrics, and in Management Approach 30 those in the military reserves. For additional information on compensation and benefits 2010 we added other metrics related to corporate responsibility, such as performance Diversity and Inclusion 34 at Intel locations worldwide, visit our Compensation and Benefits web site or read our on the OHS and external reputation measures. For more information, see the Caring for Employee Safety 37 2015 Proxy Statement. the Planet section of this report. Instead of the APB program, eligible sales and marketing employees participate in our Commission program, which provides incentives linked to Compensation and Benefits 38 Compensation sales performance. Career Growth and Development 41 Intel’s comprehensive pay, stock, and benefits package approach aligns company, Equity Programs. Through Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), employees may receive an Performance Summary employee, and stockholder interests, and provides employees with incentives to focus equity interest in the company, acquire a stake in Intel’s long-term growth, and potentially and Goals 43 on meeting or exceeding business objectives. benefit from capital appreciation. We grant equity to approximately 95% of our employees Caring for the Planet 44 Our bonus programs are cornerstones of our pay strategy, linking employees’ annually. Under our stock purchase plan, all regular full-time and part-time employees and Inspiring the Next Generation 66 compensation directly to Intel’s financial and operational performance metrics. Higher interns can purchase stock through payroll deductions at 85% of Intel’s stock price at the Supply Chain Responsibility 78 lower of the beginning or the end of a subscription period. Share-based compensation level employees, who have a wider job scope and greater ability to affect the company’s Respecting Human Rights 91 totaled $1.1 billion in 2014. performance, receive a higher percentage of their compensation through our bonus and Appendix 96 variable compensation programs. Health and Wellness Benefits Quarterly Profit Bonus Program and Customer Excellence Program. The Quarterly Intel is committed to helping our employees be healthy so they can be at their best at Profit Bonus (QPB) program is a profit sharing program that pays cash awards to home and at work. Good health and wellness are an essential part of life and having a employees four times a year based on Intel’s success. Employees may also receive an healthy workforce is essential to Intel’s business. Intel provides access to a variety of additional two days of pay each year based on the results in our Customer Excellence innovative, flexible, and convenient health and wellness programs that work together Program (CEP). CEP measures overall customer satisfaction and enables us to identify to support the personal needs of our employees. areas for improvement. In 2014, employees received an additional day of pay based on the customer satisfaction levels achieved under CEP which is explained in Intel’s wellness program, Health for Life, includes on-site primary care (with convenient the Intel Quality System Handbook. The 2014 QPB and CEP payouts provided Intel access to quality care at low cost), annual health assessments, fitness programs, wellness employees with a total of an additional 17.8 days of pay (equal to 6.9% of their seminars, flu prevention, and personalized wellness coaching. These benefits are deployed annual compensation). through Health for Life Centers at Intel’s major U.S. and international sites. The centers are designed to be hubs for corporate and site-level wellness activities. Intel also maintains 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report on-site fitness centers at sites around the world. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 39 Table of Contents 2 Intel’s international wellness program, Health for Life Wellness Check, is available in Intel’s Sabbatical Program. Full-time employees in the U.S. and Canada receive 8-week Introduction 3 more than 10 countries. It provides biometric screening, which includes cholesterol paid sabbaticals upon completion of each seven years of service. Annual vacation time About This Report 4 and glucose testing, basic measurements of blood pressure and body mass index, a may be added to sabbaticals, resulting in up to 12 weeks of paid time off. Employees Letter from Our CEO 5 health risk assessment, and wellness coaching. Intervention programs, such as weight may also apply to extend their sabbaticals for up to six months to teach, volunteer, or Our Business and Integrated management, fitness, stress management, and tobacco cessation, are available for complete educational opportunities that significantly enhance our business or benefit Value Approach 6 lifestyle behavior modification. the community. In 2014, we also began offering a 4-week paid sabbatical upon completion Caring for Our People 29 of each four years of service, an alternative to our existing 8-week sabbatical program. In The newest addition to Health for Life, which launched to U.S. employees in early 2015, Management Approach 30 2014, more than 5,700 employees took sabbaticals, returning refreshed and revitalized. is the Intel® Vitality Program, a proactive health and performance program put in place Diversity and Inclusion 34 The program also provides career development opportunities for other employees who to get our employees thinking about their health in a different way. The program focuses Employee Safety 37 provide temporary coverage for those who are out on sabbatical. on four essential areas to live a full life—mindset, nutrition, movement, and recovery. Compensation and Benefits 38 Employees complete a digital assessment, develop a personalized plan with the help of Paid Bonding Leave. Our new U.S. paid bonding leave, announced in early 2015, enhances Career Growth and a coach, and access a suite of support tools, including fitness trainers and nutritionists, Intel’s existing parental leave program by offering up to 8 weeks of pay during bonding Development 41 to help them improve their health in small and actionable ways. leave, any time within 12 months of a child’s birth, adoption, or foster care placement. This Performance Summary leave is offered in addition to pay and time off employees may be eligible for under our and Goals 43 Intel has also developed a new healthcare model aimed at creating a healthier workforce, existing pregnancy leave program. Caring for the Planet 44 improving the healthcare experience for employees, and controlling costs. Connected Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Care is a unique and innovative approach to healthcare that emphasizes the providerpatient relationship. Care is delivered though a Patient Centered Medical Home and is Benefits that Support Employees’ Lives Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Intel strives to be a workplace that supports employee well-being and unlocks employee focused on prevention and managing existing conditions proactively. Employees in New Respecting Human Rights 91 potential. Our goal is to foster and support workplace flexibility with resources, services, Mexico and Oregon may choose from several Connected Care Plan options. Intel plans to Appendix 96 and conveniences that improve employees’ lives. Flexible options could include adjusted extend Connected Care to other locations over the next few years. work hours, location, or job structure, which enables employees to meet both personal needs and work deliverables. Special Leave Programs In addition to taking time off through our vacation and personal absence programs, We provide a wide variety of resources that support our employees’ ability to employees may take paid time off for special circumstances. Our robust employee leave manage their family and career responsibilities, including information on topics such program combines federal and state leave entitlements and Intel’s leave guidelines. as personal fitness, weight management, depression, identity theft, stress, elder care, Programs include paid sabbaticals; personal leave; pregnancy leave; and bonding and working parent strategies. Our Employee Assistance Program provides employees leave to care for a newborn, adopted child, or newly placed foster child. Intel supports with online resources and articles on a variety of work/life topics, as well as 24/7 access employees who serve in the U.S. uniformed armed forces or National Guard, including to consultants. providing Military Adjustment Pay. The U.S. government has publicly recognized Intel for its commitment and continuing efforts in this area. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 40 Table of Contents 2 Several discount programs offer employees reduced pricing on products and services, Benefits that Support Employees’ Lives at a Glance Introduction 3 such as computers, cars, cell phones, home mortgages, banking, home solar energy About This Report 4 systems, and local restaurants and stores. We also have on-site cafeterias, fitness To address the diverse needs of our employees, we offer a range of benefits that Letter from Our CEO 5 centers, dry-cleaning services, spas, car washes, full-service banking, tax preparation varies across businesses, geographies, sites, and job types. Our Business and Integrated assistance, and private rooms for nursing mothers. More than 90% of our employees • Paid sabbatical benefit every four or • Employee discount programs for Value Approach 6 in the U.S. have access to commute reduction options, such as vanpool and transit seven years for U.S. and Canadian online and local shopping, as well Caring for Our People 29 subsidies and carpool matching services. employees, and the ability to “bank” as Intel products Management Approach 30 vacation time in many European • On-site fitness classes and recreation countries to create an extended leave Diversity and Inclusion 34 Retirement every five years facilities, healthcare clinics, and spas Employee Safety 37 We support our employees’ transition to retirement through savings plans, options for • Free fruit and beverages at multiple • Comprehensive health benefits, gradually reducing their workload, volunteer opportunities where they can apply their locations, and healthy choices in Compensation and Benefits 38 including medical, dental, vision, our cafeterias experience, and other programs. Our retirement benefits can include post-retirement and employee assistance programs Career Growth and • Commute reduction options, including Development 41 medical benefits, 401(k) savings, Intel contributions to employee retirement plans, and • Multiple retirement plan options, telecommuting and a pretax commuter defined benefit plans. Eligibility for these plans varies by country, legal requirements, including 401(k), retirement Performance Summary benefit program contributions by Intel, defined and Goals 43 and employee tenure. Intel considers market practice, retirement readiness, regulatory benefit plans, and post-retirement • Employee use of Intel facilities for book Caring for the Planet 44 requirements, and company affordability when funding employee retirement plans. In medical benefits clubs, music events, birthday parties, baby showers, etc. Space for employee Inspiring the Next Generation 66 the U.S., in 2014 we contributed 5% of eligible earnings to each employee’s retirement • Multiple leave programs, including gardens at some locations account, irrespective of the employee’s ability to save. For employees who retire from personal, pregnancy, bonding, and Supply Chain Responsibility 78 • Scholarships for dependents of Intel military service Respecting Human Rights 91 Intel in the U.S., we also provide funds based on tenure, which enable employees to employees ($1.4 million pledged by • Near-site childcare centers and purchase retirement medical coverage. the Intel Foundation each year) Appendix 96 back-up childcare programs • “Live Homework Help” for employees’ Intel offers expanded retirement benefits with Intel Encore Career Fellowships, through • Comprehensive adoption assistance families, available 24 hours a day, which U.S. employees who are eligible for retirement can take a subsidized, temporary • Elder-care programs, including on-site 7 days a week position with a nonprofit organization upon retirement from Intel. Intel retirees use their caregiver training, intranet site, and • Family fun events, which reached over referral resources practical experience in communications, process improvement, IT, operations, human 90% of employees and their families • Voluntary benefits, including critical in 2014 resources, engineering, and other areas to help nonprofits build capacity, operate more illness and group legal insurance efficiently, and ultimately have a broader impact on their communities. Intel supports participants with stipends and COBRA medical coverage during their assignments. In For more information on these benefits, visit our Benefits web site. addition to helping employees transition to retirement, the program provides nonprofit organizations with experienced talent. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 41 Table of Contents 2 Career Growth and Development Intel’s Employee Development Approach Introduction 3 About This Report 4 We combine a mix of resources and learning methods to create Learn. Provide employees with a robust range of resources and tools, including: a rich career development culture. courses focused on job skills, professional development, and managerial training; Letter from Our CEO 5 external professional certification programs; and access to world-class institutions Our Business and Integrated We encourage employees to work with their managers to align their job assignments with via tuition reimbursement. Value Approach 6 their talents and passions, as well as the needs of the organization. Career development Connect. Encourage employees to connect with managers, senior leaders, and Caring for Our People 29 at Intel is viewed as a continuing conversation between employees and their managers— one another through open forums, quarterly events, mentoring and coaching Management Approach 30 not something that is brought up only during annual reviews. Managers strive to meet relationships, employee groups, and online and social media channels. Diversity and Inclusion 34 with each employee at least quarterly to review the prior quarter’s goals, the employee’s Experience. Give employees opportunities to expand their skills through Employee Safety 37 development and performance against expectations, and the upcoming quarter’s rotational, temporary, or sabbatical coverage assignments. These assignments priorities and goals. These meetings provide opportunities to recognize excellence can accelerate performance and career growth, and help employees share their Compensation and Benefits 38 expertise with others. Career Growth and and discuss performance issues, thus contributing to individual development and Development 41 improvement in a team’s performance, execution, and business results. I ntel’s commitment to career development has led to increased manager capability, a stronger infrastructure, and improved employee satisfaction. Performance Summary When employees are ready to try new challenges, they can “test-drive” short-term and Goals 43 assignments by providing coverage for employees on sabbatical leave, or by taking Our Career Development Workshop is designed to help employees at all levels think Caring for the Planet 44 advantage of one of our rotation or temporary assignment programs. Our sabbatical strategically about their career development plans, and to facilitate discussions with Inspiring the Next Generation 66 program creates regular opportunities for 90-day rotations and has contributed to a their managers. More than 51,000 employees have participated in the workshop since Supply Chain Responsibility 78 culture that views rotations as a positive and standard practice. its launch in 2008. Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 More than 5,700 employees completed sabbatical coverage assignments in 2014, with many employees gaining valuable management experience by covering for their Management/Leadership Development We set clear, consistent expectations for our managers and leaders, and give them direct managers. opportunities to gain critical skills and knowledge by attending internal and external Intel also hosts a web-based development opportunity tool that enables employees courses, connecting with other managers, and taking on new challenges. Throughout to apply for part-time or temporary job opportunities across the company. More than the year, they have a strong support network that enables them to lead highly engaged 4,800 employees have completed development assignments posted on the tool to teams and achieve business results. expand their networks and acquire new skills. Employees also use our internal global Through our Leadership Feedback Tool, employees are able to give actionable feedback job-posting system to learn about and apply for new positions at Intel. Many employees on how well their managers are performing against Intel’s Leadership Expectations. pursue career growth by taking assignments in other countries, where they are exposed Managers can then use this feedback in conjunction with development resources that to unique cultural experiences while acquiring new business skills. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 42 Table of Contents 2 are aligned to the Leadership Expectations to create personal development plans. By Intel Learning and Development Introduction 3 taking this updated survey, employees play a direct role in making stronger and more In 2014, Intel invested approximately $265 million in employee training and development, About This Report 4 effective managers with the leadership skills Intel needs to win. In 2014, more than including instructor-led and e-learning courses and tuition reimbursement. That amount Letter from Our CEO 5 63,000 employees provided their managers and leaders with constructive feedback translates to an investment of approximately $2,500 and an average of 23.7 hours of Our Business and Integrated through this process. training per employee. Our Tuition Assistance Program provides financial assistance to Value Approach 6 eligible U.S. employees who are completing job-related degree programs or coursework. To support the ongoing development of our seasoned managers and leaders, we offer 50 Caring for Our People 29 In 2014, we invested $6.8 million in the program, helping more than 1,000 employees core instructor-led courses, as well as online performance training and support modules Management Approach 30 that provide “just-in-time” help. In addition, an online Manager Dashboard tool provides pursue educational opportunities. Diversity and Inclusion 34 resources to help managers run the “people” side of their business. Intel provides a comprehensive development curriculum, including new employee Employee Safety 37 Our senior leaders have access to courses that cover personal leadership, execution, orientation, cultural integration, skills training, professional certification, and Compensation and Benefits 38 external education. Training programs cover a broad range of topics, such as project strategy, and organizational leadership. All courses are offered globally, and Intel Career Growth and management, problem-solving, effective decision-making, cross-cultural training, Development 41 executives teach many of them. We offer action learning programs that blend strategic business needs with senior leader learning and growth. We invest in Executive Syncs at and technical subjects. In 2014, Training magazine once again recognized our strong Performance Summary a regular cadence to ensure alignment to strategy, development and networking among focus on employee development by including Intel in its list of the top 125 global and Goals 43 our executive population. The impact has been far-reaching throughout the company, as training organizations. Caring for the Planet 44 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 leaders have committed to positive changes and started sharing newly learned behaviors with the next generation of leaders in their organizations. 2014 Intel Learning and Development Statistics Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 These programs focus on current business challenges to ensure that real work is Total learning hours delivered1 2,419,000 Appendix 96 accomplished during leadership development. We also have an executive coaching Total number of trainings completed 1,089,000 program that links senior leaders with professional internal and external coaches. Number of learners who received training2 141,000 Most of Intel’s internal courses are led by employee volunteers, who leverage their skills and knowledge of a particular subject to teach other employees. 1 Includes a mix of training methods, such as instructor-led classroom, virtual classroom, and other (multimedia/on-the-job activity). 2 Includes Intel employees, contractors, suppliers, and interns. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for Our People 43 Table of Contents 2 Performance Summary and Goals Introduction 3 In 2014, we continued to invest in the development of our workforce and made progress toward meeting our diversity objectives. In the area of health and safety, we continued to About This Report 4 improve early reporting of ergonomic-related injuries and encouraged our employees to lead healthy lifestyles. Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Goals and Performance Value Approach 6 Caring for Our People 29 2014 Goals 2014 Performance Management Approach 30 Drive key improvements and hire at full availability for technical underWe continue to work towards achieving representation of URMs and women at Diversity and Inclusion 34 represented minorities and women. market availability, and in early 2015, set a goal to achieve full representation of women and URMs at Intel in the United States by 2020. Employee Safety 37 Compensation and Benefits 38 Achieve at least 70% participation and maintain or improve scores in at least A total of 77% of eligible employees participated in our 2014 OHS. However, we 95% of the questions on our annual Organizational Health Survey (OHS). did not maintain or improve scores in at least 95% of the survey questions. Career Growth and Development 41 Maintain our world-class safety performance, achieving a targeted safety We continued to perform at world-class safety levels compared to our peers and Performance Summary recordable rate of 0.50. industry benchmarks. However, we did not meet our aggressive goal of a 0.50 and Goals 43 recordable rate. Intel’s 2014 recordable rate was 0.66, down from 0.69 in 2013. Caring for the Planet 44 Improve early reporting of ergonomic-related injuries, specifically CTDs, with a With a First Aid to Recordable Ratio of 4.2:1, we did not meet our 2014 goal. Inspiring the Next Generation 66 targeted First Aid to Recordable Ratio goal of 9:1. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Achieved Partially Achieved or on Track Not Met Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 In 2015, we will work towards achieving our ambitious diversity and inclusion goal, and continue to make improvements in career development, decision-making, and manager effectiveness. Goals for 2015 and Beyond Achieve full representation of women and under-represented minorities at Intel in the United States by 2020. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 44 Table of Contents 2 Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Caring for Caring for Our People 29 Caring for the Planet 44 Management Approach 45 Climate Change and Energy Efficiency Responsible Water Management 50 54 the Planet Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 58 Intel is committed to being a leader in environmental responsibility. We strive to continuously improve energy efficiency, reduce Product Energy Efficiency and Product Ecology 60 emissions, and conserve resources throughout our operations. We also focus on improving the energy-efficient performance of our Applying Technology to Environmental Challenges 62 products and collaborate with others to develop innovative ways that technology can address long-term sustainability challenges. Performance Summary and Goals 63 $ 249M Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 SAVED SINCE 20 0 8 Appendix 96 Since 2008, Intel has been the We have achieved Leadership Intel’s Sustainability in Action Our investments in energy Since 2008, we have recycled largest voluntary purchaser in Energy and Environmental Grant Program has provided conservation projects have saved more than 75% of the total waste of “green” power in the U.S., Design* (LEED*) certification funding for close to 70 employeeIntel $249 million since 2008. generated in our operations. according to the U.S. EPA. for more than 40 buildings with initiated environmental projects in over 12.5 million square feet of communities around the world. floor space. Access the Report Builder Key Section Links Performance Summary and Goals Explore Intel Intel’s Environmental, Health, Intel’s Water Policy 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report and Safety Policy www.intel.com/responsibility Intel Environment Site Intel’s Climate Change Policy < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 45 Table of Contents 2 Management Approach Intel’s Environmental Sustainability Oversight Structure Introduction 3 About This Report 4 We integrate environmental considerations across all facets of our business, including our governance and compensation + Letter from Our CEO 5 Board of Directors, Our Business and Integrated practices, facilities design, manufacturing processes, and CEO Corporate Governance, and Nominating Committee Value Approach 6 product design and development. Caring for Our People 29 Caring for the Planet 44 While many companies in the electronics industry outsource much of their production, + we design and manufacture the majority of our component products in our own Sustainability Committee Management Approach 45 factories. We strongly emphasize environmental sustainability throughout our global Climate Change and Energy Efficiency 50 manufacturing operations. Responsible Water Our commitment to environmental sustainability is embodied in the Intel Code of + Management 54 Management Review Business Conduct and Intel’s Environmental, Health, and Safety Policy, as well as our Climate Committees Groups Waste: Reduce, Change Policy and Water Policy. We consider our environmental impact when we select Reuse, Recycle 58 sites, design buildings, set performance levels for manufacturing tools, and establish Product Energy Efficiency + and Product Ecology 60 goals for new production processes. Intel supports a precautionary approach to the Employee-Driven Initiatives Applying Technology to materials that we use in our products, and seeks alternatives for hazardous materials. Environmental Challenges 62 When we must use them, we take steps to ensure that they are handled safely from Performance Summary the time they enter our operations until they are properly disposed of or recycled. Intel Click or tap the + symbol for additional information. and Goals 63 also establishes clear environmental expectations for our suppliers and has initiated We have integrated oversight and management responsibility for environmental sustainability Inspiring the Next Generation 66 a number of sustainable purchasing actions. To learn more, see the Supply Chain issues at multiple levels of the company, and across the countries where we operate. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Responsibility section of this report. Respecting Human Rights 91 Since product energy efficiency is exceedingly important in our industry, we also focus Managing Environmental Performance Appendix 96 Multiple groups across Intel play critical roles in driving strategy, operational and on reducing our environmental impact by increasing the energy-efficient performance product improvements, and policy initiatives related to environmental responsibility. of our products. In addition to improving computing-related energy efficiency, the Our Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) organization has primary responsibility for information and communications technology (ICT) industry has an important role to managing our environmental compliance and driving performance improvements in our play in reducing global emissions. We have joined forces with businesses, academic operations. A number of additional groups across the company manage product-related institutions, and governments worldwide to find and promote additional ways that sustainability. For example, our Corporate Products Regulations and Standards Group, technology can be used to improve energy and resource management across other working with our EHS and Technology Development groups, drives the sustainable sectors of the economy. design of our products; the Platform Engineering Group promotes the importance of 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report energy-efficient performance in our products; and the Intel Energy and Sustainability www.intel.com/responsibility Lab conducts research and development on emerging technologies. < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 46 Table of Contents 2 For over a decade, Intel has maintained a multi-site, third-party-verified ISO 14001 This approach has enabled us to reduce key environmental impacts such as greenhouse Introduction 3 registration, which evaluates the effectiveness of our environmental management gas emissions while increasing our manufacturing output. In 2014, we made progress About This Report 4 system. We also maintain a multi-site certification for OHSAS 18001, the internationally toward achieving our 2020 environmental goals, but continued to face challenges in Letter from Our CEO 5 recognized standard for occupational health and safety management systems. All audits reducing hazardous waste and air emissions due to the increasing complexity of our Our Business and Integrated are conducted by the National Standards Authority of Ireland, an independent registrar. manufacturing processes. For more information, see “Performance Summary and Goals” Value Approach 6 Intel’s fully integrated multi-site registration extends through December 31, 2016. at the end of this section. Caring for Our People 29 We establish environmental goals for each new generation of process technology, Many of the major trends in semiconductor manufacturing have helped reduce Caring for the Planet 44 including targets for air emissions, water usage, and water quality. The goals are environmental impact over time. For example, the industry’s move from 200-millimeter Management Approach 45 set based on evaluations of potential environmental impacts of these new process (mm) to 300 mm wafers increased manufacturing energy efficiency by about 20%, Climate Change technologies as they are transferred to our manufacturing facilities around the world. primarily because more chips could be produced at a time. When the industry moves to and Energy Efficiency 50 These environmental goals are tracked during technology development on an equal 450 mm wafers, we expect to achieve additional increases in manufacturing efficiency. Responsible Water footing with cost, quality, yield, and other technical indicators. When new process Management 54 The trend toward smaller chips, such as the Intel® Atom™ processor, generates savings technologies are complete, they are “copied exactly” to our manufacturing sites. Waste: Reduce, for similar reasons, as do advancements through Moore’s Law that enable the sizes of Reuse, Recycle 58 Environmental improvements and controls are similarly “copied exactly” so that we features on chips to shrink over time. Product Energy Efficiency operate to the same high environmental standards worldwide. and Product Ecology 60 Applying Technology to Environmental Challenges 62 Intel® Product Life Cycle and Value Chain Performance Summary and Goals 63 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 + Research and + Supply Chain + Manufacturing + Product + End Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Development and Logistics and Facilities Use of Life Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 Click or tap the + symbol for additional information. We consider environmental impact throughout the stages of our products’ life cycles, from research and development to materials selection, energy-efficient performance, and end-of-life management. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 47 Table of Contents 2 The challenges we face in the areas of water conservation and hazardous waste Intel’s LEED* Certifications Introduction 3 reduction are due in part to the additional manufacturing steps needed to create About This Report 4 our newer microprocessors. These challenges can be understood by comparing our Letter from Our CEO 5 manufacturing process to building a city. We used to be able to build outward, the way Our Business and Integrated that cities expand into suburban areas. We are now also “building up,” as cities do by Oregon (3) Japan (1) Value Approach 6 constructing skyscrapers. The multi-layered, vertical nature of our newer technologies Caring for Our People 29 creates more powerful and energy-efficient products, but it also requires more chemicals Arizona (17) Texas (1) China (3) Caring for the Planet 44 and water rinses. Vietnam (1) Management Approach 45 We have been driving chemical and water use reductions for well over two decades. As Mexico (2) Malaysia (7) Climate Change such, we have already realized many available efficiencies, making it difficult to achieve Costa Rica (2) and Energy Efficiency 50 additional large reductions. However, we remain committed to finding innovative ways Responsible Water Israel (2) India (2) to further reduce our operational environmental impact and to applying our energyManagement 54 efficient technology and expertise to help improve sustainability for customers, Waste: Reduce, Platinum Gold Silver Certified Reuse, Recycle 58 communities, and countries around the world. Product Energy Efficiency and Product Ecology 60 Green Buildings and LEED* Certification We have achieved Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design* (LEED*) certification for more than 40 buildings with over 12.5 million square feet of floor space. Applying Technology to For many years, our engineers have incorporated green design standards and building Environmental Challenges 62 concepts into the construction of our facilities. Since 2011, Intel’s policy has been to ( ) Represents number of buildings in area Performance Summary design all new buildings to a minimum Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design* and Goals 63 (LEED*) silver certification level, and in 2014, we revised our policy to design all new Assessing Potential Biodiversity Impacts Inspiring the Next Generation 66 buildings to a minimum LEED gold certification level. Many of our existing manufacturing Environmental impact assessments (EIAs) look at the possible positive and Supply Chain Responsibility 78 facilities have also been LEED certified, including our first Platinum certified building, negative impacts that a proposed project may have on the environment, including Respecting Human Rights 91 located in Israel. We have certified over 12.5 million square feet of space in more than social and economic aspects. Each country, state, county, or municipality has its Appendix 96 40 buildings. own EIA requirements depending on the type of project. We complete EIAs as part of our site selection process, and regularly assess the ongoing impacts of our Intel has been working with the U.S. Green Building Council and other companies to operations on biodiversity. share our learnings and provide input on criteria changes that would make it easier to pursue LEED certification for manufacturing sites, with the goal of expanding the number of manufacturers implementing green building practices. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 48 Table of Contents 2 Based on analysis and mapping, we do not believe that any of our manufacturing or Linking Compensation to Corporate Responsibility. Since 2008, we have linked a Introduction 3 assembly and test operations have direct impact on the protected areas on the United portion of every employee’s variable compensation—from front-line staff to our CEO— About This Report 4 Nations List of Protected Areas. A few of our operations are located in areas considered to the achievement of corporate responsibility goals, primarily related to environmental Letter from Our CEO 5 by some to be rich in biodiversity, but we know of no major negative impacts from our areas. We believe that including a corporate responsibility component in the overall Our Business and Integrated operations on threatened species or protected areas. Annual Performance Bonus (APB) calculation helps focus executives and employees on Value Approach 6 the importance of achieving our objectives. In 2014, employees earned an incremental We have also undertaken voluntary biodiversity projects at several of our sites. For Caring for Our People 29 bonus tied to support of our 2020 environmental goal related to improving energy example, our 530-acre Ronler Acres campus in Oregon includes 22 acres of wetlands Caring for the Planet 44 efficiency in our operations. Previous APB metrics have focused on areas such as recycling that provide wildlife habitat and storm water retention. We monitor non-native species in Management Approach 45 and carbon emission reduction in our operations. In 2015, with the announcement of our the wetlands and have taken action to control invasive plant growth. For over a decade, Climate Change ambitious Diversity in Technology Initiative, the APB corporate responsibility metric will we have worked with a wetlands specialist and used bio-control methods to successfully and Energy Efficiency 50 focus on diversity. For more information, see the Caring for Our People section in this stop the growth of the purple loosestrife, an invasive species that crowds out native Responsible Water report and our 2015 Proxy Statement. grasses and other plants. Management 54 Sustainability in Action Grant Program. Through this program, employees can apply Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 58 Community Impact and Engagement for funding for innovative environmental projects. Employees are encouraged to include Product Energy Efficiency We are committed to collecting input from local communities about our environmental external stakeholders in their projects, and many focus on addressing environmental and Product Ecology 60 performance. Transparency and open communication guide our approach. For example, issues in their local communities. In 2014, Intel provided funding for 10 employee Applying Technology to regular reports from our Arizona and New Mexico community environmental groups projects related to ecosystem monitoring, aquaponics, environmental education, and Environmental Challenges 62 are posted online. Interactive Explore Intel web sites for our campuses in Oregon, New more. From 2006 through the end of 2014, the Sustainability in Action Grant Program Performance Summary Mexico, China, Costa Rica, Ireland, and Israel also provide local communities with realprovided funding for 68 projects around the world. and Goals 63 time information and resources related to our environmental performance. Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Employee Engagement Respecting Human Rights 91 We believe that engaging employees is key to achieving our environmental strategies Appendix 96 and goals. Our employees participate in environmentally focused community volunteer projects and education programs that encourage study and innovation in environmental sustainability. Our “Learn, Act, Share” model helps employees understand sustainability issues, priorities, and goals; work together to take action; and share information about our priorities with others. Descriptions of a few of our environmental employee engagement initiatives follow: 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 49 Table of Contents 2 Intel Environmental Excellence Awards. Since 2000, Intel has presented these awards Green Teams and Employee Groups. Intel supports grassroots sustainability efforts and Introduction 3 to employees who have helped reduce Intel’s environmental impact. In 2014, 38 teams employee “green” teams around the world, including the Intel Employee Sustainability About This Report 4 from around the world were nominated for their work to increase wastewater reuse, Network (IESN). Formed in 2004, IESN provides employee networking, volunteering, Letter from Our CEO 5 reduce waste generation, and educate others on sustainability topics. Contributors to and educational opportunities that align with our corporate environmental focus areas. Our Business and Integrated the nine winning projects from 15 Intel sites in six countries received monetary awards. The group’s activities have included Northwest Earth Institute discussion group courses Value Approach 6 Additionally, the 2014 winning projects saved 53,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions, 29 delivered at several Intel sites. Caring for Our People 29 million kWh of energy, 100 million gallons of water, and over 5,000 tons of waste. The Green Initiative Troupe (GREENit), another employee sustainability group, focuses Caring for the Planet 44 In addition to yielding environmental benefits, these employee projects frequently save on actions that employees can take to be more sustainable at work and at home. Every Management Approach 45 money for Intel. Estimated annual cost savings from the 2014 winning projects exceeded April, GREENit members and other employees organize numerous volunteer projects, Climate Change $50 million, bringing the total estimated savings generated by Environmental Excellence presentations, and educational events across the company in support of Earth Day. and Energy Efficiency 50 Award projects to more than $282 million over the past five years. Responsible Water Management 54 Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 58 INTEL EMPLOYEE SUSTAINABILITY ACTIONS Product Energy Efficiency Eliminating shipping waste. A team of employees won Raising fish and vegetables. Students in Maricopa, and Product Ecology 60 an EEA for proving that unpackaged silicon chips (die) are Arizona are learning firsthand about aquaponics—a Applying Technology to not sensitive to moisture in transportation environments. highly sustainable way to raise both fish and produce in Environmental Challenges 62 As a result, Intel was able to replace desiccant pouches a symbiotic system—thanks to a team of Intel Arizona and moisture barrier bags previously used to ship die employees. An Intel SIA grant helped fund the system, and Performance Summary and Goals 63 with a more biodegradable alternative. sales of fish and produce raised by the students will help sustain the project in the future. Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Saving water. Four Intel factory buildings in Vietnam and Malaysia do not discharge industrial wastewater, thanks to Protecting wetlands. Through an SIA-funded project run Supply Chain Responsibility 78 a team of EEA-winning Intel employees. Working with by Intel New Mexico volunteers, middle and high school Respecting Human Rights 91 local government, the team designed systems that save students are learning to code and deploy Intel® GalileoAppendix 96 an estimated 43 million gallons of fresh water annually based development boards to help protect the health by reusing industrial wastewater for cooling towers of the Rio Grande River bosque ecosystem. The boards and irrigation. gather humidity, temperature, wind speed, and other data that local agencies use to manage water levels in Sleeping to cut resource use. A cross-functional group of the ecosystem. employees captured an EEA for developing an automated “sleep” mode system for semiconductor manufacturing tools. With the system, tools that previously remained on—even when not processing chips—now power down Each year, employees complete innovative projects that reduce environmental automatically when not in active use, reducing power and impact, support local communities, and generate bottom-line results. These are a few of the 2014 winning projects in our Sustainability in Action (SIA) Grant and water consumption. Environmental Excellence Award (EEA) programs. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 50 Table of Contents 2 Climate Change and Energy Efficiency Greenhouse Gas Emissions Introduction 3 About This Report 4 We consider climate change an important environmental issue, 100 2.5 100 and many years ago began taking steps to mitigate our impact MILLION METRIC TONS OF CO2 94 Letter from Our CEO 5 NORMALIZED PRODUCTION 78 Our Business and Integrated and publicly report on our carbon footprint. 2.0 61 68 75 Value Approach 6 1.5 1.7 1.3 1.3 1.2 1.3 Intel believes in a portfolio approach to reducing our carbon footprint. Through a wide 50 EQUIVALENT (MMTCO2E) Caring for Our People 29 INDEX (YEAR 2010=100) variety of efforts—including but not limited to conservation, energy efficiency, solar 1.0 Caring for the Planet 44 installations, green power purchases, and efficient building designs—Intel has built 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.4 25 Management Approach 45 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 a strong and sustainable approach to buying and using energy in an economical and 0.4 0.4 Climate Change 0.0 0 environmentally conscious manner. Since 2008, we have been the largest voluntary and Energy Efficiency 50 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 corporate purchaser of green power in the U.S., according to the U.S. Environmental Perfluorocompounds Other Greenhouse Greenhouse Gas Responsible Water (PFCs) Gases Energy Protection Agency (EPA), and we have earned numerous recognitions for our actions Emissions – Normalized Management 54 to address climate change. Our goal is to reduce our direct greenhouse gas emissions by 10% on a per unit basis by 2020 Waste: Reduce, from 2010 levels. In 2014, The U.S. EPA introduced new global warming potentials (GWPs) for Reuse, Recycle 58 many fluorinated liquids that previously had no GWPs. As a result, our “Other Greenhouse Gases” As part of our commitment to transparency, since 2003 we have disclosed our Product Energy Efficiency emissions increased significantly in 2014 from 2013. greenhouse gas emissions and climate change risk through the CDP. In addition, and Product Ecology 60 the Intel Annual Report and Form 10-K includes a discussion of climate risk, and our 2014 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reported by Type (metric tons of CO2e) Applying Technology to Environmental Challenges 62 Climate Change Policy, updated in early 2014, outlines our formal position on global Scope Emissions Notes Performance Summary climate change and our history of action in this space. and Goals 63 Scope 1 Emissions 1,041,000 + Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 2 Emissions 1,039,000 + Supply Chain Responsibility 78 For close to two decades, Intel has been setting aggressive greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goals and working with others to drive industry-wide improvements. Our Total Scope 1 and 2 Emissions (including RECs) 2,080,000 + Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 2020 environmental goals include a commitment to further reduce our direct GHG Scope 3 Emissions (estimated) emissions 10% on a per unit basis from 2010 levels, while we continue to expand our • Direct materials supplier emissions 1,000,000 + manufacturing capacity. • Transportation and distribution of inputs and In 2014, Intel’s absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions increased 23%, and emissions waste generated in operations 274,000 + on a per unit basis increased 15% compared to 2013. Since 2010, our absolute emissions • Business air travel 110,000 + decreased 13%, and decreased 22% on a normalized per unit basis. In 2014, the U.S. Click or tap the + symbol for additional information. EPA introduced new global warming potentials (GWPs) for many fluorinated liquids that previously had no GWPs. As a result, our “Other Greenhouse Gases” emissions increased Additional GHG emissions reporting is publicly available in our CDP questionnaire response on the CDP web site. In addition to the summary data provided above, we have completed an estimate of 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report significantly in 2014 from 2013. Our annual purchase of Renewable Energy Certificates emissions associated with the consumer use of our products. For more information, see “Product www.intel.com/responsibility Energy Efficiency and Product Ecology” later in this section. < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 51 Table of Contents 2 (RECs) has contributed to decreases in our absolute emissions. The RECs resulted in a Minimizing Air Emissions Introduction 3 reduction of 1.3 MMtCO2e in 2014, approximately 100% of our U.S. electricity use. We work to minimize our emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), hazardous About This Report 4 air pollutants (HAPs), nitrogen oxide (NOx), and carbon monoxide (CO) emissions. We use In addition to the summary data provided below, we have completed an estimate of Letter from Our CEO 5 emissions associated with the consumer use of our products. For more information, see thermal oxidizers and wet scrubbers to neutralize and absorb gases and vapors. Thermal Our Business and Integrated “Product Energy Efficiency and Product Ecology” later in this section. A more detailed oxidizers concentrate VOCs and then oxidize them into carbon dioxide and water vapor. Value Approach 6 A heat exchanger warms the incoming air for this process to boost the fuel efficiency of breakdown and discussion of our emissions by country and by type are publicly available Caring for Our People 29 the unit. Wet scrubbers recirculate water that contains a neutralizing agent to remove in our CDP questionnaire response on the CDP web site. Slight variations between the Caring for the Planet 44 data in this report and our final CDP filing may occur due to additional data being received acidic gases and other contaminants. Management Approach 45 following publication of this report, differences in the treatment of RECs under the CDP Intel eliminated the use of ozone-depleting substances (ODSs) from manufacturing in Climate Change methodology, and the timing of certain changes in the GHG Protocol. the 1990s, and we have also eliminated the use of Class I ODSs from refrigerant systems. and Energy Efficiency 50 Although some of our refrigerant systems still use Class II ODSs, the units are managed Responsible Water Management 54 in accordance with the U.S. EPA’s refrigerant management standards or applicable local Waste: Reduce, requirements to ensure that emissions are minimized. Reuse, Recycle 58 Product Energy Efficiency VOC and HAP Emissions NOx and CO Emissions and Product Ecology 60 Applying Technology to 300 160 240 140 Environmental Challenges 62 265 150 NORMALIZED PRODUCTION INDEX NORMALIZED PRODUCTION INDEX 250 130 Performance Summary 220 140 and Goals 63 120 200 214 214 196 196 130 200 209 204 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 182 110 190 TONS TONS Supply Chain Responsibility 78 150 120 180 187 100 (YEAR 2010=100) (YEAR 2010=100) 110 175 178 Respecting Human Rights 91 100 90 160 166 Appendix 96 100 160 80 50 90 140 26 32 140 70 21 24 23 0 80 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 120 60 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions VOC Emissions – Normalized Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Emissions NOx Emissions – Normalized Hazardous Air Pollutant (HAP) Emissions HAP Emissions – Normalized Carbon Monoxide (CO) Emissions CO Emissions – Normalized Absolute VOC emissions were up 35% and per unit VOC emissions were up 27% in 2014 compared Absolute NOx emissions were up 19% and per unit NOx emissions were up 12% in 2014 compared to 2013. Absolute HAP emissions were up 38% and per unit HAP emissions were up 30% in 2014 to 2013. Absolute CO emissions were up 15% and per unit CO emissions were up 7% in 2014 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report compared to 2013. In 2014, we revised our data to include fugitive VOC emissions, which are compared to 2013. emissions associated with VOCs used for preventative maintenance or cleaning activities. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 52 Table of Contents 2 Energy-Efficient Operations Energy Use Introduction 3 In 2014, a portion of our employees’ Annual Performance Bonus (APB) was tied to About This Report 4 energy conservation in our operations. As such, we allocated approximately $30 million 6 .01 .02 150 .02 .01 .02 1.0 Letter from Our CEO 5 for resource conservation and efficiency projects to reduce operational energy. Projects NORMALIZED PRODUCTION INDEX 5 0.9 1.0 0.9 125 Our Business and Integrated included implementation of free cooling in labs and data centers, retro-commissioning of 1.0 BILLION KILOWATT – HOURS Value Approach 6 HVAC systems, controls upgrades, heat recovery, and the installation of LED lighting. Our 116 4 100 Caring for Our People 29 Chengdu and Vietnam sites are also certified to the ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management 100 85 103 102 Caring for the Planet 44 System standard. Intel Ireland is also accredited to the IS 393 Energy Management 3 75 (YEAR 2010=100) 4.3 4.3 4.6 4.6 4.8 Management Approach 45 Standard certification. Since 2008, Intel has invested more than $118 million and 2 50 Climate Change completed over 2,300 projects, saving more than 2.44 billion kWh of energy, or the and Energy Efficiency 50 equivalent approximate CO2 emissions from the electricity use of more than 153,000 1 25 Responsible Water average U.S. homes for one year.1 These investments also generated cumulative energy Management 54 0 0 cost savings for Intel of $249 million through the end of 2014. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 58 Videoconferencing continues to enable our employees to eliminate millions of travel Electrical Use Natural Gas Diesel Fuel Energy Use – Normalized Product Energy Efficiency miles—and the associated emissions—each year. As of year-end 2014, we had more than and Product Ecology 60 250 video collaboration rooms at Intel facilities in 30 countries around the world. We also Absolute energy use in our operations was up 5% and per unit energy use was down 1% in 2014 compared to 2013. Applying Technology to save electricity and reduce emissions by implementing cloud, virtualization strategies, Environmental Challenges 62 and energy conservation projects. Performance Summary Investing in Renewable Power and Alternative Energy and Goals 63 Intel’s renewable energy efforts are intended to provide leadership, help spur the market, Energy Conservation Project Savings Inspiring the Next Generation 66 make renewables less expensive and more accessible over the long term, and reduce Cumulative Energy Cumulative Cost Supply Chain Responsibility 78 the overall carbon emissions from electricity generation. We increased our investment Energy Savings Savings Since 2010 Savings Since 2010 Respecting Human Rights 91 Year Per Year (Million kWh) (Million kWh) (Millions of $) levels over the past seven years—even during the economic downturn—because of the Appendix 96 2010 223 223 20 projected long-term benefits. Descriptions of a few of our initiatives in this space follow: 2011 325 548 48 Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs). In early 2015, Intel was recognized for the 2012 442 990 91 seventh consecutive year as the largest voluntary purchaser of green power in the 2013 531 1,521 149 U.S., according to the U.S. EPA’s Green Power Partnership rankings. We purchased 3.1 2014 683 2,204 228 billion kWh of green power in 2014, enough to meet 100% of our U.S. electricity use for the year. Our 2014 purchase had the equivalent environmental impact of eliminating Over the past five years, our investments in energy conservation projects in our operations have helped reduce energy consumption and have generated energy cost savings for Intel. the CO2 emissions from the annual electricity use of more than 320,000 U.S. homes. S  avings are calculated based on the year the project was implemented, and no allowance is made for changes in utility Intel’s purchase of approximately 15.5 billion kWh of green power from 2008 through 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report rates in subsequent years. The assumption is that all sustainable savings (excluding one-time projects) carry forward 1 Source: U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. only five years. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 53 Table of Contents 2 2014 had a greenhouse gas emissions impact equivalent to taking 1.8 million cars off Renewable Power Purchase History Introduction 3 the road for one year. 2 All purchases are certified by the nonprofit Center for Resource About This Report 4 Solutions’ Green-e* program, which certifies and verifies green power products to meet 4 88% 85% 100% 100% Letter from Our CEO 5 the requirements of the U.S. EPA’s Green Power Purchasing Program. We purchase RECs from all five Green-e certified sources of generation, including wind, solar, low-impact 3 3.1 3.1 BILLION kWh Our Business and Integrated 2.8 50% Value Approach 6 hydro power, biogas, and geothermal. We plan to continue purchasing RECs in 2015. 2.5 2 Caring for Our People 29 Solar and Wind Installations. As of April 2015, we had facilitated the construction of 1.43 Caring for the Planet 44 20 solar electric installations on 12 Intel campuses in Arizona, California, Colorado, New 1 Management Approach 45 Mexico, Oregon, India, Israel, and Vietnam. They collectively generate more than 12 0 Climate Change million kWh per year of clean solar energy. We partnered with third parties to complete 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and Energy Efficiency 50 the installations, which include a 1-megawatt solar field that spans nearly 6 acres of land Billion kWh Purchase Commitment Percentage of U.S. Electricity Use Responsible Water on Intel’s Folsom, California campus; rooftop installations; and solar support structures Management 54 Since 2013, our annual purchase of Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) have equaled 100% in Intel parking lots. Our installation in Vietnam is the largest solar project in that country. Waste: Reduce, of our U.S. electricity use. Our RECs include a portfolio of wind, solar, small hydroelectric, Reuse, Recycle 58 The RECs generated by these installations are often transferred to local utilities to geothermal, and biomass sources. Product Energy Efficiency support their regulatory obligations and programs. We have also installed solar hot water and Product Ecology 60 systems in India, Israel, and Costa Rica. The India installation supplies nearly 100% of the Climate Leadership Activities and Advocacy Applying Technology to hot water used at our two largest campuses in that country, saving approximately 70,000 We believe that global climate change is a serious environmental, economic, and social Environmental Challenges 62 kWh annually. challenge that warrants an equally serious response by governments and the private Performance Summary and Goals 63 We have also piloted on-site wind micro-turbines and ground-source heat pumps at our sector. Intel is fully engaged in shaping of public policy responses to climate change, site in Guadalajara, Mexico, and installed 2 megawatts of fuel cells in California. both at the international level and in the countries and regions where we operate. Our Inspiring the Next Generation 66 engagement includes both unilateral activities as well as participation in several climateSupply Chain Responsibility 78 Electric Vehicle Charging Stations. To support our employees who drive electric focused organizations. We believe that climate policy should focus on waste emissions Respecting Human Rights 91 vehicles to work, we have approximately 75 electric vehicle charging stations at eight of greenhouse gases and that regulations should be designed to promote costAppendix 96 of our U.S. campuses. effectiveness and technological innovation. Intel focuses on reducing its own direct climate “footprint”—the emissions resulting from 75 CHARGING STATIONS its own operations and its supply chain. We also focus on increasing our “handprint”— the ways in which our technologies and those of the ICT sector can help other sectors reduce their own footprints. On both the footprint and handprint sides of our climate 8 equation, we collaborate with multiple stakeholders to address this serious challenge. U.S. CAMPUSES Descriptions of some of these collaborations follow: 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2 Source: U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 54 Table of Contents 2 Code for Good. In early 2014, in support of the President’s Climate Data Initiative, Responsible Water Management Introduction 3 Intel announced that it would join with local partners to sponsor several “hackathon” About This Report 4 events focused on improving climate resilience. At the events, teams of engineering Focusing on responsible water management at our sites Letter from Our CEO 5 and computer science students, and others, were challenged to develop new software worldwide helps us meet our business needs as well as Our Business and Integrated applications and tools related to climate change in the event host communities of those of our communities. Value Approach 6 Norfolk, Virginia and New Orleans, Louisiana. Our commitment to water conservation and responsible water management is outlined in Caring for Our People 29 The Green Grid. Intel serves on the board of The Green Grid, a global consortium our Water Policy, and we have drawn on external frameworks and research to complete Caring for the Planet 44 of companies dedicated to resource efficiency in business computing ecosystems. detailed water footprint assessments for our operations. Our assessments show that the Management Approach 45 The Green Grid, founded in 2007, provides industry-wide recommendations on best largest portion of our water use is from our direct operations and factories. As such, these Climate Change practices, metrics, and technologies to improve overall data center resource efficiency. are the areas where we have historically focused our water conservation investments and Energy Efficiency 50 In 2014, we worked with the organization to define a new framework for measuring data and where we have achieved significant savings to date. The water associated with our Responsible Water center efficiency. energy use—referred to as the “energy-water nexus”—represents our second largest Management 54 Waste: Reduce, Digital Energy and Sustainability Solutions Campaign (DESSC). Intel founded and use of water. Estimated water use related to direct materials suppliers that provide the Reuse, Recycle 58 co-chairs DESSC, a coalition of ICT companies, non-governmental organizations, and raw materials (such as chemicals, wafers, and gases) used in our manufacturing process Product Energy Efficiency trade associations dedicated to promoting the adoption of public policies that will enable represent the smallest portion of our operational water use. and Product Ecology 60 ICT to realize its full potential to improve societal energy efficiency and reduce carbon Water and energy experts at our locations around the world help us research and Applying Technology to emissions. The campaign, launched in 2008, is hosted by the Information Technology manage opportunities to reduce consumption, such as incorporating water conservation Environmental Challenges 62 Industry Council. elements into the design of our facilities and establishing specific water goals for new Performance Summary and Goals 63 DESSC believes that governments can take many actions to encourage ICT-enabled process technologies. In 2014, our absolute water use decreased by 4%, and our water Inspiring the Next Generation 66 energy efficiency, clean energy innovation, and sustainable growth. While policies use on a per unit basis decreased by 9%. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 will vary depending on national circumstances and cultures, the organization is Respecting Human Rights 91 focused on advancing policies that help drive sustainable economic growth through Appendix 96 technology-enabled energy efficiency and clean energy innovation across every sector of the economy. In 2014… In addition to DESSC, Intel is an active participant in several other climate changeABSOLUTE WATER USE and energy efficiency-focused organizations. These include the International Climate Change Partnership, the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, and Advanced Energy DECREASED BY 4% 9% Economy. Our participation in these organizations is focused on helping to build a PER UNIT supportive policy environment for private sector leadership on climate change. WATER USE DECREASED For more information on our public policy activities, see “Public Policy and Political 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility Accountability” in the Our Business and Integrated Value section of this report. …compared to 2013 < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 55 Table of Contents 2 Conservation in Our Operations with separate drains for collecting lightly contaminated wastewater for reuse. With this Introduction 3 Since 1998, we have invested more than $220 million in water conservation programs at reuse strategy, we harvest as much water from our manufacturing processes as possible About This Report 4 our global facilities. To date, our comprehensive and aggressive efforts have saved over and direct it to equipment such as cooling towers and scrubbers. In addition, at some Letter from Our CEO 5 48 billion gallons of water—enough for roughly 470,000 U.S. homes for an entire year. 3 of our locations, we have arrangements to take back gray water from local municipal Our Business and Integrated water treatment operations for use at our campuses. In 2014, we internally recycled Over time, we have been able to decrease the amount of water required to create the Value Approach 6 approximately 3.9 billion gallons of water, equivalent to about 47% of our total water ultra-pure water (UPW) used to clean silicon wafers during fabrication. After we use Caring for Our People 29 withdrawals for the year. UPW to clean wafers, the water is suitable for industrial purposes, irrigation, and many Caring for the Planet 44 other needs. Our factories are equipped with complex rinse water collection systems, Management Approach 45 Climate Change and Energy Efficiency 50 Intel’s Operational Water Footprint (in gallons) Responsible Water Management 54 + Evaporative Loss Waste: Reduce, (Estimated) Reuse, Recycle 58 Product Energy Efficiency 1.8 Billion and Product Ecology 60 Applying Technology to Environmental Challenges 62 + Water Supply 8.4 Billion + Intel Operations 6.4 Billion + Water Discharge (Scope 1) Performance Summary and Goals 63 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 1.6 Billion 13 Million 3.9 Billion 357 Million 5.9 Billion 523 Million Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 + Energy Providers + Top Tier 1 Suppliers + Irrigation + Groundwater + Replenish Appendix 96 (Scope 2) (Scope 3) Recharge Water Sources Click or tap the + symbol for additional information. This water footprint illustration provides a high-level view of our operational water use. The estimate for water use from our Tier 1 suppliers was drawn from our water footprint analysis completed in 2010. The estimate for water use from energy providers was updated using 2013 data and an updated methodology. The estimate incorporates our annual purchase of Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs). Without RECs, our estimated Scope 2 water use would have been 3 billion gallons. 3 Equivalency estimate based on information from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Water. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 56 Table of Contents 2 Water Discharge and Water Quality receiving-stream water quality. We use a number of key tenets derived from the U.S. Introduction 3 Although our ultimate vision is to continuously reuse water in semiconductor manufacturing, Clean Water Act to guide our actions globally, including never causing pass-through or About This Report 4 we currently discharge water from our operations in compliance with local permits. Our interference at local municipal treatment plants or impacting their ability to reuse their Letter from Our CEO 5 water discharge methods vary by site, based on the needs of individual communities. At wastewater or sludge. Our Business and Integrated our facility in Chandler, Arizona, our wastewater is treated using a reverse osmosis process, In 2014, we sent an estimated 6.4 billion gallons (or 77% of the water withdrawals at our Value Approach 6 and then used to replenish a local aquifer. sites) back to municipal water treatment operations, where it could be treated for reuse Caring for Our People 29 While we work with local water management agencies to determine appropriate for irrigation or other purposes in the community or returned to the water source. The Caring for the Planet 44 solutions for each manufacturing location, our wastewater goals are based on the site balance (roughly 20% of incoming supply, or 1.8 billion gallons) was lost to evaporation. Management Approach 45 with the most stringent standards. We complete comprehensive reviews for wastewater Climate Change discharge based on a number of aspects, including but not limited to permit limits Collaboration and Opportunity and Energy Efficiency 50 for our sites and municipal treatment plants, activated sludge inhibition criteria, and To identify and share best practices, we regularly benchmark our performance on water Responsible Water use and reuse with other semiconductor companies. We have participated in environmental Management 54 performance benchmarking activities with other members of the World Semiconductor Waste: Reduce, Water Use Reuse, Recycle 58 Council, the Semiconductor Industry Association, and SEMATECH. Benchmarking enables 12 120 us to better understand how Intel compares to others in the semiconductor industry on Product Energy Efficiency 115 102 and Product Ecology 60 100 water use. Over the past several years, we have also partnered with organizations such as 10 88 93 100 Applying Technology to the Global Environmental Management Initiative and Project WET on water-related tools NORMALIZED PRODUCTION 9.0 BILLIONS OF GALLONS Environmental Challenges 62 8 8.2 8.3 8.7 8.4 80 and education. Performance Summary 6 60 In addition, we have partnered with Quantis, an environmental life cycle assessment and Goals 63 INDEX (YEAR 2010=100) Inspiring the Next Generation 66 4 40 consultant, to analyze our water use, quality, and discharges. We expect that 4.0 4.2 3.9 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 3.4 3.2 additional studies will help us prioritize future investments in water conservation 2 49% 51% 38% 37% 47% 20 2.1 and management systems. Respecting Human Rights 91 1.4 1.6 1.7 1.1 0 0 Appendix 96 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Estimated Net Water Withdrawls Water Normalized Water Use (billions of gallons) Conserved Water Use The majority of the water we withdraw is returned to the local water system. Our net water use is much lower, as indicated above. Our absolute water withdrawals were down 4% and per unit water withdrawals were down 9% in 2014 compared to 2013. In 2014, we revised our water conservation data to include our water that is directly reused for purposes such as agriculture and irrigation. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 57 Table of Contents 2 Local Water Use Data Introduction 3 The following table details the fresh water use and sources for our larger sites around the world. Approximately 80% of the water used at our sites is sent back to municipal water About This Report 4 treatment operations, where it is treated so that it can be reused for other purposes. For additional details, see the water footprint diagram earlier in this section. Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated 2014 Water Use by Manufacturing Location (Millions of Gallons) Value Approach 6 Water Water Water Evaporation Caring for Our People 29 Location Withdrawn Discharged Conserved Loss Primary Water Source1 Caring for the Planet 44 Chengdu 99 80 29 20 Fuhe River Management Approach 45 China Climate Change Dalian 265 236 97 29 Biliu and Yingna Rivers and Energy Efficiency 50 Costa Rica San Jose 97 82 0 15 Colima Superior Aquifer Responsible Water India Bangalore 20 8 5 12 Kabini River Management 54 Ireland Leixlip 858 790 111 68 River Liffey Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 58 Jerusalem 24 16 16 9 Lake Kinneret, Coastal Aquifer, Mountain Aquifer Israel Product Energy Efficiency Qiryat Gat 606 507 717 99 (Yarkon-Tininim), and local desalinization plant and Product Ecology 60 Kulim 207 114 37 93 Applying Technology to Malaysia Muda River Environmental Challenges 62 Penang 191 100 1 91 Performance Summary Chandler 370 193 60 178 and Goals 63 Salt and Verde Rivers, local aquifer2 Ocotillo 1,988 1,366 1,801 499 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Folsom 87 27 0 60 American River Respecting Human Rights 91 United Santa Clara 48 25 7 23 Tuolumne River Appendix 96 States Hudson 154 128 82 26 Assabet River Basin Aquifer Rio Rancho 911 795 422 116 Santa Fe Aquifer Aloha 255 186 7 69 Tualatin River Ronler Acres 2,087 1,739 518 348 Vietnam Ho Chi Minh City 67 20 10 47 Dong Nai River 1 For each water source, our 2014 water use did not exceed 5% of that source. All water sources are provided by municipal water providers, with the exception of our New Mexico facility, which uses on-site well water. 2 In addition to fresh water used at the site, we used gray water from the local municipal water treatment facility, further reducing our use of fresh water. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 58 Table of Contents 2 Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Non-Hazardous Waste Recycled Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Since 2008, we have recycled more than 75% of the total waste generated in our operations. We are also taking actions 17% Fiber Letter from Our CEO 5 to reduce the amount of waste generated and increase the Our Business and Integrated Other 34% Value Approach 6 amount recycled, in support of our 2020 environmental goals. Caring for Our People 29 13% Plastics In 2014, we began reporting our waste generation in terms of non-hazardous waste and Caring for the Planet 44 hazardous waste, a shift from prior reporting on solid and chemical waste. Hazardous Management Approach 45 Climate Change waste includes waste with certain attributes defined as hazardous by country-level E-waste 3% 16% Metal regulations; other waste—such as plastics, metal, organics, and paper—falls into the and Energy Efficiency 50 Organics 4% Responsible Water non-hazardous waste category. This reporting is consistent with how other technology (kitchen and landscape) Management 54 and semiconductor manufacturers report their waste generation and disposal. We have 13% Wood Waste: Reduce, revised our historical data and 2020 environmental goals to reflect this reporting change. Reuse, Recycle 58 The “Other” category primarily includes materials related to our construction activities. Landscape and food waste are turned into mulch and compost, respectively. Product Energy Efficiency Non-Hazardous Waste and Product Ecology 60 We believe that we are on track to achieve our 2020 goal to recycle 90% of our nonApplying Technology to hazardous waste worldwide. We have implemented several programs to reduce, reuse, Environmental Challenges 62 Non-Hazardous Waste and recycle this waste resulting from construction activities and other Intel operations, Performance Summary and Goals 63 including donating materials to schools and nonprofits. 150 250 150.6 NORMALIZED PRODUCTION INDEX 205 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 In 2014, non-hazardous waste generated decreased 22% compared to 2013 levels, due 199 200 131.6 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 primarily to the completion of the construction of manufacturing facilities. In 2014, our THOUSAND TONS 156 120.7 100 106.7 146 Respecting Human Rights 91 global non-hazardous waste recycle rate was 86%, down from 89% in 2013. Several 150 81.1 94.7 81.8 Appendix 96 sites, including our facilities in Ireland; Bangalore, India; and Shanghai, China achieved (YEAR 2010=100) 100 68.6 recycling rates of 95-100%. We are working to share best practices among sites to raise 100 50 58.4 our recycling rates worldwide. 48.3 84% 85% 88% 89% 86% 50 Hazardous Waste 0 0 In 2014, we continued to recycle a high percentage of our hazardous waste. However, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 hazardous waste generated has risen both on an absolute and per unit basis due to the Non-Hazardous Waste Non-Hazardous Waste Non-Hazardous Waste Generated Recycled Generated – Normalized increasing complexity of our manufacturing processes. Absolute non-hazardous waste generated was down 22% and down 27% on a per unit basis in 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 compared to 2013. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 59 Table of Contents 2 One of our goals has been to reduce hazardous waste generation by 10% on a per Hazardous Waste Management Methods Introduction 3 unit basis by 2020 from 2010 levels and to achieve zero hazardous waste to landfill by About This Report 4 2020. Multiple groups across Intel are working to identify innovative ways to treat or eliminate waste streams. For example, in 2013, an internal team identified an opportunity Incinerated 17.0% Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated to convert one of our largest waste streams, an ammonia-based waste byproduct, into a Value Approach 6 reusable product for the fertilizer industry. In 2014, the initiative was fully implemented 83.0% Recycled Reused Caring for Our People 29 at all of our domestic sites that produce the waste stream. Currently, 98% of the Fuel Blended Treated Caring for the Planet 44 ammonia-based waste stream is being reused, resulting in an estimated cost savings of Landfill 0.0% Management Approach 45 more than $2 million per year. The team is looking into expanding the initiative worldwide Climate Change this year, as well as finding reuse opportunities for other waste streams. and Energy Efficiency 50 Our leading-edge technology development continues to drive increasing complexity in Responsible Water We responsibly manage our hazardous waste in a variety of ways. our manufacturing processes. As such, based on our future projections of chemical use, Management 54 it is unlikely that we will be able to meet our goal of reducing hazardous waste generation Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 58 by 10% on a per unit basis by 2020. We therefore have decided to eliminate that goal. Hazardous Waste Product Energy Efficiency We will, however, continue to responsibly manage the hazardous waste we do generate, and Product Ecology 60 and minimize the amount sent to landfill. 60 200 188 NORMALIZED PRODUCTION INDEX 168 Applying Technology to 50 “Green chemistry” involves designing chemical products and processes in ways that Environmental Challenges 62 49.4 150 avoid the creation of toxics and waste. We have a goal to implement an enhanced green THOUSAND TONS Performance Summary 40 41.3 40.9 and Goals 63 chemistry screening and selection process for 100% of new chemicals and gases by 119 119 100 35.5 2020. In 2014, we completed a green chemistry benchmarking effort, and developed 30 100 (YEAR 2010=100) Inspiring the Next Generation 66 28.1 29.7 the scope of pilot studies aimed at determining effective strategies for implementing 25.1 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 20 23.7 21.5 green chemistry with our suppliers and into our existing processes and systems. 18.9 Respecting Human Rights 91 50 80% 86% 79% 72% 83% 10 Appendix 96 In 2015, engagement with our suppliers will focus on increasing awareness of how green 2.3 0.9 0.7 0.6 chemistry concepts can be integrated into their businesses. At a broader cross-industry 0 0.2 0 level, Intel is co-leading a project through the International Electronics Manufacturing 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Initiative (iNEMI) to evaluate chemical alternative assessment frameworks, methodologies, Hazardous Waste to Landfill Hazardous Waste Generated and tools in the electronics and semiconductor industries. In late 2015, iNEMI plans to Hazardous Waste Recycled Hazardous Waste Generated – Normalized release a reference document that offers guidance to electronics manufacturers around green chemistry best practices, assessments, and regulation. We believe that this Absolute hazardous waste generated was up 20% and up 12% on a per unit basis in 2014 initiative will help to drive a standard industry approach for green chemistry. compared to 2013. In 2014, we sent 200 tons of hazardous waste to landfill. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 60 Table of Contents 2 Product Energy Efficiency and Product Ecology Compared to our nearest competitor, we estimate that we have about a 2-year process Introduction 3 technology lead and about a 3.5-year lead in introducing revolutionary transistor About This Report 4 Energy-efficient performance is a key element of our product technologies such as strained silicon, High-K Metal Gate, and Tri-Gate into highLetter from Our CEO 5 design and our environmental footprint reduction efforts. volume manufacturing. This technology lead allows us to build products that are faster, Our Business and Integrated Through our Design for the Environment principles, we strive better, and in many cases, more energy-efficient than previous generations. Visit our Value Approach 6 to minimize the environmental impact of our products at all Performance Benchmark Library web site for details on specific products. Caring for Our People 29 phases in their life cycle: development, production, use, and Data Center Efficiency. Intel® Xeon® processor-based servers help IT organizations Caring for the Planet 44 ultimate disposal. around the world virtualize their data centers to reduce costs and add automation so Management Approach 45 they can improve service levels, energy efficiency, and agility. Intel Xeon processors Climate Change and Energy Efficiency 50 Improving Product Energy Efficiency power the majority of servers in today’s virtualized data centers and clouds, as well as Transistors are the building blocks of the electronics industry, so the creation of more many of the highest performing workstations. Servers based on the latest Intel Xeon Responsible Water energy-efficient transistors leads to more energy-efficient computers. With each new processors include advanced technologies to help solve the storage, networking, and Management 54 generation of process technology, we can fit more transistors onto Intel processors, security challenges of increasingly dynamic computing environments. In addition, Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 58 while also reducing the energy required to power them. energy-proportional architectural improvements have reduced “typical” server energy Product Energy Efficiency consumption by about 15%, as measured by the SPECpower industry-standard Moore’s Law describes the pace of these trends, which—when combined with Intel® and Product Ecology 60 benchmark. Intel’s leadership in SPECpower implies a reduced carbon footprint for architecture and circuit design innovations—have enabled us to reduce the amount of Applying Technology to customers who use Intel products. Environmental Challenges 62 energy consumed per transistor by a factor of approximately 1 million over the past 30 years. Our goal is to drive energy-efficient performance across all of our major product We are committed to helping our customers lower the energy costs associated with Performance Summary and Goals 63 lines—from smartphone, tablet, and embedded processors to those used in laptops, their computing and data center needs. Intel has pioneered a diverse set of hardware Inspiring the Next Generation 66 desktops, and servers. and software technologies that help measure and optimize energy use in computers and data centers. The Intel® Node Manager and Intel® Datacenter Manager: Energy Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Using voltage regulators, deposition methods and conductor materials, and Advanced Director allow IT managers to monitor the energy consumption of their servers, Respecting Human Rights 91 Encryption Standard algorithms, our researchers and engineers work from the bottom potentially resulting in increased rack density and lower power consumption. Appendix 96 up to build energy efficiency into our products, and their results are impressive. In 2014, we unveiled details of the next-generation Intel® Xeon Phi™ processor, codenamed We have also committed to increase the energy efficiency of notebook computers “Knights Landing,” which will deliver up to three times the performance of the prior and data center products 25x by 2020 from 2010 levels. We are working closely with generation while using less energy. Similarly, the Intel Core™ M processor and platform, ® industry partners to achieve this goal, which is dependent on battery life and capacity, launched in September 2014, boast reductions to a power-sipping 4.5 watts for up to and other hardware components for notebook computers. In data center products, we 20% longer battery life on active workloads and double the battery life versus a 4-yearare working to increase performance while reducing overall energy needs of our Intel® old PC. 4 Server products. 4 Intel Core M battery life tested vs. 4th generation Intel® Core™ processor-based platforms – 11.6 panel; 19x10; 200 nits; 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 WHr battery; SSD; 4 GB memory. Results have been estimated based on internal Intel analysis and are provided for informational purposes only. Any difference in system hardware or software design or configuration may affect www.intel.com/responsibility actual performance. < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 61 Table of Contents 2 Product Ecology CALCULATING SCOPE 3 Introduction 3 EMISSIONS: USE OF PRODUCTS We evaluate the environmental impact of the materials used in our processes and work AND SERVICES SOLD About This Report 4 with others on responsible management of electronic waste (e-waste). As part of our carbon footprinting efforts, Intel Letter from Our CEO 5 For more than a decade, Intel has collaborated with suppliers and customers, and has has estimated that the total energy used in a Our Business and Integrated year by average Intel® processors in servers and participated in several industry consortia, in an effort to eliminate lead and halogenated Value Approach 6 desktop and notebook computers sold in 2014 flame retardants from our products. While legislation does not require the elimination Caring for Our People 29 was 2,884,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent. This of halogenated flame retardants, Intel has played a role in facilitating industry consensus figure represents 2014 emissions from products Caring for the Planet 44 around low-halogen practices and has chaired industry standards committees on sold in 2014, calculated using the U.S. Energy Star* Management Approach 45 materials selection and eco-design. We also have reviewed our products and engaged typical energy consumption model for computing Climate Change products, and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol our suppliers to meet the requirements of the European Union’s Registration, Evaluation, and Energy Efficiency 50 Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Authorisation, and Restriction of Chemical substances (REACH) regulation. Responsible Water Standard. The lifetime emissions associated with Management 54 these processors is 10,652,000 metric tons of We also have a goal to implement an enhanced “green” chemistry screening and CO2 equivalent. For detailed information on our Waste: Reduce, selection process for 100% of new chemicals and gases by 2020. For information Reuse, Recycle 58 Scope 3 emissions, download our most recent on our progress toward this goal, see “Hazardous Waste” earlier in this section. CDP disclosure from the CDP web site. Product Energy Efficiency and Product Ecology 60 The Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT*) is a rating system Applying Technology to designed to help purchasers in the public and private sector evaluate, compare, and Environmental Challenges 62 select laptops, desktops, and monitors based on environmental attributes. We provide to return products for recycling. Many of our products—including motherboards, Performance Summary information to channel partners and customers about EPEAT through our Intel® Reseller microprocessors, and other components—are usually within the scope of e-waste laws and Goals 63 Center web site. only when they are incorporated into a final product, generally by an OEM. In some Inspiring the Next Generation 66 countries, our distributors provide recycling options for products covered by these Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Electronic Waste e-waste laws. Respecting Human Rights 91 Managing e-waste, such as computers, monitors, and mobile phones, is a global Through the Intel equipment surplus program, we reuse, donate, sell, or responsibly Appendix 96 concern. While our components are not typically subject to recycling or e-waste laws, recycle electronic equipment from our operations. We have also hosted e-waste we work with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), retailers, customers, and collection events in our communities for close to a decade, helping individuals and others to identify shared solutions for used electronics. We also take steps to integrate organizations to recycle their used electronics responsibly. Since many U.S. states now environmental considerations into the design phase of our products to minimize provide opportunities for e-waste recycling, we have reduced the number of events, but environmental impacts of electronics at end of life. we continue to host events periodically. Many regulations govern the management of e-waste globally. For example, the EU We also provide a simple, environmentally friendly, and complimentary way for our Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive requires producers of customers to return aged and unwanted Intel product samples on our Samples Recycling certain electrical and electronic equipment to develop programs that allow consumers 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report web site. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 62 Table of Contents 2 Applying Technology The Intel ESL launched the Intel Collaborative Research Institute for Sustainable Introduction 3 Connected Cities in 2012 in partnership with researchers from Imperial College London About This Report 4 to Environmental Challenges and University College London to drive the application of computing technologies to Letter from Our CEO 5 Through technology, individuals, families, companies, and advance the social, economic, and environmental well-being of cities. In early 2014, Intel Our Business and Integrated governments gain information that can empower them to announced a collaboration with the City of Dublin, Ireland to test 200 smart-sensored Value Approach 6 drive more sustainable practices in homes and across “gateways” around the city. The sensors, which are based on Intel® Quark™ technology, Caring for Our People 29 will gather and monitor data on the environment, including air quality and noise. The industries—helping to reduce the environmental footprint Caring for the Planet 44 data that is collected will be openly available. of cities and countries. Management Approach 45 Next-Generation Factories. Intel and Mitsubishi Electric are collaborating to advance Climate Change Nearly all segments of industry are in the process of transforming their energy factory automation using Internet of Things (IoT) connectivity and big data analytics. and Energy Efficiency 50 management and IT practices to achieve new levels of energy efficiency and A pilot project at an Intel manufacturing site in Malaysia resulted in cost reductions, Responsible Water sustainability. Intel continues to explore opportunities to design and deliver new improved operational performance, and energy savings for a more sustainable society. Management 54 technologies to address environmental challenges, including developing more energyThe two companies expect to announce commercialization of the solution for use by Waste: Reduce, efficient production and transportation systems, and applying IT to help measure (sense), other manufacturers in 2015. Reuse, Recycle 58 model (analyze), and manage (control) energy and natural resources more efficiently. Product Energy Efficiency Smarter Cities. Intel is collaborating with the city of San Jose, California, on a pilot and Product Ecology 60 Intel Labs has a number of programs underway that are focused on improving energy project aimed at improving air quality, noise pollution, traffic flow, environmental Applying Technology to efficiency and reducing climate emissions, including researching and developing future sustainability, energy efficiency, and health for local residents. A network of sensors Environmental Challenges 62 Intel products that are even more energy efficient. For example, a focus on sustainable throughout the city will give San Jose citizens real-time, local data that can inform their Performance Summary cities has led to the development of “living labs” in London, U.K. and Dublin, Ireland. personal decisions. The joint project was showcased in 2014 as part of the White House and Goals 63 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Our researchers are developing whole-system energy management solutions for SmartAmerica Challenge. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 commercial buildings, homes, data centers, and utility distribution networks. We are also Pecan Street. Intel has also been working with Pecan Street Inc., a nonprofit consortium Respecting Human Rights 91 working with leading scientific institutions to develop high-performance computational of universities, technology companies, and utility providers collaborating on testing, Appendix 96 models to enable more accurate climate and weather predictions. In addition, we are piloting, and commercializing smart grid technologies. One of the primary goals of conducting research into the use of sensors, analytics, modeling, and decision support Pecan Street is to drive new products, services, and economic opportunities in the area systems for sustainable cities. of consumer energy management. Intel® Galileo maker kits are being used to develop Intel Energy and Sustainability Lab (Intel ESL). Based at our Ireland site, Intel ESL advanced sensors and data collection devices, and a proof of concept to deploy drives our research agenda in the application of IT to enable a high-tech, low-carbon Intel® Distribution for Apache Hadoop* software is helping speed the data analytics, economy with strong alignment to the European Union’s 2020 sustainability goals. processing, and visualization capabilities for the Pecan Street researchers. For more information, visit the Pecan Street web site, or watch this video. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 63 Table of Contents 2 Performance Summary and Goals Introduction 3 In 2014, we took additional steps toward meeting our 2020 goals. We remained the largest voluntary purchaser of green power in the U.S., according to the U.S. EPA, made new About This Report 4 investments in energy-saving projects in our operations, and continued to encourage our employees to take action around sustainability. We made progress on product energy Letter from Our CEO 5 efficiency and collaborated with others in our industry to drive more efficient computing and applications of technology to address the world’s energy and sustainability challenges. Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Goals and Performance Caring for Our People 29 2020 Environmental Goals 2014 Performance Caring for the Planet 44 Management Approach 45 Reduce direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 10% on a per unit basis1 by In 2014, our GHG emissions were down 22% on a per unit basis compared to 2020 from 2010 levels. 2010 levels, and with continued investment in emissions reducing initiatives, Climate Change we believe we are on track to reach this goal. and Energy Efficiency 50 Reduce water use on a per unit basis below 2010 levels by 2020. Our per unit water usage decreased by 9% in 2014 compared to 2013 levels, and Responsible Water with continued investments in water conservation, we believe we will be able to Management 54 meet our 2020 goal. Waste: Reduce, Achieve cumulative energy savings of 4 billion kWh from 2012 to 2020. We continued to invest in energy conservation projects during 2014, investing Reuse, Recycle 58 $30 million and achieving energy savings of 211 million kWh for a total Product Energy Efficiency cumulative energy savings of 1.6 billion kWh. Taking into account other planned and Product Ecology 60 investments, we are on track to reach our goal. Applying Technology to Achieve zero hazardous waste to landfill by 2020. In 2014, we sent 0% of our hazardous waste generated to landfill, and are on Environmental Challenges 62 track toward achieving our 2020 goal. Performance Summary Achieve 90% non-hazardous waste recycle rate by 2020. We recycled 86% of our non-hazardous waste generated in 2014, and are on and Goals 63 track to meet our 2020 goal. Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Reduce hazardous waste generation by 10% on a per unit basis1 by 2020 from Based on our calculations and projections, we do not believe we will be able Supply Chain Responsibility 78 2010 levels. to achieve our 2020 goal. We have decided to eliminate this goal, and focus on reducing the amount of hazardous waste we send to landfill. Respecting Human Rights 91 Implement an enhanced green chemistry screening and selection process for We continue to make progress toward our green chemistry screening and Appendix 96 100% of new chemicals and gases by 2020. selection process for 100% of new chemicals and gases, and believe we will be able to achieve our 2020 goal. Design all new buildings to a minimum LEED* Silver certification between 2010 We successfully designed all new buildings to a minimum LEED* Silver and 2020. certification, and have revised the goal to design all new buildings to a minimum LEED* Gold certification level between 2015 and 2020. Increase the energy efficiency of notebook computers and data center products We are working with industry partners to accomplish this aggressive goal, and 25x by 2020 from 2010 levels.2 believe we are on track to achieve it. Achieved Partially Achieved or on Track Not Met 1 B ased on the number of die produced and made available for sale. 2 Data center energy efficiency is determined by server energy efficiency (as measured by SPECpower_ssj2008 or equivalent publications and using a 2010 baseline of an E56xx 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report series processor-based server platform) as well as technology adoption that raises overall data center work output (such as virtualization technology). Notebook computer energy efficiency is determined by average battery life, battery capacity, www.intel.com/responsibility and number of recharge cycles of volume notebook computers in that model year. < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 64 Table of Contents 2 Looking Ahead As with many companies that have manufactured for more than 40 years, Intel is actively Introduction 3 In 2015, we will continue to work toward attaining our 2020 goals, placing a strong engaged in ongoing soil and groundwater clean-up activities at legacy sites. The goal of About This Report 4 emphasis on reducing hazardous waste and driving higher levels of energy-efficient these initiatives is to minimize public exposure and return the sites to their original state Letter from Our CEO 5 performance in our products. We will also continue our collaborations with external in a quick and efficient manner. For more information, visit the Intel Superfund web site. Our Business and Integrated organizations on sustainability issues, particularly in identifying the role that ICT can EHS officials from various regulatory agencies regularly visit our sites. In 2014, officials Value Approach 6 play in addressing global environmental challenges. made 108 visits (including audits and inspections) to Intel sites across the globe. Intel Caring for Our People 29 received two environmental-related Notices of Violation (NOVs) and two health and Caring for the Planet 44 Compliance Information and Reporting safety-related NOVs in 2014. Details on these NOVs are provided on the next page. Management Approach 45 In 2014, we continued to maintain our comprehensive, corporate-wide environmental, Three of these four NOVs did not have any fines or penalties associated with them. Climate Change health, and safety (EHS) compliance assurance program. In addition to third-party Corrective actions were put in place and tracked to completion for all identified concerns. and Energy Efficiency 50 audits completed to maintain our ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 multi-site certifications, Responsible Water our site operations conducted EHS program self-assessments to validate site-level Management 54 Five-Year Compliance Summary (EHS-Related Notices of Violation) EHS compliance. Waste: Reduce, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Reuse, Recycle 58 The self-assessments form the backbone of our site-driven compliance checks and Product Energy Efficiency improvements. They cover compliance points in all EHS functions across a broad range Number 2 5 5 7 4 and Product Ecology 60 of NOVs of regulations and standards. Self-assessments include reviews of environmental Applying Technology to performance, site health and safety performance, ergonomics, and health and wellFines Environmental Challenges 62 $27,400 $675 $500 $2,500 $143,000 or Fees being programs. Performance Summary Details on these NOVs are available in our previous Corporate Responsibility Reports, which are and Goals 63 Another key aspect of our EHS compliance assurance program is the ongoing posted on our Corporate Responsibility Report web site. Inspiring the Next Generation 66 completion of internal EHS audits at various Intel sites. These formal audits are led by Supply Chain Responsibility 78 senior corporate EHS professionals in partnership with EHS Legal Counsel. The audits Respecting Human Rights 91 include evaluation of areas related to EHS business risk and management systems, such Appendix 96 as in-depth documentation and records reviews, interviews with site leadership, and physical inspections related to EHS compliance programs. On an annual basis, we report Intel’s emissions releases, waste transfers off-site, and treatment of reportable chemicals in the U.S., in accordance with state and U.S. EPA regulations. For our most recent SARA Title III Reportable Chemicals by Site report, access the Report Builder web site. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Caring for the Planet 65 Table of Contents 2 2014 Environmental Inspections and Compliance Introduction 3 Location Violation Fine Intel’s Corrective Action About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 Hillsboro, As new greenhouse gas regulations took effect in the U.S. requiring us $143,000 We cooperated fully with the ODEQ to correct the matter; Our Business and Integrated Oregon to re-permit our manufacturing site in Oregon, we identified that we we paid the $143,000 civil penalty, tested and measured Value Approach 6 had inadvertently made permitting mistakes in our emissions reporting. fluoride emissions, submitted the proper construction permit We promptly self-reported the information to the local regulatory application, and posted fluoride emission information on our Caring for Our People 29 agency, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (ODEQ). The ExploreIntel.com web site. We are also working with community Caring for the Planet 44 ODEQ issued an NOV for failure to notify ODEQ of fluorides emissions, members to share updates in a timely and transparent manner. failure to incorporate fluorides in the existing permit, and beginning Management Approach 45 construction at the Ronler Acres campus without proper approval. Climate Change and Energy Efficiency 50 Santa Clara, The Santa Clara non-point source inspector issued an NOV for findings None We addressed the findings and the case was closed. California related to storm water monitoring and discharge during an annual Responsible Water inspection. Management 54 Waste: Reduce, Santa Clara, The California Deputy Fire Marshal inspector issued a safety-related None We addressed the findings with the fire marshal and are also Reuse, Recycle 58 California NOV for missing fire system inspection elements. working with our on-site suppliers to ensure that the correct processes are in place for proper inspection and maintenance of Product Energy Efficiency all fire systems. The fire marshal has closed the NOV. and Product Ecology 60 Applying Technology to Zizhu, China The local police bureau inspector issued a safety-related NOV for None We addressed the findings and the case was closed. Environmental Challenges 62 findings related to evacuation route management. Performance Summary Intel received two environmental-related Notice of Violation (NOVs) and two health and safety-related NOVs in 2014. and Goals 63 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Table of Contents 2 Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Caring for Our People Caring for the Planet 29 44 Inspiring the Next Generation Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Management Approach 67 Stories of Impact Around the Globe 68 Education Transformation 69 Empowering Girls and Women 71 Technology plays a pivotal role in addressing the major social challenges that we face today—around the world and in our own Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship 72 backyards. From advancing global education and promoting broad economic development to working hand in hand with neighbors Health and Life Sciences 74 in our communities, Intel is committed to applying technology and the talents of its employees to improve lives and inspire the next Empowering Our People 75 Performance Summary generation of innovators. and Goals 77 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 Over the past decade, Intel The Intel® She Will Connect To help inspire students to Through the Intel® 1Mx15 Health In 2014, 39% of our employees and the Intel Foundation have program, launched in Subbecome innovators, in 2014 Intel Program, we have helped provide volunteered 1.25 million hours invested more than $1 billion Saharan Africa, aims to connect donated 43,000 Intel® Galileo training to 1 million healthcare in 38 countries around the in programs to improve millions of women to new development boards to 1,900 workers across China, Ghana, world, at an estimated value education around the world. opportunities by closing the universities worldwide. Kenya, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, of $28.8 million. Internet gender gap. Tanzania, and other countries. Access the Report Builder Key Section Links Performance Summary and Goals Intel Foundation Intel Programs for Girls Intel Across Healthcare 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report and Women www.intel.com/responsibility Intel® Education Intel in Your Community < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 67 Table of Contents 2 Management Approach 2014 Total Contributions (in millions) Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Harnessing technology expertise and the talents of our Corporate Foundation In-Kind Cash Cash Giving Total Letter from Our CEO 5 employees, we partner with like-minded organizations Our Business and Integrated on social initiatives that improve lives around the world. United States $31.2 $28.0 $1.2 $60.4 Value Approach 6 International $22.8 $11.1 $8.0 $41.9 Caring for Our People 29 Social Impact and Business Value Our investments and engagement around social issues generate significant value for Total $54.0 $39.1 $9.2 $102.3 Caring for the Planet 44 Intel1 and our stakeholders. The constructive relationships and trust that we build with Total Giving as a Percentage of Pre-Tax Net Income 0.65% Inspiring the Next Generation 66 governments, neighbors, schools, and other community members help create a positive Management Approach 67 Over the past five years, charitable giving by Intel and the Intel Foundation totaled $535.9 million, business environment for Intel. In addition, engaging our employees in meaningful representing on average 0.7% of annual pre-tax net income. Stories of Impact Around the Globe 68 volunteer experiences positively impacts their satisfaction and pride, and helps us attract Education Transformation 69 and retain talented people. from expanding technology access for students in emerging markets to helping local Empowering Girls Intel’s investments in education expand opportunities for young people while also nonprofit organizations serve more people through better use of technology and more and Women 71 efficient processes. benefiting the company. Our success rests on the availability of skilled workers, a healthy Social Innovation technology ecosystem, and knowledgeable customers. In turn, the health of local and Entrepreneurship 72 Funding for our social impact activities comes from both Intel and the Intel Foundation2 economies—including those where our employees live and work—depends on access and is aligned with our strategic focus areas of education and supporting local Health and Life Sciences 74 to technology and quality education. Applications of technology in education also create community needs. Strategic giving includes charitable giving (cash and in-kind) as well Empowering Our People 75 market opportunities for Intel. as investments in other initiatives, such as programs that empower employee giving Performance Summary and Goals 77 Our education programs support our long-term corporate diversity objectives by and service, and applications of technology to create positive impact. We collaborate Supply Chain Responsibility 78 encouraging girls, women, and students in underserved communities to pursue careers with external organizations, leveraging additional giving and resources to further scale Respecting Human Rights 91 in science, technology, engineering, and math. Closing the gender gaps in education and our initiatives. We are committed to harnessing drivers of our own corporate success to technology has important benefits for our business, as it expands our talent pipeline and advance economic empowerment worldwide, while also benefiting our business. Appendix 96 creates educated consumers. Intel also invests in processes to engage with our local communities and measure We also recognize that entrepreneurship is a core driver of a country’s sustainable our impact. For more information, see “Stakeholder Engagement” and “Financial growth. Our initiatives in this area seek to increase individual employability, drive Results and Economic Impact” in the Our Business and Integrated Value Approach innovation, and accelerate economic growth with a focus on computing technology. section of this report. Intel’s financial and in-kind support—as well as volunteerism by our employees— enables governments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and educators to T hrough local and national grants, the Intel Foundation—funded solely with Intel Corporation donations—works to 2 fuel classroom innovation and student interest in math, science, engineering, and entrepreneurship; empower women reach their goals more effectively. The net result is shared social value that ranges and underserved youth; and enable university education and research. The Foundation also supports Intel employees’ generosity and passion for volunteerism by matching grants for service, community giving, and disaster relief programs. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 1 References to “Intel” throughout this section refer to Intel Corporation, not the Intel Foundation. For more information, visit the Intel Foundation web site. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 68 Table of Contents 2 Stories of Impact from Around the Globe: Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Caring for Our People 29 Caring for the Planet 44 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Management Approach 67 + Building a Science Lab Stories of Impact Around the Globe 68 Education Transformation 69 Promoting Science Learning + + Studying Water Habitats Empowering Girls Mentoring Makers + and Women 71 + Enabling Self-Sufficiency Social Innovation + Being Exceptional + Succeeding at Math + Connecting Seniors and Entrepreneurship 72 Training Teachers + Health and Life Sciences 74 Fighting Poverty + + Establishing a Mobile Library Empowering Our People 75 + Inspiring Tomorrow’s Engineers + Improving Crop Yields Performance Summary + Recycling and Composting and Goals 77 + Harnessing the Sun + Reaching Remotely Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Rolling Out PCs + Appendix 96 Democratizing Learning + + Closing the Internet Gender Gap 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Click or tap the + symbol for additional information. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 69 Table of Contents 2 Education Transformation tools, and course offerings on topics such as critical thinking and collaboration in the Introduction 3 digital classroom are available in 24 languages. To view survey results, evaluations, About This Report 4 Technology enables an unprecedented opportunity to advance reports, and case studies about Intel Teach, visit the Intel Education-Evaluations web site. Letter from Our CEO 5 student achievement and increase access to quality education. In addition, the Intel Teachers Engage online global community enables educators to Our Business and Integrated Intel provides the expertise, technology, and robust ecosystem connect with each other and share ideas and strategies to transform K–12 classrooms Value Approach 6 that can create the foundation for educators and governments through the effective use of technology. More than 170,000 members from nine Intel Caring for Our People 29 to transform education. local language communities represent over 50 countries. Caring for the Planet 44 As a technology innovator and manufacturer of some of the most complex products Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Intel also hosts the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair Educator Academy, in the world, Intel has developed decision-making practices and problem-solving which brings together select groups of educators and government officials to share Management Approach 67 capabilities that are helping improve education worldwide. To maximize impact, we resources and explore proven methods of engaging students in math and science. At Stories of Impact Around leverage our core competencies in collaborations with universities, other companies, the Globe 68 the academy, participants create action plans to address strategic education challenges, development agencies, multilateral organizations, governments, nonprofits, and others Education Transformation 69 combining desired outcomes with timelines, measurable goals, and success criteria. who share our vision. Intel has led over 300 programs in more than 100 countries Empowering Girls to provide professional development for teachers; support student achievements in Intel® Education Software offers a comprehensive suite of applications that help and Women 71 science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM); enable access to relevant, local teachers facilitate learning and efficiently manage their classrooms, while also enabling Social Innovation digitized content; and more. Visit the Intel® Education web site for additional information. Information Technology departments to protect students and manage infrastructure. and Entrepreneurship 72 The applications encourage students to explore and interpret as they develop key skills Health and Life Sciences 74 Empowering Our People 75 Teacher Professional Learning such as critical thinking and problem-solving, creativity and innovation, communication, Intel firmly believes that teachers play a central role in moving education forward. We and collaboration. Performance Summary and Goals 77 are committed to enabling and strengthening professional development and teacher Supply Chain Responsibility 78 readiness—critical success factors for education reform and transformation. By using Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics technology to help teachers cultivate skills needed in the global economy, Intel seeks As key drivers of innovation, STEM disciplines are critical in the complex and competitive Respecting Human Rights 91 to benefit students, companies, and society at large. We deliver professional learning knowledge economy. Unfortunately, it is widely acknowledged that many countries Appendix 96 resources that help educators improve learning outcomes, prepare students for today’s around the world suffer from low achievement and low interest in STEM subjects and world, and become better teachers. STEM-related careers. Since 1999, the Intel® Teach Program has helped more than 15 million teachers in over Intel has a vested interest in strengthening the STEM talent pipeline to improve the 70 countries integrate technology and create active learning environments in their current trends in STEM education. Finding enough qualified candidates for Intel job classrooms. Through face-to-face instruction and Intel® Teach Elements online lessons, openings remains a daunting challenge, underscoring the economic imperative to resolve K–12 educators learn to develop materials and activities designed to engage their the STEM skills gap in the U.S. and other parts of the world. On the next page are a few students with self-directed, project-based learning. The program’s free online resources, of the ways Intel is addressing the problem. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 70 Table of Contents 2 Competitions to inspire young innovators. The Intel Foundation is the lead sponsor Higher Education Introduction 3 of two premier science competitions, the Intel International Science and Engineering Intel and the Intel Foundation support university programs that advance research and About This Report 4 Fair (Intel ISEF) and the Intel Science Talent Search, which are both programs of Society education in microprocessor technology, high-volume manufacturing, computer science, Letter from Our CEO 5 for Science & the Public. In 2014, Intel ISEF, the world’s largest pre-college science and other disciplines critical to our industry. Intel® Higher Education Programs, funded by Our Business and Integrated competition, brought together more than 1,600 young scientists from 70 countries, Intel, interact with more than 80 universities around the world through curricula, student Value Approach 6 regions, and territories. Nathan Han, a 15-year-old from Boston, won the top Intel ISEF support programs, and research projects. Caring for Our People 29 $75,000 Gordon E. Moore Award for creating a machine learning software tool to detect Our support of universities includes grants, curriculum gifts, equipment donations, Caring for the Planet 44 cancer-causing gene mutations. fellowships, scholarships, and internships. Intel’s support also includes funding for larger Inspiring the Next Generation 66 The Intel Science Talent Search (Intel STS), the oldest and most prestigious pre-college scale university research labs, such as Intel Science and Technology Centers at several Management Approach 67 science competition in the U.S., provides an opportunity for high school seniors to universities in the U.S., as well as Intel Collaborative Research Institutes in the U.K., Stories of Impact Around complete an original research project and have it judged by highly regarded scientists. Germany, and Israel. the Globe 68 Eric Chen, a 17-year-old from San Diego, won the top award of $100,000 at the 2014 Education Transformation 69 To further spur innovation across the entire computing spectrum, in 2013 we announced Intel STS for his interdisciplinary research on potential new drugs to treat influenza. Empowering Girls that we would provide 50,000 Intel® Galileo development boards featuring Intel® QuarkTM Top award money for Intel STS will triple starting with the 2015 competition, from and Women 71 technology to universities worldwide. The development boards, in the Arduino form one $100,000 top prize, to three Medal of Distinction awards of $150,000 each. Since Social Innovation factor favored by the maker community, enable university students to innovate at the assuming title sponsorship of the contest in 1998, Intel has increased the competition's and Entrepreneurship 72 lower end of the spectrum with inventions that will be compatible with other Intel® annual awards and scholarships from $205,000 to more than $1.6 million to Health and Life Sciences 74 architecture-based devices in the Internet of Things. By the end of 2014, we had shipped acknowledge and encourage science and math achievements. Empowering Our People 75 more than 43,000 boards to over 1,900 universities globally. For more information, visit Performance Summary In addition, Intel and the Intel Foundation support local and regional science the Intel Galileo Development Board Opportunity web site. and Goals 77 competitions like the China Adolescents Science and Technology Innovation Contest, Supply Chain Responsibility 78 the largest science competition in China for grades 1-12 youth and science teachers. For Respecting Human Rights 91 more information on our education competitions, visit the Intel® Education—Science, Appendix 96 Math, and Technology Competitions web site. Intel Computer Clubhouse Network. The Intel Computer Clubhouse Network is a community-based, after-school education program operated by the Boston Museum of Science in collaboration with the MIT Media Lab. Computer Clubhouses offer an Nathan Han shares the experience of environment of trust and respect where young people can develop technological fluency winning top honors at Intel ISEF 2014. and collaborative work skills. The community of 100 clubhouses in 20 countries around the world reaches 25,000 youth each year. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 71 Table of Contents 2 Empowering Girls and Women policy forums, such as the World Bank, UNESCO, and the U.S. State Department. Intel is Introduction 3 also part of Girl Rising: ENGAGE, a collaboration between Girl Rising, USAID, and other About This Report 4 We believe that education and Internet access are fundamental organizations working to deepen the impact of the campaign at a grassroots level in Letter from Our CEO 5 rights. Connecting to technology can open doors to a wealth of three countries through 2016. To learn more, visit the Girl Rising web site. Our Business and Integrated financial, health, and education resources that can dramatically In early 2015, Intel supported the launch of the documentary series, “A Path Appears: Value Approach 6 expand opportunities and improve lives. Transforming Lives, Creating Opportunity,” the follow-up to the powerful Half the Sky Caring for Our People 29 Today, millions of girls and women do not have educational opportunities or access documentary. The new series examines difficult challenges faced by girls and women Caring for the Planet 44 to the Internet and technology. Through a collection of programs and partnerships, and highlights the need to expand education access for girls and the power of Inspiring the Next Generation 66 we are working to close the gender gap in education, inspiring more girls and women individuals to make a difference. Management Approach 67 to become creators of technology, and connecting girls and women to opportunity Stories of Impact Around through technology. Closing the gender gaps in education and technology also has Inspiring Girls and Women the Globe 68 important impacts for our business, as it expands our talent pipeline and creates to Become Creators of Technology Education Transformation 69 educated consumers. For many years, Intel’s education programs have been helping to improve educational Empowering Girls We are also committed to increasing the representation of women in technical and opportunity for girls and women in STEM fields. In addition to providing scholarships and Women 71 leadership roles in our own workforce and supply chain. For more information about and research fellowships, Intel and the Intel Foundation invest in many other programs Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship 72 our programs in these areas, see the Caring for Our People section of this report and and partnerships to inspire, engage, and retain more girls and women in technology Health and Life Sciences 74 “Supplier Diversity” in the Supply Chain Responsibility section of this report. and engineering fields. Such programs include competitions such as the Intel Empowering Our People 75 International Science and Engineering Fair and the Intel Science Talent Search, which Expanding Education Access attract significant numbers of female competitors, as well as programs specifically Performance Summary and Goals 77 To help drive increased awareness and investment to expand education access for for girls, such as Girls Who Code and the National Center for Women and Information Supply Chain Responsibility 78 girls, in 2013 Intel became a founding strategic partner of Girl Rising, a film and global Technology Aspire IT program. Respecting Human Rights 91 social action campaign. The Girl Rising campaign has cumulatively reached over 200 In 2014, Intel released a new report, “MakeHers: Engaging Girls and Women in Appendix 96 million people across the globe, with more than 10,000 film screenings, 5 billion media Technology through Making, Creating and Inventing,” which looks at the role of girls and impressions, and 500 major articles. As part of the campaign, Intel employees have women in the maker movement. Report findings suggest that girls involved with making, participated in more than 100 volunteer and screening events in over 30 countries. designing, and creating things with electronic tools may develop stronger interest and In partnership with Girl Rising and UNESCO, Intel also released a new gender policy skills in computer science and engineering. As such, Intel supports maker programs brief and toolkit in 2014 with materials that guide policymakers in workshops on aimed at building creative confidence in children through hands-on learning activities. gender equality in education and ICT. Intel has also helped bring the film to leading For more information, visit the Intel Maker web site. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 72 Table of Contents 2 Connecting Women to Opportunity Through Technology Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship Introduction 3 In response to the Women and the Web Report published by Intel in 2013 to provide About This Report 4 Intel was founded by inventors, and the company’s continued greater insights into the Internet gender gap, Intel created the Intel® She Will Connect Letter from Our CEO 5 program. Using an innovative combination of digital literacy training, online peer existence depends on innovation and entrepreneurship. Our Our Business and Integrated networks, and gender-relevant content, the program will help young women acquire own history reinforces our belief that innovation is key to Value Approach 6 or improve digital literacy skills and expand their understanding of the benefits of the driving economic growth and improving social conditions. Caring for Our People 29 Internet so that they can connect to new information and opportunities. The program is We are passionate about fostering entrepreneurship in communities around the world Caring for the Planet 44 beginning in Sub-Saharan Africa, where the Internet gender gap is the greatest, with the and advancing innovation to address global challenges. To do so, we collaborate with Inspiring the Next Generation 66 goal of reaching 5 million women in the region. governments, educators, NGOs, and industry to invest in programs and initiatives aimed Management Approach 67 at inspiring and providing education and critical skills for young entrepreneurs, so that During 2014, Intel worked to put in place foundational program elements, including the Stories of Impact Around creation of a partner ecosystem of global and local NGOs and governments to support they can address community issues and create sustainable enterprises. Descriptions the Globe 68 implementation and scaling. This included the launch of the Women and the Web of a few of these programs follow. Education Transformation 69 Alliance which brings together Intel, USAID, NetHope, World Pulse, World Vision, UN Entrepreneurship curricula and university seminars. Intel partners with educators Empowering Girls Women, and Women in Technology in Nigeria to support activities to close the gender and governments to develop curricula, training, workshops, and leadership seminars and Women 71 Internet gap in Kenya and Nigeria. Intel also began developing new technology training that encourage entrepreneurship teaching, culture, and learning. For example, the Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship 72 tools, including a first-of-its kind online learning platform to be launched in 2015, which Intel® Learn Program provides opportunities for children in underserved communities Health and Life Sciences 74 innovates around the delivery of digital literacy training and skills application. to acquire technology literacy, problem-solving, critical thinking, collaboration, and Empowering Our People 75 The Intel Foundation is also working with Ashoka to sponsor eight Ashoka Fellows who entrepreneurship skills. The program extends learning beyond classrooms to informal Performance Summary are using technology to solve social challenges faced by women. The fellows are working environments in community centers. Intel Learn includes over 90 hours of project-based and Goals 77 curricula designed to tap into children’s interest in their communities. Since its launch in on social entrepreneurship programs in Brazil, India, Turkey, the U.S., Nigeria, Ireland, and Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Kenya on topics such as expanding banking access and mobile banking, connecting rural 2003, the program has reached more than 2 million learners in 20 countries. Respecting Human Rights 91 farmers to e-commerce opportunities, expanding technology skills for students through The Intel Learn Easy Steps digital literacy course is designed for youth and adults in Appendix 96 coding and hackathons, and increasing the number of women in STEM careers. developing countries who have little or no computer experience. Participants learn basic skills that can prepare them to participate in the digital world and increase economic opportunities. The course is deployed through partnerships with NGOs and governments, and has reached more than 3.4 million learners in 35 countries over the past three years. For more information, visit the Intel Learn web site. Through the Intel® She Will Connect program and other digital empowerment initiatives, Intel is empowering millions of women to connect to a range of new 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report opportunities through technology. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 73 Table of Contents 2 Entrepreneurship and business plan competitions. Intel invests in local and regional Introduction 3 business plan competitions to support entrepreneurship education and encourage About This Report 4 young people to develop the skills they need to enter the workforce. The Intel Business As young scientists in training, the Letter from Our CEO 5 Challenge Europe, for example, helps young people bring their business ideas to life founders of Lab4U—winners of the 2014 Our Business and Integrated through professional and entrepreneurial skills development. With the support of Intel® Global Challenge—experienced Value Approach 6 over 50 institutional partners, the 2014 program reached 2 million young people in 37 firsthand the impact on learning when their classrooms lacked enough Caring for Our People 29 European countries. equipment for all students to gain Caring for the Planet 44 The Intel® Global Challenge (IGC) technology entrepreneurship competition has also hands-on experience. As a result, this Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Chilean startup develops technologies supported and promoted entrepreneurship in countries around the world for 10 years. to turn cell phones into pocket-sized Management Approach 67 The program, a collaborative effort between Intel and UC Berkeley, has given participants labs. Their design uses built-in mobile Stories of Impact Around peer support, practical resources, and a means to gain exposure to venture capitalists, sensors to enable students to conduct the Globe 68 experiments and a crowd-learning Web governments, NGOs, universities, and others. Although we continue to fund other Education Transformation 69 platform to prepare, analyze and share entrepreneurship and business plan competitions, 2014 was the last year of the IGC Empowering Girls lab results. The goal: to improve science program. For more information, visit the Intel® Global Challenge web site. education and democratize science by and Women 71 delivering low-cost educational solutions. Social Innovation Ideation workshops. The Intel® Youth Enterprise Program helps high school and and Entrepreneurship 72 undergraduate students develop ideation and innovation skills by giving them Health and Life Sciences 74 opportunities to work on solving social problems. For more information, visit the Make it wearable. Intel launched the global Make It Wearable challenge in early 2014 to Empowering Our People 75 Intel Youth Enterprise Program web site. fuel innovation around wearable technologies. The contest featured expert mentorship, Performance Summary Maker initiatives. Intel is a founding sponsor of the Maker Education Initiative along with business development, and $1.3 million in cash prizes, and was aimed at spurring young and Goals 77 Maker Media, Pixar, and Cognizant. The initiative aims to create more opportunities for people to become entrepreneurs and inventors. The 2014 grand prize winner, Nixie, was Supply Chain Responsibility 78 young people to develop confidence, creativity, and interest in STEM subjects, art, and awarded $500,000 for developing the first wearable camera that can fly. The second Respecting Human Rights 91 learning as a whole through making. prize winner, Open Bionics, won $200,000 for using low-cost, high-efficiency 3-D Appendix 96 Intel also drives its own Start Making! STEM initiative, which aims to build creative printing and scanning to bring customized products to amputees. For more information, confidence and excitement in children through education around circuits, coding, read the press release. and making. Through the program, deployed in conjunction with the Intel Computer Based on the success of the challenge, Intel will premier an expanded Make it Wearable Clubhouse Network, Intel introduces hands-on learning activities that can be replicated program in late 2015. at home or in the classroom using readily available electronics kits, software tools, and everyday household materials. For more information, visit the Intel Maker web site. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 74 Table of Contents 2 Health and Life Sciences technology captures 300 measurements per second to help researchers better Introduction 3 understand how symptoms such as tremors may be associated with other factors About This Report 4 With innovative thinking and people-centered research, such as medication changes. Letter from Our CEO 5 Intel leads the industry to deliver better experiences for As computing technology increasingly enables treatments individualized for patients, Our Business and Integrated patients and those who care for them. it becomes more essential to rethink some of the laws and regulations governing Value Approach 6 Intel technology provides a computing foundation to help move healthcare into a new genetic information. Intel has partnered with the Biotechnology Industry Organization, Caring for Our People 29 era of improved quality, affordability, and access for billions of people worldwide. Our the European Alliance for Personalised Medicine, and the Bipartisan Policy Center Caring for the Planet 44 life sciences team works with leading global institutions to accelerate the benefits of to identify and address issues of data sharing, privacy, consent, reimbursement, and Inspiring the Next Generation 66 precision medicine by enabling secure and more rapid sequencing and analysis of technology standards that must be resolved to accelerate the use of genomics for Management Approach 67 massive amounts of genetic data. diagnosis and treatment. Stories of Impact Around the Globe 68 Healthcare Technology Solutions and Collaborations Global Initiatives and Alliances Education Transformation 69 Intel® architecture delivers performance, security, and seamless experiences that The Intel® 1Mx15 Health Program is a multi-year commitment Intel made to the Empowering Girls allow people to collaborate for better health. Our range of hardware-assisted security United Nations to enable technology access to 1 million healthcare workers in and Women 71 technologies helps protect personal health information and enables healthcare developing countries by 2015. This goal was achieved in 2014, with workers receiving Social Innovation organizations to maximize data sharing via public, private, and hybrid clouds. and Entrepreneurship 72 health training via PCs and tablets across China, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, Working with leading research centers such as the Broad Institute, the Francis Crick Tanzania, and other countries. Health and Life Sciences 74 Empowering Our People 75 Institute, and the Oregon Health & Science University, Intel has innovated nextIn Ghana, Intel provided technical support for a Ministry of Health-sponsored eLearning Performance Summary generation software to speed up human genome sequencing and analysis to give platform in midwifery schools. Nine eLearning course modules, funded by the UN and Goals 77 researchers and doctors faster access to information that can be used for precision Population Fund, were developed by Jhpiego, a non-profit affiliated with Johns Hopkins Supply Chain Responsibility 78 medicine treatments for people battling aggressive forms of cancer. So far, these University. As a result, Jhpiego was authorized to extend technology capability across all Respecting Human Rights 91 collaborations have led to performance improvements of as much as 970x.3 We envision 55 midwifery schools in the country. Appendix 96 that by 2020, we’ll be able to enable a technology solution that can sequence a cancer In 2015, we are partnering with Futures Group International, a key USAID and U.K. patient’s genome, identify the specific genes behind his or her cancer, and prescribe a Department for International Development implementing partner, as well as Ebix personalized treatment regimen designed to block the spread of cancer cells, all in one A.D.A.M., a pioneering healthcare software and content provider, to strengthen and day. Currently, this process can take a month or more at leading cancer centers. extend the use of this platform into the future. Intel has also worked with the Michael J. Fox Foundation on innovative studies Intel has also continued to invest in consumer wellness ecosystem development, using wearable sensors and big data analytics to study Parkinson’s disease. The including the Continua Health Alliance for health device interoperability and the Dossia Health Management System, a holistic wellness solution for health records management. 3 Optimization on the pairHMM kernel within the Broad Institute’s Genome Analysis Tool Kit* HaplotypeCaller* using 24 cores. Visit our Genome Analysis Tool Kit* web site for more information. For more information, visit the Intel Health and Life Sciences web site. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 75 Table of Contents 2 Empowering Our People 2014 Volunteerism by the Numbers Introduction 3 About This Report 4 One of Intel’s strategic focuses is to cultivate a workplace where Number of hours 1.25 Letter from Our CEO 5 employees can thrive on the job and in their communities. Number of countries 38 Our Business and Integrated Our employees give generously of their time, skills, and technology expertise, donating Percentage of employees who volunteered 39% Value Approach 6 more than 5.85 million hours of service over the past five years. Read about some of our Caring for Our People 29 employees’ 2014 volunteer efforts in the “Stories of Impact From Across the Globe map” Schools or nonprofits benefiting from the program 5,400 Caring for the Planet 44 earlier in this section. Total dollar match under Intel Involved Matching Grant Program $8.5 million Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Estimated in-kind value of volunteer hours1 $28.8 million Management Approach 67 Employee Giving Every year, we are inspired by the generosity of our employees, who, in addition to For historical volunteer data and goals, download the Report Data File on the Report Builder Stories of Impact Around web site. the Globe 68 volunteering their time, contribute to food, clothing, school supplies, and holiday gift Education Transformation 69 1 Based on the 2014 Value of Volunteer Time rate of $23.07 per hour, published by Independent Sector. drives, and donate millions of dollars to their communities. Through the annual Intel Empowering Girls Community Giving Campaign in the U.S., employees and retirees make contributions to and Women 71 nonprofit organizations that are matched (up to $7.5 million) with Intel Foundation funds have increasingly found opportunities to donate the skills that they have honed at Social Innovation to the United Way. The 2014 campaign generated close to $15.9 million in employee and Intel—providing legal, human resources, marketing, finance, and IT expertise to schools, and Entrepreneurship 72 nonprofits, and NGOs. During 2014, employees logged an estimated 234,000 hours retiree donations. With the Intel Foundation match, the total contribution was more than Health and Life Sciences 74 of skills-based volunteerism. We believe that the impact of these hours is particularly $23.4 million. Intel’s is one of the largest United Way corporate campaigns in the U.S., Empowering Our People 75 and we have received numerous recognitions from local United Way organizations for significant, in part because the services provided are those for which schools and Performance Summary our commitment. nonprofits would have to pay higher rates in the marketplace. Our Legal team, for and Goals 77 example, donated over 6,300 hours in 2014, estimated to be valued at $1.5 million. 4 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 The Intel Foundation also has a Matching Gifts to Education program through which 50% of each donation that a U.S. employee makes to an accredited school can be Our internal research also demonstrates the business value of employees who are Respecting Human Rights 91 matched by a grant of up to $5,000 per institution. engaged in our Intel Involved volunteer program. In 2014, we aligned several questions Appendix 96 in our annual volunteer impact survey with our company-wide Organizational Health Intel Involved and Skills-Based Volunteering Survey, and compared the responses of those who volunteered with those who did not. Our global corporate volunteer program, Intel Involved, identifies opportunities for After controlling for the effects of employee age, length of service, gender, ethnicity, individual volunteers and organizes team projects. Our employees generously donate employment status, job type, and employees’ most recent performance review, we their energy and professional skills to tackle environmental challenges, improve found that employees who volunteered through Intel Involved reported higher levels education, and help meet other community needs. In recent years, our employees of commitment to Intel than those who did not volunteer. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 4 Based on a $250 per-hour rate from CECP and the Taproot Foundation. www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 76 Table of Contents 2 Through the Intel Involved Matching Grant Program (IIMGP), the Intel Foundation extends Intel Involved Hero Award Program. We extend the impact of Intel volunteers’ efforts Introduction 3 the impact of volunteerism by donating cash to qualified nonprofits and schools where and recognize their extraordinary achievements and impact through this award. The About This Report 4 Intel employees and retirees donate at least 20 hours of service in a year. In 2014, the annual overall winner of this honor earns a $10,000 Intel Foundation grant for his or Letter from Our CEO 5 Intel Foundation paid out more than $8.2 million in matching grants for schools and her favorite school or nonprofit and is recognized at Intel’s highest level recognition Our Business and Integrated nonprofits, bringing total contributions to $42.2 million over the past five years. event, the Intel Achievement Award banquet. The 2014 winner was Greg Lewis, who Value Approach 6 has spent every Saturday for eight years leading a STEM program for middle-school Intel also offers a variety of targeted programs designed to help engage employees Caring for Our People 29 kids from underprivileged backgrounds. He also coordinates a scholars program that and retirees in service to communities around the world. Descriptions of a few of these Caring for the Planet 44 guides high school students through the college admission and financial aid process. His programs follow. Inspiring the Next Generation 66 commitment and guidance have enabled hundreds of students to develop the skills and Intel Education Service Corps (IESC). The IESC program harnesses our employees’ confidence to excel in school and pursue their dreams of going to college. Management Approach 67 enthusiasm for volunteerism while advancing Intel’s commitment to connect people to Stories of Impact Around Intel Mentoring and Planning Services (MAPS). Employees leverage their finethe Globe 68 their potential through technology solutions in education, health, agriculture, and other tuned professional skills in process improvement, strategic planning, marketing, Lean* Education Transformation 69 applications. IESC volunteers train for at least a month, and then travel to developing principles, and risk management to help nonprofits and government agencies achieve countries to help deploy Intel-based technology, train end users, support ecosystems, Empowering Girls operational excellence. In 2014, for example, the MAPS team built a new mobile-friendly, and Women 71 and bring back insights from the field. In the process, they help Intel build loyalty with easy-to-use web site for a children’s mental health center in Austin, Texas, saving the Social Innovation ministries of education and other customers and partners. organization thousands of dollars in web developer fees. and Entrepreneurship 72 Since 2009, IESC volunteers have donated skilled labor worth $8.1 million to 79 projects Health and Life Sciences 74 Sustainability in Action Grant Program. This program provides funding and support in 21 countries.5 They have helped deploy more than 3,800 devices at 400 schools, Empowering Our People 75 for multidisciplinary teams of employees who initiate and carry out environmentallyorphanages, community centers, mobile labs, and other locations, and have directly Performance Summary focused service projects. In 2014, grants were awarded for employee projects related to trained 1,500 teachers and 12,800 students. We estimate that another 2,400 teachers and Goals 77 solar power, water conservation, raising honeybees, promoting bike sharing, and more. and 89,000 students have benefited indirectly from their support. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 For more information, see the Caring for the Planet section of this report. Respecting Human Rights 91 Intel Involved Matching Seed Grants Program. Employees can apply for funding Intel Code for Good. This program aims to tackle society’s most pressing problems by Appendix 96 from the Intel Foundation to launch their own creative volunteer initiatives. The Intel connecting nonprofit organizations with software expertise. Code for Good volunteers— Foundation awards grants of up to $5,000 to underwrite selected employee-initiated including students, Intel employees, and other software developers—work with community service projects. Projects are selected based on their originality, potential nonprofit organizations to define and develop applications or web tools that otherwise impact, and expected outcomes. In 2014, 22 grants were awarded to projects in 12 might be challenging for a nonprofit to afford. For more information, visit the Code for countries. Employee projects included launching an after-school Young Makers Club Good web site. in Oregon, planting an urban forest in India, and creating a mobile science education lab in Russia. 5 B ased on a senior IT professional per-hour rate from the Taproot Foundation. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Inspiring the Next Generation 77 Table of Contents 2 Performance Summary and Goals Introduction 3 In 2014, we continued to demonstrate our commitment to education transformation, inclusion and empowerment, entrepreneurship, and social innovation through our targeted About This Report 4 programs and initiatives. We also continued to encourage our employees to give back to have a positive impact on the communities where we live and work. Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Goals and Performance Value Approach 6 Caring for Our People 29 2014 Goals 2014 Performance Caring for the Planet 44 Through the Intel® She Will Connect program, reduce the Internet gender gap by In 2014, we began to develop key foundational elements of the program Inspiring the Next Generation 66 50% in Sub-Saharan Africa by 2016. including the partner ecosystem and digital literacy training activities, and began work on a new online learning platform. Based on learnings and stakeholder Management Approach 67 input during the first year of the program, we decided to redesign certain Stories of Impact Around program components to drive greater social impact and to extend the timeline the Globe 68 for reaching our goal to 2020. Education Transformation 69 Provide ICT training to 1 million healthcare workers in developing countries by We achieved our goal in 2014, reaching 1 million healthcare workers in China, Empowering Girls the end of 2015 through the Intel World Ahead 1Mx15 Health Program. Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, and Tanzania. and Women 71 Achieved Partially Achieved or on Track Not Met Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship 72 Health and Life Sciences 74 In 2015, we will work toward our ambitious Intel She Will Connect goal of reaching 5 million in Sub-Saharan Africa by 2020. Empowering Our People 75 Performance Summary Goals for 2015 and Beyond and Goals 77 Through the Intel® She Will Connect program, reach 5 million women in Sub-Saharan Africa by 2020. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Table of Contents 2 Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Supply Chain Caring for Our People 29 Caring for the Planet 44 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Responsibility Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Management Approach 79 Assessment and Audit Summary 83 Supplier Environmental Impact 85 Intel has one of the world’s most complex, technologically advanced supply chains. We hold the many suppliers with whom we do Conflict-Free Products 87 business accountable for operating with the same high standards that we expect of ourselves. We communicate our expectations Supplier Diversity 88 Performance Summary clearly, work to identify and address issues at the system level, and share our findings and best practices across the industry. Through and Goals 90 Respecting Human Rights 91 accountability and transparency, we are raising the social and environmental performance bar for companies around the globe. Appendix 96 PASS In 2014, we completed 123 on-site We successfully introduced our Through collaboration with We are working with WEConnect In 2014, we set a goal to validate supplier audits covering ethics, PASS program to over 100 of our logistics suppliers, we have International to increase spending that all of our products are DRC labor, and environmental, health, our suppliers in 2014 and will reduced our transportationwith women-owned businesses in conflict-free for tin, tantalum, and safety factors. expand our reach to a broader related carbon footprint by countries around the world. tungsten, and gold beginning segment of our supply chain in approximately 66 million tons in 2016. the coming year. since 2011. Access the Report Builder Key Section Links Performance Summary and Goals Intel Supply Chain Responsibility Intel Human Rights Principles Intel Statement on Human Trafficking and Slavery 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility Intel Supplier Site Intel Code of Conduct Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Intel and Conflict-Free Products < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 79 Table of Contents 2 Management Approach 2014 Supplier Spends by Region Introduction 3 About This Report 4 We strive to reduce Intel’s supplier-related environmental and Letter from Our CEO 5 social footprint while maintaining a technologically advanced, Europe, Middle East, 26% Our Business and Integrated cost-effective, resilient, and reliable supply chain. Africa Value Approach 6 Our multi-tiered supply chain comprises more than 16,000 suppliers in over 100 Asia Pacific 33% Caring for Our People 29 countries. Suppliers provide direct materials for our production processes, tools and Caring for the Planet 44 machines for our factories, logistics and packaging services, and non-production office Americas 41% Inspiring the Next Generation 66 materials and travel services. We focused our initial supplier management efforts on our Supply Chain Responsibility 78 “Tier 1” suppliers1 to drive maximum impact, while continuing to advance accountability Management Approach 79 and improve performance across our entire supply chain. A list of our top 75 production The geographic breakdown of our supplier spends in 2014 was similar to that of 2013; in 2013, 46% were in the Americas, 34% in the Asia-Pacific region, and 20% in Europe, Middle East, Assessment and materials, capital, and logistics suppliers is available in the Appendix of this report. and Africa. Audit Summary 83 Supplier Environmental Our Philosophy and Management Practices Impact 85 We believe that integrating corporate responsibility factors into our supply chain Intel’s Supply Chain Responsibility Oversight Structure Conflict-Free Products 87 management systems creates business value for Intel and our customers by helping us Supplier Diversity 88 to: improve the quality and reduce the environmental impact of our products; achieve + Board of Directors, Performance Summary our operational 2020 environmental goals by working with suppliers on factory tool CEO Corporate Governance, and Goals 90 and Nominating Committee selection and “green” chemistry; and improve the overall quality, ethics, transparency, Respecting Human Rights 91 and accountability of companies in our global supply chain. Appendix 96 + Resiliency and Reliability. With sites and suppliers all over the world, Intel must be Sustainability Committee prepared to respond quickly to a wide range of disasters, while also working proactively with suppliers to optimize risk. A combination of assessments, audits, and capability+ building programs help to ensure that our supply chain is both resilient and responsible. Cross Supply Chain Decision Forum Where appropriate, we also enlist the help of others to effect broader change throughout the industry. + Supply Chain Supplier Managers Business Units Sustainability Team We maintain an integrated and horizontal approach to managing sustainability issues in our 1 “Tier 1” suppliers refers to our top ~250 suppliers that are actively managed based on our spends and/or their supply chain. Our crisis management function is embedded across all levels of our supply chain strategic importance to Intel. management structure. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 80 Table of Contents 2 Intel Crisis Management (ICM) handles our end-to-end response to crises and major Intel’s Supply Chain Responsibility Approach Introduction 3 business disruption events. ICM sets the standards and provides oversight for our emergency management and business continuity programs across Intel. Every mission About This Report 4 + + Letter from Our CEO 5 and business critical function at Intel is required to embed business continuity into their Setting Clear Building Expectations Skills and Our Business and Integrated core business practices. We also expect that our suppliers develop, manage, and regularly Capabilities Value Approach 6 test their own business continuity plans. For more information, see the Our Business and Caring for Our People 29 Integrated Value Approach section of this report. + + Caring for the Planet 44 Industry Collaboration. We actively participate in a number of external supply chainSelecting a TRANSPARENCY Exiting New Supplier a Supplier Inspiring the Next Generation 66 related organizations, including the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). Intel Supply Chain Responsibility 78 representatives serve on the EICC board and various committees that work to advance Management Approach 79 improvements throughout the industry, including the development of audit processes, + + Recognizing Holding Assessment and third-party anti-corruption due diligence questions, membership compliance, and tools and Rewarding Suppliers Audit Summary 83 Performance Accountable to track assessment data and emissions information. Supplier Environmental Click or tap the + symbol for additional information. Impact 85 We have also worked with SEMATECH, Semiconductor Equipment and Materials Conflict-Free Products 87 International (SEMI), and other industry organizations to help set environmental, health, We have integrated CSR considerations and criteria across all stages of supplier management-from design and tool selection to addressing issues and taking corrective action. The foundation of our Supplier Diversity 88 and safety standards and drive improvements across the sector. approach is our commitment to promote higher levels of transparency in our reporting and our supply chain. Performance Summary and Goals 90 Setting Clear Expectations Respecting Human Rights 91 In 1998, Intel first codified its expectations of suppliers regarding human resources, Human Rights Principles, Conflict Minerals Sourcing Policy, and other corporate Appendix 96 environmental management, worker safety, and business ethics. Our request-for-proposal governance and business ethics documents are available on our Governance and Ethics documents and other supplier selection processes include corporate responsibility web site. For more information, see the Respecting Human Rights section of this report. metrics and questions. We also include language in our contracts about our expectations We communicate our supplier legal compliance and business ethics expectations for suppliers on corporate responsibility issues. throughout the year in meetings, training events, and our supplier Annual Expectations In 2004, we helped form the EICC and adopted the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct letter, as well as on our Supplier Site. Each year, our senior executives send letters to our (EICC Code), which is consistent with Intel’s own Code of Conduct and Human Rights suppliers to reinforce our expectations. We provide ethics training materials in multiple Principles. We expect our employees and suppliers to comply with the EICC Code, which languages, including Chinese, English, Japanese, Russian, Spanish, and Vietnamese. describes best practices adopted and implemented by major electronics companies, our customers, and their supply chains. We also expect our suppliers to ensure that their suppliers abide by the EICC Code. Intel's EICC Commitment Letter, Code of Conduct, 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 81 Table of Contents 2 Suppliers are expected to conduct their business in compliance with anti-corruption legal industry standards. In the spirit of transparency, we have begun integrating several GRI Introduction 3 requirements, including written acknowledgment of anti-corruption due diligence and indicators into our PASS program requirements for our Tier 1 suppliers. To date, more About This Report 4 training, as required. Suppliers are also expected to maintain robust internal reporting than 75% of the program participants are meeting all of the PASS requirements, and we Letter from Our CEO 5 channels and to report any legal compliance or business ethics concerns to Intel, so that will continue to expand the reach of this program to our strategic suppliers. Our Business and Integrated we can investigate and take appropriate action. Reporting can be done through several Intel’s PASS program is transforming our supplier engagement strategy to one that Value Approach 6 channels, in English or a local language. includes more collaborative two-way discussion on the proactive steps suppliers can Caring for Our People 29 We expect our suppliers to develop their own corporate responsibility strategies and take to build internal capacity and significantly improve their performance over time. Caring for the Planet 44 policies, establish robust legal compliance and business ethics policies and processes, Inspiring the Next Generation 66 We also hold ourselves accountable to meet or exceed the same standards that we set set aggressive goals, engage with and audit their own suppliers, and report on their for our suppliers, and audit ourselves to the same standards. For more information, read Supply Chain Responsibility 78 performance. Setting these expectations is critical to increasing the overall maturity of the Respecting Human Rights section of the report. Management Approach 79 the entire supply chain, as some of our suppliers have thousands of their own suppliers. Assessment and Audit Summary 83 Building Skills and Capabilities Holding Suppliers Accountable Supplier Environmental We recognize that many supplier issues are symptoms of larger systemic problems that We use a variety of tools and processes to manage supplier performance, including the Impact 85 may require significant upgrades to management systems, improved role modeling by Supplier Report Card (SRC). The SRC includes metrics for sustainability, as well as for Conflict-Free Products 87 senior management, and changes in business and company culture. cost, quality, technology, and customer satisfaction. Within the sustainability category, Supplier Diversity 88 We provide infrastructure, direction, and tools to measure results and help suppliers suppliers are evaluated according to the EICC Code of Conduct risk assessment, financial Performance Summary improve their performance and reduce our environmental impact. We also provide sustainability, and public transparency of their own environmental, labor, or human and Goals 90 rights performance. In 2014, 76% of our top 75 suppliers that were evaluated received a training, manpower, and other learning and improvement opportunities for our suppliers. Respecting Human Rights 91 perfect score on the corporate responsibility criteria in the SRC, up from 55% in 2013. A description of a few of these programs follows. Appendix 96 Assessments and audits are also an integral part of our overall supplier management Supplier Sustainability Leadership Summit. In September 2014, we held our third process. They help us identify compliance gaps where immediate action is needed, Supplier Sustainability Leadership Summit in Shanghai, China, bringing together and root causes that enable development of systemic solutions and improvements. nearly 200 senior executives from more than 75 of our strategic suppliers, as well as Environmental, social, and governance criteria are incorporated in Intel’s Quality government officials, academia, leading non-governmental organizations (NGOs), press, Assessment audits to drive closer integration with other supplier management processes and representatives from other industries. In addition to reinforcing and clarifying our and achieve broader reach. For more information, see “Assessment and Audit Summary” supplier expectations, the summit allows our suppliers to collaborate and share their later in this section. challenges and best practices through interactive small-group breakout sessions and panels on issues such as better working hours management, sustainability reporting, Our Program to Accelerate Supplier Sustainability (PASS) focuses on improving supplier environmental management, and health and safety. systems through more stringent requirements related to compliance, transparency, and capability-building. It builds on our existing accountability tools and processes, as well as 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 82 Table of Contents 2 Our analysis shows that the sustainability performance of our Chinese suppliers CASE STUDY: NIDEC CORPORATION Introduction 3 who attended the summit was better than the sustainability performance of those In 2014, Nidec Corporation, one of our Top 75 About This Report 4 who did not attend; overall, summit attendees had 26% fewer EICC audit priority suppliers, worked with ELEVATE to address Letter from Our CEO 5 and major findings. working hours management challenges at its 1,600 worker factory in Shaoguan, China. Our Business and Integrated Online Learning and Development. In 2014, we launched an interactive online learning ELEVATE and Nidec conducted a root cause Value Approach 6 environment for our suppliers. Nearly 500 registered users, 75% of which are based analysis that revealed three primary drivers Caring for Our People 29 for overtime: a shortage of workers, seasonal in Asia, from more than 200 of our strategic suppliers, attended 16 webinars in both Caring for the Planet 44 employee turnover, and fluctuation of English and Mandarin. The webinars, which are also available on demand for replay, Inspiring the Next Generation 66 customer demand. covered topics such as: preventing forced labor in the supply chain, transparency Supply Chain Responsibility 78 To address these issues, Nidec set strict expectations and best practices, environmental management, and successful working working hours policies, deployed more Management Approach 79 hours case studies. stringent controls in its production plans, Assessment and increased factory automation, improved Audit Summary 83 Improving Factory Performance Through Better Working Hours Management. We production plan accuracy, implemented longer engaged supply chain sustainability consultant ELEVATE to work closely with 15 of our “Nidec has been the model for factory lead times, and communicated the importance Supplier Environmental Impact 85 suppliers in China as part of a year-long engagement to holistically address working improvement initiatives. The factory of these policies and changes to employees hours management. The engagement is a mix of assessment, face-to-face collaboration has demonstrated a willingness to and managers. As a result, Nidec increased its Conflict-Free Products 87 look beyond compliance and that first compliance level from 79% to 100%, and has Supplier Diversity 88 in a workshop environment, and additional interaction at the supplier factory sites with step is all important.” been able to maintain a 100% working hours Performance Summary human resources, planning, and operations managers. compliance level over time. and Goals 90 —Steve Warren, The process evaluates the topic of working hours management holistically and drives ELEVATE Project Lead Nidec’s strong commitment to a holistic Respecting Human Rights 91 approach to managing working hours has deep root-cause analysis, which enables factories to define and implement changes that Appendix 96 “Our collaboration with Intel and also resulted in additional business benefits. result in positive business value, not simply working hours compliance. The results to Increasing open dialogue and collecting date have been positive and the program continues into 2015. ELEVATE has helped us make employee feedback, simplifying complex improvements in working hours as production processes, and hosting social Preventing Forced Labor. In 2014, we worked with the non-profit organization Verité well as overall factory performance events for employees and their families have to deliver two different face-to-face workshops in Malaysia on preventing forced and employee work environment and led to higher productivity, increased worker labor in the supply chain. Suppliers and their labor agents learned about EICC Code satisfaction. We value this opportunity satisfaction, and improved retention rates. requirements, best practices for ensuring strong compliance, and closing process to learn more and create positive The progress that Nidec and ELEVATE gaps in the way foreign workers are hired and managed. changes within our factory.” have made working together clearly — Kazuya Shigemori, demonstrates the importance of factory Vice President, Nidec Shaoguan leadership commitment and comprehensive “Now I know about foreign workers’ risk, and hence I can management of labor issues in the electronics focus on doing the self-check and work on the controls supply chain. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report and corrective actions.” www.intel.com/responsibility —Preventing Forced Labor Workshop Attendee < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 83 Table of Contents 2 Recognizing and Rewarding Performance Risk-Based Approach to Supplier Assessments Introduction 3 We provide regular feedback to suppliers on their achievements and progress. To 1 About This Report 4 Self-Assessment: Intel requests feedback on a set of 20-50 questions reinforce our expectations, we also integrate corporate responsibility considerations for new suppliers to determine whether a supplier or a specific supplier Letter from Our CEO 5 into our supplier awards and Supplier Continuous Quality Improvement (SCQI) Program. facility is of potential high-risk. Our Business and Integrated 2 Started in 1987, the SCQI Program uses Intel’s supplier management tools and processes Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ): Each year, all of our targeted Value Approach 6 to drive improvements in our suppliers’ performance. Our suppliers receive regular strategic suppliers complete the EICC SAQ, an in-depth, online questionnaire Caring for Our People 29 with more than 300 questions that determines a facility’s high-risk areas and feedback through the supplier assessment process and supplier site visits. Suppliers potential gaps to the EICC Code that should be addressed by the supplier. Caring for the Planet 44 that have demonstrated outstanding performance are awarded either SCQI, Preferred 3 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Audit: In addition to completing an SAQ, all high-risk suppliers must Quality Supplier (PQS) status, or the Supplier Achievement Award based on SRC results. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 undergo either an on-site audit using qualified third-party auditors To be eligible for the awards, suppliers must meet PASS requirements related to overall following the EICC Validated Audit Process (VAP), or an on-site audit Management Approach 79 sustainability compliance, transparency, and capability-building, as well as cost, quality, specialized according to risk and compliance concerns for a particular Assessment and availability, delivery, and technology. supplier or facility and completed by a qualified Intel auditor. Results Audit Summary 83 from audits that follow the VAP, and targeted audit results are valid for For more information about the awards and a list of recent SCQI and PQS winners, four years from the date of the audit. Supplier Environmental Impact 85 visit our Supplier Quality Portal. After the audit is completed, any required corrective action plans are put in place. Conflict-Free Products 87 Supplier Diversity 88 Assessment and Audit Summary Cumulative Supplier Facilities Covered by Valid Audits Performance Summary and Goals 90 Assessments and audits are integral parts of our overall supplier 350 Respecting Human Rights 91 management process. They help us identify compliance gaps 300 Supplier facilities covered by valid SUPPLIER FACILITIES Appendix 96 where immediate action is needed, and root causes that enable 250 172 other on-site audits development of systemic solutions and improvements. 200 126 Our assessments and audits cover more than 400 ethics; labor; and environmental, 150 health, and safety factors. We use an industry-standard, risk-based approach to prioritize 100 54 Supplier facilities 113 covered by valid our audits. When serious concerns are identified through an audit, we work with the 50 EICC VAP audits 51 8 49 48 supplier to drive improvements in its management systems and controls. Audit results 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and corrective action plans are reviewed with senior management on a quarterly basis to assess progress. If suppliers do not make adequate progress on identified areas of Each year, we conduct targeted supplier audits which we consider valid for four years. We work to increase the total number of supplier facilities that are covered by valid audits. In concern, we take remedial actions up to and including termination of their contracts. some instances, facilities may have been audited with both EICC VAP and other on-site audits, which include Intel-led targeted audits and quality assessments that include CSR criteria. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 84 Table of Contents 2 On-site audits completed in 2014 were conducted by a mix of third parties and Intel On-Site Supplier Audits Conducted Introduction 3 personnel. They included first-time audits for some sites, reviews of prior third-party audits, re-audits, and targeted audits focused on specific topics or conducted in 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 response to known concerns. Third-party audit firms2 perform the audits, which follow EICC VAP audits1 8 49 39 38 27 the standard EICC Validated Audit Process (VAP), and suppliers may share the audit Our Business and Integrated Other on-site audits2 – – 67 104 96 Value Approach 6 results with other customers and companies in our industry. More than half of the 27 Caring for Our People 29 third-party audits conducted in 2014 were in China and Taiwan, followed by greater Asia Total on-site audits 8 49 106 142 123 Caring for the Planet 44 and the Americas. Other on-site audits included targeted area audits and quality audits Over the past five years, we have completed or reviewed more than 400 on-site audits of our Inspiring the Next Generation 66 incorporating environmental, social, and governance elements. The decrease in total suppliers. We also conduct “conflict minerals” audits, which are not included in this table. For more information, see “Conflict-Free Products” later in this section. number of audits conducted in 2014 reflects the four year lifespan of the audit, as well Supply Chain Responsibility 78 as our refined risk-based approach. 1  Total includes on-site third-party audits completed, as well as reviews of third-party audits completed using Management Approach 79 the EICC VAP. 2 Including Intel-led targeted audits on specific topics and quality assessments that include CSR criteria. Assessment and Audit Summary 83 Audit Findings and Gap Closure Process Supplier Environmental Audit findings are divided into three categories: priority, major, and minor. With some Priority/Major Audit Findings by Category Impact 85 compliance issues, we require immediate corrective action due to the severity, such as Conflict-Free Products 87 finding locked emergency exit doors. We work with our suppliers to close other findings 140 Supplier Diversity 88 within time frames specified by industry standards. 120 Performance Summary Suppliers are required to draft comprehensive corrective action plans to address all 100 and Goals 90 findings, and we work with them to secure documentation of actions taken and ensure 80 Respecting Human Rights 91 Labor closure. We have a Management Review Committee dedicated to reviewing gap closure 60 Occupational Health Appendix 96 and Safety plans and closure evidence on a quarterly basis, or more frequently if needed. 40 Management Systems Ethics We are committed to investing resources and working directly with our suppliers to hold 20 Environmental them accountable for closing gaps and improving performance. We consider findings 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 closed when root causes are addressed and closure evidence is documented. For example, installing safeguards on a machine is not sufficient to close a finding; we require Over the past five years, the total number of priority and major audit findings by category has decreased. that procedures be updated so that when new equipment is installed, a process is in place to review machine hazards and add any needed safeguards. Most audit findings in 2014 were in the following areas: occupational health and safety (OHS), labor, and management systems. Most of the labor findings were related to working hour compliance. These categories of findings were consistent with the top 2 Auditors have either successfully completed the EICC Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSi) auditor training course or findings in 2012 and 2013. Since we began disclosing this data in 2011, the total number 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report achieved an Intel Quality Lead Assessor certification. www.intel.com/responsibility of findings has decreased. < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 85 Table of Contents 2 Supplier Targeted Action Plans Supplier Environmental Impact Introduction 3 When suppliers do not make sufficient or timely progress to address audit findings, or About This Report 4 their actions do not result in sustainable change, we require that they develop and obtain We aim to use products in our operations that have been Letter from Our CEO 5 Intel’s approval on “get well action plans.” Our goal when working with a supplier on designed and produced to minimize environmental impact. We Our Business and Integrated an action plan is for that supplier to address all findings, and we engage and monitor also work to reduce the environmental impact of the packaging Value Approach 6 the progress of the supplier until the issues are satisfactorily resolved. However, if and shipping of our products. To that end, we collaborate Caring for Our People 29 satisfactory progress is not made, we are prepared to take additional action, such as not with our suppliers on environmental management issues and Caring for the Planet 44 awarding new business until issues are resolved, placing the supplier on a “conditional integrate sustainable procurement best practices across our Inspiring the Next Generation 66 use” status, or ending the supplier relationship. global operations. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Several suppliers listed in the table below did not meet our supplier requirements, were Carbon and Water Footprinting. We include an environmental metric as part of the PASS Management Approach 79 required to develop “get well” action plans in 2014, and were restricted from receiving program requirements. However, the majority of our environmental footprint comes Assessment and any additional business. Several of these suppliers have now successfully resolved their Audit Summary 83 from our own operations, since we manufacture most of our products in our own factory issues, or are making satisfactory progress with Intel oversight and monitoring. We are network. For more information on how we are working to reduce the carbon and water Supplier Environmental encouraged by their progress made to date, and with continued sustained performance footprints related to our own manufacturing operations, see the Caring for the Planet Impact 85 we anticipate resuming new Intel business with them. section of this report. Conflict-Free Products 87 Supplier Diversity 88 Event Planning. Our procurement and event marketing teams work with our event 2014 Supplier Targeted Action Plan Summary Performance Summary suppliers to reduce the environmental impact of Intel events, including conferences, and Goals 90 Supplier/Division Status Area of Concern trade shows, and meetings. Step-by-step planning guides, training webinars, and Respecting Human Rights 91 Delta Electronics Thermals On track Labor mentorship support are available to help Intel event planners contribute to Intel’s Appendix 96 Flextronics1 On track Labor sustainability goals. Foxconn Enterprise Product1 On track Labor Our interactive “Event Sustainability Guide” provides Intel event planners with immediate Gemtek On track Labor, Occupational Health & Safety feedback on the impact of their decisions, including carbon, waste, and water savings. The platform, which includes an integrated rewards program that encourages better Lotes On track Labor choices, will enable us to further reduce our impact on the environment and achieve Nan Ya PCB Kunshan At risk Labor positive social and economic benefits. Quanta On track Labor While we do not measure the impact of all event-planning decisions, we verified that in Sanmina1 At risk Labor 2014, Intel event planners reduced potential carbon dioxide emissions by 1,287 metric TTM Technologies 1 On track Labor tons by reusing carpets and exhibits, eliminating bottled water, consolidating freight for 1 Suppliers under Conditional Use. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 86 Table of Contents 2 more efficient shipping, and recycling and composting at events. Source reduction of In 2014, we continued to focus on reduction of the carbon emissions from our Introduction 3 disposable event materials, as well as recycling and composting, helped reduce solid transportation and logistics network that supports shipments of products between About This Report 4 waste by 168 tons. In addition, 500,000 kWh of Renewable Energy Certificates were Intel sites and inbound/outbound shipments to suppliers and customers. Throughout Letter from Our CEO 5 purchased to offset conventional electricity usage at Intel events. the year, we faced several CO2 increases associated with the relocation of our Costa Our Business and Integrated Rica Assembly and Test site to Vietnam, and from congestion in West Coast U.S. ports. Product Packaging. In 2014, we continued to work with our logistics and packaging Value Approach 6 However, we made progress in CO2 reduction by reallocating freight to suppliers with suppliers to drive changes in the materials that we use to ship products between Caring for Our People 29 “greener” fleets, optimizing packaging, and increasing local sourcing. As a result of Intel sites and to our customers to reduce waste and environmental impact. Through Caring for the Planet 44 these efforts, we reduced our carbon footprint by approximately 66 million tons, a 20% engineering improvements and reductions in packaging size and materials, we reduced Inspiring the Next Generation 66 reduction compared to the 2011 baseline. We also continued our collaboration with the amount of paper and plastic by 293 tons in 2014. These actions also resulted in a Supply Chain Responsibility 78 leading “green” consortia and global environmental initiatives. In 2014, we joined the reduction of more than 119 metric tons of CO2 . Additionally, in 2014, we worked with our Global Logistics Emissions Council to work with key logistics players on an advanced Management Approach 79 corrugate and paper materials suppliers to source exclusively from sustainable resources. CO2 tracking methodology that is expected to become a single industry-recognized CO2 Assessment and Audit Summary 83 From 2010 through 2014, we reduced packaging and shipping materials by platform in the near future. approximately 1,200 tons, helping us eliminate more than 3,200 metric tons of CO2 Supplier Environmental Impact 85 emissions. In 2015, our teams will continue to drive reductions in packaging used in Conflict-Free Products 87 warehouse operations and customer returns, and to replace existing packaging with Supplier Diversity 88 more sustainable materials. Our long-term vision is to achieve 100% sustainable packaging for all inbound, outbound, and return shipments in support of Intel’s 2020 1,200 3,200 Performance Summary and Goals 90 waste reduction and recycling goals. Respecting Human Rights 91 Ground Transportation and Logistics. In 2012, we set an aggressive goal of achieving Appendix 96 a “100% green Intel ground transportation fleet”3 by 2016, which requires close TONS METRIC TONS of packaging and of CO2 emissions eliminated collaboration with our transportation and logistics suppliers. While approximately 70% shipping materials of our ground transportation fleet met our “green” requirements by the end of 2014, by reduced our estimates, we will not be able to reach the 100% “green” goal by 2016 due to local technology availability, implementation, and adoption rates. As such, we have adjusted our goal to establish a ground transportation fleet that is 85% “green” by 2016. In 2015, we will continue to encourage employee adoption of green transportation solutions in support of our 2016 goal, and will also encourage the broader adoption of electric vehicle charging stations in areas where our employees frequently travel. 3 Defined as all vehicles in the fleet having one or more of the following attributes: an average fuel economy of 35 mpg or better; being a hybrid, electric vehicle, or subject to another eco-label such as SmartWay; or being available for car sharing. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 87 Table of Contents 2 Conflict-Free Products Introduction 3 About This Report 4 We continue our work to establish responsible mineral sources Letter from Our CEO 5 for our products, our industry, and supply chains worldwide. Our Business and Integrated Many electronic devices, including cell phones, tablets, and PCs, contain tin, tantalum, Value Approach 6 tungsten, and gold, known as conflict minerals4 . Conflict minerals originating in the Learn more about our efforts to Caring for Our People 29 Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries are sometimes mined use conflict-free materials. Caring for the Planet 44 and sold under the control of armed groups who exploit low-paid mine workers while Inspiring the Next Generation 66 reaping millions of dollars in profits for themselves to fund violence, genocide, and Supply Chain Responsibility 78 other crimes against humanity. e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Extractives Working Group, and through our membership Management Approach 79 in and financial support of the Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI). We also initiated and Intel has worked for six years to validate the conflict minerals in our products are from Assessment and drove the formation of the CFSP Early-Adopters Fund, as well as the Initial Audit Fund, “conflict free5” sources. We achieved our 2013 goal of manufacturing microprocessors Audit Summary 83 which pays for the cost of a smelter’s initial audit costs after successfully completing the that are “conflict-free” for tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold, and in 2014 set a new goal Supplier Environmental CFSP audit and being found compliant. Impact 85 for all products to be conflict-free in 2016. Conflict-Free Products 87 Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in the DRC report that lives are already By February 2015, we had visited more than 91 smelters and refiners in 21 countries, Supplier Diversity 88 changing in the DRC: Miners’ wages are increasing, their working conditions are and 135 smelters and refiners were identified as compliant to the CFSP audit protocol Performance Summary improving, and armed groups are being replaced by hospitals and schools in or similar independent third-party audit program designed to validate the sourcing and Goals 90 mining communities. practices of smelters and refiners. There are still a number of smelters and refiners that Respecting Human Rights 91 are not yet compliant, and we are working with those in our supply chain to ensure they Appendix 96 Driving Accountability in the Electronics Supply Chain have the support needed to meet the CFSP requirements. From the time that Intel became aware of the potential for conflict minerals to enter Over the past several years, Intel has also helped convene a number of well-attended our supply chain, we responded with urgency to invest significant resources in industry meetings on conflict minerals and has partnered on events with other industries developing systems to validate the sources of minerals. and their associations—including the World Gold Council and the Responsible Jewellery We believe that effective solutions to this issue require coordinated efforts by Council—to share learnings from the CFSP audit program. We also believe that the U.S. governments, industry, and NGOs, and as such, have been an integral part of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) conflict mineral disclosure requirements, a development of the Conflict-Free Smelter Program (CFSP), the EICC and Global result of the U.S. Congress Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, have been helpful in bringing others to the table and maintaining broad 4 “Conflict minerals,” as defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), is a broad term that means tin, momentum on this issue. tantalum, tungsten, and gold, regardless of whether these minerals finance conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. 5 “Conflict free” and “conflict-free” means “DRC conflict free,” which is defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules to mean products that do not contain conflict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, and/or gold) that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report We also use the term “conflict-free” in a broader sense to refer to suppliers, supply chains, smelters, and refiners whose www.intel.com/responsibility sources of conflict minerals do not finance conflict in the DRC or adjoining countries. < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 88 Table of Contents 2 Supporting In-Region Sourcing Supplier Diversity Introduction 3 In addition to direct supply chain efforts, we support initiatives that enable About This Report 4 responsible in-region minerals trade from the DRC and adjoining countries. This We understand that working with a diverse supply chain brings Letter from Our CEO 5 support is important, because the controversies surrounding mining in the DRC increased innovation to our business and creates a more Our Business and Integrated and Central Africa have driven down demand, and have inadvertently had a responsive and competitive supply base. Through classroom Value Approach 6 negative economic impact on legitimate miners. and web-based training, we educate our worldwide procurement Caring for Our People 29 employees about global supplier diversity practices, policies, Intel continues to work with governments and NGOs to support legitimate minerals Caring for the Planet 44 suppliers, both independently and as part of the CFSI. For example, Intel is participating and inclusion. Inspiring the Next Generation 66 in the Solutions for Hope project to obtain tantalum from conflict-free sources in the We recognize diverse suppliers as businesses that are 51% owned and operated by at Supply Chain Responsibility 78 DRC that we believe meet Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development least one of the following: minorities as defined by the country where the business was Management Approach 79 (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals From Conflictestablished; women; veterans; service-disabled veterans; persons who are lesbian, gay, Assessment and Affected and High-Risk Areas. We also support the U.S. Department of State and U.S. bisexual, or transgender; or persons with a disability. Within the U.S., we also recognize Audit Summary 83 Agency for International Development Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals suppliers that are in Small Disadvantaged Enterprise, HUB Zone, and 8(a) categories, and Supplier Environmental Trade. These groups and others that we work with seek to establish paths for conflictare certified small as defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration. We estimate Impact 85 free sources and support for responsible mining in the region. that in the past eight years, Intel has derived more than $310 billion in revenue from Conflict-Free Products 87 Supplier Diversity 88 customers that require us to demonstrate supply chain diversity. Building Awareness Performance Summary Intel’s Second Tier Program supports our efforts to advance the development of a and Goals 90 In 2014, we have significantly increased our efforts to engage customers and other healthy, diverse supply chain by requiring our strategic suppliers to report their spending Respecting Human Rights 91 stakeholders in learning more about this important issue through our Conflict Minerals with diverse-owned businesses. Over the past three years, our strategic suppliers that web site and social media channels. Intel was the first company to file an audited Appendix 96 use diverse suppliers reported spending $657 million. conflict minerals report with the SEC in 2014 and concluded our Client Microprocessor and Chipsets products are DRC conflict free. In support of our “In Pursuit of ConflictIntel collaborates with a number of diversity organizations, such as the National Minority Free Minerals” campaign, we also began using a badge to identify Intel processors that Supplier Development Council and the National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce, are DRC conflict free. Even though we have achieved the milestone of manufacturing to help promote supplier diversity awareness, set global diversity certification standards, conflict-free microprocessors, we will continue our smelter visits, encourage participation and establish cross-industry diversity auditing policies and practices. We also participate in the CFSP and similar independent third-party smelter audits, membership in the CFSI, in events sponsored by local organizations dedicated to supplier diversity. and work with business partners, governments, and NGOs to address this issue and make faster and deeper strides toward conflict-free products worldwide. For a detailed overview of our journey to conflict-free, read our Conflict Minerals white paper. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 89 Table of Contents 2 In November 2014, we joined the United States Presidential SupplierPay initiative, of supplier diversity, and we have significantly increased our spending with existing Introduction 3 aimed at strengthening small business through commitments to pay small suppliers and new women-owned businesses in each of the nine countries where we have About This Report 4 faster. By committing to the voluntary initiative, launched in July 2014, we pledge to established programs. Letter from Our CEO 5 pay our small suppliers faster to reduce capital needs, share best practices around In May 2015, we made a commitment to increase our spending with diverse-owned Our Business and Integrated supporting small suppliers, and implement a solution that minimizes administrative suppliers. In 2014, we spent an estimated $150 million with diverse suppliers—our goal Value Approach 6 and operational burdens for our small suppliers. is to increase our annual spend with third-party certified diverse-owned businesses to Caring for Our People 29 We are also working with WEConnect International to increase spending with women$1 billion by 2020. In addition, we will work to develop more diverse-owned businesses Caring for the Planet 44 owned businesses outside the U.S. over the next several years, as a part of our 2013 in the technology industry, drive transparency around diversity spending, and encourage Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Clinton Global Initiative commitment. As of February 2015, we have established our suppliers to make diversity spending commitments. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 programs in China, India, Israel, Ireland, Kenya, Malaysia, Nigeria, South Africa, and For more information on our supplier diversity initiatives, visit our Supplier Diversity Management Approach 79 the U.K. to strengthen existing relationships with women business owners and develop web site. Assessment and and mentor new relationships. Workshops for our suppliers, procurement professionals, Audit Summary 83 and other stakeholder groups have helped us increase awareness about the benefits Supplier Environmental Impact 85 Conflict-Free Products 87 Supplier Diversity 88 Performance Summary SUPPLIER SPOTLIGHT: BANDA GROUP INTERNATIONAL and Goals 90 Respecting Human Rights 91 Former Intel employee Zeferino Banda and his company, Banda Group International (BGI), is a supplier success story. Banda worked for Intel at multiple U.S. locations and in Israel before deciding to launch his own consulting company. Appendix 96 Today BGI is a thriving company specializing in project management, technical support, and Environmental Health and Safety consulting services to companies of all sizes. BGI is a minority-owned business participating in the U.S. Small Business Administration’s 8(a) program and a registered Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) through the National Minority Supplier Development Council. The company also holds Veteran Owned and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise status. Banda’s work received recognition from Intel’s Supplier Diversity Program, and he was awarded a scholarship to attend a minority education program at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. After receiving significant value from the experience, he decided to send all of his senior managers “I would have never through the same course at his own expense. Banda stated, “I would have never known of the opportunity without Intel sending me there.” known of the opportunity without Intel sending me there.” 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Supply Chain Responsibility 90 Table of Contents 2 Performance Summary and Goals Introduction 3 Throughout 2014, we continued to drive accountability and systemic change in our supply chain. We successfully introduced our Program to Accelerate Supplier Sustainability (PASS) About This Report 4 to approximately 100 of our Tier 1 suppliers, and continued to collaborate with our suppliers around capability-building and reducing environmental impact. Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Goals and Performance Caring for Our People 29 2014 Goals 2014 Performance Caring for the Planet 44 Complete or review the results from 75 on-site supplier audits to drive reduction We completed 85 on-site supplier audits covering ethics, labor, and Inspiring the Next Generation 66 in priority and major findings, and faster time to closure. environmental health and safety factors. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Enable 100 of our Tier 1 suppliers to meet our PASS program requirements by We successfully introduced our PASS program to over 100 of our suppliers in Management Approach 79 the end of 2014, and all 250 Tier 1 suppliers to meet the requirements by the 2014. Although, we will continue to expand our reach to a broader segment of Assessment and end of 2016. our supply chain in the coming year, we are dropping the remainder of the goal. Audit Summary 83 Establish a 100% “green” Intel ground transportation fleet by 2016. While approximately 70% of our ground transportation fleet met our “green” Supplier Environmental requirements by the end of 2014, by our estimates, we will not be able to Impact 85 reach the 100% “green” goal by 2016 due to local technology availability, Conflict-Free Products 87 implementation, and adoption rates. As such, we have adjusted our goal to establish a ground transportation fleet that is 85% “green” by 2016. Supplier Diversity 88 Performance Summary Reach at least one-third of our Tier 1 suppliers through our capacity-building We exceeded our goal, with more than 75% of our Tier 1 suppliers participating and Goals 90 programs by the end of 2014. in capacity-building programs in 2014. Respecting Human Rights 91 Complete a third-party audit of an Intel assembly and test facility in 2014. We completed a third-party audit of our Vietnam assembly and test facility Appendix 96 in 2014. Achieved Partially Achieved or on Track Not Met In 2015, we will continue to audit our strategic suppliers, and work toward our green ground transportation fleet and conflict-free goals. Goals for 2015 and Beyond Complete or review an on-site audit for each of our Top 75 suppliers by the end of 2016. Establish an 85% “green” Intel ground transportation fleet by 2016. Validate all of our products are DRC conflict-free in 2016. Increase our annual spending with certified diverse-owned suppliers to $1 billion by 2020. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Respecting Human Rights 91 Table of Contents 2 Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Respecting Caring for Our People 29 Caring for the Planet 44 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Human Rights Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Management Approach 92 Our Operations 92  Influencing the Electronics Supply Chain 94 Intel is committed to maintaining and improving systems and processes to avoid complicity in human rights violations related to our P  roduct-Related Security, Privacy, and Human own operations, our supply chain, and our products. We have established an integrated approach to managing human rights across Rights Issues 94 our business. We also support the advancement of human rights through our global efforts to help bridge the digital divide, expand  Performance Summary and Goals 95 education access, promote social innovation, and improve the social performance of companies in our supply chain. Appendix 96 Intel has used the Guiding Principles We apply the same high expectations We believe we have a responsibility Our Privacy by Design approach on Business and Human Rights to and human rights standards for all of to work with our suppliers to drive and Secure Development Life-cycle inform and shape our approach to our employees regardless of where improvements in human rights process help us integrate privacy managing human rights issues. we operate. performance. and security into our products. Access the Report Builder Key Section Links Intel Code of Conduct Corporate Governance and Ethics Statement on Human Trafficking Intel Supplier Site 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report and Slavery www.intel.com/responsibility Intel Human Rights Principles Intel and Conflict-Free Products < Previous Page Next Page > Respecting Human Rights 92 Table of Contents 2 Management Approach Intel’s Human Rights Oversight Structure Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Intel’s global policies and management systems help us + Letter from Our CEO 5 proactively identify and address potential human rights issues. Board of Directors, CEO Corporate Governance, Our Business and Integrated Intel has used the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, along with our and Nominating Committee Value Approach 6 membership in organizations such as the United Nations Global Compact and the Caring for Our People 29 Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), as reference points for our approach + Caring for the Planet 44 to managing human rights issues. Our commitment to human rights is outlined in our Sustainability Security and ECOC Inspiring the Next Generation 66 MRC Privacy MRC own Human Rights Principles and in the Intel Code of Conduct. These policies address Supply Chain Responsibility 78 diversity and nondiscrimination, workplace safety, child labor, forced labor and human Respecting Human Rights 91 trafficking, working hours and minimum wages, freedom of association and collective + Management Approach 92 Privacy Corporate bargaining, and data privacy. A number of additional policies guide our actions in specific Human Supply and Product Responsibility Our Operations 92 Resources Chain areas, such as the supply chain, environmental health and safety, and privacy; and are Security Group Office  Influencing the Electronics available on our Governance and Ethics and other web sites. Supply Chain 94 Click or tap the + symbol for additional information. Based on an analysis of Intel’s business, the nature of our products and services, a  roduct-Related Security, P review of leading human rights frameworks, and input from stakeholders, we view our We maintain an integrated and horizontal management approach to human rights. Privacy, and Human Rights Issues 94 main potential human rights risks and opportunities to be in the following areas, in  Performance Summary and Goals 95 order of relative impact: our own direct manufacturing operations, our supply chain, Our Operations and potential customer misuse of our products that could result in restrictions on Our goal is to cultivate a safe, diverse, and respectful work environment where Appendix 96 freedom of expression or other human rights violations. The following pages outline employees can thrive and innovate. We manufacture the majority of our products the steps we are taking to address potential risks. in our own factories, which gives us more control over the enforcement of our Code of Conduct and human rights expectations than we would have if we outsourced most of our production. In light of the policies and management processes that we have in place, as well as the fact that a majority of Intel’s wafer manufacturing occurs in the U.S., we view our direct operations risk as low. We also have operations in a number of countries cited by leading human rights Our Human Rights Principles, adopted organizations as countries of concern, which represent higher levels of risk. However, in 2009, express our commitment to we apply the same high expectations and human rights standards for all of our ethical and legal business, environmental, employees regardless of where we operate. human rights, and labor practices on a worldwide basis. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Respecting Human Rights 93 Table of Contents 2 Our “open door” policy enables employees to speak directly with all levels of In 2014, we engaged a third party to conduct an EICC audit of our Vietnam assembly Introduction 3 management about their ideas or concerns, and we conduct regular company-wide and test facility, following a proactive audit of our Chengdu, China facility in 2012. About This Report 4 Organizational Health Surveys to assess the satisfaction level of our employees. Our Vietnam facility had no audit findings in the areas of labor, ethics, or environment. Letter from Our CEO 5 We also provide other channels for employees and external stakeholders to report Four minor findings related to health and safety were identified. All findings have been Our Business and Integrated concerns, such as a third-party-operated hotline and community advisory panels. closed. For more information, read the summary report on our supplier web site. In 2015, Value Approach 6 we plan to complete an audit of our Penang, Malaysia facility. For the past four years, our Supply Chain Sustainability organization has partnered Caring for Our People 29 with our local site managers to ensure that we hold ourselves accountable to the same We also have a number of initiatives targeted at increasing the representation of Caring for the Planet 44 expectations we have for our suppliers. We have completed the EICC Self-Assessment women and under-represented minorities in our workforce. For more information, Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Questionnaire (SAQ) of our own manufacturing facilities to test and demonstrate see the Caring for Our People section of this report. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 the value of the EICC audit process. The SAQ is an in-depth, online self-assessment Respecting Human Rights 91 questionnaire with more than 300 questions to determine a facility’s potential high-risk Management Approach 92 areas, covering all sections of the EICC Code of Conduct. The summary report of these Our Operations 92 SAQs is publicly available on our supplier web site.  Influencing the Electronics Supply Chain 94 Intel’s Approach to Managing Human Rights P  roduct-Related Security, Privacy, and Human Establishing Policy Assessing Impact Due Diligence Reporting Progress Rights Issues 94 • The Intel Code of Conduct references • We conduct annual reviews and • Our Board of Directors and senior • Our Corporate Responsibility Report  Performance Summary Intel’s Human Rights Principles. Our audits of our own facilities, policies, management oversee human provides annual updates on our and Goals 95 Philosophy on Protecting Personal and practices that cover key human rights issues. human rights performance, and Appendix 96 Information supplements our Online rights issues. our CSR and Public Policy blogs • Through capacity-building Privacy Notice. periodically cover human rights issues. • We have a robust, risk-based supplier initiatives, we address systemic • We set expectations for our suppliers assessment and audit process that human rights challenges in the • We regularly engage with to comply with the EICC Code of covers key human rights issues. electronics supply chain. stakeholders—including socially Conduct and to maintain progressive responsible investors, NGOs, and • The Intel Privacy and Product • We proactively work to increase employment practices that respect community members—around human Security Group oversees the risk, digital inclusion and education human rights. rights issues. controls, privacy, security, and other access, and educate consumers • Our Privacy by Design and secure related compliance activities for all of on privacy and security issues. • Our Privacy Advisory Board, made up development life-cycle processes Intel’s information assets, products, of external privacy experts, provides define actions, deliverables, and and services. guidance to our Privacy and Product checkpoints designed to integrate Security Group on key product-related security and privacy into our products privacy issues. and services. Our overall approach to managing human rights issues is informed by the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Respecting Human Rights 94 Table of Contents 2 Influencing the Electronics Supply Chain information, and we review the security and privacy implications of our products Introduction 3 with internal or external experts. In addition, Intel does not participate in any efforts About This Report 4 We believe that we have a responsibility to work with to decrease security in technology and does not design backdoors for access into Letter from Our CEO 5 the electronics supply chain to drive industry-wide our products. Our Business and Integrated improvements in human rights performance. As a part of our commitment to transparency, in 2014 we published our Philosophy on Value Approach 6 We view our human rights-related supply chain risk to be lower relative to that Protecting Personal Information on our web site, which outlines our general approach Caring for Our People 29 of other companies in our industry that outsource a significant portion of their to managing personal information. Caring for the Planet 44 production to contract manufacturers and suppliers. Still, we have invested For several years, our McAfee subsidiary has continued to develop its philosophy around Inspiring the Next Generation 66 significant time and resources in collaborating with others to address systemmanaging human rights issues in the security and privacy space. In particular, McAfee has Supply Chain Responsibility 78 level, industry-wide improvements on issues such as working hours and invested in employee education and training around human rights risks associated with Respecting Human Rights 91 “conflict minerals.” For more information, see the Supply Chain Responsibility sales of certain products to different types of customers in selected countries. In 2015, Management Approach 92 section of this report. we have begun the process of fully integrating McAfee within Intel, and aligning all of our Our Operations 92 policies and practices in this space.  Influencing the Electronics Supply Chain 94 Product-Related Security, As the products and services that we offer continue to become more diverse, we track Product-Related Security, Privacy, and Human Rights Issues and evaluate concerns about how technology products can potentially impact privacy, Privacy, and Human data security, and human rights—including the possibility that our products may Rights Issues 94 Intel is addressing the privacy, security, and freedom of be misused to limit the freedom of expression and human rights of individuals. We  Performance Summary expression impacts of information and communications periodically review our policies and risk assessment processes to analyze these risks. and Goals 95 technology through accountability, public policy, Appendix 96 As part of our public policy actions, we also advocate for global policies and standards collaboration, and education. to protect data privacy and security, and proactively communicate our positions on our We have long been committed to respecting privacy, security, and human rights related Public Policy blog. For more information, see “Public Policy and Political Accountability” to our products and business operations, from software to network equipment and in the Our Business and Integrated Value Approach section of this report. consumer electronics devices. We also support the fundamental human rights of privacy and freedom of expression, and have policies, management oversight, accountability structures, and product design processes that address these issues. Our Privacy by Design and Secure Development Life-cycle processes define actions, deliverables, and checkpoints designed to integrate security and privacy into our products and services to meet product and market expectations. Our development processes include an analysis (as appropriate) of how a product protects against unauthorized access, use, destruction, modification, or disclosure of personal 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Respecting Human Rights 95 Table of Contents 2 Performance Summary and Goals Introduction 3 In 2014, we continued to review and assess our policies and processes around human rights. We continued to engage with external stakeholders to understand best practices About This Report 4 regarding governance structures, reporting, and grievance mechanisms. Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Goals and Performance Value Approach 6 Caring for Our People 29 2014 Goals 2014 Performance Caring for the Planet 44 Continue to integrate our human rights-related processes and policies with We continue to work with our subsidiaries to integrate management processes Inspiring the Next Generation 66 our subsidiaries. and leverage assets and programs in ethics and reporting. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Influence the electronics industry and our supply chain to improve human In 2014, we rolled out a number of new capacity-building programs for our Respecting Human Rights 91 rights performance. suppliers that focus on human rights issues in the electronics supply chain. We also continue to work closely with the Electronics Industry Citizenship Management Approach 92 Coalition and other industry organizations to improve human rights performance Our Operations 92 throughout our industry.  Influencing the Electronics Conduct a targeted human rights impact assessment for our software business. We elected not to conduct this assessment in 2014, but will continue to regularly Supply Chain 94 review our human rights policies and practices in this space.  roduct-Related Security, P Privacy, and Human Achieved Partially Achieved or on Track Not Met Rights Issues 94  Performance Summary and Goals 95 In 2015, we will continue to work with our subsidiaries to further align our policies and management processes, and collaborate with our suppliers and the electronics industry to improve human rights standards and performance. Appendix 96 Goals for 2015 and Beyond Complete a third-party audit of one of our assembly and test facilities in 2015. 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 96 Table of Contents 2 Introduction 3 About This Report 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 Our Business and Integrated Value Approach 6 Caring for Our People 29 Caring for the Planet 44 Inspiring the Next Generation 66 Supply Chain Responsibility 78 Respecting Human Rights 91 Appendix 96 Report Scope and Profile 97 GRI Content Index 98 Top 75 Production appendix Materials, Capital, and Logistics Suppliers 113 United Nations Global Compact—Communication on Progress 114 Report of Independent Accountant 115 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 97 Report Scope and Profile the number of die produced and made available for sale. This is a shift from how we reported our normalized data last year, on a “per chip” basis. The NPI is indexed to a baseline year of 2010. One important limitation of With the Intel 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report (CR Report), we aim the NPI is that it does not take into account the number of additional manufacturing steps used in the newer to provide stakeholders with a balanced view of our corporate responsibility process technologies. Underlying data for the performance graphs is available for download using our Report strategy and performance for Intel’s worldwide operations during fiscal year Builder web site. 2014 (ended December 27, 2014). Our previous report was published in Financial data is presented in U.S. dollars. References to “Intel” throughout this document pertain to Intel May 2014. Corporation. Intel Foundation is a separate entity. We prepared this report using the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Send questions, comments, or feedback to Linda Qian, CSR Communications Manager, or Michael M. Jacobson, and self-declare the report to be prepared “in accordance” with the G4 guidelines at the comprehensive level. Director of Corporate Responsibility, Intel Corporation, 5000 W. Chandler Blvd., CH7-301, Chandler, AZ A GRI Content Index is provided in this Appendix. Additional information about Intel’s operations and financial 85226 USA. You can also use our web-based feedback form or the CSR@Intel blog to contact our Corporate statements is available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. Responsibility team. We produce our CR Report in Portable Document Format (PDF). A printed executive summary of the report Approach to Report Assurance is available by request, and an electronic version is available on our Report Builder web site. The information in our CR Report is subject to internal reviews and, for selected content, external reviews. Our sites around the world translate and customize the content of the executive summary for local stakeholders. On a regular basis, we validate the management systems and processes used to collect the data. We have For a high-level overview of Intel’s corporate responsibility, supporting documents, past reports, and our maintained a multi-site ISO 14001 certification for our manufacturing locations since 2001, which requires customized Report Builder tool, visit our Corporate Responsibility Report web site. independent third-party audits at many of our sites each year. Our Chengdu and Vietnam sites are also certified to the ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management System standard. Intel Ireland is also accredited to the IS 393 Our CR Report does not include performance information for Intel’s joint ventures or firms included in the Energy Management Standard certification. Our operations in Ireland are covered by the European Union investment portfolio of Intel Capital, Intel’s global investment organization, unless specified. Unless specified, Emissions Trading Scheme. Since 2010, Intel has maintained certification for OHSAS 18001, the internationally environmental and social performance data also does not include data from our subsidiaries or joint ventures. recognized standard for occupational safety and health management systems. This year’s report does not reflect any significant changes in reporting scope compared to our previous report. For a number of years, we have obtained third-party verification for our GHG emissions. Based on stakeholder Principles and policies apply to all officers and employees of Intel and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise noted. input and trends in assurance and external verification measures, since 2012 we have engaged Ernst & Young Environmental, health, and safety data includes widely accepted parameters and units. Key performance LLP to conduct an independent review of selected indicators contained in our CR Report in accordance with indicators cover our global manufacturing operations, including our wafer manufacturing and assembly and AT 101, Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements, of the American Institute of Certified Public test facilities. Corporate-wide greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are calculated using the existing GHG Protocol Accountants (AICPA). Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. For the 2014 CR Report, we again engaged Ernst & Young to review our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions data. Ernst & Young’s review report is included in this Appendix. We report our key environmental performance indicators in both absolute terms and on a normalized, or “per unit,” basis. Our Normalized Production Index (NPI) is derived from our worldwide wafer production data and Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 98 GRI Content Index This GRI Content Index is provided to assist readers in understanding how our report aligns with the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This index includes all “Core” indicators as well as a number of “Additional” indicators that we have determined are relevant to our business. We self-declare this report at the “Comprehensive, In Accordance” level. For more information about the GRI Guidelines and application levels, visit the GRI web site. GRI Content Index Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4:1-2 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Letter From Our CEO, 5, 6 Additional details are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. organization. Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Our Business and Integrated Value Approach (Integrated Value) ORGANIZATION PROFILE G4:3-9 Name of the organization; Primary brands, products, and/or Integrated Value 8 Additional details are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. services; Location of headquarters; Nature of ownership; Markets served; Scale of organization. G4:10 Workforce statistics by category. Caring for Our People 33 Information is provided by region, gender, and employment type. Other workforce (People) information is not provided since it is deemed proprietary. G4:11 Percentage of workforce covered by collective bargaining People 29 The percentage is zero. See also our Human Rights Principles. agreements. G4:12 Description of the organization’s supply chain. Supply Chain Responsibility 78 (Supply Chain) G4:13 Explanation of any significant changes during the reporting period Report Scope and Profile 97 There were no significant changes during the reporting period. regarding size, structure, ownership, or supply chain. G4:14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Caring for the Planet 45 Reference is also included in our Intel Code of Conduct. principle is addressed by the organization. (Planet) Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 99 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes G4:15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Integrated Value, 12, 47, Specific charters/principles are covered in sections of the report by topic. principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or Planet, Supply Chain, 80, 92 which it endorses. Respecting Human Rights (Human Rights) G4:16 Memberships of associations and national or international Integrated Value, 18, 34, Memberships are covered in multiple sections of the report. A list of our major advocacy organizations that the organization views the membership People, Planet, Supply 53, 66, trade association memberships is available on our Report Builder web site. as strategic. Chain, Inspiring the 80 Next Generation (Next Generation) IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4:17 List of entities included in the organization’s consolidated Report Scope and Profile 97 Additional details are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. financial statements; Report whether any entity included is not covered by the report. G4:18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries; Integrated Value 21 Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4:1921 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining Integrated Value 21 Additional information is available for download on our Report Builder. report content. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within and outside the organization. G4:22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in Report Scope and Profile 97 There were no restatements of information provided in previous reports. previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4:23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Report Scope and Profile 97 There were no significant changes from previous reporting periods. Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 100 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4:24-27 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization; Basis Integrated Value 18 for identification and selection of stakeholders; Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type; Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization has responded. REPORT PROFILE G4:28-31 Reporting period for information provided; Date of most recent Report Scope and Profile 97 previous report; Reporting cycle; Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. G4:32 Report the “in accordance” option the organization has chosen, Report Scope and Profile 97 “In accordance” – Comprehensive. and the GRI Content Index; Report the reference to the External Assurance Report. G4:33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard Report Scope and Profile 97 to seeking external assurance for the report; the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers; Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance. GOVERNANCE G4:34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Integrated Value 12 Additional details are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social impacts. G4:35-49 Management processes and policies related to economic, Integrated Value 12 Additional details are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. environmental, and social topics by the highest governance body. G4:50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were Integrated Value 12 We do not publicly disclose all of the issues due to their proprietary nature. communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 101 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes G4:51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance Integrated Value, 13 body and senior executives; Report how performance criteria in the Proxy Statement remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental, and social objectives. G4:52 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report Integrated Value, 13 Additional details are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining Proxy Statement remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. G4:53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account Integrated Value, 13 Additional details are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration Proxy Statement policies and proposals, if applicable. G4:54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the N/A We do not publicly disclose this data. organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4:55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total N/A We do not publicly disclose this data. compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4:56-58 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards, Integrated Value 14 Additional information is available on our Corporate Governance and Ethics and norms of behavior, such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics; web site. Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines; Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms, or hotlines. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 102 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes ECONOMIC DMA Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that Integrated Value 23 make this Aspect material; Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts; Report the evaluation of the management approach. Aspect: Economic Performance G4:EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. Integrated Value 23 G4:EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Integrated Value, Planet 11, 50 Additional details are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. for the organization’s activities due to climate change. G4:EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. People 38 Additional details are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. G4:EC4 Report financial assistance received from government. Integrated Value 23 The company’s primary use of incentives and grants is for construction of new facilities. These activities are managed on a local level in the location where they are built, and information is usually disclosed by the government/municipality. Additional details on our tax rate and credits are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. Aspect: Market Presence G4:EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared N/A We do not publicly disclose this data. to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. G4:EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local People 36 Our recruiting practices are designed to be inclusive, and we hire from the community at significant locations of operation. diverse populations and communities where we operate. A majority of senior management at our global sites are local hires. G4:EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and Integrated Value 23 services supported. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 103 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes Aspect: Procurement Practices G4:EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations Supply Chain 78, 88 Breakdown of spends by region and information on supplier diversity programs of operation. are provided. ENVIRONMENT DMA Report why the Aspect is material; Report the impacts that Planet 44 make this Aspect material; Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts; Report the evaluation of the management approach. Aspect: Materials G4:EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Planet 44 Our systems are not designed to calculate in totality materials in this way. See our Making Silicon Chips web site for a detailed description of the manufacturing process and materials used. G4:EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. N/A N/A Given the complexity and size of our products, calculation of the percentage of recycled content is not applicable; more significant are our efforts to design out materials such as lead and halogens. Aspect: Energy G4:EN3-7 Energy consumption within the organization; Energy Planet 52 See also our CDP questionnaire response on the CDP web site. consumption outside of the organization; Energy intensity; Reduction of energy consumption; Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. Aspect: Water G4:EN8-10 Total water withdrawal by source; Water sources significantly Planet 54 No water sources are significantly affected by our withdrawal of water. affected by withdrawal of water; Percentage of total volume of water recycled and reused. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 104 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes Aspect: Biodiversity G4:EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent Planet 47 to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4:EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and Planet 47 No protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value are significantly impacted services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity by our activities, products, or services. value outside protected areas. G4:EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Planet 47 G4:EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List Species and national N/A N/A N/A conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Aspect: Emissions G4:EN15-19 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1); Energy Planet 50 See also our CDP questionnaire response on the CDP web site. indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2); Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3); GHG emissions intensity; Reduction of GHG emissions. G4:EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). Planet 51 See also our CDP questionnaire response on the CDP web site. G4:EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions. Planet 52 See also our CDP questionnaire response on the CDP web site. Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4:EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Planet 57 Additional information is available in “SARA Title III Reportable Chemicals by Site” on our Report Builder web site. G4:EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Planet 58 G4:EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. Planet 64 No major spills were reported in 2013. Other non-compliance issues are included in this report. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 105 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes G4:EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste Planet 58 deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. G4:EN26 Identify, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water N/A Planet We discharge water in compliance with local permits back to municipal water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization’s treatment operations. discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products and Services G4:EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of Planet 60 products and services. G4:EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Planet, Supply Chain 86 Intel does not have data collection processes to track, record, and report this that are reclaimed by category. information in this way. However, an estimated 75% of our packaging material is reusable/recyclable. Aspect: Compliance G4:EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Planet 64 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Aspect: Transport G4:EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Supply Chain 86 CO2 emissions of logistics and supply chain and percentage of total CO2 emissions and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and are estimated, and we are developing tools to help improve measurement and transporting members of the workforce. tracking of our impacts in this area. Aspect: Overall G4:EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Planet 44 Over the past several years, Intel has invested millions of dollars in reducing by type. our impact on the environment. We do not report aggregate data on total expenditures and investments of this type. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 106 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4:EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Supply Chain 83 environmental criteria. G4:EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts Supply Chain 83 in the supply chain and actions taken. Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanism G4:EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, Planet 64 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. SOCIAL DMA Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that People 30 make this Aspect material; Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts; Report the evaluation of the management approach. Aspect: Employment G4:LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee People 36 We do not disclose hiring or turnover data by age group. turnover by age group, gender, and region. G4:LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to People 38 Part-time and contract employees have similar access to health and retirement temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. benefits as full-time employees. Benefits related to life insurance, vacation, and tuition reimbursement are prorated for part-time employees. Contract employees are not eligible for a number of benefits, including long-term disability, equity incentive plan, and tuition reimbursement. Part-time and contract employees are not eligible for our sabbatical benefit. G4:LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. N/A N/A We do not disclose this data. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 107 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes Aspect: Labor/Management Relations G4:LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including People 30 We provide advance notice in accordance with local requirements in the whether these are specified in collective agreements. different locations where we operate. We also have regular quarterly meetings with all employees via webcast, provide information on business changes as soon as possible, and take steps to mitigate negative impacts. We do not have collective agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4:LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint People N/A We do not disclose this data. management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. G4:LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, People 37 We do not provide a breakdown by region or gender. and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. G4:LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related People 37 to their occupation. G4:LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements N/A N/A N/A with trade unions. G4:LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, People 42 We do not provide a breakdown by gender or employee category. and by employee category. G4:LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that People 41 support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. G4:LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and People 41 We do not provide a breakdown by gender or employee category. career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 108 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4:LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of People 36 We do not provide a breakdown by age group. employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4:LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by N/A N/A We do not disclose this data. employee category, by significant locations of operation. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4:LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor Supply Chain 83 practices criteria. G4:LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor Supply Chain 84 practices in the supply chain and actions taken. Aspect: Labor Practices and Grievance Mechanisms G4:LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, Integrated Value 14 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. HUMAN RIGHTS DMA Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that Human Rights 91 make this Aspect material; Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts; Report the evaluation of the management approach. Aspect: Investment G4:HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Human Rights 94 agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 109 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes G4:HR2 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures Human Rights 92 We do not provide a breakdown of our training data in this way. concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Aspect: Non-discrimination G4:HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective N/A N/A We do not publicly disclose this information. actions taken. Aspects: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining; Child Labor; Forced or Compulsory Labor G4:HR4-6 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the Human Rights, Supply Chain 84, 92 We operate in a number of countries identified by stakeholders as being at higher right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be risk for labor concerns. We have not identified any Intel operations with significant violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights; risk for child labor or forced or compulsory labor. We also conduct on-site thirdOperations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for party audits of our top suppliers. incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor; Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Aspect: Security Practices G4:HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s N/A N/A N/A policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4:HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of N/A N/A N/A indigenous people and actions taken. Aspect: Assessment G4:HR9 Percentage and total number of operations that have been Human Rights 92 subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 110 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4:HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human Supply Chain 83 rights criteria. G4:HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts Supply Chain 85 in the supply chain and actions taken. Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanism G4:HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, Human Rights 93 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. SOCIETY DMA Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that Next Generation 67 make this Aspect material; Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts; Report the evaluation of the management approach. Aspect: Local Communities G4:SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Next Generation 67 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. G4:SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts Next Generation 67 on local communities. Aspect: Anti-corruption G4:SO3-4 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks Integrated Value 14 related to corruption and the significant risks identified; Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. G4:SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. N/A We do not publicly disclose this data. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 111 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes Aspect: Public Policy G4:SO6 Total value of political contributions by country Integrated Value 16 On our Report Builder web site, we disclose political contributions made in the and recipient/beneficiary. United States. Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4:SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Integrated Value 10 Additional details are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance G4:SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Planet 64 Additional details are available in our 2014 Annual Report and Form 10-K. non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Aspect: Supplier Assessments for Impacts on Society G4:SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria Supply Chain 83 for impacts on society. G4:SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society Supply Chain 84 in the supply chain and actions taken. Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4:SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, Supply Chain 84 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Planet 60 Aspect material; Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts; Report the evaluation of the management approach. Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4:PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which Planet 60 More information is available on our Quality and Reliability Resources web site. health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 112 GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes G4:PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Planet 61 More information is available on our Quality and Reliability Resources web site. and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4:PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, Planet 61 More information is available on our Quality and Reliability Resources web site. and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. G4:PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Planet 61 More information is available on our Quality and Reliability Resources web site. and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. G4:PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results Integrated Value 10 More information is available on our Customer Information Service Portal. of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Aspect: Marketing Communications G4:PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products. N/A N/A G4:PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations N/A We do not disclose this information. and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Customer Privacy G4:PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches Human Rights 94 Total number is not reported, but information is available on Intel’s Privacy Policy of customer privacy and losses of customer data. and Public Policy web sites. Aspect: Compliance G4:PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance N/A 94 Information on legal proceedings is included in our 2014 Annual Report and with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Form 10-K. products and services. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 113 Top 75 Production Materials, Capital, and Logistics Suppliers To promote transparency, we have published this list of our top suppliers since 2009. These suppliers represented 87% of Intel’s 2014 purchasing spends in production materials, capital, and logistics. All SCQI and PQS winners in 2014 met or exceeded our Program to Accelerate Supplier Sustainability (PASS) requirements. ASM International N.V. was also recognized with a Supplier Achievement Award for exceptional results delivering leading-edge technology solutions. Advanced Semiconductor Engineering Inc. (ASE) FUJIFILM Electronic Materials** Nikon Corporation** Advantest Corp. Gemtek Technology Co., Ltd. Nuflare Technology Inc. AGC Electronics America Grohmann Engineering GMBH Pegatron Corporation Air Liquide Electronics Hermes Microvision, Inc. Powertech Technology Inc. Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. Hitachi High-Technologies Corporation* Praxair Electronics Amkor Technology, Inc.** Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc.* Quanta Computer Inc. Anritsu Corporation Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. (Foxconn) Quantum Global Technologies dba Quantum Clean Applied Materials** Honeywell Electronic Materials Rohde & Schwarz GmbH & Co KG ASM International N.V. Hoya Corp. USA Samsung Electro-Mechanics ASML** Ibiden Co. Ltd.* Sanmina Corporation Carl Zeiss JSR Corporation* Schenker Logistics, Inc. Daifuku Co., Ltd.** JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corp. Shin Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd.** DAINIPPON SCREEN MFG CO., LTD. Kintetsu World Express Shinko Electric Industries Co., Ltd.** Delta Design KLA-Tencor Corporation Siltronic AG** Delta Electronics, Inc. KMG Chemicals, Inc. SK Hynix Inc. DHL Global Forwarding Lam Research Corporation StatsChipPAC Dow Electronic Materials Linde SUMCO Corporation* Ebara Corp. LSI Corporation Tokyo Electron Limited** Edwards Ltd. Micron Tokyo Ohka Kogyo America, Inc.** Entegris, Inc. ** Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company Inc.** Tosoh Corporation Federal Express Moses Lake Industries* TSMC FEI Muratec Automation Co. LTD** Ultratech, Inc. Flextronics Nan Ya PCB Corp United Microelectronics Corp. Global Foundries Inc. Nanium UTI IMS Inc. Formfactor, Inc. Nidec VWR International *Suppliers that received a 2014 Supplier Continuous Quality Improvement (SCQI) award. **Suppliers that received a 2014 Preferred Quality Supplier (PQS) award Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 114 United Nations Global Compact—Communication on Progress 2014 In June 2009, Intel became a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. The UNGC principles have been ingrained in our approach to corporate responsibility and business practices for many years. As stated in the Letter From Our CEO, our continued support for the UNGC principles as a UNGC member is part of our ongoing commitment to continuous improvement in our own practices and collaboration with other organizations to advance best practices in corporate responsibility worldwide. Our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report provides detailed information on our corporate responsibility strategy and performance for fiscal year 2014 and covers the UNGC Communication on Progress requirements. UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of inter­nationally proclaimed Intel’s commitment to respect human rights is embodied in the Intel Code of Conduct, Intel Human Rights Principles, and human rights. Intel Water Policy, the latter of which covers our respect for the human right to water. All of these policies are available on our Principle 2 Make sure that business is not complicit in human rights abuses. Governance and Ethics web site. In addition, the topic of human rights is covered in the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct, adopted by Intel in 2004. For a discussion of our approach to respecting human rights and the steps we have taken during 2014, see the Respecting Human Rights section of this report. Labor Principle 3 Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Intel’s Human Rights Principles incorporate references to the key labor issues identified in the UNGC, including prohibition of child right to collective bargaining. labor (Intel has established a minimum age of 16), forced labor, human trafficking, and discrimination. Intel recognizes that in many Principle 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. locations where we operate, employees have the right to freely associate or not associate with third-party labor organizations, along with the right to bargain or not bargain collectively in accordance with local laws. Intel respects those rights and is committed Principle 5 Support effective abolition of child labor. to creating an environment of open communication where employees can speak with their managers about their ideas, concerns, Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment or problems, and team together to address workplace issues. For more information, see the Respecting Human Rights section of and occupation. this report. Environment Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to We incorporate environmental performance goals throughout our operations and regularly report on our progress, seeking environmental challenges. continuous improvement in energy efficiency, emissions reductions, resource conservation, and waste reduction. We strive to Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental minimize the environmental impact of our products—from design through disposal—and we collaborate with others to develop responsibility. innovative ways that technology can help address long-term sustainability challenges. For more information, see the Caring for Our People section of this report. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Intel has set clear standards and policies, and has put in place training to ensure employee compliance on these topics, including extortion and bribery. a reference in the Intel Code of Conduct. We have a comprehensive Ethics and Compliance program, which is described in detail in the Our Business and Integrated Value Approach section of this report. Certain employees are assigned more in-depth ethics and compliance training courses, including those covering anti-corruption. For more information, see the Our Business and Integrated Value Approach section of this report. Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility < Previous Page Next Page > Appendix 115 Report of Independent Accountant reasonable assurance about whether the quantitative performance indicators for the year ended December 27, 2014 are free from material misstatement, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such Board of Directors and Stockholders, Intel Corporation an opinion. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion. We have reviewed selected quantitative performance indicators (the “Subject Matter”) included in the As described in Note 1, non-financial information contained within corporate responsibility reports is subject accompanying table below and as presented in Intel Corporation’s (“Intel”) 2014 Corporate Responsibility to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for Report (the “Report”) for the year ended December 27, 2014. We did not review all information included determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in in the Report. We did not review the narrative sections of the Report, except where they incorporated the materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Subject Matter. Intel’s management is responsible for the Subject Matter included in the table below and as also presented in the Report, and for selection of the criteria against which the subject matter is measured Based on our review, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that the Subject Matter, referred and presented. to above, for the year ended December 27, 2014 is not presented, in all material respects, in conformity with the relevant criteria set forth in the table below. Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform our review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to the Subject Matter. A review consists principally of applying analytical procedures, making inquiries of persons responsible for the subject matter, obtaining an understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate, aggregate, Ernst & Young LLP and report the Subject Matter and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the May 21, 2015 circumstances. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to obtain San Jose, California Performance Indicators Reviewed Indicator Name Scope Unit 2014 Value1 Criteria Page Reference Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions2 Global Tons carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) 1,041,000 Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) G4 EN15, the World Resources 50 Institute (“WRI”)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s (“WBCSD”) The Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Scope 2 GHG Emissions3 Global tCO2e 1,039,000 GRI G4 EN16, the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Reporting 50 Standard Energy Use4 Global Billion kilowatt hours (kWh) 5.9 GRI G4 EN3 & EN4, the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate 26 Reporting Standard 1 All figures for the year ended December 27, 2014, unless otherwise noted. Values rounded where appropriate. 2 Emissions are calculated using the Global Warming Potentials updated by the Environmental Protection Agency in November, 2013. Emissions from Intel’s shuttle fleet are estimated based on the corporate flight schedule and not actual flight data. 3 Value reported net of renewable energy credits (REC) purchased and calculated by netting the kilowatt hours of electricity purchased in the United States with the kilowatt hour value of the REC. For purchased electricity at Intel’s international locations, Intel reports only CO2 using the global average CO2 emission factor provided by the International Energy Agency. 4 Includes natural gas, diesel and electricity. Note 1: Environmental and energy use data, are subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Access the Report Builder | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/responsibility Over time, the number of devices connected to the Internet and to one another has grown from hundreds of millions to billions. Our vision is if it is smart and connected, it is best with Intel. We offer complete and connected computing solutions, both hardware and software. We continue to drive “Moore’s Law” to enable new devices with higher functionality and complexity while controlling power, cost, and size. The combination of embedding computing into devices and connecting them to the Internet, known as the Internet of Things, as well as a build-out of the cloud infrastructure supporting these devices, is driving fundamental changes in the computing industry. End users value smart devices that connect seamlessly and securely to the Internet and to each other. We enable this experience by innovating around energy-efficient performance, connectivity, and security. For more information, visit www.intel.com/responsibility Copyright © 2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved. Intel, the Intel logo, Intel Core, Intel vPro, Iris, Intel RealSense, Intel Xeon, Basis Peak, Intel Curie and Atom are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. *Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others. 0515/LLQ/HBD 332475-001US
