CHALHOUB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Nurturing Engagement About this report We are proud to publish our commitment to sustainability is first annual sustainability report, organisation-wide and inclusive summarising our results for the year of our operations beyond the 2013 and outlining the challenges UAE. As such, we have highlighted and commitments that lie ahead several best practices throughout of us. This report has been the report to provide a global prepared in accordance with insight to our sustainability the Global Reporting Guidelines aspirations across our regional (G4) Core requirements, and operations. Going forward, we aligns to the universal accepted aim to widen the boundary of our 10 principles of the UN Global report by including other group Compact. The information companies. presented in this report serves as All information in the report is a baseline against which we will complete and within the reporting benchmark our performance in period starting from 1 January future reports. 2013 to 31 December 2013, unless The report has been prepared otherwise stated. in accordance with the Global The information in this report Reporting Initiative (GRI) has been internally reviewed guidelines — the latest GRI by the respective divisions and version 4 (G4) “core” option. The departments to ensure that the GRI is a multi-stakeholder initiative data presented in this report is with widespread credibility accurate and reliable. We aim to that provides a framework for put a process in place that makes companies to report on their it possible to obtain external sustainability performance. assurance in future and receive The Chalhoub Group is a member an external viewpoint on our of the UN Global Compact, sustainability performance. committed to the 10 universally accepted principles of the We value your feedback United Nations Global Compact We strive to offer excellent (UNGC) in the areas of human services to all our stakeholders. rights, labour rights, environment Your feedback will help us and anti-corruption. This report improve our reporting and ensure covers information regarding our transparency. Please contact performance against the above our Department Manager, principles, and therefore serves Strategy & Innovation, at as our annual communication on ayla.bajwa@mailmac.net. progress (COP). A GRI and UNGC content index is given at the end of this report. We have applied the GRI principle of completeness for defining the content, primarily by encompassing the dimensions of scope, boundary and time. The report covers MCT FZE, Allied and sister companies, Chalhoub Group Retail, REAL FZE, REAL EMIRATES and 3D only. Our About Chalhoub 06 Contents Operational profile 06 Our differentiating power 10 Our approach to sustainability 11 Governance 11 Our sustainability vision 13 Reporting on what matters 13 Our sustainability timeline 20 How we conduct business 22 Our code of ethics 22 Responsible marketing 23 1 Our impact on the economies where we operate Our commitment to sustainability 25 26 Gulfanisation 26 Supporting local entrepreneurs 30 2 Chalhoub IMPACT Supporting education 31 33 Preserving the environment 38 Humanitarian aid 40 3 Environmental stewardship Energy management 42 43 Water consumption 46 Waste management 46 4 Investing in our people Learning and development 48 49 Employment and benefits 56 Diversity and equal opportunity 58 5 Quality of operations Quality management 59 60 Procurement practices 62 Customer satisfaction 63 GRI and UNGC table 65 CEO statements Anthony Chalhoub Patrick Chalhoub CEO CEO 4 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 We are passionate about engaging our teams, mission that each employee understands that their our business partners, the youth and marginalized responsibility is more purposeful than our bottom line sections of society. It is for this reason we have titled objectives and that their role is meaningful. our first sustainability report ‘Nurturing Engagement’. Through our annual volunteer calendar we strive for 2014 not only marks the release of our first report but enhanced team synergies across business functions. also inaugurates our membership to the UN Global The community volunteer program allows our team Compact. members from diverse business units to come We are a family business driven by the values of together for a significant task. We believe this has respect, excellence and entrepreneurial spirit; resulted in higher employee motivation and deeper and believe sustainability is the balance between belief in the Group’s culture and values. economic priorities; promoting empowerment for Teams are empowered through an education all stakeholders and environmental protection. process spearheaded by the learning & talent It is our conviction that sustainable business is an development units. Team members are allotted opportunity to create value while making the world training resources, executive education and career a better place. growth guidance. One of our most beloved projects The Chalhoub Group was founded in the Middle East is the retail academy present in both the UAE and and is here for the long haul. During its history it has Saudi Arabia, created for the education of our front relocated its headquarters in the face of political line teams. The Retail Academy launched in 2007 turbulence moving from Syria to Lebanon to Kuwait was the first of its kind in the region. and finally the UAE. These experiences have made Our commitment to environmental sustainability us agile and stimulated an ardent desire to be an continues to be driven by the engagement of our agent towards sustainable development in the stakeholders through an education and awareness region. process. Several of the GCC countries contribute Our primary tool in engaging with stakeholders to the highest rate of greenhouse gas emissions is empowerment through education; and our per capita and fall within the scope of our regional interpretation of empowerment is the courage, operations. The key challenge in turning this trend discipline, commitment and integrity to reach one’s around is mind set change. We are obliged as a full potential. While reading this report you will find business operating in these countries to advocate the multifarious ways in which each stakeholder is for environmental protection. Internally we have engaged through the process of education and assessed our value chain and are working towards knowledge sharing. a reduced footprint specifically in logistics. A major component of our business is distribution and thus We have found that empowerment of the youth is our warehouses are ISO 14001 certified and our an integral starting point. Mindful of the challenges regional warehouse is LEED Silver certified. surrounding youth unemployment, we have developed partnerships with universities across We engage our business partners with the same the Middle East region and Europe through which spirit of education and knowledge sharing. Trust is students are offered scholarship opportunities, a paramount in our relationships with our business mentorship and a general emphasis on exchange partners and therefore we invest time and resources between academia and industry. to keep them abreast of changes happening in the region. Our role is not only to grow the market The gap between secondary education and share but also to deliver market and consumer industry requirements are becoming wider and intelligence to assist in the navigation of strategy through open dialogue with our partners we hope and operational practice. In order to continue to to reduce this gap. In line with our commitment add value in our relationships we must innovate. to youth in the region, the Chalhoub Group commemorated partnership with the American It has been an exhilarating year for us in all University of Sharjah, introducing a luxury brand perspectives: social, environmental and economic. management professorship. The course merges We are pleased with the outcomes but cognizant industry best practices with academic theory. that there is a long road ahead of us.. We look forward to exchanging with you on our achievements, setWe believe that engaging our teams in our social backs and learnings as our sustainability agenda development partnerships is creating valuable grows. We encourage you to send us your feedback impact. We are aware that our team’s drive and so that it is incorporated in future reporting cycles. energy is the business’s critical success factor. It is our 5 About Chalhoub The Chalhoub Group has been the leading partner in luxury VISION MISSION across the Middle East since 1955. As an expert in retail, distribution The Chalhoub Group is the By blending its Middle East and marketing services based in leading partner for luxury expertise and intimate Dubai, the Group has become across the Middle East since knowledge of luxury, the a major player in the fashion, 1955. As an expert in retail, Chalhoub Group is building beauty and gift sectors regionally. distribution and marketing brands in the region, by services based in Dubai, the offering service excellence to By blending its expertise with an Group has become a major all its partners and a unique intimate knowledge of luxury, player in the fashion, beauty experience to its customers the Group is building brands in and gift sectors in the region. through its passionate teams. the region and is offering service excellence to all its partners and a unique experience to its customers through its dedicated OPERATIONAL PROFILE teams. The Group has a regional manage more than 500 stores coverage of 14 countries across across the region through 65 MENA and involves distribution companies. activities in India as well. We At Chalhoub, we are guided by the philosophy of being committed to excellence, respect OVER 500 RETAIL 92 NATIONALITIES OUTLETS and entrepreneurial ACROSS THE REGION spirit. TEAM OF OVER 10,000 OVER 65 COMPANIES Over the past six decades, we PERSONNEL have nurtured strong relationships with our international clients and acted as a key driver in building a bridge between the West and the REGIONAL COVERAGE OF East through the fashion, beauty 14 COUNTRIES and gift industries. 6 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 SYRIA LEBANON JORDAN IRAQ EGYPT KUWAIT BAHRAIN SAUDI ARABIA QATAR UAE INDIA OUR ACTIVITY GROUP MARKET SHARE 47% 40% BEAUTY FASHION 5% 8% 40% GIFTS OTHERS Fashion 25% Beauty 7 With more than 150,000 square Through the submission of our meter of retail space, the letter of intent to the Secretary Chalhoub Group has become a General of the United Nations (UN) major regional player in providing and a donation of USD10,000, we excellence to all its partners and have expressed our commitment a unique retail experience to its to uphold the 10 basic universal customers. principles of the UNGC. Our adherence to the UNGC is Each of our Group companies Fadi Jabbour part of our firm commitment to has retained its own structure Chief of Retail sustainable development. while remaining focused on providing core business activities We are very proud to announce The Group’s mentioned below: that we have been awarded the differentiating factor is Dubai Chamber of Commerce its commitment to Distribution: to facilitate CSR Label in 2013. With an growing its partners’ direct access to improved score from 2012, we added value. Teams work regional markets and are determined to improve year together to continuously strategic alliances with on year. identify opportunities international groups and build a network that Retail: to offer an Our creative retail enables own concepts and partner franchises. innovative customerconcepts centric environment Guided by a culture We have created our own retail of trust and respect Marketing and concepts based on our constant the Group has been communication: to evaluation of the retail market able to nurture long create the link between needs. Retail concepts are multiterm relationships that the brands and their brand retail outlets established remain dynamic, agile customers, developing after careful assessment of the and that enable us to communication gaps in the market. Each concept deliver a great shopping strategies to suit the offers the customer a unique experience built on regional taste experience. passion, expertise and As a company, we strongly believe Our retail concepts are listed the ability to make each in building long-term partnerships below. customer feel unique. with all our stakeholders. TANAGRA offers an inspiring, Showing our commitment over refined and edited array of lifestyle the past years, we have signed gifts and art de vivre under one memberships with the following roof. Since its opening in 1980, it well-recognised organisations for has evolved into an impressive responsible business practices in network of 15 boutiques spanning the UAE. Kuwait, the UAE, Bahrain, Qatar »» United Nations Global and Saudi Arabia. Compact (UNGC) »» Dubai Chamber of Commerce CSR Label for the second consecutive year »» CSR Arabia Network »» Dubai Chamber of Commerce Sustainability Network 8 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 LEVEL SHOE DISTRICT is the world’s finest shoe metropolis, targeting the luxury consumer through WOJOOH is a beauty haven its unparalleled collection of offering an array of fragrance, exclusive footwear and bespoke makeup and skincare products. services. This iconic district, Wojooh offers a sophisticated spanning 96,000 square feet in fusion of luxury, unconventional, The Dubai Mall, is recognised niche and specialty brands as as a global fashion destination well as expert advice to fulfil with a curated space divided every need of the beautyinto 40 designer boutiques and savvy. After extensive study and 4 multi-brand areas. Bespoke concept development in 2013, services comprise a VIP lounge, Wojooh will be launching ”wow” designer eateries, luxury sole in 2014, the first makeup line lounge, high-end cobbler, shoe inspired by consumer behaviour stylists and the latest in retail in the Middle East. Wojooh is the technology. new name to be given for Faces beauty brand in 2014, to align it self with the local culture. Today, there is a regional network of more than 70 stores across Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Egypt, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. TDESIGN is an innovative approach to exclusive design, interior design and decoration, which has its presence below the iconic Burj Khalifa in downtown Dubai. It features bespoke limited editions, luxury design and custom-made pieces. It KATAKEET iis a unique luxury offers an array of inspiring design children’s wear concept store, opportunities, professional advice, available in Abu Dhabi, Dubai exchanges and experiences for and Jeddah. Conceived around global customers, connoisseurs, storytelling with the contribution designers, architects and lifestyle of British children’s book illustrator industry insiders. Polly Dunbar, the store ensures to provide a unique retail experience to both parents and children. 9 OUR DIFFERENTIATING and built strong resilience against market challenges. In POWER recent years, the GCC countries, Over the last 60 years, we similar to the rest of the world, have built regional expertise have been affected by global and knowledge and we strive developments related to a to continue adding value by variety of socioeconomic factors. building trust with our customers Our success in listening and Marie-Hélène Straus and partners through unique responding to customer needs General Manager Strategy & positioning and guaranteed help address these factors. Innovation innovation. We believe Our three-pronged business Sustainability is the key these inherent values have approach is described below. element to any strategic differentiated our operations direction and decision impacting the long term. Store lease To stay ahead of the We negotiate the best locations curve, innovation and for our partners retail stores through creativity are mandatory. an innovative approach, extensive Innovation comes from retail activities and a well-established cohesive synergy and presence in the market. Moreover, we collaboration between maintain strong relationships with mall developers, resulting in deep business units and credibility within the sector; and hence, we are often requested for functions: this ‘meeting expert consultation. All of these help us in securing prime locations for of the minds’ results in our retail brands. creative and dynamic initiatives allowing us to Innovation add value. We have a dedicated team to gather information on the region. The team regularly conducts extensive research to identify market needs. In the final quarter of 2013, we released our first white paper entitled “Luxury in the Middle East: an easy sell?.” The paper focused on the particularities of both the economic dynamics and consumer behaviour in the Middle East. Our commitment to innovation has also been recognised over the years through the development of initiatives such as the Retail Academy in the Middle East, the first of its kind, and through the opening of Level Shoe District, the world’s largest luxury shoe store under one roof, amongst other leading initiatives. Partnership trust We highly value our long-term relationships with our business partners that, we believe, have remained strong because they have been founded on the consensus of similar values and trust. We offer strong logistic support to all our partners, exemplified by a total of 62,000 square meter state-of-the-art warehouse space spread across eight countries. Our Integrated Management Systems including ISO 14001 and 14001 certification. 10 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 Our approach to sustainability The Chalhoub Group has been oversee the progress and define supporting the development of longand short-term vision and Sustainability luxury brands in the region for strategies. the last six decades. During these originates first from We ensure good corporate being a family years, we remained committed governance through various to responsible business behaviour, committees. The strategy organisation, considering the impact of anchored on committee, STRATCOM, is the our operations on the local communities, the people we Group’s think tank. It monitors strong values. risks and opportunities, oversees work with and the surrounding specific strategic orientations environment. Reflecting on and defines medium-term (3 these commitments, we have years) and long-term (15 years) introduced a corporate social strategies. The STRATCOM meets responsibility (CSR) strategy three times a year. known as Chalhoub IMPACT, which allows us to better focus on The executive committee the sustainability aspects of our (COMEX) meets every two activities and engage employees months and ensures smooth in various programs and initiatives. implementations of the strategies defined by the Co-CEOs. COMEX creates plans and budgets to GOVERNANCE achieve corporate objectives Our board of directors consists and reports on specific risks and of six family members and one challenges. It specifically sets independent member. They targets related to health and meet twice a year to ensure safety, CSR and environmental commitment to the Group values, standards. Michel Chalhoub Widad Chalhoub Chairman Vice Chairwoman Anthony Chalhoub Patrick Chalhoub Co-CEO Co-CEO Kevin Chalhoub Aurelia Chalhoub Michel Chalhoub Michel Chalhoub Non voting members Voting members 11 Our organisational structure Chairman Vice Chairwoman Michel Chalhoub Widad Chalhoub Member of the LVMH Executive Co-CEO Co-CEO Committee Anthony Chalhoub Patrick Chalhoub Yves Carcelle COO, COO, Retail MD, CFO CAO CLO Distribution Fadi Communication Marcus Katia Ramzi Raffi Fattal Jabbour Pierre Soued Freeman Chalhoub Modad Activities S&I CHRO CIO Marie-Hélène MD, UAE Wassim Eid Eli Choueiri Straus Mansour Hajjar Competence Centers Territories MD, KSA Bachar Sabbagh CEO: Chief Executive Officer CHRO: Chief Human Resources Officer COO: Chief of Operations CIO: Chief Information Officer MD, Emerging MD: Managing Director CLO: Chief Legal Officer Markets CFO: Chief Financial Officer S&I: Strategy and Innovation Hani Jabbour CAO: Chief Administration Ofﬁcer rging Eme t Co-C EO MD Marke s Di C In memory of Yves Carcelle str , COMEX O n S& O utio I ib For me, you always Communicati il COO, Reta embodied the great Executive Strategy on MD, big brother, the ideal committee committee mentor, the example (COMEX) (STRATCOM) CLO n to follow and the true ho d W friend on whom I could , KS ub ida O MD CA ve d la l Y s always count. Your early A Ca rcell Mic h e ha C e departure put us all in M D, mourning, but we are UA CH RO E truly touched by your CFO qualities and courage. Getting the chance to know made us all better. Co-CEOs: Co-Chief Executive CAO: Chief Administration Ofﬁcer Anthony Chalhoub Officers CHRO: Chief Human Resources COCEO of the COO: Chief of Operations Ofﬁcer Chalhoub Group MD: Managing Director CLO: Chief Legal Ofﬁcer CFO: Chief Financial Ofﬁcer S&I: Strategy and Innovation 12 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 OUR SUSTAINABILITY IMPACT’S mission is to VISION support education Our sustainability vision is to Over the years, we have in order to cultivate become the leading partner developed multiple channels environmental and of luxury in the Middle East with of communication with our a higher purpose, by driving key stakeholders. We have social sustainability in sustainable development in the released our first white paper in the Middle East through region. In order to achieve this, 2013 representing our biggest the engagement we have created Chalhoub communication success. We of employees and IMPACT. have membership with the three major European luxury goods and partners. Strongly supported by our CEOs, creative industries organisations, employee engagement is at Comité Colbert, Fondazione the heart of IMPACT. To spread Altagamma and Walpole British our sustainability practices, Luxury. Round table discussions, each of our business units has conferences and talks are been assigned an “IMPACT conducted yearly by our CEOs ambassador” who acts as a on topics such as luxury, new coordinator and implementer market opportunities and trends. of CSR objectives related Our internal communication tools to environmental impact, include ”e-mac” intranet, and humanitarian contribution and our internal corporate magazine, CSR standards/certifications. Maclines. Additionally, a yearly Currently, we have 95 satisfaction survey is conducted ambassadors located in the to receive feedback from joint UAE and we plan to increase ventures and other business units the number on an annual basis. about the experience with the This way, we ensure that CSR Group’s competency centres. and environmental initiatives are Meeting the expectations of our cascaded down to the local and stakeholders is critical for our operational level. long-term success. Therefore, we aim to expand our stakeholder REPORTING ON WHAT engagement methods in the MATTERS upcoming years to keep our G4 – 24, G4 – 25, G4 – 27 stakeholders informed of our sustainability strategies and Stakeholder inclusiveness activity developments. Although we regard our employees as our primary and most important stakeholders, we acknowledge that there is a wide range of partners and other stakeholders who are affected by our services and operations. Our value chain is wide and diverse and spreads beyond our suppliers and customers. It includes the local community, civil society and media. 13 G4 – 18, G4 – 19, G4 – 21, G4 – 24, G4 – 26, G4 – 27 »» Issues raised »» Engagement method Our response Our ten key stakeholder groups along with our engagement method, their key concerns and our response to their needs are listed in the table below. »» Economic and financial performance »» Sustainability and business practices »» Employee well-being »» Business integrity Board of »» Meetings throughout the year directors See section: Governance, Our commitment to sustainable economic growth »» Store lease and market positioning »» Trust »» Adapted information to region/culture »» Improved process operations Business partners »» White paper »» Business intelligence »» Competency centres »» Plug-and-play business model development See section: Our differentiation power; Responsible marketing »» Continued individual development »» Health and safety »» Motivation »» Intranet, Macline newsletter, EDGE Employees »» Training sessions, seminars »» Events »» Performance reviews and appraisals »» Manuals and policy handbooks »» Chalhoub Excellence Awards See section: Our people; Learning and development; How we conduct our business; Our impact on the economies where we operate 14 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 G4 – 18, G4 – 20, G4 – 21, G4 – 24, G4 – 26, G4 – 27 »» Privacy and security »» Customer satisfaction survey »» Customer events Customers See section: Our code of ethics; Customer satisfaction »» Economic sustainability »» Reputation »» Supplier evaluation process »» Supplier checklist Suppliers/ contractors »» Annual agreements »» Sustainable stores checklist See section: Procurement practices; environmental stewarship »» JAFZA compliance »» National law and regulation compliance »» Meeting and interviews throughout the year »» Trakhees Accreditation Program Legal authorities See section: Our code of ethics; Responsible marketing »» UAE National Development »» Career fairs »» Internships, scholarships »» Mentorship Educational institutions »» Guest lecturers »» Round table discussions See section: Our people; Gulfanisation »» Labour insertion »» Retention of GCC nationals »» Open days Recruitment See section: Our people; Gulfanisation; Supporting local agencies entrepreneurs 15 G4 – 18, G4 – 20, G4 – 21, G4 – 24, G4 – 26, G4 – 27 »» Issues raised »» Engagement method Our response »» Know-how »» Social concerns »» Environmental concerns »» Advisory services, consultations and knowledge sharing, NGOs and the e.g. university partnerships and Khalifa Fund local community »» Collaborative projects design »» Volunteer programs »» Donations »» Relief Aid for Philippines Campaign »» Gift of Giving Campaign »» Environmental programmes »» Annual Beach Clean Up Campaign »» Spirit of the Ghaf Campaign »» Fundraising, e.g. Hope for Cancer Patients Campaign »» Local community programmes »» Jusoor NGO partnership in Syria »» START partnership under Al Madad Foundation »» One Young World Campaign See section: Chalhoub IMPACT »» Transparency »» Communication »» Power of influence »» Cultural sensitivity Press/media »» Media release, press kits »» Communication campaigns »» PR events »» Social media, bloggers We believe that the See section: Responsible marketing future and success of the Group lie in the development of our people, and thus we emphasise the importance of engaging with our teams. 16 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 Materiality The matrix has a total of 23 topics that were assessed based on G4 – 18, G4 – 19, G4 – 21 their impact and influence on the The content of this report has society and the environment as been determined primarily well as to our business as a whole. through discussions with the For each material topic, we senior management and report against the most relevant decision-makers, as well as GRI G4 KPIs. through a materiality workshop Each of the material topics relates held amongst key departments, to one or more of the GRI G4 in which we determined material aspects. We carefully assessed issues that are important to our the limitation of each aspect by internal and external stakeholders. analysing its relevance to our Topics that our stakeholders have stakeholders, the importance of deemed critical for us to address each aspect to our organization, are represented in the materiality and determined whether the matrix below. The materiality impacts occur within or outside matrix illustrates the importance our organisation or both. All of each topic to our Group’s material aspects are limited to our business along the x-axis, and the operations in the UAE, including relevance to our stakeholders on MCT FZE, Chalhoub Group Retail, the y-axis. Allied and sister companies, REAL FZE, REAL EMIRATES and 3D. 16 High 15 17 18 Importance to stakeholder 19 14 20 10 13 3 21 6 12 9 2 22 4 8 23 5 11 1 7 Low Low High Importance to Chalhoub Group’s business 1 Welfare 8 Diversity 16 HSS 2 Responsible marketing 9 Waste management 17 Community engagement 3 Transparency corporate 10 Customer satisfaction 18 Gulﬁnisation governance 11 Risk management 19 Lease negotiation 4 E-commerce 12 Carbon footprint 20 Financial performance 5 Gender equality 13 Employee engagement 21 Partnership trust 6 Supplier screening 14 Innovation 22 Capacity building 7 Wages & beneﬁts 15 Total quality imanagement 23 IT-integrated solutions 17 G4 – 18, G4 – 20, G4 – 21 Material aspect GRI aspect Boundary inside our Boundary outside our organisation* organisation Health, safety and Occupation, health and safety UAE operations Customers security Total quality Occupation health and UAE operations Business partners management safety and environmental compliance Community Procurement practices and UAE operations Civil society engagement local community Gulfanisation Market presence UAE operations Civil society, consumers Store negotiation No specific GRI aspect to Chalhoub Group Business partners, cover this impact area though (all geographies) customers it affects many aspects Financial Economic performance Chalhoub Group Shareholders performance (all geographies) Innovation No specific GRI aspect to Chalhoub Group Business partners, cover this impact area, (all geographies) Customers though it affects many aspects Partnership trust No specific GRI aspect to Chalhoub Group Brand partners cover this impact area, (all geographies) though it affects many aspects Employee Training and education Chalhoub Group engagement (all geographies) Carbon footprint Materials, energy, water, UAE operations Legal authorities, Civil emissions and transport society Capacity building Training and education UAE operations 18 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 G4 – 18, G4 – 20, G4 – 21 Material aspect GRI aspect Boundary inside our Boundary outside our organisation* organisation IT-integrated solutions No specific GRI aspect to UAE operations cover this impact area, though it affects many aspects Customer satisfaction Product and service labelling UAE operations Customers and customer privacy Supplier screening Supplier environmental UAE operations Suppliers assessment, supplier assessment for labour practices, and supplier human rights assessment Waste management Effluents and wastes UAE operations Suppliers Diversity Diversity and employment Chalhoub Group Communities (all geographies) Risk management Anti-corruption UAE operations All external stakeholder groups Transparency/ No specific GRI aspect to Chalhoub Group All external stakeholder corporate cover this impact area, (all geographies) groups governance though it affects many aspects Responsible Marketing and UAE operations Media marketing communication E-commerce No specific GRI aspect to Chalhoub Group Customers cover this impact area, (all geographies) though it affects many aspects Gender equality Equal remuneration for Chalhoub Group Communities women and men (all geographies) Wages and benefits Economic performance Chalhoub Group Communities (all geographies) Welfare Employment Chalhoub Group Communities (all geographies) * *Note: Although the impacts of all our material issues are across the Group, the qualitative and quantitative data of this report are only covering our UAE operations, with best practice examples across the region, wherever possible. Therefore, the majority of our aspect boundaries are only on our UAE operations. We intend to increase the boundaries of our report in the near future. Our approach to reporting is evolving, and therefore, we plan to expand the boundary and scope of our sustainability performance in the future. 19 OUR SUSTAINABILITY TIMELINE Our sustainability journey over time CHALHOUB RETAIL ACADEMY INSPIRING EXCELLENCE IN RETAIL Michel and Chalhoub Widad Chalhoub Group’s Launch of open the first headquarters Chalhoub Retail boutique in moved to Academy in the Damascus, Syria Dubai UAE 1980 1997 2009 1955 1990 2007 Launch of Regional Opening of Tanagra deployment Chalhoub Retail of the Faces now Academy in Wojooh, beauty Saudi Arabia concept Launch of stores Chalhoub IMPACT 20 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 Allied Enterprises receive Bukhatir Community Spirit, Employer Membership to of Choice and the UN Global Company of the Compact Year awards Publication of Chalhoub’s REAL FZE first annual obtains ISO 9001 sustainability certification report 2011 2012 2013 2010 2014 Opening of Inauguration Opening of Katakeet of Level TDesign REAL FZE Shoe District REAL FZE obtains obtains REAL FZE OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 obtains certification certification LEED Silver REAL EMIRATES REAL certification obtains OHSAS EMIRATES 8001 certification obtains Chalhoub ISO 9001 receives CSR certification award from the Dubai Chamber of Commerce Chalhoub launched its first white paper Chalhoub Group Environmental Policy 21 How we conduct our business With almost sixty years of operate. We strive to incorporate OUR VALUES experience in the luxury market, our values into our daily business we have maintained high and take efforts to convey them ethical standards, reflected by to our employees on a regular Respect: fairness, our behaviour and actions, both basis. In order to achieve this, we integrity, humility inside and outside the company. have placed permanent signage This year, we have implemented of our values throughout our a “code of ethics” as a testimony offices and at the main entrance Excellence: to the unique way of how we of the head office so that anyone role model, conduct our business. We provide entering our buildings is reminded commitment, opportunities to every member of of the fact that values are an efficiency the company to excel in life and intrinsic part of the Group’s work, be a role model to others, culture. In addition, we made a and enhance the company’s movie in 2013 which we shared Entrepreneurial reputation. with our employees to emphasise spirit: leadership, the importance of the Group’s ingenuity, team spirit OUR CODE OF ETHICS values. We encourage our employees to Our code of ethics gives us the seek innovative and collaborative direction to pursue business ways of conducting business. opportunities while following our We respect the proprietary vision, strategy and values. Our information of our competitors values serve as the foundation and fully comply with the of our practices and principles intellectual property laws. Our and ensure that we conduct code of ethics guides us on how business with utmost levels of to handle intellectual property integrity, fairness and respect issues and digital data, and for the communities in which we manage confidential information Zero tolerance for: Fraudulent activities of any sort Defamation of the company Falsification or concealment of Blackmailing the company accounting record Violating prevailing laws Theft of funds or assets Bribery Insider disclosure to third parties Personal engagement in external ventures Defamatory or offensive contents in social without prior notice to the company media platforms 22 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 of our own as well as that of not make or receive facilitation third parties. Moreover, it shapes payments on our behalf, when the company etiquette while dealing with government or other conducting business within and private organisations. outside the company. We are aware and in compliance We strictly prohibit workplace with all ethical behaviour laws harassment and the practise of applicable in the countries violence. Our employees are where we operate. We have zero advised to raise their concerns tolerance for any violations. to the Human Resources Department when witnessing or being subjected to any unethical behaviour, discrimination or harassment at the workplace. UNGC – 10 We have zero tolerance for any form of fraud or corruption. We seek to ensure that all our agents, contractors and suppliers do Code of ethics for our employees If a particular situation is not covered in the code of ethics, employees are encouraged to seek guidance from their country managers, the Human Resources manager or via the contact email ID designated specifically for this purpose All employees are The Ethics Committee required to sign comprises the country an undertaking, managing director confirming they have and the country HR understood the code manager of ethics The code of Investigations are ethics is carried out by the available both Ethics Panel in print and online 23 Human rights RESPONSIBLE MARKETING G4 – HR5, HR6 UNGC – 4, 5 Consumers have become more The sustainability conscious regarding social and and marketing & We are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), environmental concerns and have innovation team specific interests, preferences a strategic policy initiative for and cultural sensitivity when collaboratively businesses. Therefore, we are purchasing our products. These support brand expected to align our operations findings were legitimised through strategies to and planning with the 10 universally accepted principles in a consumer survey conducted in integrate principles the UAE in 2011, which claims both the areas of human rights, labour, local nationals and expats expect of sustainable environment and anti-corruption. businesses to act responsibly. It is development into important that our brands apply their strategies. responsible marketing practices so Extensive research that we can adapt to consumer Our value chain is expectations and build customer has been provided extensive, with a confidence and trust. for Wojooh, to regional coverage We have developed an online encourage and of 14 countries, more marketing platform called EDGE in inspire women to than 10,000 people 2013. EDGE is a tool that enables make a difference in in our network, our marketing team to provide the GCC. Research operational teams with targeted working to manage information related to responsible has included 552 stores across marketing practices, as well as entrepreneurship, the regions that are inspiration and support to better women controlled by 65 understand the needs of our empowerment and customers. EDGE offers up-to-date companies. reports on global trends on a other self-esteem weekly basis through the intranet, initiatives affecting and provides workshops and the region. Employment remains among training opportunities. the areas of our greatest human impact, and we have many Moreover, our marketing and opportunities to help bring innovation teams provide about real change. We oppose strategic advisory consultancy to illegal labour, including child our brands and assist them during labour and any unacceptable the advertisement process. We treatment meted out to workers. continuously work with our brands We also encourage all our to encourage the adoption contractors and third parties to of cause marketing strategies adapt this behaviour. Although that are in line with their brand we have partnerships with values while meeting the social universities and recruit students developmental needs of the for internship opportunities, we region. do not hire people below the We are aiming to introduce age of 23. Furthermore, none of further marketing-related training our operations are exposed to programs in 2015, which most fit significant risks in relation to forced the needs of our employees and or compulsory labour violations. define our technical marketing competencies at the Group level. 24 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 01 Chapter Our impact on the economies where we operate Over the past five decades, we have been the leading company for luxury goods in the fast-growing Middle Eastern market. Along with the growth of our business in the region, we are consciously contributing towards the development of the communities we operate in. Our commitment to sustainable GULFANISATION economic progress in the region is based on the development As part of our continuous of human resources and the approach to business growth promotion of entrepreneurial in this dynamic market, we are spirit, especially in the Gulf highly committed to recruiting nations. The Group has witnessed nationals and enhancing the skills a 10% increase in recruitment of the local youth. Recognising the and expansion of operations this regional governments’ challenge year and we are determined to to increase participation of maintain this steady growth in the nationals in the local workforce future. and in anticipation of the longterm challenge to adhere to strict nationalisation laws, we have OUR COMMITMENT TO various Gulfanisation initiatives SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC and efforts in place. GROWTH More specifically for the UAE, As a group, we have seen our Emiratisation has been our focus business expand because of our in 2013. We have set up an Distribution of UAE nationals steadiness to invest in sustainable Emiratisation Steering Committee in 2013 growth opportunities and local and developed a road map for business partnerships that provide 2013 –15. This helped us to define the Gulfanisation strategy for the 13% long-term strategic benefits rather entire Group, after which we than short-term revenue returns. recruited a Gulfanisation Officer 23% As a result, the Group’s growth has been more than 15% in 2013. in 2013 to execute and manage our performance in this area. 21% We have strict policies to ensure that any new business partner Our commitment to Emiratisation is subject to conformity and goes beyond the regulatory 43% alignment with our values and requirements. We aim to achieve corporate culture. Over the past the target of recruiting 5% UAE years, we have on instances nationals in our workforce by declined partnerships with third 2015. In order to achieve this Sales operations parties because of nonconformity objective, all general managers Back office with our group values. are expected to set targets to Support services Front liners 26 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 increase the number of GCC we have met and exceeded our nationals in their respective initial target and now have 6% Our vision is to become teams. In addition, each business GCC nationals in our workforce, unit is expected to have one GCC including 3% UAE nationals. We an employer of choice national team member. Their aim have also recruited one GCC for GCC nationals, by is to create a team environment senior manager in 2013. In 2014, attracting, integrating that includes local culture and we aim to develop specific and developing local nationalities, and their ability to recruitment campaigns that will meet this target will be reflected focus on positioning the private talents at Chalhoub. in their annual bonus. Currently, sector as an attractive employer. Increase in Emiratisation: 2012-2013 15% Total increase % 14% 22% Total number of Emiratis 2012 2013 59 68 Increase in Emiratisation: 2012-2013 27 EMIRATI GRADUATE PROGRAMME Our learning and development team launched the Emirati Graduate Programme in 2013 to provide graduates with the opportunity to grow as part of the Group and experience Vish Sanghani the different facets of the business. The objective of the Group Talent Manager programme is to ensure UAE nationals are offered and guided down an 18-month career path programme, wherein they With the EGP, we aim are encouraged to rotate across four development streams: to provide accelerated marketing, finance, HR and commercial. development opportunities to young emirati graduates to As part of our ongoing strategy to American University of Beirut, learn & work in the develop young talents across the Ecole Supérieure de Affairs (ESA) exciting business of luxury country, we established various and the University of St. Joseph. In within the middle east partnerships with universities in Europe, partner universities include region. The program order to provide scholarships, Polimoda in Italy and Sciences Po in involves exciting language training, internships Paris, France. rotations in different part and educational programmes of the business, training We also take part in local recruitment to GCC nationals in the region programs, mentoring initiatives and partner with nonand internationally. The goal is to and coaching. It is also profit organisations and other empower the youth in the Middle a way to build future institutions in order to enhance our East to ensure they are ready to leaders and integrate commitment towards Emiratisation. take up the challenges of the local national into our This year, we have joined ABSHER current and the future job markets. workforce as part of our — an initiative launched by His long term vision We provide scholarship Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed programmes for GCC nationals Al Nahyan, President of the UAE at various universities across the — with the objective to provide all globe. Partner universities in the UAE means of stability and welfare for include the American University of the UAE citizens by enhancing their Sharjah, Zayed University and Paris participation in the labour market. Sorbonne University in Abu Dhabi. Through ABSHER, we aim to recruit In Lebanon, we have established at least 70 UAE nationals over the regional partnerships with the next three years. Our graduate development programme has been designed to help create future leaders in the luxury industry. 28 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 YES TO WORK INITIATIVE YES to Work is a national initiative taken by the Abu Dhabi Centre for Technological and Vocational Education and Training (ACTVET) in support of ABSHER. It encourages young Emiratis to gain professional experience in the private sector by offering them jobs and training in retail services during their summer and winter breaks. This year, we have been awarded for our contribution in the Yes to Work initiative. We are proud to have supported 46 students through our educational platform under the initiative. FEMINISATION IN SAUDI ARABIA Based on the third phase of the feminisation programme introduced by the Ministry of Labour in Saudi Arabia in 2012, enforcing retailers to recruit women at female cosmetic and apparel stores by 27 June 2012, we started recruiting women in all our cosmetic and perfume stores . Many businesses were unable and unwilling to comply because it was a challenge to recruit female candidates in such a short period of time. The Chalhoub Group, however, was determined to comply with the new programme. We used several available communication platforms, such as social media, newspaper, word of mouth and career fairs, to create awareness. We were successful in recruiting more than 1,000 females in four months and transferring 117 males to other positions within the Group. Our commitment continues with the advancement of university partnerships and knowledge-sharing platforms with young females in Saudi Arabia, so they are better equipped to become part of our workforce. 29 SUPPORTING LOCAL ENTREPRENEURS Being a leader in the luxury sector We actively promote local and located in one of the world’s brands and designers through fastest growing economies, we our business development look to play a key role in fostering team. The team offers financial local entrepreneurship. Alongside support, know-how consultancy, Mansour Hajjar our work on Gulfanisation and brand development Managing Director, UAE and feminisation in KSA, we and strategy support to local are committed to providing entrepreneurs. We also support dedicated support for local local entrepreneurs by offering When asked what keeps entrepreneurs through a range of an exclusive space at Level, the me up at night, my initiatives. largest shoe district in the world, answer is Emiratization. to promote their products. And today, without a collective efforts towards the education and the support of the local population of the UAE, the nation that warmly welcomed us won’t succeed in its sustainability mission. It is our critical duty as guests to give back by supporting Emirati entrepreneurs, by sharing our knowledge with the youth of the country and by investing in local talents and KHALIFA FUND initiatives. A sustainable future for the UAE will only come through The Khalifa Fund (KF) is a public entity reporting to the Abu the empowerment of Dhabi Executive Council. Its mission is to develop a culture the Emirati nationals of entrepreneurship, encourage private sector enrolment and this is what we are and help in achieving Plan Abu Dhabi 2030. passionately committed to as Chalhoub Group. The partnership between the Chalhoub Group and KF involved a three-pronged approach as follows: »» Building the capacity of KF teams by providing them with knowledge on retail business and mentoring aspiring entrepreneurs on its unique dynamics »» Arranging lectures by experts for entrepreneurs »» Allowing aspiring entrepreneurs to shadow retail operations Through this partnership, we aim to encourage local private sector enrolment and help in achieving Plan Abu Dhabi 2030 to diversify the economy. 30 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 02 Chapter Chalhoub IMPACT 31 In 2009, we established Chalhoub IMPACT, our corporate social responsibility strategy. The strategy aims at contributing to the sustainable development of the region through education, environment and humanitarian aid. IMPACT focuses on strategic partnerships that address IMPACT’s mission sustainable development needs of the region. Community is to engage Highlights of 2013 projects launched by the Group employees in require full commitment from the supporting initiatives »» Chalhoub Group team. Although we contribute in education, a substantial amount of funding Luxury Brand to social and environmental environment and Management Professorship with initiatives, the objective is to humanitarian American University collaboratively create project matters across the of Sharjah designs that meet development Middle East. Our needs, and ensure business »» Chalhoub Scholar’s expertise are being leveraged. strategy recognises Day We aim to achieve these that employee »» Jusoor Scholarship objectives through several retail participation Programme campaigns, such as the Spirit is crucial to »» 45% increase in of the Ghaf, Hope for Cancer the Gift of Giving Patients and START. creating positive campaign — 12,716 and long-term With the support of our IMPACT stationary packs ambassadors in each of the community impact. were distributed to business units, we intend to We, therefore, aim children reduce our environmental to engage all our »» 5,000 Ghaf trees footprint, engage with our planted — initiative employees in order employees and promote active of the Spirit of the community participation. IMPACT to bring together Ghaf campaign ambassadors are employees a diversity of skills, »» 5 environmental across our services and expertise and awareness events operations who have volunteered knowledge needed »» AED 404,147 raised to become coordinators and advocates for IMPACT for tackling complex by the Hope of Cancer Patients campaigns in their respective societal issues. campaign business units. Currently, there are 78 ambassadors volunteering in the UAE. 32 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 SUPPORTING EDUCATION We believe education is commitment letter sent on behalf crucial for the socio-economic of the CEO. This letter highlights development of the region. We our sustainability mission, values have an important role to play in and the expectations from a the advancement of knowledge Chalhoub Group scholar. in our society. We support our We also provide our partner employees during their pursuit of universities with the scholarship higher education. Additionally, guidelines to ensure they are the Group’s commitment accountable to us. The guidelines to education is reflected by outline the criteria for student the continuous investment in selection and describe our infrastructure development and sustainability mission and vision, community engagement. so that the partner universities Through the Chalhoub Group’s understand the strong link scholarship programme, we between social responsibility grant scholarships to youth principles and the Group’s from the Middle East to pursue community investment. higher education in reputed We have partnered with universities in the world. The goal universities to help bridge the is to empower our scholarship gap between cademia and recipients to make them capable industry. The introduction of the of facing the challenges of the Chalhoub Group Luxury Brand rapidly changing job market Management Professorship at the through innovative learning American University of Sharjah programmes and dynamic (AUS) is an example of a unique partnerships. We expect our opportunity for group members scholars to be ambassadors of to share experience and business the Group’s values — respect, knowledge with university excellence, entrepreneurial spirit, students. humility and unity. Our scholarship recipients are expected to sign a AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF SHARJAH In 2012, the Chalhoub Group launched a professorship with the American University of Sharjah (AUS), under which a marketing course in luxury brand management is being offered to students. The course framework has been outlined on the basis of the collaboration between the AUS and the Chalhoub Group, offering real-life insights and shedding light on industry needs. The course is supplemented with Chalhoub Group experts offering guest lectures, mentorship and assessments on senior-level projects. The aim is to create a local understanding of luxury brand management in order to build up talent regionally and, in turn, increase local recruitment. 33 BRINGING ABOUT A POSITIVE CHANGE IN SYRIA Scholarship programme RAMI ZAATARI We have partnered with Jusoor, a non-profit organisation, aiming to utilise the potential of Words cannot describe the feeling Syrian refugees and bring about a positive of being awarded a scholarship from Chalhoub Group, I am grateful and change in Syria. appreciate their support to help make Under the partnership, the Chalhoub Group my educational endeavors become a has provided scholarships for five students reality and exert a powerful influence attending university in the UK. Scholarship over my life. recipients are identified based on the quality I believe that pursuing the course of application, nature of circumstances and on Global Economy at University how their academic development has been of Glasgow, which will give me affected by the Syrian crisis. These students are the opportunity to receive quality attending the University of Warwick, University education, is a critical component to of Bradford, Birmingham University, University my profession in theoretical & practical of Manchester and University of Glasgow. aspects. Upon returning to Syria and after deepening my specialisation, I hope to continue working more efficiently in the field of competitiveness researches, consultancy, policy-making and think-tank. TRAKER SABBAGH Dear Chalhoub Group, First I would like to thank Chalhoub group for giving me the chance of my life. I am and I will always be grateful for this consideration. The moment I was informed that I had been chosen for the scholarship was very unique and unforgettable. To be honest I was not able to sleep that night. Beside all doors that the scholarship will open for me, I felt that there is still hope for Syria. The fact that there are still people who intend to help Syrian youth and contribute to the future of Syria; regardless of our ethnicity religions and political views, this fact gives me the hope that we will be able to rebuild our country again. Lastly, I assure you that I will do my best to excel in university and be as expected, a good ambassador of Chalhoub Group. 34 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 CHALHOUB GROUP LEARNING CENTRE The Chalhoub Group, in collaboration with Jusoor, has set up a learning centre in Bekaa, Lebanon, to teach refugee children from Syria the basics of reading, writing and mathematics. We help them in overcoming their learning difficulties that have resulted from the displacement, by raising their standard in English and mathematics. This will eventually help them in joining the formal education system. Currently, the formal education system in Lebanon is saturated and the competition to join the public schooling system is fierce. The objective of the learning centre is to prepare the refugee children psychologically and academically so that they are prepared to join formal schooling system. The learning centre offers transportation to children living in camps in 5 different villages and has enrolled 500 students to date. LUNA GHANNAM WALLADA SHAABOUK Chalhoub Group granted For being one of those who were selected for the higher study me the opportunity to Chalhoub scholarship, I would cordially and gratefully say.. attend one of the top thank you Chalhoub Group. prestigious schools in Thank you for recreating the hope again into our souls, and England and acquire top opening a shining road towards a better future. A future notch knowledge and of building and development, a future of knowledge and skills. Thanks to Chalhoub progress. Amid the sound of bullets, explosions & pains, where Group, I am now able to the hope almost disappears, and all the dreams turn into a take one step closer to long nightmare; I feel how grateful I am to have the chance achieve all that I aspire, of achieving the change, a chance of bringing about the and become part of sought impact. Today, I look ahead to the challenges and the positive change in duties I have; and realize the volume of responsibilities and Syria. I will be carrying commitments I bear towards my family, my society, country, on the Chalhoub Group and myself. I recollect my strength and go forward with a legacy of improving our strongest determination ever, a strongest will ever, and a beautiful nation with steady belief in the better tomorrow. ultimate pride. 35 GIFT OF GIVING CAMPAIGN Neha Mishra HR Specialist, TARZ Gift of Giving is one of the many impactful initiatives that brings a lot of cheer to the underprivileged kids and is a humbling experience for the employees. The Gift of Giving campaign is our largest group-wide campaign. We encourage our employees to support underprivileged primary-level students across the region through the donation of school packs. Employees support this campaign by purchasing stationary items for the students. We match our employee contributions by purchasing a backpack for every school pack donated. In 2013, the Frederica Triuibiani Marketing Director, Beauty Own Middle East region donated 10,784 backpacks made of Concept 100% recycled water bottles to the students, a staggering 15% increase from 2012. Additionally, all plastic bags from the campaign were donated to the Philippine Community Fund I feel very proud to be part (PCF) in order to be recycled into merchandise to support of a group that understands underprivileged families in Smokey Mountain, Manila. the importance of giving back to the community In the UAE alone, more than 100 of our committed employees with programs such as Gift were involved throughout the process, donating from of Giving. Children are purchasing to packing and delivering, spreading happiness our future, so thank you to over 300 children on the International Literacy Day, 8 IMPACT for giving us the September. The UAE campaign was also supported by our opportunity to care and education partner, AUS, where more than 130 students make a difference in their donated AED 4,035 for the campaign. life. EDUCATION IS MAGIC We have partnered with START, an independent project under the Al Madad Foundation, to collaboratively design an entrepreneurship programme being offered to Palestinian refugees living in the Mer Elias refugee camp in Lebanon. Our marketing, advertising, sales and human resources experts create content and facilitate workshops for young aspiring Palestinian entrepreneurs, inspiring them to pursue their dreams. 36 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 ONE YOUNG WORLD The One Young World summit is a global forum for young people with strong leadership qualities, to gather, discuss and develop solutions for positive social change and a better tomorrow. One Young World campaign’s purpose is to empower local students in the Middle East through experiential learning. After each summit, the delegates are expected to return to their home countries and implement initiatives that will bring about a positive change. In 2013, the summit was held in Johannesburg and the Group sent a delegation to the summit for the fourth consecutive year. The application process that we follow is open to our own employees as well as to students attending our local partner universities, such as the AUS, Zayed University and Paris Sorbonne Abu Dhabi. In the four-day summit, the delegation had the privilege of drawing inspiration from worldrenowned dignitaries, such as Kofi Annan, Sir Richard Branson and Sir Bob Geldof. Sarah Cousin Amel Adel Anas Vadakkengara Chalhoub Group, UAE Paris Sorbonne University, Chalhoub Group, KSA Abu Dhabi This is the first time that I feel very lucky to have I am taking everything I have seen so many had the opportunity to I learned with me people from different attend this very enriching back home, hopefully walks of life, who are conference. implementing something sharing their experiences. that will benefit causes I It is really amazing. feel very strongly about. 37 PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT We are committed to reducing fundraising campaigns such as our environmental impact and we the Spirit of the Ghaf campaign. strive to engage all our employees In collaboration with our Chalhoub in this process through education, online marketing platform volunteering and providing them EDGE, we have produced a with the opportunity to become presentation titled Top Tips on an IMPACT ambassador. being a Green Marketer, and In line with creating a culture shared it with all employees around responsible behaviour, online as well as published it in the we have five environmental weekly newsletter. awareness campaigns as well as SPIRIT OF THE GHAF CAMPAIGN Ghaf is a tree that grows in arid lands and is considered a solution to desertification. It stabilises dunes and improves the soil. Today, however, the Ghaf is being over-grazed to destruction and groves are succumbing to urbanisation and rapid infrastructure development. IMPACT organised its second in-store fundraising campaign, Spirit of the Ghaf, in 2013 by using retail platforms to spread awareness about UAE’s national tree. Environment-friendly bracelets were sold at more than 100 stores to raise funds for the Give a Ghaf tree planting programme, which resulted in the planting of 5,000 Ghaf seeds in 2013. More than 200 retail staff members have been educated on the cause and urged to prioritise the sale of the bracelets so that significant impact could be achieved. Environment awareness Signage of this initiative is placed at all points of sale to educate events customers on the importance of We have been participating in saving energy. the Earth Hour movement for the In 2013, we commemorated past four years, turning off the the Earth Day programme by lights across our offices for one screening the documentary hour and creating awareness The 11th Hour at the Pavilion about climate change and in Downtown Dubai in the environmental stewardship. Since presence of more than 50 2012, 120 of our stores across employees to create awareness the UAE joined the initiative by about the threat of global switching off the lights for one hour warming. in line with the global movement. 38 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 Chalhoub IMPACT’s first short 2013 auction raised more than film Mother Earth, made to AED 10,000 for the Emirates Marine create environmental awareness Environment Fund to protect amongst employees, was local biodiversity. Through all screened on Earth Day in 2013. these efforts, we hope to foster a The video is now available on more environmentally conscious YouTube. mentality across the Middle East. In 2013 teams went for organic We celebrate World Environment healthy eating cooking classes in Francois Schweitzer Day annually with an exhibition line with the theme of ‘Think.Eat. General Manager and auction of our employees’ Save.’ artistic works. The proceeds of the What if it was in our nature to help nature? Wojooh team in Syria celebrating Earth Hour ANNUAL BEACH CLEAN UP CAMPAIGN A total of 130 employees participated in cleaning up the beach and mangrove areas at the Emirates Marine Environmental Group reserve during Chalhoub’s Annual Beach Clean Up campaign in 2013. The participation represented a 54% increase from 2012 level. The purpose of this campaign is to unite our employees and create awareness regarding environmental protection and biodiversity. 39 HUMANITARIAN AID In recognition of our role as global citizens we offer humanitarian support through fundraising, volunteerism and using our retail operations as a platform to create awareness for social issues. Issues focused on include cancer awareness and prevention, political conflict and natural disaster. Dr Sawsan HOPE FOR CANCER PATIENTS CAMPAIGN Secretary General, Friends of Cancer Patients I think what you are doing is fantastic, it is a noble thing. You helping us to help cancer patients regardless of their ethnicity or religion is amazing. Cancer does not differentiate, it can hit anyone of us and for your support in fighting this we are so grateful. Hope for Cancer Patients campaign represents an important milestone as it was the first time our customers were actively engaged in one of our social initiatives in 2012. Our customers were encouraged to buy a specially designed “daffodil” pin with any purchase in the Chalhoub stores. Daffodil is a globally recognised symbol of hope Issam Aba Zeed Area Supervisor, AUH Retail Fashion for cancer patients. Under the initiative, AED 404,147 was raised for cancer patients and donated to the Friends of Cancer Patients Society. This initiative could not have been Hope for Cancer Patients successful without the support of employees at all levels, is one of the campaigns from the managing director to the sales representatives in that touched me deep the stores. inside, and made me feel for those who really need this donation just to stay alive. I felt happier with every daffodil sold. It is For the 2013 Hope for Cancer Patients volunteer mission, we partnered not about how many pins with the local outreach programme, Be Beautiful. The organisation you sell but how many aims to educate and empower women suffering from cancer by smiles you were able to conducting workshops on skin care, makeup, wigs and scarves. plant on someone’s face. Beauty advisors from our brands took out time from their busy schedule to share their knowledge and donated products for these workshops. 40 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 Hope for Cancer Patient campaign donations $ $ $ 2012 USD 86,300 2013 USD 110,022 RELIEF AID FOR THE PHILIPPINES In 2013, Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines. It was one of the most powerful storms ever to be recorded. The natural disaster affected and displaced 13 million Filipinos. The Chalhoub Group raised AED 91,648 from our Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar and UAE operations, which has been donated to the Philippines Red Cross in order to support the rebuilding of the areas that were hit by the disaster. Every year, we contribute to numerous social and environmental initiatives that have positive impacts on the communities we operate in. Going forward, we aspire to investigate the social return on investment (SROI) on these initiatives, which would allow us to measure the wider concept of value generated through social investments and take into account the social, economic and environmental factors when calculating the organisation’s growth. This would enable us to evaluate the impact on beneficiaries, identify ways to improve social or environmental performance and enhance the performance of investments. 41 03 Chapter Environmental stewardship 42 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 In 2013, we developed our Group’s environmental policy committing towards reducing our environmental footprint and improving our overall environmental performance in all operations. Our social responsibility team, In the future, we together with the Logistics and Our ambition is to HSSE team, develop Chalhoub’s aim to evaluate environmental goals and identify savings our environmental objectives. Representatives from through greater impacts at every all three departments come energy and water stage of our supply together to note down controls efficiency, as well and measurable objectives to chain. be followed, hoping to promote as lower the levels a culture of environmental of waste generation sustainability across the Group. across the business. To further track and mitigate our environmental impacts, our Logistics department maintains an aspect register of all the significant impacts associated with our internal activities, such as water usage, offloading, printing and waste disposal. Moreover, we aim to implement a holistic environmental management system to help manage our environmental performance in an integrated w a y . UNGC – 1 Real Emirates Administration ENERGY Man’s hunger for power MANAGEMENT seems insatiable. Reining UNGC – 7,8,9 it in, is a herculean task. At Real Emirates We use both primary Administration, we are and secondary sources of determined that our energy sources through fuel and baby steps of kindness electricity use. In an attempt to to Mother Nature via conserve energy in our buildings, responsible energy we conduct regular third-party consumption, will audits to review and strengthen translate to a better our environmental performance. tomorrow for us all. We strive to implement our auditor’s recommendations, 43 wherever possible. Environmental addition, we have improved the performance of our buildings and performance of air conditioning our maintenance quality have systems in our offices. Motion light been assessed for continuous sensors for lighting control have improvement through stipulated been installed in our warehouses. KPIs, such as fire drill evacuation At our main warehouse in Jebel time and electricity and water Ali, which is operational for 365 consumption. days, we have installed daylight sensors and timer controls for both In order to reduce our electricity internal and external lights in order consumption, we have been to save electricity consumption. replacing corridor lights with LED In our efforts towards ongoing lights in our offices. We encourage energy management, we aim to our employees to use natural light replace the entire conventional during the day, wherever possible, lighting system with environmentthrough our environmental friendly alternatives across all our awareness campaigns. In UAE offices. Total consumption of electricity at our UAE locations* 2012 13,193,068 kWh 2013 13,543,547 kWh CO2 emissions due to electricity 2012 10,818 tons of CO2 2013 11,106 tons of CO2 * The data given here has been derived from electricity bills. Due to missing data for some of the locations, we have taken the mean average from electricity bills for the main warehouse, CGR and DIP. * This is data for HQ, CGR, main warehouse, warehouse 1 and DIP. Data for Burjuman and AD offices is unavailable. 44 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 Sourcing energy from renewables fleet location, traffic conditions, is one of our long-term route calculations and route environmental goals. We have arrival timings. invested in solar technology with All our drivers in the UAE have been the ambition to have carbon trained on route optimisation neutral headquarters in the and reduction of fuel usage near future as a pilot for the through the How to be a Green rest of our office locations and Vehicle Operator initiative. With warehouses. In 2012, solar PV panels have been installed at our main warehouse and are being used for our car park lighting. The electricity generated has helped us in saving 1,385,160 kWh in 2013, and an approximate reduction of 1,136 tons of CO2 equivalents in emissions since its construction. Our fleet accounts for the largest share of our total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. At the same this initiative, we aim to educate time, we are opening new stores our employees about the at a fast pace. Nevertheless, we environmental impact of burning are hoping to reduce our carbon fossil fuels and how to reduce our footprint through our zone carbon emissions through more responsible behaviour. We are in the process of conceptualising innovative ways to save energy, including an integrated building management system for all our existing and future buildings. The centralised system at our headquarters will provide automatic control over monitored devices and overall energy efficiency. map optimisation system. Zone mapping of our main distribution 2011 1,389 centres and retail stores helps in continual monitoring by GPS over 2012 2013 1,485 2,105 Total tons of CO2 from transportation* * This information contains fleet data for Real Emirates and Real FZE. 45 Total water WATER WASTE consumption at our UAE locations* CONSUMPTION MANAGEMENT Water is a scarce We reduce our waste resource in the generation through countries where we operate. recycling initiatives and through Although our operations are not effective and responsible waste 2012 very water demanding, we still disposal at all our offices and 45,015,897 litre acknowledge and appreciate warehouses. We maintain in2013 45,087,924 litre the importance of efficient water house segregation and recycling use. of waste through our recycling centres, of which the first one was With the support of our installed at our headquarters in * The data given here has been derived from Chalhoub IMPACT team, we water bills. Due to missing data for some of the 2008. locations, we have taken the mean average have developed various waterfrom electricity bills for the main warehouse, reduction awareness campaigns We installed two more recycling CGR and DIP. for our offices and warehouses. centres in 2009 and additional * This data is for HQ, CGR, main warehouse, “Save Water” posters have ones with the installation of new warehouse 1 and DIP. Data for Burjuman and AD offices is unavailable. been designed and will be buildings. These recycling centres placed in all the areas of water are a safe and easy place for consumption in 2014 to build all our employees to dispose awareness. Furthermore, the of recyclable wastes including following activities have taken plastics, paper and metal. We place in 2013 at our facilities and also encourage all our employees In 2013, we stores across the globe: to dispose of home recyclable wastes in these recycling centres. managed to save » Installation of dual-flush water an equivalent of closets 316 trees through » Installation of water savers our paper recycling » Installation of faucet aerators efforts. » Identification and replacement of leaky taps As an initiative to reduce the amount of water used for irrigation, we have planted UAE’s native plants in the gardens surrounding our main logistics Paper warehouse in Jebel Ali. These consumption at our offices plants require watering only 2013 twice a week. For further water 40,410 kg* optimisation, we treat sewage effluents and use the recycled water for irrigation. * This information contains data for Real Emirates and Real FZE. 46 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 Recycled materials in Volume of non2013 recyclable wastes produced in 2013 In the past few years, we have extended our programme to To help tackle the issue of Plastic Carton include battery and printer waste management even 19,283 kg 192,66 kg cartridge recycling. further, we have approached In 2012, Emirates Marine some of the major malls in the The table contains data for the main warehouse, UAE to understand their waste DIP and HQ excluding data for Burjuman, CGR Environmental Group (EMEG) and Abu Dhabi. collected more than 500 toners management processes and in our head office, which were expressed our intention to engage sold to third-party suppliers for our retail outlets in managing the recycling. In 2013, we partnered waste in accordance with the with JAFZA’s waste management malls’ operations. In 2014, we organisation, Imdaad, to collect plan to develop and implement Paper toners in the Jebel Ali offices. a “Sustainable stores checklist”, in line with existing green building 18,565 kg All our non-hazardous solid codes, in order to enhance the wastes such as gypsum boards, environmental performance of This information contains data for the HQ, metal frames, wood and cement our retail stores. Burjuman (including HAVAS) and DIP, excluding used for the construction of retail data for the main warehouse and the CGR and Abu Dhabi warehouses. stores are first collected by our contractors and later by the Dubai Municipality for appropriate disposal. Going forward, we aim to establish a system to monitor the collection of our hazardous wastes in collaboration with our contractors. Our retail stores generate high volumes of waste from stock items and damaged products that could not be sold. In order to reduce the volume of stock and minimise the waste, we offer summer and winter sales for our staff and the wider public. Until Wastes (non-recyclable) 2013, we collected up to 50 pallets 1,880 cbm of damaged or out-of-date stock This information contains data for the main warehouse and DIP, items. By the end of 2014, we aim excluding data for the CGR warehouse and office locations. to have a compact site to reduce these wastes in the long term. 47 04 Chapter Investing in our people 48 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 We have robust recruitment procedures with well-defined employment and performance standards to ensure that we select high performers and achievers to join our group. We take great measures to motivate and retain our talented people and to assist them in performing efficiently throughout their career. Our vision is to be the business and are an integral part of the partner of choice through bottom line, both in terms of targeted human capital profit generation and customer strategies, people expertise and satisfaction. Our back-office execution. employees are not as visible as the positions held by frontliners, We promote and encourage but are equally important to the professionalism and the general success of our business as they well-being of our employees, while handle its administrative aspects Wassim Eid upholding the Chalhoub Group and internal processes. Chief HR Officer values of respect, excellence and entrepreneurial spirit. Holding on We are aware that the required to our commitment to excellence, skill sets for the two types of Our people will always be a we prioritise the professional employees vary significantly. strategic priority for us and development of our employees In order to monitor their career for the growth of the group; we recognise employees throughout their careers within paths and encourage talent who are committed and the Group. management, we have created performing. We look after two different approaches to their our talented and high training and development: LEARNING AND potential employees providing them with DEVELOPMENT »» Training and development of development opportunities. our frontline staff through the Due to the nature of our business, Investing in Learning and retail academy we have two distinct types of development is one of »» Use of a performance our key differentiation, employees: frontliners and backdevelopment review (PDR) we encourage and office staff. Our frontliners, who procedure for our back-office support a wide range of work in our stores, are the first line professional and personal staff of contact with our customers development initiatives Frontline as well as back-office through our 3 established staff undergo a variety of trainings academies learning programmes aimed at in Dubai, Jeddah and developing their managerial, Riyadh, offering executive behavioural and functional skills. education, study assistance, These learning programmes coaching, and technical also follow a natural leadership skills training. We always give progression of first leading self, the priority to promote from then leading others, and finally within and offer our staff leading the organisation. stretched assignments to foster a culture of learning and coaching, using the 70:20:10 model 49 All new joiners at our back office same room for interacting and Our goal is to ensure and frontline office, irrespective learning about the organisation. of their level, have to undergo In addition, new joiners are that 50% of our an induction programme. This introduced to our Co-CEO’s employees are QCF programme acquaints them in a group meeting, with the Level 2 qualified. with the organisation’s structure opportunity to exchange ideas and culture with an emphasis about the Group’s values, culture, social responsibilities and their personal aspirations. The new joiners at the frontline office further undergo a fiveday foundation training, after which all successful candidates have to attend the 30-day START Programme training. The START Programme prepares the new frontline staff for their roles and responsibilities in our stores and on the Group’s values and focuses on key concepts such as social responsibilities. It allows customer service, effective selling employees, irrespective of their techniques, health and safety, rank or function, to be in the and time management. THE CHALHOUB RETAIL ACADEMY (CRA) Our frontline employees further enhance their functional skills at the Chalhoub Retail Academy (CRA) — the first internationally accredited retail academy in the Middle East. With a mission to “inspire excellence in retail,” the CRA was established in 2007 in collaboration with the world’s largest accreditation body, Edexcel (UK). A wide spectrum of training programmes, ranging from the Qualification Credit Framework (QCF) to Business and Technology Education Council (BTEC) portfolios, contribute to the personal and professional growth of our frontline employees and provide them with the internationally recognised QCF Level 2 qualification. QCF Level 2 provides our frontliners with the knowledge, skills and understanding required to attain a diploma-level qualification in retail. 50 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 Our store supervisors and in-store managers undergo a mandatory QCF Level 3 qualification programme. This training programme All of our enables them to coach and support the development and progress of their frontline staff. supervisory-level frontline employees Qualifications Trained frontliners are QCF Level 3 in 2013 qualified. QCF Level 2 diploma in Retail Skills 68 QCF Level 2 certificate in Retail Skills 106 QCF Level 3 certificate in Assessing Vocational 64 Achievement 52-week training 77 START Induction Programme 496 Distribution Excellence 33 Zaur Shiraliyev Department Manager, Retail Academy RISE Retail Refresher Programme 194 Standardisation Day 12 At Chalhoub Retail Academy we strive to START Distribution 80 ensure that we remain committed to our vision Total 1,038 of “Inspiring Excellence in Retail”. We do it by having best programmes, FOREVER LEARNING best facilities and services in place for our employees. We are very careful in selecting the Academy trainers, as The concept of Forever Learning has been introduced to we believe that they support the alumni of CRA and motivate them to “never stop are the champions learning.” Every quarter, CRA graduates and managers of change and role attend an hour-long interactive and motivational session models for our front line focused on a variety of subjects conducted by the colleagues. Our training company’s management representatives. and assessment activities meet the highest industry standards and receive excellent feedback from our accreditation partner, Edexcell. 51 ANNUAL REFRESHER PROGRAM The 2013–14 refresher programme was named “RISE” and it was inspired by the In 2013, CRA developed and rolled out an annual retail sunflower. refresher that aims to refresh the ongoing commitment to our values and provides training to improve the knowledge and skills of our employees. The key messages and content The programme of the annual retail refresher are incorporated while conveyed that just developing the START orientation programme for the new as the sunflower joiners. rises and follows the movement of the sunrays, the In 2013, the Chalhoub Group further enhance their abilities and employees too must implemented the performance fulfil their career aspirations. rise up each day to development review (PDR) For our managers, we offer the customers and approach to develop the skills of bespoke training courses our back-office professional staff. their expectations. The PDR complements the existing exclusively tailored to their needs. Our mid-management key performance indicators (KPIs) professionals and supervisors are and encourages a transparent, offered an array of behavioural performance-based recognition and functional courses. The system. In addition, our learning Chalhoub group is an accredited and career developmental plan centre for the Institute of Refresh adopts the 70:20:10 model — 70% Leadership Management (ILM), learning is achieved on the job, Improve offering UK-based international 20% by coaching and mentoring, qualification. The ILM courses are Succeed and 10% is achieved though developed on the basis of the classroom or formal training. Enhance principle that skilled managers Our learning methodology and leaders hold the key to focuses and aligns resources to creating productive workforces support the development that is that deliver organisational and continuously happening at our 194 attended the economic success. workplace. Learning programmes RISE programme in are mapped to each staff Furthermore, our managers 2013. member’s development needs have two exclusively tailored and categorised by three areas of group management courses — training: managerial, behavioural the Advanced Management and functional. Programme (AMP) and the Advanced Leadership Our back-office entry-level Programme (ALP). The AMP has employees are encouraged to been designed in collaboration attend these training programmes with Harvard Business Publishing in order to develop their technical, and Ecole Supérieure de Affaires. linguistic and functional skills and 52 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 (ESA), Beirut, in order to develop set aside for staff training, we do technical as well as behavioural not have set KPIs that measure 15 participants in ALP management. The programme training hours per employee in offers participants the opportunity 2013. In 2014, our learning and in 2013. to work with the Group as internal development strategy intend to consultants. set up standards and indicators to measure and track average The ALP is an in-house personalised training hours per employee to reflective leadership programme evaluate the effectiveness of the developed to give and receive training opportunities provided feedback. The programme helps for each of our employees. our managers become efficient coaches and mentors while In addition to the training setting an example as effective programmes offered by leaders. the Group, we support the educational pursuits and wishes We measure the effectiveness of Nabil Chalhoub of each and every employee. our courses using the “Kirkpatrick 2013 ALP participant We have created an education model,” a highly influential fourpolicy in conjunction with group level model for training course legal to support and guide our [My] ALP journey was evaluation, and we continuously staff members who wish to pursue interesting, beneficial work toward upgrading our higher education. and customised to my training programmes to match the industry’s best standards. requirements as an individual and as a Although 3% of the annual general leader. manager’s budget is currently Training received by gender at back-office in 2013 18% 23% Joseph Ibrahim 2013 ALP participant No. of employees No. of employees received training received training ALP was my perfect 523 399 companion to help me embrace and encourage the group values especially towards the people around me with the aim to set them all for success in their respective function. 53 In line with the business We recognise the exceptional We supported 13 requirements, we have adopted work done by our frontline staff two separate performance through the Customer Service employees in their management systems, each Excellence Award, which is pursuit of MBA acknowledging the different given on a quarterly basis. This and other master’s natures of our business. award distinguishes outstanding degrees in 2013. service towards our customers »» Individual performance and is awarded to those who are appraisal (IPA) for our frontline devoted to consistently surpassing staff customer expectations. »» Performance and development review (PDR) The PDR process was for our back-office staff and implemented in 2013 as a revised management approach to developing the skills of our professional staff. This The IPA process, introduced in approach complements the 2013, is a system through which ongoing system of KPIs aimed managers are able to track at providing a transparent and monthly performance reviews positive performance-based and feedback from frontline recognition system. We believe employees. Through this process, that performance development employees are encouraged is not a one-time event; rather, it to provide feedback on is an ongoing dialogue process key strengths and areas of between the employee and improvement. Moreover, a clear their direct reporter. The PDR performance improvement focuses on overall performance plan has to be presented. High during the previous year, gives achievers are identified and career direction and highlights rewarded appropriately against development areas for the their individual rating criteria, as coming year and beyond. per the individual performance bonus. Piero Poli Piero was supported by the Chalhoub Group during his academic pursuit of executive MBA from Berlin School of Creative Leadership. He shared his key learnings of the business studies with the team through mini-sessions and presentations, and plans to integrate his knowledge back into the business. During his MBA, Piero contributed writings to the “Power Essays in Digital” for the Campaign Magazine, wherein he highlighted value creation in Chalhoub’s business. Piero is now a seasonal and guest lecturer for MBA classes on digital marketing for tomorrow’s business professional at Hult University. 54 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 100% of our full-time employees received ce performance and m an ent Co r m rfo em , career development pro pen Pe nag sses a c sa ma roce e the it reviews in 2013. es sses ess f tion p er un t s for ablis ing or wh iness d the he the s n Is un bu d KP bu PIs a al KP K u em its a sine Is ivid re . plo nd ss The in d a hed ye performance l i s es tab . management es business cycle assists us with Learning and development process, during which the employees are offered training and educational opportunities necessary to contribute and excel in their business setting. Mohammed El Neel Department Manager, Public Relations Mohammed El Neel Every year, we recognise the » Entrepreneurial spirit graduated with a outstanding projects and ideas » Operational excellence bachelor’s degree in Law brought to life throughout and Economics from the » Significant initiative of the year the Group with the Chalhoub University of Jazeera, UAE. Excellence Awards. We distinguish » Living the values He states, “The support and acknowledge those who I get from Chalhoub’s have tackled difficult challenges, A recipient of the Chalhoub family and management surpassed their strategic goals Excellence Award must has broken the barrier of and have continuously delivered demonstrate great potential fear and hesitation and innovative ideas for the Group. and embody our three core helped me during my Following are the seven main values: excellence, respect academic pursuit. The categories of the Chalhoub and entrepreneurial spirit. The Chalhoub Group values Excellence Awards: Chalhoub Entrepreneurial Spirit — respect, excellence Award aims at employees and entrepreneurial spirit » Creative award — remain the biggest participating in projects involving » Community spirit sustainable innovation and school in my life. » Manager of the year creativity. 55 EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT BENEFITS ASSESSMENT UNGC – 6 CENTRES FOR We strive to attract a diverse processes to hire people. FRONTLINE STAFF pool of local, regional and global Additionally, our relationship with candidates that fit the specific universities and our presence at skills for each role, match our career fairs and major events, culture and respect our values. seminars and presentations allows Within our retail Based on the varied functions us to find appropriate candidates services, we have set of our business, we use diverse for different roles. up several recruitment attraction tools and recruitment assessment centres in the past two years Total number of employees at group level for applicants wishing to work in our retail Male Male stores, including store managers. We evaluate their core competencies, skills and behaviours 3,850 4,792 4,558 5,421 required in our stores and the Group as a whole. During the assessment process, all the applicants get an opportunity Female Female to meet and interact with a number of our current employees and get a first-hand 2012 2013 experience of our Total number of Total number of culture. employees at employees at group level group level 8,642 9,979 Total number of employees at UAE level 1,882 1,880 2,256 2,265 2012 2013 Total number of Total number of employees at UAE level employees at UAE level 3,762 4,521 56 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 We provide our employees with Compensation and benefits are the appropriate allowances and listed in our company policy benefits that aim to guarantee and are confirmed at the time a comfortable and a qualityof appointment. They vary driven lifestyle. Allowances are from employee to employee established on the basis of the according to the employee employee’s job responsibility. The category and family status. amounts are reviewed according As part of our attraction and to the inflation rate and the retention policy, compensation results of the market surveys in packages have been adjusted order to maintain fairness and a for Emiratis and other GCC competitive advantage. nationals. In addition, Emiratis are We are conscious of the fact that entitled to a monthly national we have a high ratio of female to allowance, a child allowance male employees in our workforce and an annual loyalty allowance and we ensure that they are all paid during their anniversary provided with equal opportunities. month as a recognition for their We support and encourage our loyalty. Furthermore, tailor-made female employees to return to work-life balance schedules are work after their maternity leave. offered to Emiratis to allow shorter Female employees account for work hours. 45% of our employee base and are entitled maternity leave as per the prevailing labour law and company policy. Male employees are entitled to a oneday paternity leave upon the birth of their child. Employees in the same grade Reimbursement draw the same salary irrespective of self-development Housing of nationality or gender. training and allowance education fees Assistance with personal loan application and banking Transportation needs allowance Our employee benefits include Store Yearly airfare discounts allowance to their hometown Schooling Medical allowance for coverage children between the ages of 3 and 18 57 I LOVE ME In 2013, the Human Resources department organised a series of initiatives to promote community health and well-being activities for employees during work hours. “I Love Me” Dental Wellness Day was organised for all employees willing to attend a painless and fully computerised screening of their mouth and teeth. Similarly, “I Love Me” Blood Donation Drive was organised promoting both employee care and sense of responsibilities towards others and the community. “I Love Me” General Health Drive was organised in partnership with NASCO, our insurance provider, for employees to have a complete health check-up along with informative presentations on general health and nutrition. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL Chalhoub Group OPPORTUNITY Retail UAE has Our recruitment practices In 2013, Real Emirates recruited employees from encourage diversity and fairness an employee with special needs 66 different nations across our employees. We do and hopes to recruit more in the not discriminate against any future, creating an environment working in synergy individual on the basis of gender, comfortable for all people. and race, ethnicity, nationality, coordination religious beliefs, family situation or physical disability. Chalhoub employees by nationalities 45.6% 44.8% 1.4% 1.3% Russia 13.7% 13.9% 28.5% 28.7% Western & Eastern Europe 2.5% 2.3% Asian North & South America Middle Eastern 7.9% 8.6% Africa 0.4% 0.4% Oceania 2012 2013 58 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 05 Chapter Quality of operations 59 We strongly stand behind our value for “commitment to excellence” and we endeavour to provide high-quality service to all our customers. The quality of our services and products, and the health, safety and security of our employees, are of paramount importance to our business. QUALITY MANAGEMENT In line with our corporate Real Emirates Dubai Investments values, we have adopted a Park warehouse, which overlooks quality, health, safety and the distribution of products in UAE, environment (QHSE) policy and is ISO 9001 certified, and aims to have developed an integrated achieve ISO 14001 and OHSAS management system, which was certification in 2014. launched in 2013, to maintain safe Real FZE and Real Emirates Marouane Rihoume and healthy working conditions manage the overall health Group logistics manager and to adequately control risks and safety of all our buildings. arising from our activities. We ensure certifications are ISO 9001 was first Aligned to international best implemented across the board obtained for our Logistics practices, all our operational through the head of safety Operations in Jebel Ali activities and services are carried assigned this year, who reports in year 2000. We have out both in accordance with directly to the CAO. then deployed it to our contractual, legal and regulatory We plan to implement our current Operations in Kuwait, requirements. In addition, we ISO and OHSAS certifications at all UAE and KSA. We have follow international standards our offices and warehouses, and then added ISO 14 001 such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001, to obtain LEED certification for all for Environment as well as OHSAS 18001 and Leadership in our buildings under construction OHSAS for Occupational Energy and Environmental Design in the coming years. Health and Safety. Our (LEED). ISO Certifications are Health and safety is part of an Our Real FZE business unit in all integrated in what ongoing process, both at our charge of our logistics, facilities, we call IMS (Integrated back-office locations and our accounts and traffic control for Management System) retail stores. In addition to looking all our free-zone companies is ISO and are a proof towards after our employees, we make 9001 and OHSAS certified. Real achieving Customer it a priority to take care of our FZE’s logistics department, which Satisfaction through a customers. Our newly established manages the main warehouse documented process health and safety department and is ISO 14001 certified, without forgetting provides training for our retail successfully achieved the LEED our duty towards the staff and aims to manage various Silver certification in 2013. The Environment and the emergency situations on the shop main warehouse oversees the Safety of our colleagues. floor. distribution of products across the region. 60 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 2013 Incident rate-3.6 DART rate-2.6 Fatalities-0 * This graph contains data for the main warehouse and DIP, excluding all other locations. Dirk Bruwer * The Fatalities column shows data for all the locations. Security Operations Manager At our back-office locations, we 4 minutes, including a headcount conduct regular fire drills as part exercise. In 2013, we achieved a The Group recognizes of our emergency preparedness total evacuation time of less than and is committed exercises for all employees who 4 minutes; however, our target to reducing the could face emergency situations was not reached because the environmental impacts at the workplace. Our target is to headcount exercise could not be and health & safety have a total evacuation time of completed in time. risks associated with its business. It is the Fire evacuation and headcount time* Company’s policy to operate an Integrated Management System in accordance with requirements of ISO and OSHA. The Company believes that QHSE is everyone’s responsibility. 2012 6:01 minutes 2013 4:49 minutes * This graph contains data for fire drill in Real FZE and DIP warehouse * It also includes the time spent on evacuation and headcount. 61 EYE TESTING OF FORKLIFT DRIVERS As part of health and safety initiatives in the workplace, we requested our forklift drivers to conduct a mandatory eye test at our main logistics warehouse. Of the 21 Jonathan de Fraine licensed forklift drivers who underwent the vision test, 7 Logistics Manager required special care by an eye specialist and have been prescribed spectacles. At Real Emirates Logistics, as well as striving to provide the best possible service to our customer, PROCUREMENT quality, H&S and the PRACTICES environment have always been on our minds. With Our commitment to sustainability »» Management systems: We the accreditation in these extends to our supply base as we urge our suppliers to maintain 3 areas we received expect our suppliers to conduct a robust management system earlier this year, it shows their worldwide operations in that integrates environmental that we are fulfilling our a socially and environmentally and occupational health and obligations in line with responsible manner. safety, human rights and labour audited standards. What We work in close collaboration policies and ethics into their remains, is continuing with our suppliers and encourage business and decision-making to improve our services each supplier to respect the processes. We also encourage and standards in every following principles: our suppliers to establish aspect that effects our appropriate objectives and daily operations and »» Legal and regulatory targets, regularly measuring subsequent service. compliance: We expect and assessing performance our supplier’s products and and practising continual services to comply with all improvement. national and applicable laws In 2013, we ran an awareness and regulations. workshop educating general »» Environmental performance managers on the importance of improvement: Our suppliers selecting ethical and responsible are expected to reduce the partners and the need for environmental impacts of communicating our values to their operations and of their them. We also drafted a supply products and services. We chain policy, which will be rolled encourage them to include out in 2014. programmes that promote energy efficiency and reduce emissions to air, water and soil. 62 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 3D TEAM WORKING WITH CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS – A PILOT STUDY 3D is our in-house design and project management team in charge of building retail stores across the region. In 2013, the Chalhoub developed a “Sustainable Supplier Questionnaire” in collaboration with the Dubai Chamber of Commerce for our UAE-based contractors and suppliers in order to assist the supplier procurement process. The questionnaire has been developed to gather information on topics pertaining to suppliers’ governance structure and business integrity. In addition, the questionnaire helps determine whether our suppliers comply with human rights, child labour and local labour laws as part of the recruitment procedures. We have an existing list of contractors and suppliers who voluntarily comply with our principles. Our aim is to engage and form partnerships with many more suppliers who share our business values. Currently, our 3D business unit conducts periodic supplier reviews and selects contractors based on the business ethics criteria specified in the sustainable supplier questionnaire. We strive to encourage our suppliers to show commitment to social and environmental compliance. In the coming years, we intend to employ independent auditors to conduct supplier audits that cover the following topics: labour practices and decent work, human rights and product responsibility. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION With a wealth of information available online, CRM’s Customer Experience Project aims to today’s customers are very well informed, making formulate company-wide customer communication relationship marketing ever more important in best practices. Our central repository for inbound the luxury business. At Chalhoub, we focus on customer queries and complaints records customer developing strong connections with our customers interactions received via mail and emails. Our closed by listening to their needs, being aware of their loop mechanism for resolving customer complaints personal or cultural sensitivities and placing greater expedites the processing of queries received on any emphasis on their shopping experience. Our platform (social media, email, contact centre in the Customer Relation Management (CRM) business store). unit focuses on projects and initiatives that deliver better customer service. 63 OUR FIRST DEDICATED CALL CENTRE – CUSTOMER WOJOOH STORE LOYALTY PROGRAMME EXPERIENCE IN KSA (PILOT STUDY) MANAGEMENT – A PILOT STUDY THE DEAL – HAPPY OR NOT As a pilot for our Wojooh store across the region, our KSA Loyalty Programme has established a regional contact centre in Dubai to communicate with our customers via inbound and outbound calls, emails, SMSes, mail and live chats. Customers can contact our dedicated staff members using our toll-free call centre number to resolve all questions and concerns, even if they are not related to FACES. Handling customer data is becoming a challenging task, as technology today enables various levels of transparency. We are in the process of monitoring and controlling the collection and use of customer data in compliance with the UK Data Protection Act best We conducted a practice. Our CRM & Loyalty database is held in a pilot programme to secure data centre in the UK, with stringent data transfer collect our customers’ protocols, data retention and disaster recovery policy shopping experience compliant with “Safe Harbour,” an agreement between through a feedback the US and the EU governing the protection of data device called “Happy during transfer between these countries. Remote access or Not,” located at to individual customer data is highly restricted to our CRM the cashiers across our team, who is solely responsible for internal distribution via store network. Daily secure FTP when necessary. customer feedback reports generated We did not receive any substantial complaints regarding with the help of the breaches of customer privacy or loss of customer data feedback device in 2013. allow us to analyse CRM’s customer experience management implements the data and take the necessary initiatives to better understand our appropriate actions on customers in order to improve their experience. Our a day-to-day basis. The central data storage facility enables us to retrieve client customer feedback information and interaction history with our business tool is adjustable, to differentiate customer treatment based on their which enables us personal and cultural sensitivities. We take extra care to gather specific while providing services to our special-needs customers. customer feedback We ensure that our UAE retail shops are compliant with issues aligned to our Dubai’s Department of Economic Development (DED) values and standards and mall management regulations. of service. We intend to roll out the complete One such initiative is the pilot study, “The Deal – Happy programme across the or Not,” set up to gather information on our customer’s company at the end shopping experience at our stores. of the pilot study in July 2014. 64 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 GRI Index External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page General Standard Disclosures Strategy And Analysis Statement from the most senior CEO G4-1 4–5 No decision-maker of the organization. statement Organizational Profile Report the name of the About G4-3 6 No organization. Chalhoub Report the primary brands, About G4-4 6–10 No products, and/or services. Chalhoub G4-5 Report the location of organization's About No 6 headquarters. Chalhoub G4-6 Report the number of countries About Operational No where the organization operates, Chalhoub Profile and names of countries where either the organization has 6–7 significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and Outside back M.C.T FZE No legal form. cover (Chalhoub Group) A Jebel Ali Free Zone Establishment registered under the Trading Licence no.04616. Registered office located at P.O. BOX 261075, Jebel Ali, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. G4-8 Report the markets served About Operational No (including geographic breakdown, Chalhoub Profile 6–8 sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of the reporting About Operational No organization including: Total Chalhoub Profile number of employees; Total number of operations; Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public sector 6–7 organisations); Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisation); Quantity of products or services provided. 65 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page G4-10 a. Report the total number of Investing in our Principle No employees by employment people 6 contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. 56 e. Report whether a substantial – portion of the organisation’s 58 work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as selfemployed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total N/A – Collective Principle No employees covered by collective bargaining 3 bargaining agreements. agreements are not currently permitted in the UAE G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply Quality in all Procurement No chain. our operations practices 62 G4-13 Report any significant changes Not applicable, No during the reporting period this is our first regarding the organization’s size, standalone report structure, ownership, or its supply chain. G4-14 Report whether and how the At Chalhoub No precautionary approach or we conduct principle is addressed by the risk assessments organization. through our significant aspect register, for every activity of our operations. This register provides a scoring system to assess impacts. 66 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page G4-15 List externally developed About Operational No economic, environmental and Chalhoub Profile social charters, principles, or other 8 initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations About Operational No (such as industry associations) and Chalhoub Profile national or international advocacy 8 organizations in which the organization participates, provides funding, views as strategic. Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 a. List all entities included in the Not rereleased for No organization’s consolidated confidential reason financial statements or equivalent documents. b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining Our Materiality No the report content and the Aspect approach to Boundaries. sustainability 17 b. Explain how the organization – has implemented the Reporting 19 Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List all the material Aspects Our Materiality Materiality Matrix No identified in the process for defining approach to report content sustainability 17 67 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Our Materiality No the Aspect Boundary within the approach to organisation, as follows: sustainability -Report whether the Aspect is material within the organisation -If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organisation (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report 18 – either: 19 -The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or -The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material -Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organisation. G4-21 For each material Aspect, report Our Materiality No the Aspect Boundary outside the approach to organisation, as follows: sustainability -Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organisation -If the Aspect is material outside of the organisation, identify the 17 entities, groups of entities or – elements for which the Aspect is 19 material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified -Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation. G4-22 Report the effect of any Not applicable, No restatements of information this is our first provided in previous reports, and standalone report the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from Not applicable, No previous reporting periods in the this is our first Scope and Aspect Boundaries. standalone report G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups Our Reporting on 13 No engaged by the organization approach to what matters – sustainability 16 68 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page G4-25 Report the basis for identification Our Reporting on No and selection of stakeholder with approach to what matters 13 whom to engage sustainability G4-26 Report the organisation’s Our Reporting on We engage with No approach to stakeholder approach to what matters our stakeholders engagement, including frequency sustainability depending on of engagement by type and the need and 14 by stakeholder group, and an availability – indication of whether any of the 16 engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns Our Reporting on No that have been raised through approach to what matters stakeholder engagement, and how sustainability the organisation has responded 13 to those key topics and concerns, – including through its reporting. 16 Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal About this This report covers No or calendar year) for information report our performance provided. during the period 2 of January 2013 – December 2013 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About this Not applicable No (if any). report G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, About this Annual No 2 biennial) report G4-31 Provide the contact point for About this We value No questions regarding the report or its report your 2 contents. feedback G4-32 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ About this This report has No option the organisation has chosen. report been prepared b. Report the GRI Content Index according to for the chosen option (see tables the “Core” “In below). Accordance” option. c. Report the reference to the 2 External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. 69 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page G4-33 a. Report the organisation’s policy About this No external No and current practice with regard to report assurance has seeking external assurance for the been sought this report. year. We aim to b. If not included in the assurance put an assurance report accompanying the process in place sustainability report, report the for our future scope and basis of any external sustainability assurance provided. reports 2 c. Report the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. G4-34 Report the governance structure Our Governance No of the organisation, including approach to committees of the highest sustainability 11 governance body. Identify any committees responsible for 12 decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and integrity G4-56 Describe the organisation’s values, About No principles, standards and norms Chalhoub 6, of behaviour such as codes of 22 How we conduct and codes of ethics. conduct our 23 business Specific Standard Disclosures Economic indicators DMA a. Report why the Aspect is Our Impact on No material. Report the impacts that the Economies make this Aspect material b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspects or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the 26 management approach, including: » The mechanisms for evaluating 30 the effectiveness of the management approach » The results of the evaluation of the management approach » Any related adjustments to the management approach 70 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated Our Impact on Wages and No 26 and distributed the Economies benefits EC3 Coverage of the organization’s Investing in our Employment Wages and No 57 defined benefit plan obligations people & benefits benefits Market presence EC6 Proportion of senior management Our Impact on Gulfinization 26 Gulfinization Principle No hired from the local community at the Economies – 6 significant locations of operation 30 Environmental indicators Materials DMA a. Report why the Aspect is Environmental No material. Report the impacts that Stewardship make this Aspect material b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspects or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the 43 management approach, including: – » The mechanisms for evaluating 47 the effectiveness of the management approach » The results of the evaluation of the management approach » Any related adjustments to the management approach EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental 46 Carbon Principle No Stewardship – footprint 7, 8 47 Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the Environmental Energy Carbon Principle No 44 organization Stewardship Management footprint 7, 8 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental Energy Carbon Principle No 45 Stewardship Management footprint 7, 8, 9 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by sources Environmental Water Carbon Principle No 46 Stewardship Consumption footprint 7, 8 Emissions EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas Environmental Energy Carbon Principle No 45 (GHG) emissions Stewardship Management footprint 7, 8 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas Environmental Energy Carbon Principle No 45 (GHG) emissions Stewardship Management footprint 8, 9 71 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page Effluents and waste EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Environmental Waste 44 Waste No disposal method Stewardship Management – management 47 Compliance EN29 Monetary value of significance fines There have Total Quality No and total number of non-monetary not been any Management sanctions for non-compliance with economic environmental laws and regulations sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport EN30 Significant environmental impacts Environmental Energy Carbon No of transporting products and stewardship management footprint other goods and materials for 45 the organization’s operations and transporting members of the workforce Supplier Environmental Assessment DMA a. Report why the Aspect is Quality in all Procurement No material. Report the impacts that our operations Practices make this Aspect material b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspects or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the 62 management approach, including: – » The mechanisms for evaluating 63 the effectiveness of the management approach » The results of the evaluation of the management approach » Any related adjustments to the management approach EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that Quality in all Procurement 62 Supplier No were screened using environmental our operations Practices – screening criteria 63 Labour Practices and Decent Work Indicators Employment LA1 Total number and rate of new Investing in our Employment Diversity No 56 employment hires and employee people and benefits – turnover by age group, gender 58 and region 72 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page LA3 Return to work and retention rates Investing in our Employment 56 Welfare Principle No after parental leave by gender people and benefits – 6 57 Occupational Health & Safety LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, Quality in all Quality Health, Safety No occupational diseases, lost days our operation management and Security 61 and absenteeism and total number of work LA7 Workers of high incidence or high Quality 60 Health, Safety No risk of diseases related to their management – and Security occupation 61 Training and education DMA a. Report why the Aspect is Investing in our No material. Report the impacts that people make this Aspect material b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspects or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the 49 management approach, including: – » The mechanisms for evaluating 58 the effectiveness of the management approach » The results of the evaluation of the management approach » Any related adjustments to the management approach LA9 Average hours of training per year Investing in our Learning and We are currently Capacity No per employee by gender and by people Development in the process of building employee category obtaining this data, to be release in the next reporting cycle. LA10 Programs for skills management Investing in our Capacity No and lifelong learning that support people 49 building the continued employability of – employees and assist them in 55 managing career endings 73 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page LA11 Percentage of employees Investing in our Learning and 100% Employee No receiving regular performance and people development engagement career development reviews by gender and by employee category Diversity and equal opportunity DMA a. Report why the Aspect is Investing in our No material. Report the impacts that people make this Aspect material b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspects or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: 58 » The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach » The results of the evaluation of the management approach » Any related adjustments to the management approach LA12 Composition of governance bodies Investing in our Diversity Diversity Principle No and breakdown of the employees people and equal 11, 6 per employee category according opportunity 56 to gender, age group, minority – group membership and other 58 indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men DMA a. Report why the Aspect is Investing in our No material. Report the impacts that people make this Aspect material b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspects or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the 56 management approach, including: – » The mechanisms for evaluating 58 the effectiveness of the management approach » The results of the evaluation of the management approach » Any related adjustments to the management approach 74 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page LA13 Ratio of basic salary and Investing in our Employment Gender Principle No remuneration of women to men by people and benefits equality 6 57 employee category, by significant locations of operation Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices DMA a. Report why the Aspect is Quality in all Procurement No material. Report the impacts that our operations Practices make this Aspect material b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspects or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the 62 management approach, including: – » The mechanisms for evaluating 63 the effectiveness of the management approach » The results of the evaluation of the management approach » Any related adjustments to the management approach LA14 Percentage of new suppliers Quality in all Procurement 62 Supplier No that were screened using labor our operations Practices – screening practices criteria 63 Human Rights indicators Child labor HR5 Operations and suppliers identified Quality in all Procurement Principle No as having significant risk for incidents our operations Practices 5 of child labor and measures taken 24, How we Human rights 62 to contribute to the effective conduct our abolition of child labor business Forced or Compulsory Labor 75 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page HR6 Operations and suppliers identified Quality in all Procurement Principle No as having significant risk for our operations Practices 4 incidents of forced or compulsory How we Human rights 24, labor and measures taken to conduct our 62 contribute to the elimination of all business forms of forced or compulsory labor Supplier Human Rights Assessment DMA a. Report why the Aspect is Quality in all Procurement No material. Report the impacts that our operations Practices make this Aspect material b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspects or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: 62 – » The mechanisms for evaluating 63 the effectiveness of the management approach » The results of the evaluation of the management approach » Any related adjustments to the management approach HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that Quality in all Procurement 62 Supplier Principle No were screened using human rights our operations Practices – screening 2 criteria 63 Society indicators Local community DMA a. Report why the Aspect is Our impact on No material. Report the impacts that the economies make this Aspect material where we b. Report how the organization operate; manages the material Aspects or Chalhoub its impacts. IMPACT c. Report the evaluation of the 32 management approach, including: – » The mechanisms for evaluating 41 the effectiveness of the management approach » The results of the evaluation of the management approach » Any related adjustments to the management approach 76 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page SO1 Percentage of operations with Environmental Community Principle No implemented local community stewardship engagement 1 43 engagement, impact assessments and development programs Anti-corruption DMA a. Report why the Aspect is How we No material. Report the impacts that conduct our make this Aspect material business b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspects or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the 22 management approach, including: – » The mechanisms for evaluating 23 the effectiveness of the management approach » The results of the evaluation of the management approach » Any related adjustments to the management approach SO4 Communications and training How we Our code of 22 Principle No on anti-corruption policies and conduct our ethics – 10 procedures business 23 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption There has been no Principle No and actions taken incident of anti10 corruption Product responsibility indicators Customer health and safety DMA a. Report why the Aspect is Quality in all No material. Report the impacts that our operations make this Aspect material b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspects or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the 60 management approach, including: – » The mechanisms for evaluating 64 the effectiveness of the management approach » The results of the evaluation of the management approach » Any related adjustments to the management approach 77 External Assurance Material aspect UNGC principles GRI 4 standard Report status/ Description Sub section (Yes/No) comments/ disclosures Section Omissions Page PR2 Total number of incidents of nonAll our operations Total Quality No compliance with regulations and are in compliance Management voluntary codes concerning the with regulations health and safety impacts of concerning health products and services during their and safety life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service labelling PR5 Results of survey of customer Quality in all Customer 63 Customer No satisfaction our operations satisfaction – satisfaction 64 Marketing and communications PR7 Total number of incidents of nonQuality in all There are no Responsible No compliance with regulations our operations incidents of nonmarketing and voluntary codes concerning compliance marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated Quality in all Customer Customer No 63 complaints regarding breaches our operations satisfaction satisfaction – of customer privacy and loss of 64 customer data 78 Chalhoub Sustainability Report – 2013
