Stage Electrics Communication on Progress – Prepared by Georgina CliftGroup Health & Safety Officer Period Covered: 3rd June 20153rd June 2016 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to confirm that Stage Electrics reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact it’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Dan Aldridge Managing Director Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy & Goals Stage Electrics actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. Stage Electrics has an Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Stage Electrics will not tolerate victimisation, bullying or harassment in the workplace. Implementation As we expand our operations internationally, increased efforts are made to ensure that countries we are trading in comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Stage Electrics has a Grievance Procedure in place and offers mediation to staff as a first stage resolution to any problems experienced in the work place. Staff consultation is run where organisational changes are being implemented to ensure staff are informed and have an opportunity to influence outcomes. Stage Electrics has a range of Human Resources policies which reflect our pro-active stance on human rights including our Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy, Compassionate Leave Policy and Flexible Working Policy. Outcomes In the past year Stage Electrics has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy & Goals Stage Electrics supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation who uses forced or child labour. All Stage Electrics employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. All staff are issued with a Company Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Where Stage Electrics employs agency workers we are fully compliant with the Agency Worker Regulations. Stage Electrics complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides a range of different safety related training to staff as appropriate to their job role. Implementation Stage Electrics has a range of Human Resources Policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including an Equal Opportunities Policy, Recruitment Policy and Flexible Working Policy. Stage Electrics has a Health & Safety Policy and a well-developed range of safety procedures. Risk assessments are reviewed annually, we run a health surveillance programme and carry out regular safety compliance audits of all sites and Departments. Outcomes Training has been delivered to all senior managers on bribery and harassment. Our Human resources department have been using webinars as part of their training tools. Stage Electrics has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Agency workers are given clear information regarding their hours and working requirements, and are free to make use of all welfare facilities provided including the staff canteen, rest areas, shower facilities etc. Agency staff are encouraged to apply for permanent positions with Stage Electrics if an opportunity arises in their work area. Stage Electrics has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy & Goals Stage Electrics has an Environmental Management System, an Environmental Policy and a specific Policy on the Sustainable Management of Live Events. Stage Electrics has targets set each year to increase the amount of waste we are able to recycle and decrease the amount of waste going directly to landfill. In addition we have targets for reducing fuel for vehicles and year on year we have improved the carbon footprint of our company fleet by replacing older vehicles and using more fuel efficient vehicles. We have an Environmental Management System Committee who implement environmental objectives throughout the organisation. Implementation We have increased recycling rates across all waste streams achieving 80% recycling across the board. Stage Electrics new company car fleet are all fitted with earth dreams engines which reduce our carbon emissions. We are also compliant with the Low Emission Zone in London for all our deliveries by our commercial fleet. All environmental incidents are investigated and remedial actions taken. This includes an immediate response to rectify the incident, plus training for staff or amendments to procedures/processes to prevent any recurrences. Records and investigation protocols for environmental incidents are included within our Environmental Management System. Outcomes Stage Electrics uses licenced waste companies for disposal of waste which we carry out duty of care audits against on a yearly basis. We are registered with a WEEE compliance company for disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment and battery disposal. Stage Electrics is also registered as a waste carrier so we can bring waste back to our Headquarters for segregation and safe disposal. Waste transfer note system is in place and all relevant staff have been trained in how to produce a transfer note. Fuel consumption for all company vehicles is monitored on a monthly basis and there are trackers fitted in some vehicles too (to monitor speeding and harsh braking etc.). Where driving issues are identified via the tracker system Line Managers are notified and advise staff accordingly referring them for additional training if required. Stage Electrics has not had any reportable environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Stage Electrics has in 2014 secured a new waste contract that allows us to recycle 100% of our waste that is produced by our Scenic/ Live Events department, this includes MDF. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy & Goals Stage Electrics is compliant with the Bribery Act and does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Stage Electrics supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and does not operate in countries or with organisations who are corrupt. Implementation The Finance Director is ultimately responsible for anti-corruption within Stage Electrics and our Anti-Bribery Policy sets out clearly exactly what could be considered to be bribery in terms of business operations. The Policy also covers the receiving of hospitality and gifts. As Stage Electrics now works in an ever increasing number of countries around the globe, particularly with regards to installation projects, the potential for corruption and fraud is increased. Particular issues are identified and addressed at the start of any project work abroad as part of the standard risk management process. At Christmas time when suppliers and customers send in gifts to specific staff members these are handed in to the relevant Manager and all gifts go into a raffle so they are shared randomly amongst employees. Outcomes Stage Electrics has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. Stage Electrics submits audited accounts each year to Companies House which are verified by external auditors and this is used as one of the methods of identifying any spurious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour.
