from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities UN Global Compact Additional information communication on progress (cop) 2014 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities 2 CSR-report 2014 Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information It is our mission to provide solutions that enable customers manufacture advanced, energy efficient power components. Topsil CSR-report 2014 2 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information CSR-report 2014 3 Topsil Semiconductor Materials A/S hereby reconfirms its continued support of the UN Global Compact in the below statement: March 2015 United Nations Global Compact On behalf of Topsil Semiconductor Materials A/S I hereby reconfirm ence. Not only do they aid us save resources and mitigate business our company’s continued support of the Ten Principles of the Unitrisks, thereby making Topsil stronger, but they also contribute to ed Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour ultimately make our world a little bit greener. Rights, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. We continuously acknowledge our responsibility to balance the business interests of our company with those of our external environment and commit Kind regards, to share our efforts and concerns with our main stakeholders. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe the actions taken in the past year to improve our performance on CSR-related Kalle Hvidt Nielsen matters as well as the goals set for 2015. CEO In 2014, our main focus was the close-down of our old facility in Denmark for a leaner and more resource efficient manufacture at our new state-of-the-art ultrapure silicon production site. The new plant is characterised by more eco-friendly equipment and solutions, and high-tech systems allow us to continually fine-tune our use of resources to a much wider extent than before. For 2015 we plan to continue this fine-tuning work while specifically in our Polish plant, we will persist our work on raising employee awareness concerning resource minimisation. We furthermore expect to implement a whistle blower scheme for our entire organisation. It is our firm belief that our year-on-year targets and reporting help us stay on track on our journey towards a more sustainable existTopsil CSR-report 2014 3 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities 4 CSR-report 2014 Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information Topsil in business Wind turbines A wind turbine must be able to catch the wind and rotate, generate electricity and connect to and disconnect from the power grid depending on the wind force. Intelligent electronics is required for operating wind turbines and transporting energy, and this is where silicon comes in. Silicon is used in the electric components of the wind turbine nacelle. It is also used in the transformer sysElectric and tem collecting energy and distributhybrid Vehicles ing it to the power grid. Electric cars and hybrid vehicles are expected to become more common on the road in future. However, they can only run if their batteries are charged beforehand, and it is only possible to shift to a higher or lower gear if the electricity supply is regulated. Silicon has good power control properties and may be used for energy-efficient electricity supply and regulation. Silicon is used, for example, under the bonnet and in the charging stations used to charge the car. Production machinery The industry needs electricity to manufacture goods. Production machinery requires turning on and off, and it must be possible to adjust electric energy and speed. Silicon is used in machine control mechanisms and electric motors to control and conduct electricity. Silicon is a highly efficient material contributing to optimum machine control as well as optimum energy consumption. Topsil CSR-report 2014 4 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information CSR-report 2014 5 megatrends • Growing middle class worldwide, urbanisation. This calls for modern conveniences such as access to stable supply of electricity, well-functioning public transport, cars, white goods, etc. • Development of green technologies driven by concern on increased levels of pollution, focus on CO2 emissions, price on fossil fuels. • Political action: Grid improvements and planning of public transport are in essence driven by governments, including size of investments and pace of implementation. Power grids Silicon contributes to energy-efficient transport of electricity. In the intelligent electricity distribution network of the future , “Smart Grids”, different energy sources may be connected or disconnected according to need in order to balance consumption day and night. Silicon helps convert electricity from, for Electric trains example, alternating current to direct current, to connect to the grid, and to Electric trains moving at high speeds pick up ensure a smooth transport of current, energy from overhead wires and the rails. often over long distances. An energy-efficient electricity supply is required, and this is where silicon comes in. Silicon helps regulate train speed and pick up energy. For example, it is used in complex power control systems installed on top and underneath trains. Topsil CSR-report 2014 5 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities 6 CSR-report 2014 Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information Case: Topsil sets the agenda Case: Power management reduces resource consumption at production plant Stakeholder dialogue Topsil sets the agenda Should a company like Topsil host a From time to time, we agree to meet with stakeholders who are conference with the EU Commissioner not off hand closely related to the silicon industry. However, we always do so after careful consideration of the nature of the for Climate Action, take time out to meeting. Having good external relations is very important, as this interaction provides support for our business from these meet with the Danish Minister for stakeholders and ultimately turns them into ambassadors for our Climate or with a class of local high company. Adverse contact, on the other hand, carries a risk that stakeholders may take a negative view, which may make it more school students when it is clear that difficult for us to be heard and to get support for our views. the effect cannot be measured directly The Danish Climate Minister came by on our bottomline? The answer is yes, In January 2015, we had the opportunity to meet with the ­ if we do it prudently. Meeting with a Danish Minister for Climate, Energy and Building, Rasmus Helveg Petersen, who had allocated half a day to meet with selected minister is a unique opportunity to companies in the cleantech industry. He wanted an informal make a direct impact on the national ­discussion of the framework conditions and development potential of the industry and also to see our new plant. Our CEO, Kalle political agenda and point to how Hvidt Nielsen hosted the meeting: we as a nation can help pull the “We always look forward to such a visit. We are proud of our development of cleantech in the right cleantech business, which supports energy efficiency and green transition. It’s a delight to present it as it is the most state-ofdirection. And we might even find the-art plant of its kind in the world.” future employees among the group of One thing was to show a specialised and thoroughly regulated high school students who visited us in production. Another thing was that this was a welcome opportuJanuary. nity to discuss the conditions and the statutory and regulatory provisions governing our operations, which in certain respects makes it difficult to further increase our environmental efforts. “Meeting with the relevant minister is an opportunity for us to address a number of the challenges we face in relation to becoming even more competitive and sustainable,” said Kalle Hvidt Nielsen. “One of the issues is direct and indirect taxes, an area where Denmark could choose to make it more attractive to think and produce green. It is also important to look at and solve global problems in a global perspective.” Topsil CSR-report 2014 6 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information CSR-report 2014 7 Case: Topsil sets the agenda Case: Power management reduces resource consumption at production plant Danish Minister for Climate, Rasmus Helveg Petersen (left) discussing framework conditions with Topsil CEO, Kalle Hvidt Nielsen (right). “In some cases, legislation blocks the good intentions,” he con“Time allowing, I feel it is important that we play a role in our tinued. “We have for example long wanted to resell used chemi­local community. We can help create an interest among the cals to behave responsibly. Theoretically, it’s possible. But then young people and in that way make an impact on their plans again it’s not because we are only allowed to store very limited for the future. We definitely have an interest in ensuring that as quantities before we have to send them on. For a potential buyer, many of them as possible see the potential of choosing a technireceiving shipments in dribs and drabs is not attractive as transcally founded education, and that they find out how exciting port and further handling ­simply becomes too expensive. I noted silicon technology is.” during the meeting that this is an issue the Minister is going to consider.” “Many of the young people are also very interested in the green agenda. We can give them an impression of how the things they Making students interested in silicon learn about in school can be used for practical purposes, and how During the same month, Topsil hosted another visit by a group companies can be sustainable” he concluded. of people interested in the production of silicon, this time a class of local high school students. They wanted to know more about silicon technology, and our Chief Technical Officer, Per Kringhøj, showed them round. Topsil CSR-report 2014 7 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities 8 CSR-report 2014 Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information CSR activities embedded in our everyday business In Topsil’s view each CSR activity must be an embedded part of Likewise, our production managers are appointed overall responour day-to-day business in order to obtain the maximum benefit. sible for employee safety, including training. This makes good Such approach fits nicely with Topsil’s strategy in which one outsense as most of their staff is operating machinery on a daily spoken focus area is to increase our efficiency and output. basis. In support of this, our production and technical managers for instance consider resource minimisation part of their jobs. This becomes particularly relevant when purchasing new equipment or when improving already installed mechanical and other systems in our plants. Sphere of control Sphere of influence Stakeholders with whom Topsil does not do Business relations, business, however who Wider community, Employees, facilities forward and backwards have a natural interest in e.g., national and and equipment in the supply chain us, e.g., local community EU legislation‑ We focus on our own business in particular… less outspoken. In other areas, we had to set up new policies and Topsil has developed the above model to visualise how to deal guidelines to ensure that everybody understands and supports with CSR related matters: Upon take-off of our initial CSR journey our overall goals. The sphere of control continues to be our main 2010, we decided to pay particular attention to our sphere of priority, as we may directly affect it. This is, therefore, also the control. This we did as we identified quite a lot of improvement sphere for which we continually monitor our performance by setpotential in-house. Some CSR-areas we already had a fairly sound ting concrete targets and by following up regularly on dedicated approach to at that time, although our practices were maybe management evaluation meetings. Topsil CSR-report 2014 8 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information CSR-report 2014 9 but external stakeholders are important, too In a broader stakeholder perspective, Topsil interacts with its Our sphere of control, however, does not stand alone. We have local community, national authorities and the like. In this respect close ties with our suppliers and customers, amongst others. Our Topsil is concerned to maintain its “licence to operate”, meascustomers care as to under which circumstances we manufacture ured as its goodwill earned in wider society. Topsil exercises its silicon wafers. Concerning our suppliers, we care to look into their possibilities to influence such stakeholders wherever applicable. procedures and way of conducting business. This kind of influence is usually related to influencing framework conditions, maintaing good neighbourliness, or attracting new One way of addressing this is by use of our supplier handbook members of staff. which stipulates evaluation criteria when selecting and assessing suppliers. Such evaluation is related to risk management, For each kind of stakeholder, it is Topsil’s ambition to communiamongst others, and includes CSR related matters. The handbook cate openly, accurately and reliably. thus serves as a tool to direct corporate social responsibility matters in our supplier relations. Topsil CSR-report 2014 9 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities 10 CSR-report 2014 Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption principle HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Topsil supports the following human rights principles • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Policy for underrepresented gender in Policy on diversity managerial positions In selecting new candidates for Topsil’s Board of Directors, it is Operating globally, Topsil regards a diverse workforce important that candidates have specific professional competenas an asset. We hire on the basis of talent and personcies and qualifications from listed companies and international ality and offer the same possibilities to all employexperience. In addition, consideration concerning diversity in ees, regardless of their background, religion, political terms of nationality, religion, political conviction, age and gender conviction, gender or age. We encourage that everybody applies. Specifically in respect of gender, Topsil aims to retain reach their full potential in accordance with personal and, if possible, increase the number of women on the Board ambitions and goals. of Directors over the coming three years.To be able to meet this goal, Topsil will ensure that during potential recruitment We promote a work environment of respect and incluprocesses, employees and external partners involved will be fully sion and expect our employees to act polit¬ically and informed of the Company’s diversity policy. religiously neutral, when acting on the behalf of the company. We acknowledge the right to organise and In regard to women in managerial positions, Topsil currently is bargain collectively and do everything in our power to under-represented in the Management Board, as well as manageavoid discrimination. ment and mid-management. It is Topsil’s aim to increase the number of women in managerial positions by ensuring a number of qualified female candidates for future management positions. Hence, in hiring processes, Topsil will instruct its recruitment agencies to act accordingly. Topsil CSR-report 2014 10 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information CSR-report 2014 11 Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption principle Status of gender balance, managerial Most recent activities positions*, 2014 No new initiatives were taken in 2014. The current gender balance of Topsil’s managerial positions is outlined below. Planned activities 2015 No specific activities are planned for the coming year. The Board of Directors did not replace any of its members in 2014. Ongoing activities According to the Danish Companies Act, Topsil’s employees Regarding other management, the total number of management have a statutory right to elect a number of Board of Directors employees was reduced by two in 2014. The number of female representatives, corresponding to half the number of externally managers went up by one from six to seven. elected members. Hence, two Topsil employees are full members of the Board. According to EU legislation, Topsil calls for works council meetStatus of gender balance, managerial positions ings on a regular basis, in which representatives from manageMales Males Females Females ment and appointed employees have the possibility to discuss 2013 2014 2013 2014 the overall situation and working climate of Topsil. The minutes of these meetings are communicated to local staff. Board of Directors 4 4 0 0 Topsil conducts a biannual employee survey to monitor employee Other managerial positions (DK, PL) 23 20 6 7 satisfaction and establish a platform upon which possible action be taken. The next survey is scheduled for end of 2015. Total 27 24 6 7 Topsil’s aggregated distribution of gender, age and ethnical composition is publicly available here: http://www.topsil.com/en/ career/personnel-figures.aspx Topsil CSR-report 2014 11 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities 12 CSR-report 2014 Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information Case: Topsil sets the agenda Case: Power management reduces resource consumption at production plant Environment power management reduces resource consumption at production plant At Topsil’s new plant, savings can be “Our new facilities are more intelligent than earlier generations. achieved on resources by taking a The greater use of electronic controls makes it easier to collect and analyse data, and thus to recognise and optimise based on critical look at production machinery operating patterns,” said Nicolai Hanssing, and continued: “There is a good deal of work involved in this, but it’s also exciting to and setting timers on ventilation see how we can make the machinery run in the most efficient and cooling systems and on pumps. ­manner; and if we don’t do that, our costs will be higher.” The improvements are made in an At our old plant, people were generally worried about changing ongoing process, and our project equipment settings. This is now easier as the processes have become more stable. Better and more up-to-date design of our manager, Nicolai Hanssing of Control machinery and systems has also enabled us to monitor our use Engineering estimates that even more of resources electronically. savings can be achieved. “The new equipment lets us adjust our power and water consumption more easily than at the old plant. We can now to a greater extent close down systems when they’re not in use. We have had a fairly long running-in period because we have been operating at two sites. We are now in stable operation at a single location, which makes it both easier and more relevant to optimise operations.” A modern ventilation system with potential for cost savings At the new plant, a number of large energy-consuming ventilation systems have been installed. An obvious approach was therefore to look at potential cost savings. Nicolai Hanssing comments on the results: “In addition to the fact that our systems now only operate during the periods when manufacturing takes place, we ran in the equipment with a view to identifying the optimal operating settings energy-wise. For ventilation alone, we have successfully reduced the power consumption by one third. Our large clean-room facilities mainly run without heating, with reduced consumption of expensive clean-room filters and with reduced power consumption all the way down to an outside temperature of minus 5°C. Topsil CSR-report 2014 12 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information CSR-report 2014 13 Case: Topsil sets the agenda Case: Power management reduces resource consumption at production plant Nicolai Hanssing, M.Sc. at Topsil’s flotating zone process cooling system. Achieving the savings has taken a lot of work. “Initially we moni“We believe that there is a good deal of savings still available on tored and adjusted the equipment on a day-to-day basis. Later the pumps we have installed round about the plant. However, we on, the system was fully automated,” he added. need to do some more programming to reach that stage. We see potential on two fronts: On the one hand, we can save resources More potential yet such as power and water with the right settings. On the other One thing is that we can close down ventilation during the hand, this will result in less daily wear and tear on the individual Christmas holidays and on weekends, when our offices are mostly components. closed. The next step will be to look more closely at energy optimisation, i.e. how each system can be fine tuned to operate For the water cooling system, Nicolai Hanssing has calculated without wasting energy on the one hand while still being able to potential annual cost savings to be up to DKK 150,000-200,000. keep the production process running. The system is now running 24/7, although that is not necessary for our production. We are currently installing equipment to “Topsil has very few periods when all systems are closed down achieve these savings, and the payback time will be less than a completely, but these periods give us an insight into the theoyear. retically achievable cost savings if we fine tune completely to production. That way we will know what we can achieve theoreti“We have started with the lowest hanging fruit, but our calculacally, and we will know which systems are the greatest energy tions show that we can potentially achieve even greater cost consumers.” savings. It would be great for us to make a regular annual green review of our operations, preferably with the technical staff who work with the systems every day,” he adds. Topsil CSR-report 2014 13 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities 14 CSR-report 2014 Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption principle LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Topsil supports the following labour rights principles • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Most recent activities Policy on safety In 2014 Topsil continued its focus on improving the safety culture. LEAN tools as fish bone analysis were used to analyse Safety must be a priority for all Topsil employees. accidents and near-miss accidents to avoid recurrence. The new facility in this respect represents a huge step forward, especially Topsil believes that all injuries are preventable, all regarding chemicals handling. Safety drills were also used to health risks are controllable and management is familiarise the organisation with our new facility. The corporate ­accountable. Topsil also believes that a strong safety figures of our performance were presented to management on a culture is an important tool for protecting our products regular basis. and customers. Planned activities 2015 Literally speaking, we want our staff to go home from In our Polish plant, investments are planned for Q1-2015 to work as healthy as they were when they arrived at reduce employee exposure to ultrasonic noise. For all sites, our their work place. In order to obtain this goal, it is a overall goal for safety remains unchanged: We aim at zero accontinuing objective to prevent injuries and work related cidents. health risks through structured effective management, administration, education and training. Ongoing activities Following national legislation in Denmark and Poland respectively, a health and safety body is set on each company location. The safety organisation consists of management and staff representatives and is overall responsible for Topsil’s health and safety performance. The body oversees compliance with applicable legislation and plans activities to minimise safety risks. It is also responsible for conducting workplace evaluations and implementing improvements. The production manager is head of the health and safety organisation. Topsil CSR-report 2014 14 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information CSR-report 2014 15 Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption principle ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Topsil supports the following environment principles • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Most recent activities Policy on the environment Topsil in 2014 met its goals concerning consumption of energy, water and chemicals as well as waste handling. The corporate Topsil continuously strives to reduce the environmental figures of the environmental performance were presented to impact of our operations by integrating environmental management on a regular management evaluation meeting. Topconsideration into any activity with an environmental sil Poland in particular focused on raising employee awareness impact. regarding resource consumption. We give priority to areas where we believe the effect will Planned activities 2015 be greatest, and commit to working methodically with For 2015, new targets for further improvements have been set, reducing our energy consumption and waste, year on now dealing with one united location in Denmark and the Polish year. production site. In Poland, the ongoing activities on resource usage awareness will be sustained. Ongoing activities The managerial framework for driving and monitoring Topsils’s environmental performance is the ISO14001 system to which all production sites are certified. Topsil CSR-report 2014 15 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities 16 CSR-report 2014 Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption principle ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Topsil supports the following anti-corruption principle • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Most recent activities Guidelines on In autumn 2014, Topsil took its first steps to introduce a coranti-corruption porate whistle blower scheme in cooperation with an external partner. It is Topsil’s fundamental principle that any business Planned activities 2015 activity and relation with customers, business partners Topsil expects to finalise and implement its whistle blower and authorities must be honest, fair and transparent scheme. The scheme will subsequently be communicated to all and in compliance with applicable laws. We do explicstaff. itly not accept bribery or facilitation payment in any form and we do not permit gratitude activities between Ongoing activities private individuals. The anti-corruption guidelines are reviewed by management on a regular basis. Topsil has adopted an internally communicated set of guidelines concerning business related gratitude, i.e. how we handle gifts, entertainment and hospitality provided by Topsil and its business partners. Topsil CSR-report 2014 16 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities Topsil UN Global Compact Additional information CSR-report 2014 17 Additional information DISSEMINATION OF OUR COP REPORTING • Topsil’s COP for 2014 is published on Topsil’s website www.topsil.com • Topsil’s COP for 2014 is published on the UN Global Compact website www.unglobalcompact.org • Topsil’s COP for 2014 is published on Topsil’s intranet. • Topsil’s COP for 2014 will be communicated to our suppliers REPORTING PERIOD: This report focuses on the results of activities for Topsil’s fiscal year 2014 (from 1 January 2014 through 31 December 2014. PUBLICATION: Topsil signed the UN Global Compact 8 March 2011. Current issue: March 2015 Next issue: Scheduled for March 2016, covering FY 2015 FURTHER INFORMATION: Further information on Topsil A/S to be found on www.topsil.com In case of inquiries, please contact Secretary to Management Ms. Susanne Hesselkjær, phone +45 2926 6752 or e-mail: sh@topsil.com Topsil CSR-report 2014 17 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR activities UN Global Compact Additional information
