Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Editorial Policy Contents Editorial Policy and Contents 1 The Mitsubishi Logistics Group (“the Group”) has issued TOP MESSAGE 2 this Environmental and Social Report each year since Introduction of Businesses 4 fiscal 2007 to fulfill its accountability about the effects of Feature Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Facilities 6 its business activities on society and the environment. To disclose the goals, details and achievements of its Promotion of CSR CSR activities from the perspectives of the Group’s CSR Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business 8 management, this Report precisely and in an easy-toManagement Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. understand manner describes the promotion of CSR as Promotion of CSR for every employee, emphasis on communication 11 well as each of the seven core subjects described in the Confirmation of major CSR activities 12 “Guidance on Social Responsibility” (JIS Z 26000, ISO Organizational Governance 26000). This Guidance is a global standard for CSR Promoting the realization of our corporate philosophy and strategies 14 established by the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) Review of goals, standards, etc.; Entrenchment of the compliance of 15 and the International Organization for Standardization standards, etc.; and Confirmation of the implementation of action plans (ISO). Respect for Human Rights Boundary of the Report and Reporting Period Improvement of awareness of human rights 16 Boundary of The Report covers Mitsubishi Logistics the Report: Corporation (“the Company”) and its Appropriate Working Environment group companies. Respect for labor-management relations; and Employment 17 and the importance of the employment relationship Reporting This Report covers our business activities for Period: the period from April 1, 2013 to March 31, Rewarding and friendly working conditions 18 2014. To ensure comprehensive disclosure, Ensuring the security of workers 21 however, certain relevant information regardHuman resources development and training 22 ing events that occurred prior to and/or after this period have been included. Environmental Conservation Publication Date Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for reducing climate change 25 Use of renewable resources 26 December 2014 Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system 27 Reference Guidelines Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities ■ JIS Z 26000: 2012 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and 28 ISO 26000: 2010 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) promotion of fair and open competition ■ Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2007 Version) Provision of Safe, Quality and Useful Services ■ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Sustainability Reporting Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial high-quality services 29 Guidelines 2006 Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service functions 30 Contacts for Inquiries Regarding the Environmental and Social Report Coordination with Local Communities and International Society Contribution to the community’s cultural activities 32 CSR · Compliance Team, General Affairs Division, Contribution through donations, etc. 33 Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo Statement Supporting the UN Global Compact 103-8630, Japan Practice of the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles 34 TEL: +81-3-3278-6657 FAX: +81-3-3278-6694 Company Profile 35 Web You may view some of the relevant data presented in this Report on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended Version.” http://www.mitsubishi-logistics.co.jp/english/csr/ pdf/extended_version.pdf HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended Version Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 1 Top Message Mitsubishi Logistics Group focuses on global and engages in sincere and fair business realization of an affluent and sustainable Introduction Mitsubishi Logistics continues to uphold its corporate philosophy, which states, “Engage in sincere and fair business activities to secure stable profits and promote steady growth, appropriately compensating our stakeholders while contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society.” To realize this corporate philosophy, the Group has stipulated the Code of Conduct. Our Group companies work in cooperation to carry out our logistics business both in Japan and around the world, organically and comprehensively managing each business area through our information network, starting with our core warehousing business, and including overland transportation, port and harbor operations, and international transportation. Our real estate business focuses on leased buildings constructed on company-owned property. Of especial note, the involvement of our logistics operations in every industry countrywide provides a key function in the economic foundation of Japan as a highly public social infrastructure not only in peacetime but also in case of natural disasters or other emergencies. We continue to make the utmost effort to support the daily Akio Matsui lives of people everywhere and the business activities President of our customers at every level of product procurement, production and sales. Second Year of the Management Plan (2013–2015) The current fiscal year is the second year of the Management Plan (2013–2015), which started in April 2013. Stringent circumstances such as the sluggish European economy, the slowdown of Chinese economic growth, the dwindling Japanese population, the rise in the consumption tax rate, the rise in electric power charges and lackluster exports are expected to remain. However, several bright signs are seen overseas such as the recovery of the U.S. economy primarily due to the successful shale gas revolution, as well as the growing expectation of a shift away from 2 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 nvironment-friendly activities ctivities, contributing to the ociety. the protracted deflationary economy in Japan due to universally accepted CSR-related principles. The the economic strategies called Abenomics. In these Company considers complying with internationally circumstances, this plan is designed to move forward accepted norms in the areas of human rights, labor, with measures that have already been started, without the environment and anti-corruption as fulfilling its changing the fundamental concept of pursuing growth social responsibility in its business activities and leading potential in overseas businesses while basically to an affluent and sustainable ensuring profitability in the domestic businesses. society. To firmly instill this The management plan has defined the ideal image stance throughout the entire of the Group to be pursued by the conclusion of the Group, we have clarified that plan as a corporate group as follows: we aim to be an enterprise that practices CSR management in the management plan as 1. To be a reliable logistics service provider that described previously and have can quickly cope with diversifying customer incorporated such initiatives in needs and market changes in Japan and specific measures. overseas; Our logistics and real estate business activities are 2. To be an enterprise with proven reliability deeply connected to societies. To earn recognition for that provides safe and comfortable space the value of our existence as a member of society and continue to grow in the future, the Group steadily and trustworthy services to support people’s implements the goals set forth in the plan. In particular, jobs and lives; taking into account the increased demand for reducing 3. To support customers’ value creation from a natural disaster risk stemming from the global increase customer-based standpoint to realize true of natural disasters, we are promoting the construction customer satisfaction; and of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses equipped with reinforced disaster-prevention functions 4. To be an enterprise, which practices CSR and enhanced global environmental measures, as well management that contributes to society, in as Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings which every employee has a strong sense of that have similar functions. On the other hand, we mission and the ability to manage any crisis. intend to implement further initiatives for global environmental measures from the perspective of biodiversity. Initiatives for CSR management Conclusion With the establishment of our Code of Conduct in 1997, we have clearly demonstrated our stance and As the Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues to place a approach toward further enhancing our level of top priority on sincerity and fairness, supporting adherence to relevant laws and regulations, disclosing customers’ value creation with a focus on global appropriate corporate information, promoting and environment-friendly activities while fulfilling our resolving global environmental issues, and providing responsibilities to society, we ask for your continued safe, quality and socially useful services. In addition, understanding and support. the Company approved and declared in May 2014 its support for the UN Global Compact, which is a set of Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 3 Introduction of Businesses Residences Office buildings The Mitsubishi Logistics Group provides high-quality services to Retail facilities support people’s affluent lives and corporate activities through the Logistics segment businesses centering on the warehousing and distribution business and the Real Estate segment businesses centering on the leasing of buildings. Real estate development and leasing Air transportation Warehouses and distribution centers Harbor transportation Domestic Ocean transportation Trunk room service Overland transportation Trucking and railway transportation Logistics information system Logistics services Warehousing and Distribution Business Overland Transportation Business We are able to meet a broad range of customized logistics needs through In Japan, we extend and reinforce the optimal distribution system for each customer the full integration of warehouses and distribution centers, which are located through a tactical combination of our national, trunk-line transit network, which is at major ports and key inland transportation areas nationwide; our supported by Ryoso Transportation within the Group and excellent local counterparts, transportation and delivery networks; and the logistics information systems and independent collection and delivery services linking local areas. We have that organically link them. In this business, fixed temperature storage and expanded our transportation service for small-quantity, joint delivery needs especially refrigerated warehouses for pharmaceuticals and fresh and processed foods for foods and pharmaceuticals. In addition, we offer cargo feature-specific, diversified are sufficiently offered in addition to ordinary warehouses for room transportation/delivery services including ocean freight container transportation for temperature storage to ensure the provision of safe and efficient storage/ exported and imported cargo and the transportation of heavy goods such as plant distribution processing/delivery services using our original information facilities. Moreover, we endeavor to realize eco-friendly, safe and secure technology and the latest facilities. transportation services by drawing on our information technology and promoting Meanwhile, we strive to reduce the green management. Furthermore, with the cooperation with DP Network Co., Ltd., a environmental impact by promoting green subsidiary that specializes in the delivery of pharmaceuticals established in November management. Furthermore, we are active in 2011, we strive to realize the further sophistication of transportation quality. the construction of advanced facilities that aim to coordinate with local communities under the concept of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouse equipped with a solar power generation system and emergency power generators. One such model warehouse is Misato Warehouse No. 2, which was completed in March 2013. 4 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Real Estate Business We are involved in the real estate business in all six major cities of Japan—Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe and Fukuoka. In addition to the redevelopment of properties based on the optimum application of each property’s features and the leasing of approximately 50 real estate facilities (offices, retail facilities and residences), totaling almost 900,000 m2 of total floor space, we are involved in the leasing of condominiums. We are also active in developing, Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which will help our customers enhance their business continuity and reduce their environmental burden. Air transportation Import/Export Overseas Shipping Agent Customs clearance Ocean transportation Harbor transportation Overland transportation Shipping-related Trucking and operations railway transportation Harbor Transportation Business International Transportation Business We provide secure high-quality logistics services including In response to increasingly diversifying customers’ logistics container terminal operations for containerized shipments at needs, we propose optimum transportation routes door-to door all major Japanese ports, namely Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, worldwide tailored to every customer’s request by taking Osaka, Kobe and Hakata, to meet every kind of customer advantage of our global network and a variety of transportation need. We also offer a wide range of other marine shipping means such as vessels, aircraft, railway and trucks. Meanwhile, related services such as exporting/importing of vessels, ship our overseas operating bases provide comprehensive logistics registration, and agency operations for special ships such as services such as cargo transportation, customs clearance, oil-drilling rigs. storage of goods and LLSP* operations, as well as logistics related support services such as consulting on legal systems and procedures in the respective areas for customers who plan to launch into foreign markets. Furthermore, we intend to not be limited to transport operations but to further promote worldwide our logistics know-how, which the Company has accumulated over its history of more than 120 years. * LLSP: Lead Logistics Service Provider a leading operator who collectively controls the timely supply of parts or components to the relevant production lines by organizing several logistics service providers. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 5 TURE Disaster-Resistant and EcoAddressing the various increasing risks, the Group endeavors to fulfill its corporate social responsibility and improve the competitiveness of its businesses by reinforcing risk management centering on natural disaster countermeasures, thoroughly carrying out necessary countermeasures and raising the entire Group’s awareness of environmental considerations. Sheets Used to Cover the Nihonbashi Dia Building Received the SDA Awards The SDA Awards The shatterproof sheets for works that certificate were used during the construction of the Nihonbashi Dia Building received the SDA (Japan Sign Design Association) Awards. The key consideration was that the sheets were designed to complement the cityscape because they were printed with a full-scale photograph of the Edobashi Soko Building, designated as one of the historical buildings selected by the Tokyo Sheets for construction works on which a full-scale photo is printed Metropolitan Government. Functions of the Nihonbashi Dia Building [Major disaster-prevention functions] 1. Earthquake-proof performance Adopting a seismic-isolation structure for the intermediate stories of a building, the building is designed to ensure high earthquake performance 1.5 times superior to the requirements set by the Building Standards Act. 2. Flood-control measures Electricity rooms are installed on the seventh floor and the rooftop, whereas Certificate of the equipment rooms such as the underground water-receiving tank are Nihonbashi Dia Building (Under construction) CASBEE Rank “S” watertight. 3. Power outage measures Two power supply systems (mainline and standby) are available to receive electricity from two different substations. Two types of fuel may be used for Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Building emergency power generators that operate in case of a power outage. 4. Water supply and sewerage system measures Well water taken from a special well in case of a disaster is drinkable through a The construction of the Nihonbashi Dia Building, a filtering device. The discharge water circulating system provides the flushing water required for indoor toilets in case of a disaster. commercial building for rent with 18 aboveground floors, a basement and a total floor area of 30,000 m2, is under way [Major environmental functions] by the Company under the concept of “Disaster-Resistant 1. Photovoltaic power generation system and Eco-Friendly Office Building.” The lower floors will be Photovoltaic power generation facilities that can generate approximately 47 used as the Company’s head office and trunk rooms. (To kW of energy are installed on the wall and rooftop surfaces and contribute to be completed in September 2014). reducing CO2 emissions by approximately seven tons per annum. 2. LED lighting Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Building An advanced energy-saving lighting system, which combines LED lighting for take advantage of our high safety know-how, which the entire building with daylight control and motion sensors, is adopted. previously had been limited to facilities such as data 3. CASBEE centers, where even the momentary shutdown of The building has obtained the highest “S” evaluation according to the Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency (CASBEE) equipment is not allowed, and thereby fully supporting the by implementing the energy-saving systems and other measures. continuation of business activities for corporate customers. 4. Energy-saving performance assessment In addition, the building has obtained the highest “S” The building is expected to acquire the highest evaluation of “AAA” in the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building Energy Performance Certificate evaluation according to CASBEE, an indicator that program as it will surpass the standard values in terms of the annual burden emphasizes considerations for the global environment and coefficient for buildings by approximately –37% and the energy reduction rate measures the environmental performance of buildings. for equipment systems by approximately 45%. BRIEF COMMENT Takanori Miyazaki, Managing Director ■ Nihonbashi Dia Building: A Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Building The construction site is the memorial place where Yataro Iwasaki, the founder of the Mitsubishi Group, started the warehousing business in 1876. The brick-built warehouse that was constructed in 1880 was destroyed by fire caused by the Great Kanto Earthquake in 1923, and the Edobashi Soko (“Warehouse”) Building was reconstructed on the site with state-of-the-art, steel-reinforced concrete construction exceling in earthquake-proof and fire-resistant features in 1930. In 2007, the building was designated as one of the historical buildings selected by Tokyo Metropolitan Government. The building obtained the highest “S” rank in CASBEE based on its high evaluation regarding several factors: preserving roughly 70% of the exterior of the Edobashi Soko Building, high considerations for cityscape and landscaping through the greenery on the sixth-floor rooftop, and several environmental measures to cope with global warming and the urban heat island phenomena. Furthermore, the latest earthquake-proof, flood-control and power-outage measures have been implemented with a primary focus on safety and security, as well as on the business continuity. 6 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Friendly Facilities Ibaraki Warehouse No. 3 Received the Osaka Sustainable Building Award Ibaraki Warehouse No. 3 received the Special Prize at the 7th (FY2013) Osaka Sustainable Building Award, which was sponsored by Osaka Prefecture to recognize exemplary buildings for environmental considerations. Ibaraki Warehouse No. 3 was the first building constructed under the Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouse concept, and its disaster countermeasures and environmental Award presentation ceremony of the Osaka Sustainable Building Award performance were particularly evaluated. The Osaka Sustainable Building Award certificate Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses As its logistics bases, the Company advocates the concept of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses, which are disaster-resistant and excel in environmental performance. They help reduce the environmental burden and take into account biodiversity. Furthermore, our warehouses not only contribute to securely storing customers’ cargo but also ensure Ibaraki Warehouse No. 3 business continuity with careful disaster countermeasures from a broad perspective. Installation of LED Lighting Solar Power Generation Facilities (lighting inside the warehouse and at parking lots) Installed at Sakurajima Warehouse No. 2 Since 2013, the Company has shifted the existing lighting devices for We started implementing largeSakurajima Warehouse No. 2 which the useful lives have elapsed to LED lighting at warehousing scale solar power generation facilities at the respective branches by taking advantage of the facilities, which had been previously “carbon dioxide emission control project subsidy system toward installed only in new facilities, in enhanced low carbon value.” existing facilities (starting in October A reduction of approximately 500 thousand kWh in electric 2013 at Sakurajima Warehouse No. energy, which corresponds to approximately 1% of the annual electric 2 in Osaka) in line with the energy of the Company’s warehousing facilities, is expected by government’s policy of enhancing renewing the existing lighting devices (more than 3,000 units in total). the use of renewable energy. In Meanwhile, 684 lights inside the parking lots of the Company’s fiscal 2014, the installation is Tosu Warehouse commercial facility (Yokohama Bay Quarter) were converted to LED planned for three facilities for total lights, thereby enabling a reduction in power consumption of 62.7% output of about 1.6 MW. (47.8 tons/annum in CO2 conversion). This measure also serves to increase people’s environmental awareness. The facilities that implemented the LED lighting in fiscal 2013 were as follows: Prefecture Installation place Installation (month/year) Prefecture Installation place Output akurajima Warehouse No. 1 April 2004 Saga Tosu Warehouse 10 kW Tokyo Tokyo Branch Ohi Warehouse A December 2009 Kanagawa Yokohama Dia Building 90 kW Kanagawa Yokohama Branch, Daikoku Warehouses A and D January 2011 Saitama Misato Warehouse No. 1 50 kW September 2012 Saga Tosu Warehouse 20 kW (extension) Aichi Nagoya Branch, Tobishima Warehouse A October 2012 Osaka Ibaraki Warehouse No. 3 350 kW Osaka Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 1 December 2012 Osaka Daito Warehouse 85 kW March 2013 Saitama Misato Warehouse No. 2 530 kW Hyogo Kobe Branch, Rokko Warehouses A through C October 2013 Osaka Sakurajima Warehouse No. 2 470 kW June 2014 Saga Tosu Warehouse 760 kW (extension) Fukuoka Fukuoka Branch, Chuo Futo Warehouse 2014 (Scheduled) Miyagi Sendai Warehouse 490 kW Kanagawa Yokohama Bay Quarter 2014 (Scheduled) Hyogo Rokko Cold Storage Warehouse 310 kW Total 3,165 kW BRIEF COMMENT Kazuhiko Takayama, Managing Director ■ Developing Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses Business continuity planning (BCP) and disaster countermeasures have become key priorities for all enterprises. Meanwhile, amid the ongoing global warming, the reduction of CO2 emissions is an essential CSR priority for corporations. As a countermeasure to address these urgent issues, the Company has defined the Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses design as a new concept for new warehousing facilities to ensure the business continuity of corporations in case of a disaster while simultaneously reducing the environmental burden that accompanies business activities. Thus, we will continue to steadily promote environmental conservation in local communities while assisting corporate customers in logistics to continue their business activities by developing our Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses, which have both the capability to be responsive to natural disasters and excellent environmental performance. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 7 Promotion of CSR The Mitsubishi Logistics Group utilizes the “Guidance on social responsibility,” complies with the “seven principles of social responsibility” (see the chart on the right) in the practice of its social responsibility and strengthens various activities categorized under the seven core subjects of social responsibility (see the chart on the right). The Mitsubishi Logistics Group streamlines an integrated mechanism (with components such as a philosophy, principles, policies, systems, dialogue and confirmation) to ensure that a socially responsible corporate culture exists within the Group and is conducted through the practice of CSR-based activities. Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. Mission, Vision, Sense of Values, Principles and the Code of Conduct The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy (“Sankoryo”) The Mitsubishi Sankoryo is a managerial creed articulated by the fourth president of the Mitsubishi organization, Koyata Iwasaki. The spirit and values of this Sankoryo remain alive and current today as a basic philosophy of an internally and externally open group being shared by the constituent Mitsubishi Group companies that are independent from each other. The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy “Shoki Hoko” “Shoji Komei” “Ritsugyo Boeki” Corporate Responsibility to Society Integrity and Fairness Global Understanding through Business Strive to enrich society, both Maintain principles of Expand business, based on materially and spiritually, transparency and openness, an all-encompassing global while contributing toward conducting business with perspective. the preservation of the integrity and fairness. global environment. Code of Conduct We have established the following Code of Conduct to realize the corporate philosophy (see page 2: Top Message) based on the spirit of the Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy. Code of Conduct We engage in business activities to secure stable profits and promote steady growth, appropriately compensating our employees and stockholders while contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society. 1. We shall comply with laws, ordinances and rules that enable us to honestly and fairly carry out business activities without deviating from social norms. 2. We shall appropriately disclose corporate information in a timely manner to enhance broad communications with society. 3. We shall continue to have no contact or relations with any antisocial forces that might pose a threat to the public order and safety of civil society. 4. We recognize the importance of environmental issues and shall actively cooperate with diverse activities for environmental preservation. 5. We shall provide people with safe, high-quality and socially valuable services, and endeavor to conduct social contribution projects as a “good corporate citizen” while taking into account coordination with local communities and international society. (Established on December 16, 1997, and revised on August 29, 2005) Each subsidiary shall establish its own Code of Conduct in compliance with this Code of Conduct. 8 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 ▶ Seven Principles of Social Responsibility ▶ Seven Core Subjects of Social Responsibility and Their Expressions in the Group Coordination with An organization should An organization should be Local Communities and Holistic respect human rights transparent in its decisions approach Respect for Respect for International Society Human Rights and recognize both Transparency and activities that impact on Community their importance and human rights society and the environment involvement Human their universality and rights development An organization should Accountability Organizational governance respect international Respect for An organization An organization Provision of Safe, Consumer Labor Appropriate norms of behavior, international should be Ethical should behave Observance of Quality and Issues Organization Practices Working while adhering to the principle of respect for norms of accountable for its behavior ethically at all these principles Useful Services Environment behavior impacts on society times. the rule of law. and the environment. Fair operating The An organization should An organization should Practices environment Respect for Respect for Fulfillment of Sincere and accept that respect for respect, consider and the rule of law is the rule of law stakeholder respond to the interests of Fair Business Activities Environmental Interdependence Conservation mandatory. interests its stakeholders. (Source: Edited by the Company based on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)”) (Source: Prepared with partial modification by the Company based on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)” chart) Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group has formulated the Environmental Policy to clearly present its Group-wide stance on consideration of the global environment based on our Code of Conduct. Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group recognizes the importance of environmental issues, promoting activities for environmental preservation through corporate activities that are friendly to the environment while contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. 1. We comply with laws and regulations relating to the environment. 2. We endeavor for the training and enlightenment to raise the awareness of executives and employees about the environment and positively commit ourselves to environmental preservation activities with the recognition that involvement in environmental issues is indispensable to our corporate activities. 3. We strive to restrict our environmental impact by efficiently utilizing the resources and energy that are essential to our business activities, implementing eco-friendly logistics equipment and facilities, purchasing eco-friendly goods and promoting the reduction of waste volume and recycling. 4. We regularly verify our initiatives regarding environmental issues to continually improve our involvement. 5. We make the Environmental Policy known to all parties affiliated with the Group and disclose it publicly. (Established on December 29, 2006) Environmental Voluntary Plan We have formulated the MLC (Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation)-Group Environmental Voluntary Plan as “concrete guidelines” regarding the Environmental Policy to review and implement specific measures in view of “measures to cope with future tightening of regulations” and “maintaining and ensuring the competitive edge of our businesses.” Web ▶ You may view the details of the “Environmental Voluntary Plan” on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site. HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Global Environment>MLC-Group Environmental Voluntary Plan Our Declaration of Quality Our Group has formulated “Our Declaration of Quality” to be an enterprise that grows itself by gaining the trust of stakeholders including customers in accordance with the Code of Conduct. Our Declaration of Quality Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation works hard to ensure that our corporate activities help to create an affluent and sustainable society. Providing services that are safe, high quality and of benefit to society is one of the most important pillars supporting our corporate activities. It is with this in mind that we strive continuously for quality improvement. 1. We always think from the customer’s standpoint and listen to the customer with sincerity, working to provide quality services that will win the trust and satisfaction of all our customers. 2. We abide by the relevant laws and regulations, and by conducting periodic inspections and implementing improvement efforts daily in the areas of safety and quality, our Group-wide quest is to achieve constant quality improvement. 3. We value communication and endeavor to provide an energetic work environment in which each member of the Company can be motivated by sincerity and pride to strive for quality improvement. (Established on September 1, 2008) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 9 Promotion of CSR Management plan (2013–2015) (Basic Policy) Mitsubishi Logistics Group has formulated the following four items of Basic Policy to reinforce foundations for its growth potential and profitability. The Group intends to increase its corporate value and achieve future growth by executing each of these diverse measures in accordance with the Basic Policy. Basic Policy 1. Expand logistics business activities in response to globalization. 2. Reinforce and expand the foundations of real estate business activities. 3. Improve the quality of Group services. 4. Strengthen crisis management including countermeasures against natural disasters and thoroughly implement global environmental measures. The outline of the management plan is as follows: 1. Ideal image The management plan has defined the ideal image of the Group to be pursued during the next three years as a corporate group in compliance with the four-item Basic Policy. ( see page 3: Top Message). 2. Plan period FY2013–FY2015 (covering three years) Consolidated revenue Consolidated operating income 3. Performance targets (Unit: ¥billion) (Unit: ¥billion) 300 20 Figures of consolidated business results 250.0 250 15.5 (Unit: ¥billion) 15 198.1 200 12.1 Operating Ordinary Net Revenue income income income 150 10 Actual results 100 for FY2013 198.1 12.1 14.1 8.5 5 50 Targets for FY2015 250.0 15.5 16.5 10.2 0 0 FY2013 FY2015 FY2013 FY2015 4. Investment plan During the plan period, the Group plans to make investments totaling ¥60.0 billion (¥22.0 billion in logistics, ¥33.5 billion in real estate and ¥4.5 billion in disaster countermeasures and global environmental measures). In-house Decision Making Responses to Stakeholders’ Expectations Corporate governance system Stakeholders recognized by the Mitsubishi Logistics Group (Chart of corporate governance system) (Chart of stakeholders) Enhance our commitment General Shareholders Meeting to customer satisfaction, Provide ideal working earning our customers’ environments while Board of Corporate Board of Independent trust through high-quality ensuring the safety and Directors Auditors Corporate Auditors Auditor logistics and real estate Customers Employees professional growth of services. the employee. Corporate Auditors’ Chamber Aim to manage internal Perform fair information strictly and Shareholders Mitsubishi Public business activities disclose information at by complying with Executive Committee (Consultative body consisting of directors Chairman of the Board President the appropriate time & investors Logistics administration laws, rules and and in the appropriate social norms. with special titles) Managing Directors manner, in accordance Group Internal Control with the law. Respective Divisions, and General Managers’ Chambers of the Head Office Committee Local Meeting Suppliers 6 branches Internal Audit CSR and Develop common communities Sincere and fair business Department Compliance Committee interests with local activities based on 57 subsidiaries (including communities as a good mutual trust. Group Management corporate citizen. Meeting 20 overseas subsidiaries) Risk Management 15 affiliates Committee 10 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Web ▶ You may view the news release on the actual performance data on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended Version.” Promotion of CSR for Every Employee HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended Version CSR & Compliance Handbook Information disclosure The Group prepared the Mitsubishi Logistics Group Our IR information site is open on the Company’s Web CSR & Compliance Handbook (63 pages in A5 format) site. We strive to transmit information by providing to nurture the awareness of each employee as to CSR “Management planning and policy,” “Stock and compliance. The handbook was information,” “IR calendar,” “Financial data” and “IR distributed to all executives and information” (Flash report, Annual report and Results employees within the Group in briefing). January 2012 for their daily reference. For the convenience of foreign shareholders and We position the handbook as a investors, English-version sites are also available to starting point to help them address disclose significant information thereto. small questions and significant issues in their routine business operations. CSR & Compliance Dialogue between shareholders/invesHandbook tors, analysts and top management Easy-to-understand shareholders’ meetings Lecture on CSR and Compliance When we hold a shareholders’ meeting, we strive to provide easy-to-understand information for the The Company and domestic Group companies provide convenience of attending shareholders by using video Web-based lectures based on the Mitsubishi Logistics business reports with narration. Group CSR & Compliance Handbook and the Results briefing Environmental and Social Report to disseminate the The Company holds results briefings understanding of CSR and compliance. The lectures twice a year (May and November) for aim to increase employees’ awareness by providing investors and analysts. In addition to occasions in which every employee thinks of familiar the explanation of the settled issues and finds the answers. accounting results, the top management of the Company explains management policies and Training on CSR and Compliance the progress of management plans, Results briefing for analysts conducts Q&A and transmits a variety As measures to address the status of compliance with the Code of management information. We are active in encouraging of Conduct and any issues noted in the internal audit results, we dialogue with market players not only through transmission of endeavor to establish good working environments by the information desired by investors and analysts but also by disseminating and entrenching our corporate philosophy and the integrating the feedback of useful views therefrom in our actual Code of Conduct and promoting CSR. business judgment. As for compliance, we hold training sessions concerning ▶ You may view the materials for the results briefing on Web compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in the IR Information page. Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors with an emphasis on the HOME>INVESTOR RELATIONS>IR Information>Presentation methods for managing and handling relevant documents, and the obligations and prohibitions of the main subcontracting enterprise. Web ▶ Actual performance data on the lecture and on the training on Internal reporting system CSR and compliance can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended Version.” To ensure early detection of actions that violate legal HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended Version ordinances or corporate regulations, as well as actions that are in danger of violating such rules, the Mitsubishi Logistics Group has established a corporate ethics help line (Contact: CSR · Compliance Team, General Affairs Division) as an Emphasis on communication internal whistleblowing and consultation mechanism to reinforce compliance management. To raise the degree of recognition, at the time of the Timely and appropriate news releases “Check of the Compliance of the Code of Conduct” in October 2013 we checked whether all executives and regular As the Group emphasizes the principles of social employees of the Group are familiar with our internal reporting responsibility such as accountability and transparency system and whether they intend to use the system. in organizational decision making, news releases on Consequently, it was confirmed that almost all the business activities are disclosed at the appropriate time respondents expressed an affirmative opinion, suggesting and in the appropriate manner. widespread recognition of the system. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 11 Promotion of CSR Confirmation of major CSR activities The Group is committed to CSR activities so that socially responsible behavior will be disseminated among employees as a voluntary corporate culture. ▶ Checklist for the confirmation of major CSR activities Core subjects Tasks Objectives/Goals Promoting the realization of our corporate Organizational philosophy and strategies Reinforce CSR and compliance governance Review of goals, standards, etc. Respect for Human Improvement of the awareness of human rights Respect human rights Rights Demonstrate every employee’s personality and competence, Rewarding and friendly working conditions Undertake necessary security procedures, and Support the coexistence of employees’ working life and home life Appropriate Working Ensuring the security of workers Ensure the security of workers Environment Develop competent human resources who meet the Human resources development and training requirements of global human resources and who can manage global operations Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for Further reinforce environmental countermeasures reducing climate change Environmental Preserve resources by reducing the environmental Conservation Use of renewable resources impact Global environmental measures from biodiversity Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system perspectives Fulfillment of Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and Reinforce CSR and compliance Sincere and Fair promotion of fair and open competition Upgrade information security management Business Activities Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial Improve service quality high-quality services Provision of Safe, Quality and Useful Services Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service Maintain infrastructure in case of disasters functions Contribution to the community’s cultural activities Contribute to cultures in local communities Coordination with Local Communities and International Society Contribution through donations, etc. Support to victims of disasters 12 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 We summarize hereunder the setting of “Objectives/Goals,” the planning of “Activity process” and the confirmation of “Achievements/Results” with regard to major CSR activities that are categorized under the Seven Core Subjects in accordance with the “Guidance on Social Responsibility” guidelines. Division/Chamber/ Activity process (Plan) Achievements/Results Branch and/or Group companies in charge ● Briefing meetings on our Management Plan held at each branch by General Affairs Division Managing Director in charge of personnel and planning Personnel Division Disseminate the corporate philosophy and the management plan. ● Worksite meeting held every month (dissemination of our corporate Planning & Business Deliberate how to promote CSR at the CSR and Compliance Committee. philosophy and our Management Plan) Coordination Division ● May 2013 and March 2014: Held the CSR and Compliance Committee Other Divisions, Chambers meeting (for CSR promotion) and Branches Strive to disseminate the awareness of respect for human rights with every employee ● FY2013 Human Rights Enlightenment Training held with 49 participants by establishing a dedicated promotion system. ● Delivered lectures on human rights upon request from the Industrial Personnel Division Conduct education on human rights. Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit of creating worksites where employees ● Self-declaration once a year and interviews for appraisal conducted three can demonstrate their personality and competence. times a year Execute industrial safety and health-related measures to maintain and enhance ● Conducted “Health Promotion” seminars and annual health checkup Personnel Division employees’ health. ● Beneficiaries of the childcare leave system: 7, and beneficiaries of the Promote a work-life balance to support the sound development of next-generation children. care leave system: 31 Work on industrial safety and health-related activities among operating bases in an Personnel Division aim to prevent occupational disasters. ● Monthly commencement of Industrial Safety and Health Committee Harbor Promote the prevention of occupational disasters and conduct periodic disaster ● Number of serious occupational accidents in Port and Harbor Operation Transportation prevention drills and meetings in the Port and Harbor Operations Business. Business: zero Business Division Branches ● FY2013 onsite logistics capability training with 313 participants Endeavor to develop human resources that can contribute not only to corporate growth but also to social development. ● FY2013 training on regional office duties with 43 participants Personnel Division ● FY2013 global mind development training with 64 participants ● Sept. 2014: Completion of the Nihonbashi Dia Building (Disaster-Resistant Promote the construction of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which focus on ensuring business continuity in case of a disaster and considerations and Eco-Friendly Office Building) scheduled. Technical Division for the global environment. ● FY2013: The sheets for works, which were used during the construction Real Estate Enhance the shift of existing lighting devices to LED lighting by utilizing governmental of the Nihonbashi Dia Building, received the SDA Awards. Division subsidy funds. ● FY2013: The existing lighting devices (more than 3,000 units in total) at Branches our warehouses were changed to LED lighting. ● Oct. 2013: Solar power generation facilities with energy output of 470 kW We promote implementation of large-scale solar power generation facilities in existing started operation at Sakurajima Warehouse No. 2, Osaka Branch. Technical Division facilities in line with the government’s policy of enhancing the use of renewable energy. ● FY2013: Three “i-MiEV” electric vehicles introduced. Osaka Branch Expand the use of “i-MiEV,” Mitsubishi Motors’ electric vehicles. ● Dec. 2013: The Nagoya Dia Building received the Certificate of “EcoBranches Promote the reduction of wastes. oriented Business” from the Mayor of Nagoya. Nagoya Branch General Affairs Conduct forest restoration through the volunteer activities and donations as a partner ● June 2013: Forest restoration activity conducted with 41 participants. Division of reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture. Tokyo Branch Yokohama Branch ● FY2013: Compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Hold training sessions for the compliance of the Act against Delay in Payment of Proceeds, etc., ; Number of participants: 1,816 (Web-based check) General Affairs Subcontract Proceeds, etc., and the prevention of insider trading. ● FY2013: Prevention of Insider Trading Course; Number of participants: 40 Division Distribute information security questionnaires to disseminate the awareness of ● Number of respondents to the FY2013 Information Securities Information security. Questionnaire: 4,352 Systems Division Take specific initiatives for quality improvement at each of the operating sites, ● Regular quality improvement conferences held. Planning & Business subsidiaries and affiliates. ● Quality education at monthly safety conferences and information Coordination Division Reestablish our information systems for warehousing and distribution center operations exchanges at regular conferences with customers conducted. Warehousing and Distribution to improve the quality of logistics. ● Mar. 2014: A new warehousing and distribution center operations system Business Division (G-MIWS) implemented at the Aomi Office, Tokyo Branch. Tokyo Branch ● Feb. 2014: Head Office and the Kobe Branch jointly performed an Perform joint drills for earthquake countermeasures. earthquake countermeasures drill (with approximately 60 participants). General Affairs Division Deepen people’s understanding of the logistics of relief supplies in case of large-scale disasters. ● Participated in FY2013 disaster logistics training, which was sponsored by Kobe Branch Pursue additional designations for our facilities as relief supplies and materials facilities, which the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Warehousing and Distribution is a concept primarily advocated by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. ● Two of our facilities were additionally designated as relief supply and Business Division material facilities, bringing the total to 11. Nagoya Branch Real Estate Division ● Aug. 2013: Held “Tohoku Marché” and the “Charity Ennichi (Street Fair).” Yokohama Dia Hold supporting events for reconstruction from the Great East Japan Earthquake. ● Nov. 2013: Conducted the “Yokohama F-Marinos Charity Auction.” Building Management Corporation ● Apr. 2013: Contributed to a relief fund for the victims of the Ya’an earthquake in Sichuan Province, China. General Affairs Raise and provide relief funds for disasters that happen in Japan and overseas. ● Nov. 2013: Contributed to a relief fund for the victims of the Philippines Division Develop a plastic bottle cap collection activity to improve the welfare of children typhoon Hayan. Other Divisions, worldwide. ● FY 2013: Donated approximately 347,000 collected plastic bottle caps Chambers and (equivalent to the cost of giving a polio vaccine to approximately 430 Branches children) to the Ecocap movement. Group companies Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 13 Organizational Governance To ensure socially responsible positive decision making, it is necessary to establish organizational processes to optimally utilize the Group’s philosophy, strategies and standards. As for organizational governance, the Group recognizes and strengthens such issues as “Promoting the realization of our corporate philosophy and strategies,” “Entrenchment of the compliance of standards, etc.,” “Confirmation of the processes of implementation for action plans” and “Review of goals, standards, etc.” Promoting the realization of our In executing the Basic Strategy and Detailed Strategy above, the Group complies with the seven corporate philosophy and strategies principles of social responsibility under the Guidance on Social Responsibility. The Group companies have Disseminating the corporate philosophy stipulated the Code of Conduct in line with the seven and the management plan (Basic Strategy) principles, and their employees strive to self-check and confirm their behavior by always having the CSR & The Group has expressed the goal of “contributing to Compliance Handbook close at hand. the realization of an affluent and sustainable society” in its corporate philosophy ( see page 2: Top Message) to make its intent of strengthening social responsibility known to every party concerned within the Group. To facilitate this goal, the Company formulated in its Review of goals, standards, etc. management plan the following Basic Strategy and Detailed Strategy (excerpt) and endeavors to Deliberating at the CSR and Compliance disseminate it at worksite meetings and other Committee (meetings held in May and March) occasions. To promote CSR activities in the Group, the CSR and Compliance Committee was established in September Basic Strategy and Detailed Strategy (Excerpt) 2006. 1. Reinforce risk management centering on natural In fiscal 2013, the committee met twice—in May disaster countermeasures. and March. The committee deliberated on the reports 2. Strengthen global environmental measures. and revisions regarding CSR activities in accordance 3. Create a corporate culture in which all executives with the Guidance on Social Responsibility used as the and employees are eager to behave positively by basis for the Environmental and Social Report, as well thinking independently. as on the improved compliance based on the self4. Promote personnel development fostering check of the status of complying with the Code of expertise and global perspectives. Conduct. 5. Strengthen initiatives to revitalize organizations In addition, it was reported that the forest by drawing on diversified human resources. restoration activities were conducted to preserve the 6. Improve the quality of services. ecosystem regarding the preservation of biodiversity. 7. Reinforce in-house education and the check system in the pursuit of thorough compliance. Worksite meeting (Nagoya Branch) Worksite meeting (Osaka Branch) 14 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Entrenchment of the Confirmation of the compliance of standards, etc. implementation of action plans Disseminating the awareness of Confirming the appropriateness of compliance operations via internal control The Group endeavors to disseminate the awareness of The Board of Directors of the Company resolved the “Basic compliance based on corporate ethics in every employee Policy on the Improvement of an Internal Control System” to through the employee’s self-check on the status of complying ensure the appropriate execution of duties by executives and with the Code of Conduct, which was formulated as the regular employees and the appropriateness of corporate affairs. social norms for employees in executing their duties, as well Furthermore, the Company improves the systems necessary as by thoroughly promoting training on compliance. for ensuring the appropriateness of financial reporting and The self-check on the status of compliance previously prepares and submits the Internal Control Report regarding the targeted the Company and domestic Group companies. evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control relating to Effective from fiscal 2013, the scope of the self-check has financial reporting in accordance with the Financial Instruments been extended to cover overseas Group companies using and Exchange Law. English texts. Web ▶ Actual performance data on the compliance situation of the Code of Conduct may be viewed on Mitsubishi Confirming the process for bonded operations, etc., Logistics’ Web site in “Extended Version.” under the Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended Version The Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program is a system for certifying managers of bonded warehouses and bonded factories Business processes are confirmed via as authorized warehouse operators after they meet set internal audit conditions concerning compliance and other regulations, in accordance with the Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) The internal audit of the Company is performed mainly by the guidelines of the World Customs Organization (WCO). These Audit Division in accordance with the internal audit regulations authorizations ensure preferential treatment such as and the internal audit plan. The audit operation is supported implementation of simplified procedures requiring only notification by branch auditors and audit assistants positioned at Head to build bonded warehouses, exemptions from permit fees, etc. Office and respective branches. The purpose of the internal Mitsubishi Logistics received approval as an authorized audit is to precisely grasp the status of corporate affairs and warehouse operator from the Director-General of Tokyo Customs the financial position so as to be of help for management’s in April 2008. We will further enhance compliance activities in prevention of fraud, errors and faults, and rationalization such customs-related processes and all other import/export services as improvement of business operations and raising operating in our sincere attempt to provide highly reliable and dependable efficiency. The Audit Division reports the results of audits logistics services for our customers. regarding the Company and subsidiaries to the management Meanwhile, Monryo Transport Corporation and Keihin Naigai team. The General Affairs Division supports the follow-up Forwarding Co., Ltd., both of which are Group companies, checks on any issues noted in the audit results, if any, and acquired certification as Authorized Customs Brokers as of reports the results to the management team. September 25, 2012, and June 9, 2014, respectively. An The Audit Division keeps close contact with the corporate Authorized Customs Broker is a customs clearance operator auditors and provides them with internal audit information to subject to various preferential privileges, which is authorized by cooperate with the corporate auditors’ audits. the customs office to arrange for security management and compliance regarding cargo. Both companies intend to improve customer services by leveraging their qualification for preferential declaration. We will work to compatibly ensure higher security and more trade facilitation in the field of international logistics. Worksite meeting (Kobe Branch) Worksite meeting (Fukuoka Branch) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 15 Respect for Human Rights Respecting human rights is a basis for complying with laws and regulations and fulfilling social responsibility. Regarding the respect for human rights, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as “Improvement of the employees’ awareness of human rights.” Improvement of the Slogan on human rights (Employees’ section) awareness of human rights Let us start by noticing each small problem. A bright future can be established by Strive to disseminate the awareness of everyone’s efforts. respect for human rights with every employee by establishing a dedicated promotion system Slogan on human rights (Family section) The Company is committed to enlightening human rights among employees with the aim of creating a “positive worksite atmosphere Breadth of mind is born from a mind-set of in which every employee’s human rights are respected and personal listening to others. First, we must make time competence and personality can be fully demonstrated.” for conversation among family members. Specifically, every year the Company offers a human rights enlightenment course of 1–2 hours in the stratified training curriculum under the established human rights training promotion system. VOICE In fiscal 2013, a total of 49 employees participated in the training, which targeted new employees and newly appointed managerial staff. At the training sessions, participating employees not only Reflection on the Human Rights Training received lectures but also exchanged views on diverse concrete Yoko Miyazaki examples to deepen their understanding. Tobishima Office, Nagoya Branch The Company endeavors to raise the awareness of human rights by inviting slogans on human rights enlightenment even to loaned or t the training, we learned about such dispatched staffers. In parallel with this approach, we have A subjects as “What are human rights?,” established a harassment-dedicated counseling contact that takes “Discrimination on the basis of race and disability” initiatives to prevent or resolve various worksite harassment cases. and “Gender discrimination issues” with actual In fiscal 2013, upon request from the Industrial Federation for examples. We also modeled a socially and Human Rights, Tokyo, the person in charge of human rights of the environmentally easy-to-work corporation based on Company delivered a lecture in Aichi Prefecture as a visiting lecturer what we learned. We exchanged views and on the theme of “Corporate Enterprise and Human Rights—Creating deepened our understanding regarding examples Easy-to-Work and Rewarding Worksites.” of discrimination such as harassment by a person Web ▶ Actual performance data on human rights training can in a position of power and sexual harassment be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in lawsuits and other issues that might happen in our “Extended Version.” daily lives. HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Web I think this training provided a very good Report>Extended Version occasion to become aware of and reimagine our subconscious illusions or prejudices. I truly felt from this training that it would be important for us to “recognize that human rights issues have something to do with ourselves” and “interact with others by defining them not according to their attributes such as race, gender or the degree of disability but to their individuality.” Lecture in Aichi Prefecture 16 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Appropriate Working Environment An appropriate working environment serves to stabilize employees’ living standards, is the source of meaning in employees’ lives and is indispensable for safety and health, productivity growth, human resource development and so forth. Regarding the appropriate working environment, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as “Respect of labor-management relations,” “Employment and the importance of the employment relationship,” “Rewarding and friendly working conditions,” “Ensuring the security of workers” and “Human resource development and training.” Respect for laborEmployment and the importance management relations of the employment relationship Having close communications with the Endeavoring to ensure human resources labor union systematically and stably while respecting The collective labor agreement entered into between equal employment opportunities and diversity the Company and the Mitsubishi Logistics Union In recruiting employees, our basic policy is to respect stipulates the responsibility of the Company and that of equal employment opportunities and diversity. the union as follows on the stance of laborIn our recruiting activity, we have introduced an management cooperation. openentry system without making any distinction as regards the school of graduation or faculty that takes 1. (Company’s Responsibility) into account the fair employment of applicants from a The Company shall proactively strive to maintain long-term perspective to systematically and stably and improve the working conditions and promote ensure human resources. the welfare of employees to improve the status of We offer a wide range of opportunities to both new employees and ensure stable livelihoods. and professional or experienced applicants by making 2. (Union’s Responsibility) the most of the Company’s Web site and various kinds The labor union shall strive to maintain public order of PR media. at the worksite and promote the working capabilities of its affiliated employees, as well as ▶ Status of employees (as of the end of March 2014) fully cooperate with the Company for the growth of the Company’s business based on democratic Item In fiscal 2013 foundations. Number of regular 4,441 employees (consolidated) Labor-management consultations and negotiations Number of temporary are handled at the Management Conference, which is employees (consolidated) 2,293 attended by representatives of both parties. There are two types of Management Conference: Group companies have no statistical data regarding employees’ the Central Management Conference, which is held average age and years of service. between Head Office and the union’s headquarters, and the Operating Site Management Conference, Number of regular employees 847 (578 men and 269 women) which is held between each branch and each lodge. (non-consolidated) Each conference meets once per month. Average age 40.4 years (non-consolidated) Average years of service 17.7 years (non-consolidated) Number of temporary employees 673 (non-consolidated) Operating Site Management Conference (Osaka Branch) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 17 Appropriate Working Environment Rewarding and friendly Execute industrial safety and health-related measures to enhance employees’ good health working conditions To effectively fulfill its obligation of safety, which is Strive to improve the environment in which both required of every corporation, the Company proactively takes initiatives to maintain and promote employees’ employees and the Company can raise mutual values health. The basic philosophy of the Company’s personnel Regular medical checkup policy is to assist its employees to grow and improve A medical checkup is conducted once a year that their worklife balance and to assert that both focuses on tests for lifestyle-related diseases. Although employees and the Company can raise mutual values long working hours have become a social problem in through the sustainable growth of the Company. recent years, the Company has implemented a To realize this philosophy, the Company endeavors framework to minimize the health risks of employees to improve worksite environments so that employees due to a heavy workload through enhanced interview can demonstrate their individuality and competence to guidance from industrial physicians to those with long the utmost with improved motivation and better working hours. workplace environments, through a variety of personnel Health promotion and educational systems. Health promotion seminars are held for the purpose of maintaining good health and improving the lifestyle of employees. At these seminars, in addition to lectures Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit (on mental health and eating habit guidance) given by of creating worksites where employees can experts, simple aerobics dance programs are offered demonstrate their individuality and competence to encourage employees to engage in light physical exercise. The Company strives to improve worksite environments in which every employee can fully demonstrate his/her individuality and competence. Involvement in mental health activities focusing Self-declaration system on “prevention and recurrence prevention” According to the self-declaration system, the Company’s employees declare their satisfaction rating The Company considers it important to support every with their current duties and career plan among others, employee in having a purposeful life by ensuring once a year. The declaration includes the desired systematic and constant care for his/her mental health. conditions of their next workplace, etc., so that the To promote mental health care in accordance with Company may pay attention not only to employees’ the “Guidelines for maintenance and promotion of business duties but also to every employee’s life plan. mental health for workers” of the Ministry of Health, The content of the declaration is actually used for Labor and Welfare, the Company has taken a variety of personnel transfers and a career development initiatives such as reinforcement of in-house education program. and training, cultivation of dedicated staff in charge at operating sites, execution of stress checks and Evaluation and treatment of employees improvement of networks via collaborations with The Company treats employees in accordance with external professional organs. fair, transparent and well-received appraisal systems. Direct interviews between managers and subordinates, which are held three times a year (at the time of target setting, midyear retrospection and year-end retrospection) are especially emphasized. The evaluation results are used for an appropriate division of labor within the business unit and advice on career planning. 18 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 VOICE Promoting the work-life balance to support the sound development of next-generation children Pursuant to the implementation of the Act on Having Used the Short-Time Advancement of Measures to Support Raising NextRegular Employee System Generation Children, the Company formulated the Yuka Ando “Ordinary Business Owner Action Plan” and Ibaraki Office, Osaka Branch implemented the “Child-care leave system,” the “Shorttime regular employee system,” the “Nursing care leave worked regular hours for three months after system,” the “Child care leave system” and the “Family I the end of my childcare leave. However, as care leave system” to assist with the coexistence of my first son of one year old then was having employees’ working life and home life. difficulty adjusting to his new life at the nursery, Furthermore, the Company encourages the leaving home at 7 a.m. and not returning before 7 enhanced use of annual paid vacations to reduce p.m. at night, I decided to apply for the short-time working hours in a year and has introduced a regular employee system. It becomes difficult to systematic granting system (six days per year) of manage my work and child-rearing if I am unable to annual paid vacations under labor-management get help from the people around me such as for collaboration. sending to and from the nursery. However, as my son gradually got accustomed to the new environment thanks to using this system, I can VOICE dedicate myself to my job with a feeling of security. In using this system, I’m really grateful for the understanding and cooperation of my supervisors Having Acquired a Care Leave and colleagues. I would like to do my best to the Junichi Iwasaki fullest extent although the time for working is Accounting Dept., Yokohama Branch limited. s my child often caught a A cold when initially entering a nursery, I as the father needed a nursing care leave because our family is a double-income household and we share the child-rearing. Thanks to the care leave system, I could take off-duty days without using my paid leave, supported by the understanding and cooperation of my colleagues. I am grateful for the leave system as I could tackle my job compatibly with my childrearing task. ▶ Acquisition results for various systems Results (number of beneficiaries) System Description FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period Childcare leave 10 14 9 6 7 until a child become 2 years old. Short-time regular Service hours may be reduced by up to 2 hours 8 11 16 17 17 employee per day for nurturing a child. Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period Nursing care within one year to take care of a family member in 0 0 0 1 0 leave need of nursing care. Paid leave for nursing care of a child (up to 10 Care leave 24 23 33 27 31 days per year) Family care leave Paid leave for nursing care of a family member in — 5 3 1 1 (newly established in FY2010) need of nursing care (up to 10 days per year). Child care leave system and nursing care leave system are counted beginning from the time of system introduction. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 19 Appropriate Working Environment Promoting welfare measures to help Providing an activity place at work for retiring employees store up the energy to work employees to demonstrate their competence by A variety of systems are available in compliance with ensuring employment opportunities for the elderly the three catchphrases of “Provision of security,” In terms of employment opportunities for the elderly, the “Recreation” and “Promotion of residential house Company has striven to guarantee the employment of acquisition” for the promotion of employees’ welfare. employees up to 62 or 63 years old before the establishment of the related laws through measures Major welfare programs of the Company: such as a job placement service to help them be reemployed by subsidiaries or affiliates and the 1. Provision of security reemployment of those with expertise in certain Retirement benefits, corporate pensions, family business fields. allowance, housing allowances, condolence In response to the establishment of the relevant money, celebration of a birth, the ESOP (Employee laws, we established our continuing employment Stock Ownership Plan) association, group system to ensure that applicants can continue to work insurance, the reserve for pension and asset up to 65 years old under certain criteria, and the system formation, multipurpose accommodation loans and has been applied to 80%–90% of those applicable. the granting of company-owned houses to employees via job transfers 2. Recreation Improving access in the work environment to increase Recreation facilities, in-house sports events the employment of physically challenged people (baseball, tennis and futsal), the Mitsubishi firms’ martial arts tournament, refresh leave (long-service There are physically challenged employees who work and midlevel workers) in diverse operations of the Company. As of June 1, 3. Promotion of residential house acquisition 2013, the Company filled its legal employment quota of Reserve for house acquisition and asset formation, physically challenged employees as a result of the in-house loans and tie-up loans aggressive execution of various initiatives. We will continue to steadily strengthen improvements of the worksite environment in which physically challenged persons can easily demonstrate their capabilities and competence. ▶ Employment ratio of physically challenged employees June June June June June 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Number of physically 12 13 16 18 17 challenged employees (actual) Employment ratio (%) 1.58 1.70 2.06 2.30 2.15 VOICE Participating in the Mitsubishi Firms’ Martial Arts Tournament Hayato Uesugi Harbor Transportation Dept., Kobe Branch he Mitsubishi firms’ martial arts tournament is a big T annual event at which many athlete employees of the Mitsubishi Group companies convene to compete in martial arts. I participated in the kendo section this time and deepened bonds with my supervisors and colleagues who also participated in the tournament. I regret that I could not show my true ability at the games as I was overwhelmed with the atmosphere of the famous Nippon In-house recreation event (kendo section: the Mitsubishi firms’ martial arts Budokan. However, I could feel bonds with people in the tournament at the Nippon Budokan) Mitsubishi Group by participating in the tournament. This was a valuable experience for me to pursue synergies within the Group companies in the future. 20 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Ensuring the security of workers pursued and proactively executed. We are confident that the cumulative effects of these safety-focused daily efforts will help prevent serious occupational disasters and ensure the safety of Striving to conduct industrial safety and health workers. activities via collaborations among operating bases Specific initiatives executed at the respective ports are in the pursuit of prevention of industrial accidents summarized in the table below. Each branch has an “Industrial Safety and Health Committee” (and a Health Committee at Head Office) to share information with operating bases including operation-commission and cargo-handling companies to which operation is outsourced with regard to diverse initiatives related to industrial safety and health. In addition, we strive to prevent occupational disasters by Safety patrol (Harbor Transportation Safety and health meeting (Harbor conducting safety and health Dept., Nagoya Branch) Transportation Dept., Osaka Branch) education and safety patrols inside and outside the facilities. ▶ Description of specific initiatives taken at the respective ports and Health Committee (Head Office) results/achievements Description Overland transportation: Strengthen ensuring ● We hold a briefing meeting before the ship operations to confirm the safety with safety measures and the prevention content of the intended operation, check the work uniform including the fluorescent vests and call workers’ attention to safety (daily). of accidents in the transportation field ● A safety and health meeting is held jointly with the relevant suppliers Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (an overland transportation-dedicated (monthly). company in charge of the overland transportation business of the ● We strengthen the safety patrols at the operating site jointly with the Company) aims to increase the security of transportation and ensure relevant suppliers (monthly). the security of the truck crews through concerted efforts with the (Quarterly joint patrols are conducted with the participation of superiors.) recognition that ensuring the security of freight transportation is the ● We regularly confirm and replenish safety gear (safety belts for high-place pillar of our business management. operations, fluorescent safety arm bands, emergency stretchers, etc.). In addition, fully recognizing the public nature and importance of ● We participate in outside workshops and training sessions (as needed). the trucking business apart from compliance with relevant laws and ● We promote the speed limit for dedicated, in-yard trucks, which are regulations such as the Motor Truck Transportation Business Act and driven within the container yards (via the successive installation of the Road Traffic Act, we check operations at all times from a safety excessive speed lamps). viewpoint. As initiatives for daily accident preventive activities, we ● We promote the speed limit for trucks entering container yards (by hold safety conferences, conduct safety patrols and all-branch setting up a speed monitor). marketing staff conferences, and thorough checks at all carResults/Achievements allocation bases using a high-performance alcohol detector unit to No serious occupational accidents were reported in fiscal 2013. check at the roll call whether any crew members have been drinking. In addition, we implement initiatives for industrial safety and health via appropriate instructions and education given to crew members based on the results of regular medical checkups, to which tests for lifestyle-related diseases have been added, and regular diagnosis of the driving competence of the truck crews is conducted. Harbor transportation: Promote the prevention VOICE Strengthening the Task of Ensuring Safety of occupational disasters and conduct periodic Yasuo Tominaga disaster prevention drills and meetings General Manager, Sales Division Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. The port and harbor operations inevitably involve a variety of cargo handling work in association with the receipt and delivery at ports. s a trucking business operator, we always endeavor A to ensure safety and security. Recognizing the We therefore regularly conduct safety-related drills and hold regular conferences as specific countermeasures that have been prepared importance thereof, we are active in raising our safety by operating site to safely and smoothly perform cargo handling consciousness. We therefore strive to execute safe operations operations. at all times by complying with relevant laws and regulations, To prepare for various kinds of occupational disasters and cargo establishing an internal communications system and sharing accidents, it is important to raise awareness of safety and health and information in addition to onsite safety patrols. We conduct share the intent with all workers. To this end, we strive to understand thorough checks using an alcohol detector unit at the roll call and improve the operating site environment from all angles. and carefully manage truck crews’ condition in the pursuit of Furthermore, to prevent occupational disasters and cargo safe transportation and higher transportation quality. accidents, it is vital that warnings are given with reference to past  (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics) accident examples and that effective countermeasures are always Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 21 Appropriate Working Environment Chinese conversation course Human resources development and training Endeavor to develop human resources that can contribute not only to corporate growth but also social development Ideal image of desired human resources With the Code of Conduct in mind, every employee aims to undertake a role not only in corporate growth but also in the development of society by conducting Onsite logistics capability training (Distribution center start-up operation) himself/ herself in the following manner. Extending the Scope of In-House Lecturers 1. Keep faith in others, and conduct yourself with integrity and a sense of fairness. for the Onsite Logistics Capability Training 2. Conduct yourself autonomously. At the onsite logistics capability training, the lecturers 3. Respond flexibly to environmental changes. are dispatched from among active employees so that 4. Demonstrate expertise and act with a sense of creativity. employees assigned to posts at logistics sites can 5. Have a good teamwork spirit and cooperate with your improve their necessary expertise and skills. colleagues At this training, in addition to the previous safety and health and logistics management courses, two Training system new courses (distribution center start-up operation and The Company focuses on developing human resources transportation operation courses) were offered. As a that can precisely respond to internal and external needs. result, 313 persons in total participated in the courses. The Company therefore strives to upgrade employees’ We intend to offer more practical training by business skills and the organization’s strength through nurturing in-house lecturers to enrich the content of the training by service year of employment. At the same time, respective course programs. the Company offers several training programs to raise employees’ expertise such as management capabilities, VOICE readiness for globalization and operational capability to enable employees to acquire professional skills in response to the content of their business duties. Reflection on the Onsite Logistics Capability Training (Transportation operation) VOICE Reflection on the Onsite Logistics Tomoyo Nashimoto Pharmaceutical Team,Warehousing and Distribution Business Division t the basic transportation operation course, we mainly Capability Training (Distribution A learned the outline of the trucking business operations, center start-up operation) which are closely related to the warehouse operations, the Kenichi Usuda business environment surrounding the industry and various other Sakurajima No. 2 Office, Osaka Branch issues. As the transportation industry involves various challenges such as the hike of fuel prices, a decline in cargo volume and the attended the distribution center start-up operation shortage of truck drivers, the degradation of transportation quality I course. I truly felt the difficulties in the start-up is a concern. I learned that the trucking business operators used operation, which is required to integrate specific by the Company endeavor to improve transportation quality with customer needs into our daily operations and the measures such as the installation of a drive recorder and by increasing needs for quality day by day. obtaining certification as a safety excellence enterprise. It was a valuable occasion for me to review my duties I’m satisfied having learned many things. I would like to make by hearing opinions from other participants who came use of the knowledge that I gained at the training as one of my from other departments and sections. sales tools for customers. 22 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Training on regional office duties Leadership training for managerial Newcomers’ training Training for (Deputy) General Managers Offsite meeting section chiefs and general managers Conducted a Training Targeting Region-Type Conducted a Training for (Deputy) General Managers, Employees (Training on regional office duties) a Leadership Training for Managerial Section Chiefs We conducted two trainings on regional office duties— and General Managers and an Offsite Meeting June 17—18, 2013, and January 23—24, 2014—at To strengthen organizational ability, we conducted a the Sengokuhara Training Center to help improve our training for (Deputy) General Managers, a leadership capability to handle regional office duties in accordance training for managerial section chiefs and general with the Management Plan. managers and an offsite meeting. The programs, attended by 20 persons at the June At the training for (Deputy) General Managers, the training and 23 persons at the January training, participants discussed to clarify the Company’s DNA focused on grasping one’s own strengths and by reflecting on its corporate history. weaknesses by reflecting on one’s past jobs and At the leadership training for managerial section deepening communication to play a central role in the chiefs and general managers, the participants learned operations for which he/she has responsibility. leadership skills to drive one’s own organization under As the training sessions became a forum for the the recognition of the roles of his/her own department. exchange of views across branches and departments, At the offsite meeting, the theme of “What can we it served to improve the motivation of the participants. do?” was addressed to keep pace with changes that the Company faces through dialogues among key employees who play a leading role beyond organizational barriers to create a new corporate VOICE culture in which every employee thinks independently and behaves positively. Participating in the Leadership Training for Managerial Section Chiefs and General Managers Takashi Mukai VOICE Participating in the Offsite Meeting Manager, Residential Development Team, Hiroaki Negishi Real Estate Division Marketing Dept. B, Warehousing and Distribution Business Division learned many things at this training. The I exchange of opinions with managerial staff t this training, the participants at other branches/departments, with whom I A exchanged views with a focus on “Mitsubishi usually have little contact, was especially valuable, Logistics’ strengths and DNA,” “Creating a in addition to mastering a specific “facilitation” good worksite environment” and “How to technique to animate meetings. strengthen our organizational ability.” In the course menu to explain specific onsite I truly felt that the initiatives taken by leading problems, it was fruitful for me that the participating employees who think independently and behave managerial staff discussed with each other to find positively would revitalize any organization and that solutions on the pending issues of the Company aligning people’s vectors to one direction is and share a sense of crisis. indispensable to establish a strong “team.” Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 23 Appropriate Working Environment Human resources (training) systems National-type employee development course: Basic role: Engage in a wide variety of corporate operations as core executives who facilitate business growth and management in a variety of regions including overseas. Development policy: Have the participants experience a variety of roles and duties. For 12 years after joining the Company, transfers are conducted at intervals of about four years, in principle. Health SelfStrengthen management capability Enhance readiness for globalization Upgrade operational capability Stratified training promotion, etc. development Training for (Deputy) (Objective of the common stratified training) · Acquire skills necessary for Life plan General Managers Management training for employees seconded to subsidiaries different levels seminar · Clarify the Company’s DNA by · Recognize the role required for reflecting on the corporate each level history of Mitsubishi Logistics Health · Raise organizational management capability promotion Leadership training for managerial seminar section chiefs and general managers Onsite logistics capability training English conversation course Chinese conversation course Emerging countries’ legal and labor affairs and accounting training (as needed) Global mind development training (as needed) National staff training (as needed) · Leadership, etc. (Applicable to Executives) Correspondence education · Improve onsite operating capability Training for newly appointed managerial The middle level staff training · Acquire knowledge on safety and health, etc. section chiefs and general managers · Acquire operating knowledge on distribution · Acquire basic management skills · Understand the management centers, transportation, etc. · Improve perspectives via action policy and management skills · Acquire knowledge on logistics improvement, etc. learning, etc. · Nurture problem-solving capabilities at worksites, etc. Newcomers’ Training at the 6th year Management training by theme worksite instructors Training via · Nurture leadership and training dispatching to followership (Compulsory) Leadership subsidiaries or · Acquire basic marketing · Improve nurturing capabilities, etc. (Compulsory) Labor management capability as affiliates Young staff overseas dispatch program (Compulsory) Accounting worksite instructors Training at the 2nd year (Selective) Marketing · Improve logical thinking capability (Selective) Motivation management · Acquire legal expertise on logistics, etc. (Selective) Critical thinking Training by division Newcomers’ second-half training Newcomers’ first-half training · Learn basic knowledge on general corporate operations Registered customs · Learn basic knowledge on trading practices specialist examination · Visits to logistics and real estate facilities of the Company course · Acquire business manners as a member of society, etc. Region-type employee development course: Upgrade operational capability Stratified training Health Selfpromotion, etc. development Basic role: Become familiar with and (Objective of the common stratified training) understand the characteristics · Acquire skills necessary for Life plan or features and local business different levels seminar · Recognize the role required for duties of a certain region in each level Health preparation for the smooth * Training may be conducted for each region or at the store level. promotion fulfillment of corporate Onsite logistics capability training seminar operations. · Improve onsite operating capability Development policy: Nurture employees via OJT· Acquire knowledge on safety and health, etc. · Acquire operating knowledge on distribution Correspondence education focused training and rotate jobs centers, transportation, etc. Training on regional office duties so that employees can become · Acquire knowledge on logistics improvement, etc. · Grasp one’s own strengths and weaknesses familiar with operating knowNewcomers’ worksite · Improve communication capabilities how in various areas. instructors training · Improve nurturing capability as Training at the 6th year worksite instructors · Nurture leadership and followership, etc. Training at the 2nd year · Acquire knowledge on logistics, etc. Training by division Newcomers’ second-half training Newcomers’ first-half training · Learn basic knowledge on general corporate operations Registered customs · Learn basic knowledge on trading practices specialist examination · Visits to logistics and real estate facilities of the Company course · Acquire business manners as a member of society, etc. 24 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Environmental Conservation Environmental issues are not only local issues of the region where our business bases are located but are also globally interconnected. Environmental accountability is a global-level social responsibility that affects the future of people. The Mitsubishi Logistics Group strengthens such environmental issues as the reduction of CO2 emissions as a countermeasure for climate change, the use of renewable natural resources and contribution to recovery of the eco-system. Reduction of CO2 emissions as a 1. Certification acquisition status of the Company measure for reducing climate change All offices of the Warehousing Business Division Port and Harbor Operations Division (Part of the container terminals of the Port of Yokohama and the Port of Kobe) Certified under the Logistics Efficiency 2. Certification acquisition status of the Group Improvement Act*, we are integrating logistics Truck transportation business (Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., and Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd.) and warehousing bases and reducing the environmental burden. business (Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., and the Warehousing Obtaining the same certification under the following six Business Division of Monryo Transport Corporation) business plans, we made transportation and distribution systems more efficient by integrating logistics bases for customers who used to employ We ensure compliance with the Law multiple logistics bases, thereby reducing the number Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, etc. of delivery trucks. By collecting customers’ freight and As a “Designated Business Operator” under the Law implementing joint delivery, we reduce emissions of Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, the Company is greenhouse gases (CO2), contributing to a reduction of obliged to reduce per-basic unit energy use more than 1% on the environmental burden. an annual average on a mediumto long-term basis at facilities we own and rent. Moreover, we submit a regular 1. Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 2, North report on energy saving and a mediumto long-term energyBuilding (Started operation in November 2005) saving plan to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 2. Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 3 The values we reported to the Ministry in fiscal 2013 (the (Started operation in April 2008) actual results for fiscal 2012) show that our energy-saving 3. Nagoya Branch, Tobishima Warehouse (Started measures resulted in a more than 10% reduction of per-basic operation in November 2008) unit energy use compared with the base year fiscal 2009. We 4. Tokyo Branch, Misato Warehouse No. 1 (Started are also striving to reduce CO2 emissions at our real estate operation in December 2008) facilities subject to the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental 5. Osaka Branch, Ibaraki Warehouse No. 3 (Started Security Ordinance. operation in October 2012) 6. Tokyo Branch, Misato Warehouse No. 2 (Started Web ▶ The actual results of our environmental conservation efforts and our total CO2 emissions reduction directive under the operation in March 2013) Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended Version.” * The Logistics Efficiency Improvement Act (Act on Advancement of HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Integration and Streaming of Distribution Business, implemented on Report>Extended Version October 1, 2005) The purpose of this law is to promote operations conducive to efficient logistics and reducing the environmental burden by integrating logistics We achieved a significant energy-saving effect by bases and conducting transportation, distribution, storage and logistics improving our air-conditioning heat source system. processing comprehensively. Business plans under this law are approved as a comprehensive At the Eitai Dia Building in Tokyo, we introduced a highefficiency plan and supported by the authority. efficiency turbo freezer and renewed the high-efficiency Through obtaining the Green Management Certification, computerized air conditioner, thereby reducing energy consumption by approximately 30% compared with the we are promoting environment-friendly business activities. previous year. After introducing the system, we conducted The Group obtainted the Green Management continual tuning toward optimal management, resulting in an Certification, which pursues profitability and additional reduction of more than 5% (a total annual CO2 environmental conservation by promoting environmentreduction of approximately 507 tons compared with the friendly business activities from the certification previous year). According to a request from the tenants of the registration organization Foundation for Promoting Company’s buildings, we provided the energy-use status Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation data. Our tenants who cooperated with us in improving this (abbreviated as “Eco-Mo Foundation”). system highly appreciated our initiative, and we are jointly conducting energy-saving activities. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 25 Environmental Conservation At the Company’s warehouse facilities, we obtained the ▶ Change of total gas mileage at all operational sites (fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2013) (Unit: km/L) certifications including Environmental Management System Fiscal year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 based on the “Supplier Code” related to our customers. Vehicles for 2.45 2.53 2.59 2.63 2.58 2.59 2.52 2.48 At the Chuo Futo Warehouse of the Fukuoka Branch, business (100.0) (103.1) (105.6) (107.5) (105.5) (105.7) (102.9) (101.3) responding to the enactment of the “Supplier Code,” use which regulates suppliers to which business operations Parentheses indicate index numbers setting the mileage for fiscal 2006 as 100.0. are outsourced, as part of customers’ CSR, we updated the Company’s manual and started 114 112 110 107.5 management based on the new manual, thereby 108 106 103.1 105.6 105.5 105.7 102.9 101.3 obtaining Environment Management System ISO 104 102 100.0 100 14001 certification and all other related certifications in 98 96 94 March 2014. ISO 14001 is an international standard 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) that clarifies environmental measures in line with the PDCA cycle and simultaneously verifies the proper We are promoting environmental conservation operation and improvement of a management system. with regard to information system equipment. Also, based on the Supplier Code, we obtained industrial safety and health certification and certification In adopting information system equipment, we select of an ethics and auditing program, striving to raise the models that use less energy. In fiscal 2013, we adopted awareness of issues such as safety, health, prevention 871 selected units at our operating bases. of accidents that result in injury and death and environmental measures. We are promoting environmental conservation not only at our operational sites but also at offices. Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. obtained Green Promotion of summertime energy saving Management Certification in its trucking business, We strove to save energy during the summertime (May striving for environmental conservation. through October 2013) by participating as a Group in For trucking business operators, addressing the Cool Biz campaign, which calls for offices to set environmental issues is one of the highest priorities. their air conditioning thermostats at a warmer-thanRyoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (“Ryoso usual temperature of 28°C. Transportation”), a specialized trucking company that is Promotion of Green Purchasing of stationery the center of the Company’s trucking division, has and other office supplies obtained the Green Management Certification*1 at all six When we purchase office supplies, we not only of its branches (seven operational bases) starting in consider quality and price but also choose products 2005, striving to reduce environmental burden. with less environmental impact—Green Purchasing. In fiscal 2013, Ryoso Transportation improved gas mileage by 1.3% compared with fiscal 2006. Specifically, in our efforts to promote eco-driving to improve gas mileage and reduce emissions of air Use of renewable resources pollution substances, we are conducting vehicle inspections and maintenance with our own high Accredited as an Eco-oriented Business standards. We also adopt low-pollution vehicles that by Nagoya City meet the latest restriction regulations for gas emissions. Promotion of “Green Purchasing” At Nagoya Dia Buildings No.1–3, we received the Business operators are also facing demands to Eco-oriented Business Certification in December 2013 purchase products and services with less from the Mayor of Nagoya, for our voluntary and environmental burden. At Ryoso Transportation, we are vigorous efforts to save energy and water, and aggressively purchasing retread tires,*2 eco-stationery, segregate and reduce waste in our daily business etc. activities. We will continue to engage in social contribution activities such as CO2 reduction and *1. The Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation is a public utility foundation that has been certifying and local cleanup registering business operators making efforts to reduce the activities. environmental burden at a level exceeding the standards outlined in the Green Management Promotion Manual since October 2003. *2. A retread tire has new rubber pasted on a used base tire, thereby restoring the tire’s original functionality. The commissioning of recapping to produce retread tires is listed as a “Designated Procurement Item” under “Services” in the Green Purchasing Law. Nagoya Dia Building Eco-oriented Business Certification awarded No. 3 from the Mayor of Nagoya 26 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 We are expanding the use of the electric car i-MiEV manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors Corporation. Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system As one measure under the Environmental Voluntary Conducting forest restoration through the Plan that the Company formulated, we are promoting volunteer activities and donations as a partner the replacement of gasoline cars, which consume gasoline and emit much CO2, with electric cars that of reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture emit no CO2 exhaust. We have formulated an electric To address the global environment from the perspective of car introduction plan considering the use of various preservation of the biodiversity, we participated in a partnership subsidies for electric cars and the completion status of program of reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture and initiated the relevant infrastructure including high-speed charger related activities in April 2011. equipment for adopting such cars. As a result, in fiscal In June 2013, we conducted the third forest restoration 2013 we introduced three electric vehicles in our activities in the prefectural forest near Tanzawa Lake, in which stores, with 22 electric vehicles now in use. 41 executives and employees from the Head Office, the Tokyo Branch and the Yokohama Branch participated. Led by a forest instructor certified by Kanagawa Prefecture, the participants conducted tree thinning, receiving cooperation from the Kanagawa Prefecture Natural Environment Conservation Center. The participants split into five groups and trimmed nearly 20-meter-high trees manually, conforming to safety instructions. At the lunch meeting, which included an evaluation meeting, the forest instructor explained about conservation of the natural environment, thereby raising the awareness of the participating executives and employees of environmental issues. i-MiEV deployed at Fukuoka Branch Web ▶ The data on the status of introducing electric cars can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended Version.” HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended Version Orientation VOICE I worked to help achieve the Eco-oriented Business Certification. Norio Miyazawa, Manager, Sales Division, Nagoya Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd. t Nagoya Dia Buil-Tech, we engage in daily A business activities with environmental consideration, in cooperation with our Tree thinning activity approximately 100 corporate tenants. Specifically, we adopt water saving-type toilet and LED lighting equipment, thoroughly segregate and reduce waste, purchase green products, collect plastic bottle caps and participate in town cleanup activities, both on the bases of individual participation and as a corporate activity. We will continue to offer a favorable work environment to enhance tenants’ satisfaction.  (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics) Hiking in Mt. Ono Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 27 Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities We earn trust from society by fulfilling our responsibilities regarding ethical activities. By conducting fair and open competition in our activities, we can showcase our compliance to society. To fulfill our sincere and fair business activities, we recognize the issues of appropriate management of information and compliance with laws and regulations such as the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. and the insider trading prevention law and strive to establish a foundation of trust from society. Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and OA promotion staff from the relevant section of each division that uses the network, ensuring safety and the and promotion of fair and open competition effective use of our in-house network. In fiscal 2013, we conducted a questionnaire with regard We conduct training concerning compliance with to Web site information security in August 2013 (answered by 1,440 persons), in December 2013 (1,468 persons) and in the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract March 2014 (1,444 persons), thereby raising the awareness Proceeds, etc. and the prevention of insider trading. of information security among the cumulative 4,352 people In March 2014, we conducted training concerning thorough who answered the questionnaire. compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Web ▶ Actual performance data on execution of questionnaire Subcontract Proceeds, etc. covering the Company and its with regard to Information Security can be viewed on domestic group companies. Approximately 1,865 employees Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended Version.” who are in charge of implementing the Act against Delay in HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended Version Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. and related associates from each division attended the training and learned the purpose of the law, the scope of application, Management of Information Security responsibilities and prohibited matters using related questions 1. Security of customer information (personal information) on our Web site. In February 2014, we conducted training 2. Security of intellectual property rights related to the prevention of insider trading for about 40 new 3. Confidentiality obligation employees and verified their understanding using related 4. Compliance with laws and regulations, obligation of questions on our Web site. compliance with regulations and penalties Also, in February and March 2014, we conducted training 5. Management of information assets related to the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract 6. Formulation of security measure standards (Development Proceeds, etc. at our Kobe, Yokohama and Nagoya standard, management standard, outsourcing standard) branches. Approximately 90 employees who are responsible 7. Monitoring and supervision for or in charge of implementing the Act against Delay in 8. Protecting systems from computer viruses Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. from each branch 9. Access authority control and affiliated company learned and discussed the purpose of 10. Information security education the law, the scope of application, responsibilities and prohibited matters based on the gist of the in-house manual and case studies presented in the manual. Web ▶ Actual performance data on the training concerning thorough Management of Network Security compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract 1. Management of connection to ML-net (In-house Proceeds, etc. and prevention of insider trading can be viewed network) on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended Version.” 2. Rules for e-mail use HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended Version 3. Rules for dispatching information 4. Rules for connection with networks outside the We focus on information security to Company provide high-quality and secure services for customers. Also, part of the operations of the Tokyo Branch To provide the best services for our customers, the Company trunk room office and Dia Systems Corporation (our formulated various rules related to information systems. We subsidiary to develop and manage our information have disseminated our information security policy to all system) both acquired ISO27001 certification, an employees. international information security management system To ensure the smooth business activities of the Company, standard, and receive periodic evaluation by a certifying we formulated specific compliance matters as to the use and organization-approved third-party organization, thereby management of our in-house network. Also, we appoint a attesting to our efforts to improve our information LAN manager from each branch’s information system section security. 28 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services To fulfill our mission as a logistics and real estate business operator relied on by society, we intend to promote measures to focus on disasters to continue to provide socially and environmentally useful and high-quality services and maintain service functions even during emergencies. Provision of socially and environmentally Each operating site and affiliated company conducts specific quality improvement measures. beneficial high-quality services To offer high-quality services, the Mitsubishi Logistics Group conducts daily efforts to improve the quality at We will continue to promote the improvement of each operating site and affiliated company. The content quality, aiming to be a company that enhances the and results of such efforts are horizontally developed quality of our customers’ products. across the Group. Some of these measures are as follows: The Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues to promote its various efforts tenaciously to improve the quality of services to get acknowledged by customers as a constantly reliable partner. We aim for high quality from the customers’ perspective. To become a corporation that is continuously chosen by customers, we conduct business activities based on ideas and actions from the customers’ perspective. To achieve Meeting with cooperative companies for further sophistication of transportation quality (Shanghai Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd.) customer satisfaction, we have broadened the framework of quality enhancement to include the quality of operations, ▶ Measures taken at divisions or branches and Group companies business duties and the corporation itself. Moreover, to ensure trust from customers, we will build on our efforts at Divisions or Branches and Content of measures ensuring good quality to become a corporation that can Group companies boast “quality” as its strength. Warehousing and Held meetings attended by managers from all Distribution the operating bases to share the cases of Our Quality Declaration has been disseminated. Business Division accidents that occurred. We distributed “Our Quality Declaration” printed on mouse Actively participated in various lecture sessions pads and cards to all employees of the Mitsubishi Logistics Osaka Branch and conducted training by supervising Group, as well as exerted efforts such as make explanations pharmacists to enhance quality. about it during stratified trainings to further disseminate it. Supported and promoted 4S activities in Kobe Branch cooperation with affiliated companies. We connect employee satisfaction to customer Made the operational intra-process error satisfaction. Fuji Logistics Co., Ltd. prevention visible on a trial basis and To offer high-quality services to customers, we regard developed the method across the Company. Employee Satisfaction (ES) as an indispensable element. We Dia Pharmaceutical Held a monthly meeting related to quality strive to enhance the motivation of each employee. improvement to explain the company’s qualityNetwork Co., Ltd. related policies. We believe that creating a good work environment where Actively exchanged information with major employees can engage in business activities with confidence Chubu Trade customers to reinforce services from and contact customers with a smile will eventually lead to Warehousing Co., Ltd. customers’ perspective. Customer Satisfaction (CS). Conducted quality-related training at a monthly Kyokuryo Warehouse meeting concerning safety and exchanged Co., Ltd. information with customers at regular meetings. The Warehousing Business Division has Hanryo Kigyo Co., Provided education and training for staff responsible for operation in alliance with the quality management groups. Ltd. Mitsubishi Logistics quality management group. At the Warehousing Business Division, for the purposes of Shanghai Linghua Implemented meetings with cooperative maintaining and improving the quality of business activities of Logistics Co., Ltd. companies to improve transportation quality. the entire Division, the Head Office and all branches have a Disseminated among all employees the safety Mitsubishi Logistics and quality standards of bisSAFE3 for which quality management group. We complete operational Singapore Pte. Ltd. the company obtained certification. documents and share information on various measures. We Kobe Dia Improved operational efficiency and service quality will continue to aim to enhance customer satisfaction. Maintenance Co., Ltd. including customer satisfaction using ISO9001-2008. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 29 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services To further improve the quality of logistics operations, we are We are working on crisis preventive measures adopting the G-MIWS (a new information system related to and measures to focus on crises promptly warehouse storage operation and delivery center operation). and effectively in case of such occurrence. As a successor model of the current system MIWS/ The basic purpose of our crisis management measures is to predict MESH (Mitsubishi Intelligent Warehouse System/ various crises that can seriously affect corporate management, Mitsubishi Efficient and Speedy Handling System), the prevent such crises and, in case of occurrence, focus on the crises Company developed a new system, G-MIWS, of which quickly and effectively to minimize damage to human and physical the first full-scale operation occurred at the Aomi Sales management and restore the normal operational structure quickly. Office, Tokyo Branch, in March 2014. The “G” of With an aim to become disaster-resistant in software and hardware, “G-MIWS” signifies “global,” aiming to expand the we have developed “Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Company’s logistics business to integrate nationwide Warehouses.” and overseas logistics, which is included in the Basic Policy of the Company's Management Plan. Our To fulfill corporate social responsibility, system is available in English and Chinese languages 1. Ensure the safety of employees, their families and related people; for overseas use and is designed to be effective in 2. Preserve corporate facilities (e.g., the Company’s warehouses, standardizing operations, improving service quality and buildings and facilities) and the freight received; and reducing costs. 3. Strive to quickly restore and continue operation. By making various types of logistics-related data visible, we will analyze operations, formulate sales To respond to trust in our corporation from society, strategies, provide useful information for customers’ 1. Strive to avoid adverse effects to stakeholders decision making in a timely manner and provide even (customers, shareholders and business partners), and higher-quality logistics services than ever to fully 2. Contribute to the quick stabilization of local communities. support customers’ business development from the aspect of logistics. We implemented disaster prevention training. To take the initial measures to prevent disaster damage from spreading, we organized a self-defense disaster prevention squad for each building. We conducted disaster prevention training at the Head Office on April 26, 2013. In addition, as an emergency measure, we Office where the G-MIWS was adopted G-MIWS screen implemented large-scale disaster measure training with voluntary (Aomi Sales Office, Tokyo Branch) employee participation, thereby reinforcing the disaster countermeasure system. The training involved use of a mobile phone VOICE safety confirmation service, restoration from disaster damage, walking the evacuation route and using MCA wireless communication. Moreover, by monitoring via an emergency earthquake quick reporting We adopted the G-MIWS system. system, we strive to enable quick evacuation. Ittetsu Koseki, Aomi Sales Office, Tokyo Branch ollowing preparation work that we started in January 2013, F the G-MIWS system began full operation on March 17, 2014. During preparation before the adoption of the new system, we reviewed a series of processes from entry to the warehouse, logistics Disaster prevention training led by a self-defense disaster prevention processing, receiving Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) data, shipping squad (Tokyo Dia Building) out of the warehouse and shipping/delivery, thereby optimizing operational procedures utilizing the available functionalities. As a result We implemented joint training for of our hard work, a favorable environment was created. earthquake measures. Since the operation of the G-MIWS system started, efficiency In February 2014, via the joint efforts of the Head Office and the Kobe improved both at the actual worksite operation and in administrative Branch, we implemented training for earthquake measures in which processing and we are receiving good feedback from customers an executive in charge and approximately 60 employees participated. because of the improved quality of our services. We intend to This training, which took a few days, simulated the first few days after continue to provide high-quality services. the occurrence of a large-scale earthquake with a seismic source in the Nankai Trough. Our Head Office, branches and operational worksites collaborated, and specific measures were demonstrated at actual sites. Furthermore, learning from the Great East Japan Promotion of disaster measures Earthquake, we added relief aid measures and tsunami to maintain service functions countermeasures. We verified the roles of each department and operational site, determined the status judgment criteria and integrated information management. 30 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Web ▶ Actual performance data on joint training for earthquake measures can into an agreement between municipalities and industry organizations be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended Version.” to cope with a disaster. Via group discussions, we gained much HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social knowledge about preparations. We will continue to work hard to fulfill Report>Extended Version our public role as a warehousing business operator. We are strengthening our information system crisis management structure to focus on disasters and other crises. To ensure continuous use of the information system even during an emergency, we established a disaster countermeasures center in the Earthquake measures on-site headquarters for joint Earthquake measures headquarters for joint training training for earthquake measures (Kobe Branch) for earthquake measures (Head Office) Kansai region to back up data and made our in-house network a duplicate information system. In addition, the Company has VOICE I participated in the joint training for formulated a manual focused on information system disasters and other measures as countermeasures taken during earthquake measures. operation of such systems Masashi Kamata Rokko Cold Storage Office, Kobe Branch against information system disasters and failures. Disaster countermeasures center in the Kansai region participated in the training to improve my ability to focus I on emergency situations. The Company’s 11 facilities, including two newly designated In the situation where tasks were given one after another, I found it difficult to collect and sort out information instantly and to facilities are support/relief goods logistics base facilities designated determine the most appropriate measure to take. I also refreshed by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. my recognition of the importance of understanding an everThe Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, learning from its changing situation while maintaining a calm and clear mind in reflection on the Great East Japan Earthquake, held an advisory conference, taking necessary actions. That was a valuable experience for me. attended by experts, logistics business operators and people related to industry organizations, among others, to compile the “Basic concept on the support/relief goods logistics system,” which aims for the efficient and We received a letter of appreciation from the Fire Station Chief smooth delivery of support/relief goods to afflicted areas at the time of a of the Kyobashi Fire Station of the Tokyo Fire Department. disaster. At Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., a real estate Mr. Watabe, then General Manager of the Warehousing and Distribution facility management company that is the Business Division of the Company, assumed a position as a committee center of the Company’s real estate member representing warehouse operators, requested by the Ministry of business division, we conducted lifeLand, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, and actively commented from saving training sessions (including the the perspective of a warehousing business operator. AED course) to help employees acquire Letter of appreciation from These discussions concluded with the shared recognition that for the knowledge and techniques related to the Fire Station Chief of the delivery of support/relief goods at the time of a disaster it is essential to fully life-saving and first aid. Eight training Kyobashi Fire Station of utilize the expertise and facilities of private logistics operators. sessions were implemented in June and the Tokyo Fire Department In fiscal 2011, 395 private facilities nationwide, mainly in the Kanto, Tokai July, and approximately 130 employees (90% of all the employees of and Tonankai regions, where a large-scale earthquake is foreseen in the near the company) acquired the certification of life-saving skill. In addition, future, were designated as support/relief goods logistics bases, including the we received a letter of appreciation from the Fire Station Chief of the Company’s seven facilities located in the Kanto, Tokai and Hanshin regions. Kyobashi Fire Station of the Tokyo Fire Department on September 9, In fiscal 2012, two other facilities of the Company (in Fukuoka and Saga) the day of emergency life-saving, for recognition of our contribution were newly designated as support/relief goods logistics bases. to emergency preparation measures. In fiscal 2013, the further addition of two warehouses in Tobishima and Honjoh (both in Aichi Prefecture) brought the number of the Company’s We participated in the Disaster Logistics Training given by facilities to 11. We will thoroughly prepare to fulfill our public role as a warehousing business operator so that the designated 11 facilities of the the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Company can function well during a future large-scale disaster. As part of the Disaster Logistics Training initiated by the Ministry of Web ▶ Data on our 11 facilities designated as support/relief goods logistics bases can Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in fiscal 2013, training for be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended Version.” logistics for the delivery of support/relief goods was held October HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social 15–17, 2013, targeting logistics administration staff from national and Report>Extended Version local governments and logistics business operators from private corporations to prepare for a large-scale disaster. The Company’s staff also participated in the training. Based on the lessons learned from the Great East Japan Earthquake, in the training sessions, selected support/relief goods logistics bases were notified and directions were presented to enter Tobishima Warehouse, Nagoya Branch Honjoh Warehouse, Komaki Office, Nagoya Branch Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 31 Coordination with local communities and international society To contribute to the development of local communities and international society, we must focus not only on the site where our business base is located but also understand our relationship with society and recognize our common interests with society. To maintain harmonious relationships with local and international societies, we will contribute to cultural activities and health services and make donations. Contribution to cultural activities We conducted a charity auction and a VOICE I helped run the charity auction and the charity fair. charity fair. Eri Yoneya Sales Division, At the Yokohama Bay Quarter, the Company’s Yokohama Dia Building Management Corporation commercial real estate facilities in Yokohama, we held Tohoku Marché and a charity fair in August and the charity fair that has been held since 2011 and a charity Yokohama F-Marinos charity auction in November to A auction that has become an annual event are held to support restoration from the Great East Japan support restoration from the Great East Japan Earthquake and Earthquake. have had many visitors mainly from the local vicinity. Sales proceeds from Tohoku Marché and the charity This year, Tohoku Marché, at which Tohoku’s special fair (¥88,900) and revenue from the auction (¥216,600) goods and foods are sold, was held at the same time as the were donated to the Great East Japan Earthquake relief charity fair. We donated all the sales proceeds to the Japanese fund via the Japanese Red Cross Society. Red Cross Society as part of the Great East Japan Earthquake We intend to continue to hold charity events since relief fund. We would like to continue to hold such events that they contribute to society while also helping to draw in are enjoyed by guests and contribute to society. more guests to visit our commercial facilities. (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics) We are offering the parking area of Tokyo Dia Building No. 5 as a location for blood donations. To support the blood drive conducted by the Japanese Red Cross Tokyo Metropolitan Blood Center, we have been offering a place for blood donations at Tokyo Dia Building since 2007 in cooperation with Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd. Each year, approximately 100 persons, including building associates and tenants, offer to donate blood at this location. Charity fair We would like to continue to help facilitate and disseminate the blood drive by offering a place for blood donations. (We started offering a place for blood donations in 2007; 25* of 34 applicants donated blood in 2013.) * In 2013, both the number of persons who applied and actual donors decreased compared with other years because the hours were shortened due to the approaching Typhoon No. 26. Yokohama F-Marinos charity auction ©Y.F.M. Parking area of Tokyo Dia Building Donating blood No. 5 (location for blood donations) 32 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Contribution through Donations, etc. We developed a plastic bottle cap collection activity throughout the Group to improve the welfare of children worldwide. Donated to disaster relief fund Since August 2010, we have been developing a plastic We sent donations to earthquake and other disaster bottle cap collection activity within the Company and relief funds (a large-scale earthquake that occurred in throughout the Group. In fiscal 2013, we donated Ya’an, Sichuan, China on April 20, 2013, and approximately 347,000 collected caps (equivalent to Philippines Typhoon Haiyan on November 9, 2013). the cost of giving a polio vaccine to approximately 430 In addition, at the Company’s four overseas children) to the Ecocap Movement, a Cabinet-certified subsidiaries in China, we donated 41,510 yuan in total NPO organization. to the Sichuan Ya’an Earthquake fund via matching Web ▶ Actual performance data on plastic bottle cap collection contributions with employees. Responding to the can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in supportive spirit in disaster-stricken areas in China, the “Extended Version.” Company and each of its overseas subsidiaries in HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social China recognize the need to fulfill a commensurable Report>Extended Version level of social responsibility. We conduct social contribution activities as a Cosponsored a charity bazaar at our member of the Mitsubishi Group and participate in overseas subsidiary in Vietnam the Mitsubishi Social Contribution Liaison Council. At our overseas subsidiary in Vietnam, we offered As a social contribution activity within the Mitsubishi goods to and helped purchase admission tickets for a Group, we donate to academic and charitable charity bazaar that was sponsored by the Japanese enterprises. Also, as a member of the Mitsubishi Social Business Association of Ho Chi Minh City. Proceeds Contribution Liaison Council, we report on our related from the charity were donated to hospitals in Ho Chi activities and exchange information. Minh City to cover surgery and other medical fee for underprivileged children. We participate in locally rooted volunteer activities. We participate in local communities’ cleaning activities as a volunteer. Charity bazaar We are cosponsoring Diamond Cup Golf as a community contribution. Participating companies within the Mitsubishi Group cosponsored a notable golf tournament, Diamond Cup Golf, which contributes to local communities and helps nurture junior golfers through charitable activities. Valuing the underlying concept and purposes of this tournament, the Company cosponsored this event as one of the participating companies. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 33 Statement supporting the UN Global Compact. The Group promotes its CSR activities pursuant to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. Practice of the UN Global UNGC’s 10 principles Compact’s 10 principles Principle 1: Businesses should, support and The Group agreed to adhere to the UN Global respect the protection of Compact (hereinafter “UNGC”) and endorsed approval internationally proclaimed human Human in May 2014. rights; and Rights The UNGC is a voluntary Principle 2: Make sure that they are not corporate responsibility complicit in human rights abuses. initiative for businesses that are aiming for sustainable Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the growth as a responsible freedom of association and the member of society. The UNGC effective recognition of the right to asks companies to voluntarily collective bargaining; participate in creating a global Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of framework to take creative forced and compulsory labor; leadership. At the World Labor Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in 1999, Kofi Principle 5: The effective abolition of child Annan, then Secretary-General of the United Nations, labor; and proposed that companies should observe the 10 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the respect of employment and environment and anti-corruption to solve various occupation. problems that could occur due to internationalization and the global expansion of businesses. In July 2000, Principle 7: Businesses should support a the UNGC was launched at the UN Headquarters in precautionary approach to New York. As of March 2014, approximately 12,200 environmental challenges; companies and organizations around the world were Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote members of UNGC. Environment greater environmental Based on its Code of Conduct, the Group will strive responsibility; and to practice the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles as a Principle 9: Encourage the development and good member of international society. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 34 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2014 Company Profile (As of March 31, 2014) Company name Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Head Office 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan Establishment April 15, 1887 Capital ¥22,393 million Revenue (fiscal 2013) Consolidated: ¥198.1 billion Nonconsolidated: ¥139.0 billion Number of employees 4,441 (excluding 75 workers on leave to work outside the Group, 1,345 temporary staff and 948 of the Mitsubishi employees on loan/dispatched from outside the Group) Logistics Group The number of 847 (excluding 152 employees on leave to work for other companies, 110 temporary staff and employees of the 563 employees on loan/dispatched from inside and outside the Group) Company Branches Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, Fukuoka Major Businesses Logistics Warehousing; trucking; port and harbor operations; international transportation; marine freight transportation; customs clearance; development, sales, management and administration of logistics information systems; etc. Real Estate Buying, selling, leasing and management of real estate; contracting of construction work, its design and supervision; operation of parking lots; etc. Companies in the Consolidated subsidiaries (50 companies) scope of Tohoku Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Sairyo Service Co., Ltd., Dia Pharmaceutical Network Co., Ltd., consolidation Tokyo Dia Service Co., Ltd., Dia Systems Corporation, Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Unitrans Ltd., Keihin Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Touryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics Co., Ltd., Tokyo Juki Transport Co., Ltd., SII Logistics Inc., Fuji Logistics Operations Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics Support Co., Ltd., Kinko Service Co., Ltd., Chubu Trade Warehousing Co., Ltd., Meiryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Ryoyo Transportation Co., Ltd., Kyokuryo Warehouse Co., Ltd., Hanryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Shinryo Koun Co., Ltd., Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Monryo Transport Corporation, Hakuryo Koun Co., Ltd., Seiho Kaiun Kaisha, Ltd., Saryo Service Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics America Corporation, Mitsubishi Warehouse California Corporation, Mitsubishi Logistics Europe B.V., Fuji Logistics Europe B.V., Mitsubishi Logistics China Co., Ltd., Shanghai Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd., Shanghai Qingke Warehouse Management Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (China) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Dalian F.T.Z.) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Hong Kong Ltd., Fuji Logistics (H.K.) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Thailand Co., Ltd., P.T. Mitsubishi Logistics Indonesia, Fuji Logistics Malaysia SDN.BHD., Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Yokohama Dia Building Management Corporation, Chubo Kaihatsu Co., Ltd., Nagoya Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Osaka Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Kobe Dia Service Co., Ltd., Kobe Dia Maintenance Co., Ltd., T’ACT Co., Ltd. Subsidiaries and Affiliates Accounted for by the Equity Method (3 companies) Nippon Container Terminals Co., Ltd., Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., Jupiter Global Limited Financial Data Business results (Consolidated) (Unit: ¥billion) Assets (Consolidated)  (Unit: ¥billion) Revenue Operating income Ordinary income Total assets Net assets 250 15 15 14.5 14.5 400 396.2 250 14.1 375.1 236.6 13.6 353.2 227.8 341.7 350.4 203.6 12.1 12.5 12.3 12.1 205.9 205.8 211.5 200 192.2 198.1 12 12 11.5 200 175.8 300 10.2 148.3 150 9 9 150 200 100 6 6 100 100 50 3 3 50 0 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) General Affairs Division, CSR · Compliance Team 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan Nihonbashi Dia Building, 2F Phone: +81-3-3278-6657 Fax: +81-3-3278-6694 Extended version The following are some data related to the Environmental and Social Report 2014, which was collected at the end of fiscal 2013. ▶The environment Environmental conservation activity data (by business) * Basic unit denominator (figures from Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, etc.) uses figure that have strong correlations with each business. Unit Basic unit denominator CO2 emissions Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 CO2 emissions basic unit Thousand m2 <Floor area> 1,313 1,350 1,370 Warehousing and distribution Thousand t-CO2 27.7 32.8 37.1 business kg-CO2/m2 21.1 24.3 27.1 Thousand tons <Handling tons> 50 40 30 Harbor transportation business t-CO2 3.0 5.0 15.0 kg-CO2/thousand tons 59.7 124.5 504.2 Million km <Total transportation distance> 4.3 3.7 3.9 Overland transportation Thousand tCO2 3.9 3.3 3.6 business kgCO2/thousand km 901.0 896.7 921.1 Thousand m2 <Operational area> 633 635 684 Real estate business Thousand t-CO2 29.4 35.0 41.0 kg-CO2/m2 46.5 55.1 60.4 CO2 emissions Thousand t-CO2 61.0 71.1 82.0 Environmental conservation data (by usage, by emission type) Water use (water supply, sewage) Electricity use Fuel use (City gas, LP (Liquefied Petroleum) gas, kerosene, heavy oil, diesel oil, gasoline) Heat use (Heated water, cold water, vapor) (Thousand m3) (Million kwh) (Thousand GJ) (Thousand GJ) 1,000 948 916 200 200 100 878 160.0 151.5 80.1 136 145.3 750 150 131 131 150 75 60.2 52.7 500 100 100 50 250 50 50 25 0 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) CO2 emissions Waste emissions (tons) Waste emissions (m3) (Thousand t-CO2) (Thousand tons) (Thousand m3) 100 4 20 82.0 16.1 75 71.1 3 15 61.0 2.4 2.3 2.1 50 2 10 6.5 25 1 5 2.3 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) *Calculation standard ● Volume related to electricity, fuel and heat uses, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator from the warehousing and distribution business, the harbor transportation business and the real estate business are based on the reported values in the Company’s report based on the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. ● The international transportation business is included in the warehouse and distribution business, given the small number of operating sites. ● Although the overland transportation business is not under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, fuel, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator were calculated for one of the Company’s major trucking subsidiaries based on the standard in the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy ● Business sites for the harbor transportation business were restricted to three places where the Company is in charge of transportation under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy ● For electricity usage and CO2 emissions, the reported amounts for the Company’s subsidiary in the logistics business (the one company under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy) were added. ● The CO2 emission volume was calculated based on the electricity, fuel and heat volume used under the guidelines of the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. ● For water use, the volume of water used by the Company is indicated. The waste emission volume shows the volume of waste emitted by part of the Company (except the real estate business) and a number of the Group companies. Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance Large Scale Companies CO2 emissions Unit: t-CO2 Status of introducing electric cars Emissions standard Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Tokyo Dia Buildings 33,531 36,062 31,661 29,593 Total number of 5 4 5 5 3 Eitai Dia Building 10,132 7,400 5,558 5,836 cars introduced Ohi Cold Storage Office 4,394 3,705 3,645 3,645 Total 48,057 47,167 40,864 39,074 Reduction 890 7,193 8,093 romotion of CSR Number of persons participated in lectures and trainings aimed at disseminating the corporate ber of timely and appropriate news releases Unit: case philosophy and better understanding of CSR and compliance. Unit: persons Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements istics 7 8 2 Training concerning CSR and compliance l Estate 1 3 1 and a review of the comprehension 8 8 9 In-house 1,261 1,510 1,596 R 3 2 3 Domestic group companies — 2,045 3,017 er 4 4 2 Total 1,261 3,555 4,613 al 23 25 17 Group training concerning CSR and compliance In-house — — 133 rganizational Governance Domestic group companies — — 44 Total — — 177 ber of persons participated in check aimed at dissemination wareness of compliance Unit: persons Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 achievements achievements achievements ck on status of compliance Code of Conduct n-house 1,548 1,444 1,433 omestic group companies — 2,952 2,938 verseas group companies — — 72 otal 1,548 4,396 4,443 espect for Human Rights ber of persons participated in human rights enlightenment course for mination of employees’ awareness of human rights Unit: persons Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 achievements achievements achievements nings with lectures mployees, second-year employees, sixth-year ees, middle-level staff, newly appointed 106 113 49 erial section chiefs and general managers) ulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities ber of persons participated in compliance lecture for Number of persons participated in compliance lecture for the Act against ention of insider trading Unit: persons Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. Unit: persons Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements ouse 24 52 40 In-house 95 779 903 ber of respondents to information security questionnaire Domestic group companies — 867 962 Total 95 1,646 1,865 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 achievements achievements achievements ber of questionnaires conducted First time First time Third time ber of respondents (Unit: persons) 1,450 1,398 4,312 rovision of Safe, Quality and Useful Services ber of persons participated in joint training for earthquake measures Support/relief goods logistics base facilities at a glance Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Area used for Year/month of achievements achievements achievements Block Branch Facility name transportation of construction November February February support/relief goods cution period 2011 2013 2014 Tokyo Aomi Warehouse No. 1 1997.6 1,000m2 Head Office, Head Office, Head Office, Kanto Daikoku Warehouse B 1988.1 1,000m2 ce Yokohama Fukuoka Branch Yokohama Branch Kobe Branch Daikoku Warehouse C 1994.4 1,000m2 mber of participants Kinjoh Warehouse 1994.5 1,000m2 Around 30 Around 40 Around 60 it: persons) Tokai Nagoya Tobishima Warehouse 2008.11 1,000m2 Honjoh Warehouse 1992.1 1,000m2 Osaka Sakurajima Warehouse No. 1 1998.3 1,000m2 Kinki Rokko Warehouse D 1988.1 1,000m2 Kobe Rokko Warehouse E 1993.10 1,000m2 Chuo Futo Warehouse 1995.10 1,000m2 oordination with Local Communities and International Society Kyushu Fukuoka Tosu Warehouse 2003.4 1,000m2 tic bottle cap collection activity Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 achievements achievements achievements er of bottle caps collected (Unit: caps) 375,324 465,024 346,671 valent to polio vaccine (800 469.2 581.3 433.3 s per person) (Unit: persons)
