Mizuho Financial Group 2015 Integrated Report –Annual Review– (April 2014 – March 2015) Mizuho has adopted a new brand slogan, “One MIZUHO: Building the future with you”, to indicate our commitment to become “The most trusted financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan”. All Mizuho employees are committed to realizing the ideas embodied in our brand slogan, and together we pledge to all of our stakeholders to help Mizuho achieve its vision for the future. (Domestic) Branches: Approx. 800 branches, covering every prefecture in Japan (of which 180 are joint branches between MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC) ATMs: Approx. 6,700 (including joint ATMs between MHBK and Aeon) ATMs Outside Branches: Approx. 50,000 locations (including joint ATMs with convenience stores) (Overseas) 110 offices worldwide, covering 38 countries and regions Mizuho is the sole megabank to have branches in all 47 prefectures. Additionally, it has the No.1* ATM network in Japan. It also has approx. 50,000 remote ATMs nationwide (including those located in convenience stores). As for overseas, Mizuho’s global network is comprised of approx. 110 offices in 38 countries and regions. * Mizuho is No.1 in terms of the number of each megabank’s own ATM locations along with the number of other ATM locations offering the same usage commission fees as MHBK membership service. (This is based on the number of ATM locations following the arrangement for the joint usage of MHBK ATMs and Aeon Bank ATMs <As of March 31, 2015, there were 1,826 MHBK ATM locations and 4,881 Aeon Bank ATM locations.>) 2 Mizuho’s balance of assets under management amounts to approx. ¥50 trillion. In addition, the number of individuals, who designate Mizuho as an administrator for their Corporate Defined Contribution Pension Schemes, amounts to approx. 1 million. Leveraging the overall integrated financial power of the Group, including the Group’s asset management companies, Mizuho is in the top class of Japanese institutions regarding asset management and pension fund trust services. Balance of Assets under Management: Approx. ¥50 trillion Number of Defined Contribution Plan customers: Approx. 1 million 3 No.1 in Syndicated Loan Arrangement Amount in Japan Arranged Amount: ¥9 trillion Number of Deals: 489 deals Syndicated loan arrangement requires a high level of coordination capabilities to promote cooperation among multiple financial institutions. Mizuho is in the top class of Japanese institutions regarding its syndication specialist staff and investor network. Utilizing those strengths, Mizuho has maintained the top position in syndicated loan arrangements in Japan for six consecutive fiscal years, with a 38.5% share in the league table for fiscal 2014. This is an overwhelmingly strong position, as Mizuho’s market share is 9.8 percentage points greater than that of the No.2 institution. 4 The number of M&A* transactions among Japanese companies as well as among companies based in different countries is trending upward. By means of concerted collaboration among its group companies in Japan and overseas and drawing on its high levels of specialized expertise and abundant knowledge, Mizuho earned the No.1 position in M&A advisory deals involving Japanese companies during fiscal 2014. * Corporate mergers and acquisitions No.1 in Number of Announced M&A Deals Involving Japanese Companies Number of Deals: 167 Deals Amount: ¥3.75 trillion 5 Environment-related Funding: Approx. ¥626 billion (balance as of the end of fiscal 2014) Heartful Loans and Heartful Private Placement*: Approx. ¥91 billion (balance as of the end of fiscal 2014) Mizuho considers the provision of financial support for its customers’ environmental and social consideration-based initiatives to be a part of its social mission as a financial institution. We are proactively promoting business that contributes to the sustainable development of society. * Loans and private placements for companies offering products and services for and promoting employment among the elderly or disabled 6 Mizuho supports financial education both in Japan and overseas, based on the belief that it is essential for children, who carry on our future, to have a deep understanding of finance in order to live independently in an increasingly complex and globalized society. Participants of Mizuho’s Financial Education Programs: Approx. 41,000 participants (fiscal 2006-2014) 7 Editorial Policy Besides financial information, this Integrated Report of Mizuho and its goal of being “the most trusted finanincludes information regarding such subjects as corpocial services group with a global presence and a broad rate identity, corporate strategies, and ESG (environcustomer base, contributing to the prosperity of the ment, society, and governance). The report presents world, Asia, and Japan.” information on Mizuho’s efforts related to strategies, This report serves as an annual report for the disclogovernance, corporate culture, and other subjects sure of key financial and business results, and it also along with information on how those activities are leadincorporates corporate social responsibility (CSR) dising to the creation of value for Mizuho and the society closure functions that were previously carried out over the short-, medium-, and long-terms. It was edited th ro u g h th e i s s u a n c e of s e p a r ate C S R R e p o r t. with the intention of providing stakeholders with concise More-detailed information on CSR activities is posted and clear explanations in a story-like form. on Mizuho’s website, so readers are invited to utilize this We hope this report will further improve understanding report in conjunction with the website. Guidelines Referred To Scope of the report International Integrated Reporting Council’s International IntePeriod covered: This report covers the period from April 1, grated Reporting Framework (published on December 2013) 2014 to March 31, 2015. However, it also includes some information after April 2015. Scope covered: In principle, MHFG and its subsidiaries and Publication Information affiliates MHFG: Mizuho Financial Group Date of issue: September 2015 MHBK: Mizuho Bank Next scheduled publication date: September 2016 MHTB: Mizuho Trust & Banking MHSC: Mizuho Securities Inclusion in Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Index (As of March 2015) SRI is an investment approach that takes into consideration not only approaches to finance but also approaches to social responsibilities of companies. Mizuho is a component of both the global SRI index “FTSE4Good Global Index” and “Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index” in Japan. Strengthening Management Foundations on page 85 for participation in external initiatives All figures contained in this report are calculated using accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”). Forward-Looking Statements This Integrated Report (Annual Review) contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including estimates, forecasts, targets and plans. Such forward-looking statements do not represent any guarantee by management of future performance. In many cases, but not all, we use such words as “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “endeavor,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “probability,” “project,” “risk,” “seek,” “should,” “strive,” “target” and similar expressions in relation to us or our management to identify forward-looking statements. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategies, and management may fail to achieve its targets, for a wide range of possible reasons, including, without limitation: incurrence of significant credit-related costs; declines in the value of our securities portfolio; changes in interest rates; foreign currency fluctuations; decrease in the market liquidity of our assets; revised assumptions or other changes related to our pension plans; a decline in our deferred tax assets; the effect of financial transactions entered into for hedging and other similar purposes; failure to maintain required capital adequacy ratio levels; downgrades in our credit ratings; our ability to avoid reputational harm; our ability to implement our Medium-term Business Plan, realize the synergy effects of “One MIZUHO,” and implement other strategic initiatives and measures effectively; the effectiveness of our operational, legal and other risk management policies; the effect of changes in general economic conditions in Japan and elsewhere; and changes to applicable laws and regulations. Further information regarding factors that could affect our financial condition and results of operations is included in “Item 3.D. Key Information—Risk Factors,” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” in our most recent Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). In addition, information regarding market developments after March 31, 2015 and their effects on our financial condition and results of operations is included in the report on Form 6-K furnished to the SEC on July 24, 2015 containing financial information for the first quarter of this fiscal year under accounting principles generally accepted in Japan. These reports are available in the Financial Information section of our web page at www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/ and also at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. The contents of this Integrated Report (Annual Review) were prepared prior to the announcement of our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. We do not intend to update our forward-looking statements. We are under no obligation, and disclaim any obligation, to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by the rules of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 8 Contents [Appendix] Mizuho’s Strengths Inside of page 8 Profiles of Group Companies 92 Financial Highlights Inside of page 9 Compliance Contacts 94 Message from the Group CEO 10 Risk Management Structure 95 Value Creation Process 20 Internal Audit Structure 109 Special Feature 22 Special Feature 1 “Growth-Oriented” Governance Reform Measures Senior Executives 110 Special Feature 2 Integrated Strategy between “Banking, Trust Banking and Securities” Functions Special Feature 3 Fostering Industries with the Aim of Location of Overseas Offices 112 Generating Business Opportunities Investor Information 115 Growth Strategies 37 Business Environments 117 Disclosure Policy Medium-term Business Plan and Its Progress Key Strategies for Fiscal 2015 Realizing the “New Frontier” of Finance Privacy Policy Regarding Customer Information 118 Contributing to the Solution of Social Issues to Promote Sound Economic and Social Development Financial Analysis [Under Japanese GAAP] 119 Business Approaches 49 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 127 Personal Banking Unit [Under Japanese GAAP] Retail Banking Unit Corporate Banking Unit Corporate Banking Unit (Large Corporations) Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of 227 Financial Institutions & Public Sector Business Unit Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and International Banking Unit Three Subsidiaries [Under Japanese GAAP] Management Support for SME Customers and Regional Revitalization Initiatives 241 Status of Capital Adequacy Strengthening Management Foundations 65 Corporate Governance Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) Risk Management Compliance IT Strategy Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group Human Resources Strategy Social Contribution Activities Stakeholder Communications Mizuho’s Office Network 86 Corporate Profile 88 Websites 89 9 Mizuho’s Strengths 1 Mizuho’s Customer Base 2 Products Capability—Outstanding Perform Convenient and High-Quality Products for I Syndicated Loans (Japan) * Bookrunner basis Individual Customers (April 2014 to March 2015, financial closing date basis) Rank Company Name Proceeds (billions of ¥) Share (%) 1 Mizuho Financial Group 9,025.7 38.5 2 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group 6,713.5 28.7 million 3 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 5,780.7 24.7 (Source) Thomson Reuters (Approx. 1 in 5 Japanese Citizens) among Japanese Syndicated Loans (Asia, excl. Japan) banks * Bookrunner basis (USD, EUR, JPY, AUD, HKD, SGD) (April 2014 to March 2015) Rank Company Name Proceeds (millions of US$) Share (%) Comprehensive Securities Accounts 1 Standard Chartered 8,484.1 6.6 2 ANZ Banking Group 6,674.7 5.2 3 DBS Group 6,628.9 5.2 million 4 Mizuho Financial Group 6,039.2 4.7 7 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group 5,227.2 4.1 12 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 3,548.3 2.8 (Source) Prepared by MHBK based on data from Thomson Reuters M&A Advisory for based on No. of Announced Deals Deals (No.2 in terms (Japan Corporations) of rank value) SME & Middle Market Borrowers, etc. * Number of deals basis (any Japanese involvement announced, excluding real estate deals) (April 2014 to March 2015) Rank Company Name No. of deals Rank Value (billions of ¥) 1 Mizuho Financial Group 167 3,753.4 2 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 140 1,086.5 3 Nomura 112 3,825.2 (Source) Thomson Reuters Coverage of Listed Companies in Japan Cash Management Poll 2014 (Asia Money) in CMS customer satisfaction % level in Japan (MHBK) Survey of three categories—large, medium, and small—based on net sales. MHBK won the No.1 ranking in the large category. Coverage of Forbes Global 200 (Non-Japanese Corporate Customers) in Product Enhancement in the “Retail Banking Survey” of Finance and investment % information paper Nikkei Veritas Inside page 1 ance in the Corporate Finance Field and ndividuals 3 Industry Expertise—No.1 Industry Research Unit among Japanese Banks Total Japan Publicly Offered Bonds Organization * Underwriting amount basis (deals including straight bonds, investment corporation bonds, Zaito agency bonds, municipal bonds (lead manager method only), Samurai A global network of research bases in Japan, Europe, the bonds and preferred securities) (April 2014 to March 2015, pricing date basis) United States, and Asia with staff members of approximately Rank Company Name Underwriting Amount (billions of ¥) Market Share (%) 170 people conducting research on a wide range of industry 1 Mizuho Securities 3,036.5 19.6 categories and industries. 2 Nomura 2,789.8 18.0 3 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley 2,688.0 17.4 Functions (Source) Prepared by MHSC based on data from I-N Information Systems The Industry Research Division proposes global and comprein both underwriting amount hensive solutions to customers by integrating its “three funcABS Lead Manager and market share tions” based on its “deep understanding and accumulated expertise on industries and companies.” *Amount basis (April 2014 to March 2015, settlement date basis) • “Industry analyst function” Rank Company Name No. of deals Underwriting Amount (billions of ¥) Provides a wide range of industry expertise regarding indus1 Mizuho Financial Group 179 1,155.6 try trends in Japan and overseas. 2 Morgan Stanley 17 394.3 3 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 8 342.8 • “Strategist function” (Source) Prepared by MHSC based on data from Thomson Reuters Provides business strategy development support and policy advice based on a background of solid industry expertise. for 4 consecutive • “Corporate finance support function” Custody Annual Survey (Japan) years Supports the formulation of customers’ financial and man*Average score of six evaluation items. Mizuho won the top score for each of the agement strategies. six evaluation items. (January to December 2014) Rank Company Name Points “Industry analyst 1 Mizuho Bank 6.33 function” Japan 2 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ 6.02 3 HSBC 5.83 “Corporate “Strategist (Source) Global Custodian Magazine’s “2014 Agent Banks in Major Markets Survey” function” finance support Overseas function” MCPC* award Winner of the MCPC* award for Disseminating Information consecutive Publishes Mizuho Industry Research, Mizuho Industry Focus, years (MHBK) and other research reports offering a wide range of perspecouttives on overall structural changes in industries, industry out * Mobile Computing Promotion Consortium looks, and other industry-related issues. (industry-wide mobile computing promotion association) in the Annual Analyst Ranking (Overall Company Ranking) of the finance and investment information paper Nikkei Veritas (MHSC) in the 2015 All-Japan Research Team Ranking of Institutional Investor, the financial magazine for global investors (MHSC) Inside page 2 Financial Highlights Consolidated Net Income (billions of ¥) Net Business Profits (Two Banks) (billions of ¥) 800 1,000 688.4 611.9 630.0 846.3 600 560.5 484.5 800 742.3 728.1 413.2 721.3 400 642.6 600 200 0 0 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 (Estimate) Gross Profits (Two Banks) (billions of ¥) G&A Expenses (Two Banks) (billions of ¥) 2,000 2,000 1,686.1 1,611.1 1,607.5 1,629.7 1,506.8 1,500 1,500 1,000 1,000 868.7 879.3 864.2 908.3 839.7 500 500 0 0 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Gross Profits by Business Segment Proportion of Income from Proportion from Non-interest (managerial accounting) Overseas Customers Income from Customer Groups (Net Business Profits) (Gross Profits) (MHBK+MHTB+MHSC, managerial (MHBK+MHTB+MHSC, managerial FY2014 Domestic accounting) accounting) Individuals Securities 12% 15% FY2014 FY2014 Banking 75% Trust Banking (1) 7% (2) Overseas (1) Personal Banking Unit 12% (3) Customers 33% Net interest Non-interest (2) Retail Banking Unit 6% (8) Income Income (3) Corporate Banking Unit 50% 50% (4) Domestic (Large Corporations) 14% (7) Domestic Customers (4) Corporate Banking Unit 8% (5) (6) Corporations 67% (5) Financial Institutions & 30% Public Sector Business Unit 3% (6) International Banking Unit 14% (7) Trading & Others 11% Overseas (8) Others (including Overseas Subsidiaries) 8% 14% Notes: 1. Two Banks: Aggregate figures for MHBK and MHTB on a non-consolidated basis. 2. BK+TB+SC: Aggregate figures for MHBK, MHTB and MHSC (including major subsidiaries) on a non-consolidated basis. Inside page 3 Consolidated Balance Sheet (as of March 31, 2015) Consolidated Total Assets ¥189 trillion Loans ¥73 trillion Deposits, Negotiable Certificates of Deposits (NCDs) ¥113 trillion Securities ¥43 trillion JGB ¥21 trillion Stock ¥4 trillion Other Liabilities Other Assets ¥66 trillion ¥72 trillion Net Assets ¥9 trillion Loan Balance * (Average balance, Two Banks) (trillions of ¥) BIS Capital Ratio (%) Overseas Offices Domestic Offices 80 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio 71.5 Tier 1 Capital Ratio 70 68.2 64.5 Total Capital Ratio 61.1 62.3 13.1 16.7 60 8.1 10.7 6.6 20 50 14.19 14.36 14.58 15 40 11.03 11.35 11.50 30 9.43 54.4 55.0 54.7 10 8.80 54.1 53.7 8.16 20 5 10 0 0 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 As of March As of March As of March 31, 2013 31, 2014 31, 2015 * Excluding loans to MHFG. “Overseas offices” is calculated based on an aggregate of banking and trust account basis and represents loans booked at overseas offices, including the impact of foreign exchange translation Balance of Disclosed Claims under the (trillions of ¥, %) Cash Dividend per Share of Common Stock (¥) Financial Reconstruction Act (FRA) (Two Banks) 8 7.5 7.5 Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors 6.5 Claims with Collection Risk 6.0 6.0 6.0 Claims for Special Attention 6 Non-performing Loan (NPL) Ratio (trillions of ¥) (%) 2.0 4 4 1.5 1.2 3 1.2 1.1 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.72% 1.63% 1.71% 2 2 1.21% 1.20% 0.5 1 0.0 0 0 As of March As of March As of March As of March As of March FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 31, 2011 31, 2012 31, 2013 31, 2014 31, 2015 (Estimate) Note: The above contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See the disclaimer at the bottom of page 8 of this Integrated Report (Annual Review) for information regarding factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements. Inside page 4 Message from the Group CEO Preparing to Realize “Competitive Yasuhiro Sato President & Group CEO Member of the Board of Directors Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Phase I (-1980s) Commercial banks, securities companies and insurance companies History of the coexisted Independently Regulatory environment Financial Industry Introduction of Basel I (1988) Mizuho’s History 10 Mizuho’s Vision through Utmost Efforts to Establish Advantages” and Dedication to Mizuho’s Social Mission I, as President & CEO of Mizuho Financial Group, would To enable readers of this report to gain a better underlike to express our deep appreciation for your continued standing of Mizuho, I would like to offer a review of our Corinterest in and support of our Group. porate Identity and the key concepts associated with our During the two years that have passed since we adoptmedium-term business plan before explaining our fiscal 2014 ed a new Corporate Identity and began implementing our business results and our plans for the current fiscal year. three-year medium-term business plan, the “One Mizuho When conceiving our Corporate Identity and drafting New Frontier Plan—Stepping Up to the Next Challenge—,” our medium-term business plan, our first step was to conwe have been implementing an strategy for meeting cussider the things that a financial institution can do on behalf tomers’ diverse needs by comprehensively integrating our of its customers and society at large. Next—while over“banking, trust banking, and securities functions” (the One viewing the economic and societal structural changes, Mizuho strategy). Regarding our management foundations, changes in the regulatory environment taking place in we have strengthened our holding company functions, Japan and other countries as well as reviewing the course transitioned into a “Company with Three Committees” of industrial history and financial history, surveying the (referred to as a “Company with Committees” prior to kinds of business model transitions that have been made enforcement of amendments to the Companies Act), and in the financial industry, and finally considering the past taken other initiatives to build an advanced governance decade or so of Mizuho’s own history—we moved forward system while also striving to establish and deeply embed a with deliberations about the essential elements of our own strong corporate culture. prospective business model. Phase II Phase III Phase IV (1990s) (2000s) End of (2010s-) Era of conglomerates Era of investment banks high return business model of Pursuit of non-conventional and mega banks and proprietary transactions investment banking “New Financial Services” Financial system reform Merger between Citicorp and Travelers (1992) (1998) Subprime Mortgage Crisis Tightening of regulations Lehman Crisis Japanese US GrammIntroduction US Dodd-Frank Act Phase-in introduction “Big Bang” Leachof Basel II (2010) of Basel III Pursuit of ideal model financial reform Bliley Act (2003) (2013) for Finance (1996) (1999) Always standing at the forefront of its time, Mizuho’s has carved out history DNA “One Mizuho New Frontier Plan —Stepping Up to the Next Challenge” (FY2013-2015) Substantive Transition to Establishment of Turning of One Bank “Company with Three Announcement of MHTB and MHSC Merger of banks Establishment of MHBK and Unified management Committees” structure merger of the three into wholly-owned Merger of securities MHFG former Mizuho of banking, Strengthening former banks subsidiaries of companies Corporate Bank trust banking and functions of the MHFG securities functions holding company Listed (1999) (2000) (2002) on NYSE (2011) (2012) (2013) (2014) (2006) Organization based on customer Further promoting the integrated Establishment of segments, created through split and merger Single bank and strategy between banking, first mega bank in Japan method, the first full-scale case in Japan single securities structure trust banking and securities functions 11 Message from the Group CEO During the first decade of this century, which correcustomers’ needs and fulfilling its social mission as a sponds to Phase III of Mizuho’s history (see chart on page financial institution.” 11), we achieved strong performance by assuming excessive risks in propriety trading designed to generate high Mizuho’s Corporate Identity profit levels, but that business model met its demise after the emergence of the subprime mortgage crisis and the Based on this kind of historical perspective and our Lehman Crisis. I now view our Phase III as a “financial intense consciousness of what our customers and society capital supremacy” period during which we unduly disare expecting from us, we have created our Corporate Phitanced ourselves from our customers’ actual needs, and losophy, which states that our primary role is—“bringing we are rethinking the question of “what a financial institufruitfulness for each customer and the economies and the tion ideally should be” based on the lessons learned societies in which we operate. Mizuho creates lasting from that phase. Having entered the century’s second value. It is what makes us invaluable.” decade (Mizuho’s Phase IV), we are continuing to explore In other words, we are fundamentally committed to mainand refine our conception of “new frontier” of finance, taining close relationships with individual customers and but the Mizuho DNA that has evolved over the course providing them with the support they need at important of our history is clearly telling us that a financial institupoints in their lives to realize their hopes and dreams, and tion’s most important role is “thoroughly responding to we are equally committed to maintaining close relationships Mizuho’s Corporate Identity Mizuho, the leading Japanese financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, is committed to: Providing customers worldwide with the highest quality financial services with Corporate honesty and integrity; Philosophy Anticipating new trends on the world stage; Expanding our knowledge in order to help customers shape their future; Mizuho’s fundamental approach to Growing together with our customers in a stable and sustainable manner; and business activities, Bringing together our group-wide expertise to contribute to the prosperity of based on the raison economies and societies throughout the world. d’etre of Mizuho These fundamental commitments support our primary role in bringing fruitfulness for each customer and the economies and the societies in which we operate. Mizuho creates lasting value. It is what makes us invaluable. Vision The most trusted financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan. Corporate Identity Vision of medium-term The most trusted The best financial The most cohesive business plan financial services group services provider financial services group Mizuho’s vision To maximize our extensive To continuously provide To be our customer’s for the future, expertise and collective the best leading-edge most trusted partner realized through the capabilities as experienced financial services practice of financial services professionals “Corporate Philosophy” Mizuho Values Values Customer Innovative The shared values and Team Spirit: Speed: Passion: First: Spirit: principles of Mizuho’s people, uniting all executives and The most trusted Progressive and Diversity and Sharpness and Communication employees together to pursue “Vision” partner lighting flexible thinking collective strength promptness and challenge the future for the future 12 with our corporate customers and utilizing sophisticated risk The Medium-term Business Plan taking and financial intermediary functions to facilitate M&A “One Mizuho New Frontier Plan transactions, capital investments, and other initiatives those —Stepping Up to the Next Challenge—” customers undertake to realize their plans for vigorous corporate development in the future. By providing support for We consider our medium-term business plan’s implemenour customers’ sustained growth, we believe we can help tation to be the first step toward realizing Mizuho’s “Vision.” customers shape their future and contribute to the prosperiBased on our deliberations about the essential elements of ty of economies and societies throughout the world. “new frontier” of finance and our analyses of Mizuho’s curSecondly, to realize our Corporate Philosophy, we have rent situation, we drafted the plan’s ten basic strategies set Mizuho’s “Vision,” which describes what we consider and five basic policies with an eye to responding to current to be the ideal nature of our corporate evolution over the challenges and guiding the direction of our corporate mediumto long-term. This “Vision” calls for Mizuho to development going forward. become—“The most trusted financial services group with Among these strategies and policies, we consider the a global presence and a broad customer base, contributOne Mizuho strategy to be of central importance in realizing to the prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan”—by ing our vision. There are two main reasons for our emphameans of efforts to be “the most cohesive financial sersis on the One Mizuho strategy. vices group,” “the best financial services provider,” and First, the One Mizuho strategy is a key means of effec“the most trusted financial services group.” tively responding to customers’ needs. Because customFinally, we have the Mizuho Values—the shared values ers’ needs have become increasingly diverse and sophisand principles that coordinate our efforts to pursue our ticated over the years, it has become increasingly difficult “Vision.” We have instituted five Mizuho Values, which are to respond to those needs by separately providing bankshown in the chart on the left. Our objective is to ensure ing, trust banking, and securities services. We believe that that each and every employee puts the Mizuho Values into the most effective way to respond to customers’ needs practice in a sustained manner and thereby fostering a entails coordinating banking, trust banking, and securities sense of unity. We intend to pervasively promote the profunctions so that we can offer powerful and sophisticated gressive embedding of that sense of unity to fortify and consulting capabilities and provide solutions that compreaugment the kind of corporate culture that we consider to hensively address the challenges customers are facing. In be a core characteristic of Mizuho’s identity. view of this, the One Mizuho strategy was designed to be a Five Basic Policies and Ten Basic Strategies in Our Medium-term Business Plan <Five Basic Policies> <Ten Basic Strategies> (1) Strengthen integrated financial services by unifying banking, trust banking, and securi1. Further develop integrated strategies ties functions to respond to finely detailed corporate and personal banking segments across the group for each customer segment to respond to the diverse (2) Perform consulting functions taking advantage of our industry and business knowlneeds of our customers edge and forward-looking perspective Business Strategy (3) Support formation of personal financial assets in Japan and invigorate their investment 2. Contribute to sustainable development (4) Strengthen proactive risk-taking functions for growth industries and corporations of the world and Japan by proactively (5) Strengthen and expand Asia-related business in Japan and on a global basis responding to change (6) Cultivate multi-level transactions by capturing the accelerating global capital and trade flows 3. Mizuho Means Asia: accelerate globalization (7) Strengthen stable financial foundations based on abundant liquidity and appropriate 4. Build strong financial and managecapital levels m e nt fo u n d ati o ns to su p p o r t th e Business Management, (8) Establish the optimal management foundations (human resources and business essence of Mizuho Management infrastructure) to support business strategy Foundations, (9) Further strengthen proactive governance and risk management 5. Form strong corporate governance and etc. culture in the spirit of One MIZUHO (10) Embed the new Mizuho corporate identity toward forming a common culture throughout the group and take actions toward being the best financial services provider 13 Message from the Group CEO means of responding to customers’ needs with great effectiveness, and one of the reasons we are emphasizing the One Mizuho strategy is that we strongly desire to respond to customers’ needs as thoroughly as possible. A second reason for emphasizing the One Mizuho strategy is our desire to concurrently respond to regulatory requirements and cater to the interests of stakeholders centered on shareholders and investors. Trends in the post-Lehman crisis regulatory environment have required increases to our Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio and other equity ratios, but investors and other stakeholders are simultaneously demanding that we make moves in the opposite direction to boost our return on equity (ROE). To concurrently respond to both kinds of demands, it is important for us to elevate our return on risk-weighted assets (RORA), and this basically means expanding our non-interest income. We are combining the Group’s comprehensive range of strengths to thoroughly respond to customers’ needs without excessive dependence on business leveraging our balance sheet, and this requires us to increase the diversity of our non-interest income sources associated with such fee-based services as transaction Accordingly, we are implementing the One Mizuho stratand advisory services, productand securities-related egy as a means of thoroughly responding to customers’ businesses, trust-related businesses, and asset manageneeds while at the same time responding to regulatory ment businesses. requirements and the expectations of our shareholders and investors. Fiscal 2014 Results and Progress in Collaboration between Banking, Trust Banking and Securities Functions Implementing the Medium-Term Business Plan Meet all customers needs Multi-layer transactions Turning to our financial results for fiscal 2014, our consoliTrust dated net income amounted to ¥611.9 billion, a favorable agreement Bank agent Financial result exceeding our ¥550.0 billion target. Concerning capital instruments adequacy ratio, our Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital intermediary Lending, Deposit, service ratio (on a fully-effective basis, including the Eleventh Remittance, Securitization/Liquidation, Series Class XI Preferred Stock)* was 10.46%, exceeding the Pension, Derivatives, etc. 8% target level we set in our medium-term business plan. Bank As for the progress of our current medium-term busiagency service Real Estate, Customers ness plan, the transformation of profit structure centered Pension, M&A, Transfer Agent, Equity, Bond, on Customer Groups, the synergies generated by the One Securitization, Investment Trust, Testamentary, etc. Mizuho strategy, and other factors enabled us to meet variTrust etc. SecuBank rities ous business plan targets ahead of schedule. Overall, the plan’s implementation proceeded smoothly. * Estimated figures under fully-effective basis as expected to be in effect at the end of fiscal 2018. Although preferred stocks are not classified as CET1 capital Trust agreement agent under Basel III, our calculation includes the Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock (mandatory conversion date: July 2016) in CET1 capital. 14 A Year of Establishing “Competitive years of strong performance and other factors indicate to Advantages” and Accelerating Reforms us that the promotion of a business model based on the collaboration of banking, trust banking and securities We are positioning fiscal 2014—the third and final year of functions ahead of our competitors is generating positive our medium-term business plan—as a year in which we results in line with our expectations. To realize the “Cuswill do our utmost to establish “competitive advantages” tomer First” value that is a core element of Mizuho’s Vision, and attain the business plan’s various targets. however, we see a need to promote still further evolution of We have drafted and been implementing the medium-term the One Mizuho strategy. One important way of doing this business plan to realize Mizuho’s Vision for the future. is to view the customers of individual group companies as Earning power based on strong competitiveness and a customers of the entire Group and move ahead with solid capital base is an important prerequisite for realizing efforts to provide those group customers with services in a the Vision, and we believe that continuing to augment the group-wide manner. In addition, aiming to further polish scale and stability of our profitability and establish competthe specialized capabilities of MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC itive advantages will enable us to take on an even greater and thereby elevate the competitive power of each of social mission than ever before. these companies, we are planning to undertake the following measures during the current fiscal year. Further Evolution of the One Mizuho Strategy Our plans call for MHBK to leverage the Group’s customer base by striving to establish even stronger relationWe are taking two specific approaches to establishing ships with customers as a means of expanding business “competitive advantages.” operations in Japan as well as overseas while also endeavThe first approach involves promoting the additional oring to augment its transactional and profit bases in a evolution of the One Mizuho strategy. Two consecutive manner that supports sustained growth. Medium-term Business Plan Financial Highlights (inside pages 3 and 4) Plan for the final year of the FY2014 Results FY2015 Plan Medium-term Business Plan ROE (Consolidated) Consolidated ROE 10.0%*3 Mid 9% range*3 Approx. 9% Approx. 9% (8.3%) (Approx. 8%) RORA (Consolidated Net Income on 0.9% Approx. 0.9% Approx. 0.9% Target Risk-weighted Assets) Figures Common RORA Equity Tier 1 (FY2015) (Consolidated Capital Ratio*1 Net Income on Common Equity Tier 1 (Fully-effective basis*2) Risk-weighted Assets) Capital Ratio*1 10.46% 10 to 11% 8% or higher 8% or higher Approx. 0.9% (Fully-effective basis*2) Profitability Consolidated Net Income ¥611.9 billion ¥630 billion ¥550 billion level Group Expense Ratio*4 59.0% Mid 50% range Mid 50% range Efficiency Expense Ratio 55.7% Lower 50% level Lower 50% level (Banking Subsidiaries)*5 Ratio of Stock Portfolio Soundness 25.5% 25% or lower Approx. 25% against Tier 1 Capital*6 *1. Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio was 9.43% as of March 31, 2015. Although preferred stocks are not classified as CET1 capital under Basel III, both our planned and actual figures include the Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock (mandatory conversion date: July 2016) in CET1 capital. *2. Estimated figures under fully-effective basis as expected to be in effect at the end of fiscal 2018. *3. Excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities basis. Figure shown in ( ) includes Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities. *4. MHBK+MHTB+MHSC *5. MHBK+MHTB *6. After taking into consideration the hedging effects. Also, although preferred stocks are not classified as CET1 capital under Basel III, both our planned and actual figures include the Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock (mandatory conversion date: July 2016) in CET1 capital. 15 Message from the Group CEO Operating as “trust professionals,” MHTB will be workOur allocation of management resources is being coning to further increase the sophistication of its specialized centrated in those key focus areas, and we are stepping capabilities related to real estate, consulting, and asset up our efforts to further increase the intensity of collaborasuccession, and other trust business areas. tion among group companies in those areas. To provide customers with high-value-added financial As announced in March 2015, we have formed a strateservices, MHSC will be further strengthening its securities gic policy for integrating our asset management group functions with respect to the domestic business promocompanies in order to strengthen our asset management tion, markets and products, and investment banking areas. business. By implementing this policy, Mizuho aims to As each company augments its specialized capabilibecome a leading player in the industry in terms of both ties and competitive power in these ways and thereby quality and size, providing the highest quality solutions and combining them as One Mizuho, we will be placing the managing one of the highest volume of assets under manGroup in a still stronger position to build close relationagement in Japan. Aiming to make asset management the ships with customers of the Group, earn still stronger fourth pillar of group businesses—after banking, trust evaluations from customers regarding its capabilities for banking, and securities businesses—we are deepening the meeting their needs, and consequently increase its provilevel of group-wide collaboration in the asset management sion of a comprehensive range of high-value-added prodarea and are thereby putting the Group in a better position ucts and services. to utilize its comprehensive range of capabilities to respond to customer needs. Thoroughly Strengthening Capabilities in Four Key Focus Areas Financial Strategy Focused on Transformation in Quality of the Profit The second approach is selecting key business areas and Structure and Capabilities for Responding to concentrating our resources in those areas. We have Stricter Regulations and Risks selected four key focus areas—transactions with large corporations, transactions with corporations and their owners, Further reforming our profit structure is a key objective of transactions with non-Japanese blue chip companies, and our financial strategy for fiscal 2015. In the final year of our asset management—and have established a structure in current medium-term business plan, measures centering which the entire Group will focus its efforts in those areas. on our One Mizuho strategy will be taken to increase the Four Key Focus Areas Transactions with Transactions with large corporate customers Non-Japanese blue chip customers Establish competitiveness in the area of financial transactions with large Development of the Super 30 Strategy corporate customers Expand overseas customer base and strengthen the Further progress of collaboration between banking, collaboration between banking and securities functions trust and securities functions Four Key Focus Areas Transactions with Asset Management Business SMEs and middle-market corporations Enhance integrated approach to Make asset management both corporations and their owners the “Fourth Pillar” of our business Further strengthen the collaboration between banking, Collaboration between banking, trust banking, trust banking, and securities functions securities and asset management functions, as well as consulting functions and internal restructuring of asset management functions 16 proportion of income from Customer Groups with particucorporate governance owing to the initiatives it has taken lar emphasis on non-interest income, which will lead to a to strengthen holding company functions, shift to a “Comqualitative transformation of our profit structure. In addipany with Three Committees,” and promote various other tion, we are concurrently aiming to increase proportion of kinds of reforms aimed at enhancing its governance sysincome from overseas customers, which is considered a tems. In addition, we have begun the full-scale use of our growth field. Risk Appetite Framework during the current fiscal year. As a financial service group with global operations, we The Risk Appetite Framework is designed not only to are working on transformation in quality of our profit strucconstrain excessive risk taking but also to encourage adeture and other measures to achieve a steady strengthening quate risk taking based on the concept that “risks worth of our capital base in light of the global trend toward stricter taking should be taken.” The framework facilitates effective financial regulations. We are also diversifying and stabilizutilization of our resources and we consider it to be a key ing our foreign currency funding base as well as implefoundation for supporting the Group’s sustainable growth menting efficient balance sheet management by promoting going forward. a business model based on asset turnover and other meaWe have defined Mizuho’s risk appetite as the level and sures. Regarding cross-holdings of shares, unless we contype of risk management is willing to assume in order to sider these holdings to be meaningful, we will not hold the realize our business and financial strategies. In addition, shares of other companies as cross-shareholdings. Going we have established our Risk Appetite Policy in three forward, we will be rigorously examining whether such layers which articulates our qualitative risk appetite from a holdings are meaningful. universal, medium-term and short-term perspective. The first layer which expresses our universal risk-taking Enhancing Corporate Governance with domain, focuses on taking appropriate risk where our cusEmphasis on “Growth-Oriented Governance” tomers’ actual needs exist. This approach is in harmony and Promoting Risk-Taking with a Focus on with our Corporate Identity, and provides foundation for Customers’ Actual Circumstances risk governance in order to realize our Corporate Identity. In June 2015, we filed our Corporate Governance Mizuho is working to increase the sophistication of the Repor t with the Tok yo Stock E xchange. This repor t management foundation supporting its business strategies describes our actions in response to the Corporate Goverand financial strategies. nance Code. The Corporate Governance Code aims to Mizuho is already a leading company with respect to realize growth-oriented governance by promoting timely Mizuho’s Risk Appetite Policy Universal Risk Appetite Policy I Universal risk-taking domain for realizing Mizuho’s Corporate Identity By taking risk and providing solution based on our customers’ actual needs, establish our competitive advantage against our peers, maximize our corporate value by acquiring sustainable and stable revenue and fulfill our social responsibility Shortto Medium-Term Risk Appetite Policy II Risk Appetite Policy based on our medium-term objectives III Risk Appetite Policy based on our single-year objectives 17 Message from the Group CEO (PT). Having myself assumed the position of PT leader, I have been working to ensure the PT expeditiously performs its missions of making each group employee familiar with the various features of Mizuho’s Corporate Identity and the medium-term business plan as well as promoting each group employee’s practice of Mizuho Values. One par t of the PT’s campaign has called for each of the Group’s offices to create “Visions of Individual Offices” by arranging for each employee of the office in question to consider related issues on their own; participate in discussions of those issues together with their superiors, subordinates, and colleagues as well as sometimes with colleagues from other offices; and proactively deliberate about the kinds of characteristics that their office should be seeking to cultivate. In the course of those discussions, I was pleased to note signs that a corporate culture that encourages individual employee’s self-directed actions was taking root, as reflected in numerous employees’ comments about the pride they feel for their office and their desire to further improve their office for the benefit of customers. The PT’s campaign is promoting more-active exchanges between group employees and customers as well as other people in local communities. and decisive decision making based upon transparent and We are taking various other measures to foster a strong fair decision making through the fulfillment of companies’ corporate culture. These include the arrangement of “Disaccountability in responsibilities to various stakeholders cussions with senior management,” in which executive offiincluding shareholders. Mizuho has decided to comply cers are visiting each office in Japan and overseas to with all of the principles after considering each principle of exchange ideas with those offices’ employees, and “Genthe code. eral Managers Off-Site Meetings,” in which general managG o i n g fo r wa rd, b a s e d o n d u e c o n s i d e r a ti o n of ers of MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC offices gather and disdemands for the strengthening of corporate governance cuss such agenda items as the action plans each manager both in Japan and overseas, Mizuho will sustain its efforts is planning to implement as a means of establishing a to enhance its corporate governance systems and ensure strong corporate culture in their respective offices. I believe they are appropriate for a Global Systemically Important that these measures are steadily increasing the permeation Financial Institution (G-SIFI). of Mizuho Values into the minds of each group employee, and I am confident that this process is effectively enabling Forming a Strong Corporate Culture that us to make a strong corporate culture take shape and put Supports Strong Governance down deep roots. One important prerequisite for effectively moving forward CSR Initiatives with our business strategies and enhancing our governance system is the establishment of a strong common As a Japan-based comprehensive financial group, Mizuho is culture throughout the Group. undertaking corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities In 2015, along with the establishment of our Corporate designed to make contributions to Japan’s economic and Identity and start of our new medium-term business plan, social development and to the strengthening of Japanese we established our One Mizuho Promotion Project Team industries’ competitiveness. Regarding agriculture, medical 18 care, energy, and other industries, we are taking such initiageopolitical risks, and market environments remain unstable tives as those to invest in funds for fostering the developwith respect to interest rates, forex rates, and natural ment of the sixth industry for the agriculture, forestry, and resource prices. Amid this environment, Mizuho will continfishing sectors and of the health and medical care indusue doing its utmost to be invaluable to its customers by tries, and to finance renewable energy businesses. effectively supporting their sustained growth and developFurthermore, Mizuho continues to offer its combined ment and to bring customers fruitfulness by acting as their group strengths to assist in rebuilding the lives of people most trusted partner. In accordance with the fundamental afflicted by the Great East Japan Earthquake and reviving meaning of the One Mizuho concept, all group employees the industries and economies that have suffered as a will be working as one to provide customers with optimal result of the earthquake, as well as support the recovery of solutions for all the challenges they face. disaster-stricken areas. For example, the Mizuho Forest We sincerely appreciate your continuing support for Project is aimed at reviving the disaster-prevention forest these endeavors. planted along the coast of Fukushima Prefecture, which was severely affected by the earthquake-driven tsunami. July 2015 We also continue to proactively support social contribution initiatives associated with our business, such as ongoing financial education support programs that encompass offerings of donated lectures and courses, visits to elementary, middle and high schools by our employees to Yasuhiro Sato teach classes as guest instructors, and accepting students President & Group CEO for work experience. Member of the Board of Directors Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Further Strengthening the Mizuho Brand Note: The above contains statements that constitute forward-looking Aiming to further strengthen the Mizuho Brand, we are statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See the disclaimer at endeavoring to undertake effective brand communications the bottom of page 8 of this Integrated Report (Annual Review) activities through our efforts to achieve our fiscal 2015 for information regarding factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements. business plan targets and the April 2015 inauguration of the Mizuho Heartful Action Project, which has engaged in diverse activities that benefit people facing challenges, including those associated with age and disabilities. Moreover, Mizuho is making conspicuous contributions to Japan’s national growth strategy in a manner that reflects its position as Japan’s leading comprehensive financial group. For example, MIZUHO is the SUPPORTING COMPANY of the Japan National Soccer Team and also extends it full support to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games as a Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games Gold Banking Partner. Going forward, we intend to sustain these kinds of efforts to further strengthen the Mizuho Brand. In Conclusion Despite sustained trends of gradual recovery in the Japanese and global economies, we are seeing an increase in 19 Value Creation Process Mizuho’s Value Creation Process Mizuho, the leading Japanese financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, is committed to: Providing customers worldwide with the highest quality financial services with honesty and integrity; Anticipating new trends on the world stage; Expanding our knowledge in order to help customers shape their future; Growing together with our customers in a stable and sustainable manner; and Bringing together our group-wide expertise to contribute to the prosperity of economies and societies throughout the world. These fundamental commitments support our primary role in bringing fruitfulness for each customer and the economies and the societies in which we operate. Mizuho creates lasting value. It is what makes us invaluable. Vision The most trusted financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan. Financial Capital (shareholders’ equity, liquidity, etc.) Strategy and Risk and Resource Opportunities Governance Allocation Human Capital and Intellectual Capital RAF Strengthening Growth (human resources, industrial (pages 70 and 71) Management Foundations Strategies (pages 65 to 85) (pages 37 to 47) expertise, products, etc.) Social and Relationship Capital Business Model (stakeholders, community, society, etc.) Inputs Business Outputs Outcomes Activities One Mizuho Strategy Integrating the Group’s functions centered on “banking, trust banking and securities” to provide a wider range of services for each customer segment Special Features (pages 22 to 35) Growth Strategies (pages 37 to 47) Business Approaches (pages 49 to 63) Performance Financial Outlook Highlights (inside pages 3 and 4) Business Environments Medium-term (pages 38 and 39) Business Plan (pages 40 and 41) External Environment Business Environments (pages 38 and 39) 20 Value Creation over Time Financial Capital • Build a group earnings structure with stability and growth • Abundant liquidity and appropriate capital levels Human Capital and Intellectual Capital • Exercise financial intermediary function through sophisticated risk-taking • Establish competitive edge by focusing actions on growing markets and businesses in which we have competitive advantages • Establish strong corporate governance supported by strong corporate culture Social and Relationship Capital • Contribute to the sustainable development of society • Strengthen the Mizuho brand through actions to improve customer service • Improve global presence This diagram was prepared in reference to International Integrated Reporting Council’s International Integrated Reporting Framework 21 1 Special Feature “Growth-Oriented” Governance Reform Measures We are engaged in governance reform designed to support a strong Mizuho towards increase of its corporate value. One of the basic policies of Mizuho’s medium-term business plan is to– “Form strong corporate governance and culture in the spirit of One Mizuho”–and we are seeking to realize this objective by implementing “growth-oriented” governance reform measures. A key element of these reforms is the June 2014 transition of the Group’s holding company, MHFG, to what is currently called a “Company with Three Committees” structure. We asked Ms. Hiroko Ota, outside director and Chairman of the Board of Directors at MHFG, about the achievements by the transition to a “Company with Three Committees” structure and the issues the Board of Directors is addressing to augment Mizuho’s corporate value. Q: About a year has passed since you became an outside director. Has the Board of Directors been changing during that period? Also, please tell us the objectives you are most intent on addressing as Chairman. A: Mizuho has outstanding human resources, a solid customer base, and other resources, but it is not making full use of the potential power of those resources… that is the impression I had when I first became an outside director. Aiming to improve that situation, I have been emphasizing measures to enhance the Board during the past year. Because the “Company with Three Committees” structure shifts a greater range of authority to executive officers, the Board can focus on being the core forum for discussions of key management issues. The fiscal 2015 business plan was drafted from scratch by means of deliberations of the Board. Because each industry has its own concept about what constitutes “common sense,” the addition of outside directors who have accumulated experience in other industries and fields has given the Board new perspectives on management issues. While each Board meeting is scheduled to last about three hours, lively discussions at each of the meetings have exceeded that allotted time frame. As the Chairman, I carefully go through agenda items and related materials in advance so that discussions can focus on more substantive issues. These preparatory efforts are particularly important since reference materials tend to become voluminous and difficult to understand unless vigorous measures are taken to effectively 22 counter that tendency. Governance reform has just begun. Going forward, I intend to manage the Board in order to maintain a sense of urgency as required steps are taken to realize all Mizuho’s latent strengths. Q: What do you consider necessary for augmenting Mizuho’s corporate value going forward? A: Above all, I believe Mizuho’s “earning potential” must be elevated. If expeditious and steady progress is made in improving performance, I anticipate that it will promote a rise in employees’ pride and confidence. I have been exchanging ideas about this topic with not only the management but also with employees at branches and headquarters, and I am confident that the Group is fully endowed with the potential strengths Hiroko Ota needed to achieve a considerable surge in performance. What is necessary is, first, make sure that we effectively shape medium-term strategies. 2004 Director General, Cabinet Ofﬁce Second, I think that the series of incidents has imperceptibly fostered the spread of a kind of 2005 Professor, National Graduate Instiintrospective risk-averse posture that may discourage employees from taking many kinds of tute for Policy Studies 2006 Minister of State for Economic and initiatives that they may consider to be superfluously ‘sticking their necks out,’ and I believe Fiscal Policy this way of thinking must be thoroughly extirpated. 2008 Professor, National Graduate Institute During fiscal 2015, Mizuho will be emphasizing the key theme of “earning potential.” I for Policy Studies (current) 2014 Director of MHFG (Chairman of the am determined to make this year a period in which people both within and outside the Board of Directors)(current) Group will generally gain a clear perception that Mizuho has been changing for the better. Mizuho’s “Growth-Oriented” Governance Reform Measures As a front-runner in the ﬁeld of corporate governance, Mizuho is introducing “growth-oriented” governance reforms designed to foster “earning potential” and thereby realize an increase in corporate value Strengthening the supervisory function of the Board of Directors Enhancement of Group Governance System • The majority of the Board of Directors consists of non-executive directors (of the total of 13 members, six are outside directors and two are internal non-executive directors). • In principle, the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be an outside director. Transition to a Make it possible for the management to make swift and flexible decisions “Company with Three • The Board of Directors delegates decisions on business execution to executive ofﬁcers. Committees” Structure Secure transparency and fairness in the process of appointment of directors and determination of compensation • In principle, all members of the Nominating and Compensation Committees shall be appointed from among outside directors. • Establish cross-entity systems for appointing directors and determining compensation. Strengthening of the Promotion of integrated strategies between banking, trust banking, and securities functions Functions of the Hold• Holding company acts as the “control tower” of group-wide strategies and planning. ing Company Form a strong corporate culture in the spirit of One Mizuho Formation of a Common Corporate • Implement measures in Japan and overseas to realize our “Vision” within Mizuho’s Culture throughout the Group Corporate Identity. Please refer to MHFG’s websites for the Corporate Governance Guidelines (established in May 2014), the guidelines that set out the fundamental perspectives regarding corporate governance in Mizuho and the framework and governing policies of the corporate governance system in MHFG. 23 2 Special Feature Integrated Strategy between “Banking, Trust Banking and Working in close cooperation, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC are proactively moving ahead with measures to comprehensively integrate the group’s “banking, trust banking and securities” functions. As the only financial group in Japan with banks, trust banks and securities companies under one umbrella, we offer group-wide services by integrating “banking, trust banking and securities” functions to respond to the ever more diverse and sophisticated needs of our customers. Mizuho’s Group Operational Structure MHFG MHBK MHTB MHSC (holding company) Corporate The Group Chief Ofﬁcer is at the Planning and Group Chief Ofﬁcer top of the chain of command and i m p l e m e nts i nte g r ate d g ro u p Management management. Individual Banking Unit Retail Banking Unit Each unit established in MHFG deterCorporate Banking Unit mines and promotes group-wide strate(Large Corporations) gies across banking, trust banking, Each unit in MHFG Corporate Banking Unit securities and other business areas. Financial Institutions & Private Sector Business Unit International Banking Unit Investment Banking Unit Customers of each group comTransaction Banking Unit p a ny a re v i ewe d a s M i zu h o’s common customers and we offer Asset Management Unit them group-wide services. Markets Unit * In principle, group companies other than the above belong to each segment depending on the characteristics of their businesses. For information on each unit, Business Approaches (pages 50 to 61) 24 Securities” Functions Based on our integrated strategy between “banking, trust banking and securities” functions, MHBK will focus on strengthening its frontline business capabilities, thereby providing our customers with the financial services best suited to helping them achieve their goals. MHBK is striving to improve customer convenience and satisfaction by providing an effective and multifaceted range of comprehensive financial services through collaboration with MHTB and MHSC to draw on the Group’s integrated capabilities. Since fiscal 2014, we have been working to leverage the Group’s comprehensive capabilities to further meet customers’ needs by implementing the Area One Mizuho Promotion Project. With respect to each geographical area, this project has brought RMs of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC together to engage in discussions about the special characteristics of the region and customers in that region. Based on a good grasp Nobuhide Hayashi of those characteristics and drawing on their various kinds of expertise, the particiPresident & CEO pants consider the best means of becoming “the most trusted financial services Mizuho Bank, Ltd. group” from diverse perspectives. As a result, we have in one year considerably expanded our number of customers seamlessly using our group company’s products and services centered on asset management by tens of thousands. We have made steady progress in generating positive results through collaboration with MHTB related to individual customers’ testamentary trusts and corporate Case 1 Collaboration between MHBK, MHTB and MHSC to Support Customers’ Growth Strategies A growing company developing “earth music & ecology” and highly regarded, and Mizuho is continuing to make concerted numerous other fashion brands, CROSS COMPANY is efforts to comprehensively support the company and help it proactively expanding its network of retail stores in Japan realize its various objectives. and overseas. While emphasizing a growth strategy centered As part of this comprehensive support, we are regularly on the “acceleration of overseas expansion and employment holding “One Mizuho Meetings” that bring the company’s of M&A strategies,” it was also considering such options as representatives together with branch managers of MHBK, those involving fund procurement from capital markets. MHTB, and MHSC branches to discuss and share ideas Aiming to make a contribution to realizing the company’s about its needs and visions. Going forward, MHBK, MHTB growth strategy, MHBK continually worked to deﬁne the and MHSC will continue collaborating closely and sharing c o m pa ny’s n e e d s a nd of fe r a s so c i ate d pro p os a ls. It their expertise with the objective of offering the company highly evaluated MHBK’s proposal on overseas business optimal proposals and solutions. d e v e l o p ment—created based on collaboration among MHBK’s wide overseas network and specialized head ofﬁce units—and, based on that proposal, MHBK has provided effective support for the company’s initiatives such as the establishment of a subsidiary in China. In response to its requests for advice on such subjects as M&A strategies and fund procurement from capital markets, MHBK collaborated closely with MHTB and MHSC to build a support system to cater to the company’s needs effectively and promptly as well as in an integrated manner between banking, trust banking and securities functions. These initiatives have been earth music & ecology 25 Special Feature 2 Integrated Strategy between “Banking, Trust Banking and owners’ business successions and through collaboration with MHSC in such fields as POs, IPOs, and M&A transactions. In this way, we have a clear perception that Area One Mizuho Promotion Project initiatives have been effectively strengthening group capabilities and promoting greater customer satisfaction. Going forward, we will continue to work as a financial institution that has the Group’s largest number of branch offices and customers to play a central role in promoting the integrated strategy between “banking, trust banking and securities functions” under the “One Mizuho” slogan. At the same time, each of MHBK’s employees will maintain his or her efforts to strengthen our capabilities for constantly coming up with and implementing new approaches to overcoming customers’ challenges and resolving their issues (what MHBK refers to as “frontline capabilities”). In these ways, we are doing our utmost to support our customers and help them realize their dreams. By promoting the integrated strategy between “banking, trust banking and securities” functions, MHTB endeavors to offer products and services that make use of the special features of trusts to meet the various needs of customers of the entire Group. By promoting the integrated strategy between “banking, trust banking and securities” functions, MHTB endeavors to offer products and services that make use of the special features of trusts to meet the various needs of customers of the entire Group. For individual customers, we offer products such as testamentary trusts and qualif ied educational f und giving t r usts at branches of MHBK and MHSC, assigning inheritance consultants at all MHBK branches, and are making various other efforts to leverage group capabilities in an integrated manner to meet a wide Takeo Nakano range of customers’ inheritance and asset succession needs. Regarding corporate President & CEO owners’ business succession needs, we work in close collaboration with MHBK to Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Case 2 Drawing on Strengths of MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC to Respond to Needs of Both Corporations and Their Owners PeptiDream is a venture company that has sustained steady has continuously provided support regarding needs of both growth in drug discovery business involving collaboration corporations and their owners through such measures as the with universities. Highly evaluating PeptiDream’s founding offering of order-made consulting services by MHTB. philosophy—“We want patients who are suf fering from To promote the company’s sustained development going diseases—even if it is just one patient—to say ‘Thank You’ for forward, Mizuho is promoting the integrated management of our work”—and advanced technology, MHBK has built a banking, trust banking and securities functions to provide its strong relationship of trust with the company and been its utmost support. main bank ever since the company’s establishment in 2006. When the company listed its shares, MHSC leveraged its abundant advisory experience to provide IPO consulting services, and Mizuho’s group capabilities earned a high evaluation in connection with those services. Moreover, while PeptiDream’s smooth post-listing business expansion has been accompanied by various challenges to the company’s management and shareholders, Mizuho 26 Securities” Functions provide consulting functions that make full use of our high level of trust-related specialized expertise. For corporate customers, we provide trust-related solutions in the areas of real estate, securitization, stock transfer agency business and pensions. With respect to customers aiming to make public offerings, we collaborate with MHBK and MHSC to provide a wide range of IPO-related support. In the asset management field, we are strengthening our asset management capabilities by moving ahead with the integration of group asset management functions. Going forward, MHTB will continue striving under the “One Mizuho” slogan to accelerate our development of Mizuho’s distinctive initiatives by fully leveraging the Group’s capabilities. Working in close collaboration with MHBK and MHSC, we are endeavoring to position ourselves to benefit our customers by providing even more sophisticated and specialized trust products and services. Trust Lounges MHTB’s ofﬁces which specialize in consultations, located within the same buildings as MHBK branches. Case 3 Mizuho’s Group-wide Support for IPOs SFP Dining is a company operating more than 150 restauaddition, at the time of the IPO, MHSC acted as lead managrants mainly under the brands of “Toriyoshi” and “Isomaru er while MHTB handled stock transfer agency processes. Suisan.” In accordance with its chairman’s strong commitSFP Dining’s shares were listed on the Second Section of ment to the concepts of “working for all employees’ happithe Tokyo Stock Exchange in December 2014, and the comness” and “the company’s sustained growth itself will lead to pany has subsequently continued striving to achieve further the happiness of all types of stakeholders,” it was making growth and “to be a food service provider enriching people’s company-wide efforts to undertake an IPO. l i ve s i n Ja p a n.” We a s a g ro u p i nte n d to s u s t a i n o u r Mizuho built a group-wide support system to help realize group-wide ef for ts to suppor t grow th while continuing the company’s IPO. As its main bank, MHBK supported the to provide the company with proposals that contribute to diversiﬁcation of the company’s loan-based fund procurethe resolution of their management challenges. ment methods, and MHSC provided advisory services. In Toriyoshi Isomaru Suisan 27 Special Feature 2 Integrated Strategy between “Banking, Trust Banking and Under the slogan of “One Mizuho,” MHSC is implementing the integrated management of “banking, trust banking and securities” functions, to provide high-value-added securities services to Mizuho’s customers. Under the slogan of “One Mizuho,” MHSC is implementing the integrated management of “banking, trust banking and securities” functions, to provide high-value-added securities services to Mizuho’s customers. As the trend of “shift from savings to investments” accelerates, we are boldly transforming our marketing approach and are focusing on a more customer-centric approach with the objective of contributing to individual customers’ asset building in the mediumto long-term. In addition to offering services including financial prodHiroshi Motoyama ucts that meet the needs of our customers and high-quality research information, we President & CEO are improving services as a whole group. Our initiatives range from having MHBK Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. introduce its customers who need securities services to us, all the branches of MHBK nationwide offering financial instruments intermediary services and expanding our testamentary-related business by making all our branches agents of MHTB. Case 4 MHBK and MHSC Collaboratively Arranged Financing for the Largest Global M&A Transaction of 2014 Actavis is the third-largest U.S.-based company in the Based on the Super 30 Strategy, which is focused on global generic pharmaceuticals industry, and, while the non-Japanese blue chip customers, MHBK and MHSC is global healthcare industry is undergoing reorganization, it has collaborating to make industry-sector analyses. Mizuho is been working to strengthen its operations in the highly proﬁtusing those analyses to present business strategy proposals able ﬁeld of specialty pharmaceuticals on the back of stable designed to elevate corporate values while concurrently cash ﬂow from its generic pharmaceutical business. In conmoving ahead with efforts to develop close relationships with nection with this strategy, Actavis recently acquired Allergan, its customers’ top executives and with measures to build risk a major U.S.-based pharmaceutical company, for a total of management systems capable of large-scale ﬁnancing transUS$66.4 billion. actions. These strategies have begun bearing fruit in such Together with J.P. Morgan and Wells Fargo, Mizuho forms as Mizuho’s participation in such major transactions as became the joint lead arranger of the acquisition’s ﬁnancings the Allergan acquisition. as the only Japan-based bank, and MHBK provided ﬁnancGoing for ward, Mizuho will continue endeavoring to ing for the deal. Subsequently, MHSC acted as underwriter respond to global companies’ diverse growth opportunities for bonds and equity issued by Actavis. The transaction was associated with corporate acquisitions and industry reorganithe world’s largest corporate acquisition ﬁnancing deal of zation by integrating the efforts of MHBK and MHSC to pro2014. vide optimal ﬁnancing packages. MHBK MHSC Finance: US$462 billion Bond Issuance: US$21 billion Equity Issuance: US$9.2 billion Joint Lead Arranger Joint Bookrunner (All Notes) Joint Bookrunner Joint Bookrunner J.P. Morgan, Mizuho, J.P. Morgan, Mizuho, Wells Fargo J.P. Morgan, Mizuho, Wells Fargo Wells Fargo, and others 28 Securities” Functions In corporate business, we are meeting securities needs of Mizuho’s customers by leveraging MHSC’s strengths regarding the offerings of such investment banking solutions as those involving equity and bond underwriting, M&A advisory services, and structured finance as well as by providing asset management products, investment information, and other solutions. We have set goals of “contributing to the economic growth of Japan, Asia, and the world” and “becoming a company that shares in the joy of our customers’ success.” To achieve these two objectives, we will substantially step up our drive to offer even higher-value-added products and services in a timely manner, as we further accelerate our collaboration with Mizuho’s banking and trust banking arms. Planet Booths MHSC’s consulting booths located in the lobbies of MHBK’s branches. Major Business Results Achieved through Collaboration between MHBK, MHTB and MHSC 1. [MHBK+MHTB+MHSC collaboration] (trillions of ¥) 2. [MHBK+MHSC collaboration] (No. of deals) Balance of Investment Products* M&A Advisory for Publicly Announced Deals MHBK MHTB MHSC 25 200 20.8 20 18.5 6.0 17.1 150 5.9 5.9 1.9 15 1.8 1.7 100 10 9.6 10.8 12.9 50 5 0 0 As of March As of March As of March FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 31, 2013 31, 2014 31, 2015 * Total of individual annuities, investment trusts, JGBs sold to individuals, * Number of transactions basis, any Japanese involvement publicly foreign currency deposits, etc. announced, excluding real estate transactions (Source) Prepared by MHSC based on data from Thomson Reuters 3. [MHBK+MHSC collaboration] (No. of deals) 4. [MHBK+MHSC collaboration] (billions of ¥) Number of Contracts to Undertake the Gross Proﬁts from Overseas DCM* Business Execution of Wills Service 1,600 20 15 1,400 10 5 0 0 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 * DCM: Debt Capital Markets (bond underwriting) 29 3 Special Feature Fostering Industries with the Aim of Generating Business As a financial institution based in Japan, Mizuho aims to contribute to the development of Japan’s economy and society and strengthen the competitiveMizuho adopts a ness of Japanese industries from a financial perspective. Active initiatives include “participation in estabmediumto long-term perspective lishing systems and frameworks through making in its initiatives based on policy recommendation and other activities,” “providing support for structuring business models, busigroup-wide collaboration to help ness matching, industry and business reorganization and other assistance,” and “supplying risk money and foster the industries of the future. demonstrating risk-taking capabilities.” Having positioned such areas as “environment and energy,” “agriculture, forestry and fisheries,” and “medical care and health” as growth industries, we are moving ahead with group-wide efforts to foster industries from the mediumto long-term perspective while also generating business opportunities. Category 1 Environment and Energy In view of strong needs for promoting the use of renewable energy, energy conservation, and resolving environmental problems in both developed and emerging countries, Mizuho is leveraging its abundant expertise and know-how in those areas to offer support regarding global policies as well as business strategies. Forecast of Global Power Generation Investment (billions of ¥) (total ﬁgures for the 2014-2035 period) 3,000 2,634 Oil 2,500 52 Gas 1,989 2,000 1,054 1,507 Marine 1,500 560 1,276 1,061 1,000 Coal 639 Terrestrial 1,528 1,429 447 5,00 0 Thermal Nuclear Biomass Hydraulic Wind Solar Others (geothermal, etc.) (Source) Prepared by MHFG based on the International Energy Agency’s World Energy Outlook 2014 (IEA WEO2014). Case Arrangement of Ultralong-term Financing for 1 Large-Scale Geothermal Power Generation Project Owing to challenges regarding the cost, scale, siting, and other aspects of large-scale geothermal power generation projects, there has been no progress regarding such projects in Japan since 1996. Japan is considered to be the world’s third richest country in geothermal resource volume, however, and in light of the 2012 introduction of a fixed-price power purchasing system for renewable energy and recent regulatory relaxation measures, there are rising expectations in Japan regarding geothermal power projects, which are superior to other kinds of renewable energy projects in terms of the cost and stability of the power they generate. 30 Opportunities In January 2015, MHBK utilized a Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation (JOGMEC) liabilit y g uarantee scheme to ar range a total of ¥26.2 billion of Hot water reinjection bases ultralong-term financing for a large-scale geothermal power generation project (Wasabisawa Geothermal Power Plant) in Yuzawa City, Akita Prefecture, that is being jointly invested in by Electric Power Development, Mitsubishi Materials, and Mitsubishi Gas Chemical. The plant is expected to have a power generation capacity of 42,000 kW, Reinjected hot water transport pipe and the project is the first such large-scale project requiring an environmental assessment for which JOGMEC has provided a liability guarantee. Leveraging its experience and know-how regarding renewable energy project Power generation plant financing, MHBK provided its customers with a comprehensive range of services from the initial stage of considering the application of the JOGMEC liability guarantee system–including finance scheme design, risk analysis, the invitation of other financial institutions to participate in the financing scheme, contract negotiations, and post-financing Steam production plant paperwork–and has thereby made a large contribution to the project’s realization. Wasabisawa Geothermal Power Plant Facilities Case Participation in Smart Community Demonstration 2 Project implementation areas Project in Slovenia In accordance with EU directives that include reductions in the emission of greenhouse gases, Slovenia is working to expand its use of renewable energy sources and improve its energy efficiency, and those efforts require additional initiatives regarding the country’s aging power distribution infrastructure and increasing demand for electric power. In this regard, MHBK, Mizuho Information & Research Institute (MHIR), Hitachi and THE Power Grid Solution were selected to carry out a feasibility study for a “smart community demonstration project in Slovenia” of the New Energy and Industrial Integrated DMS and DR Solution Micro-grid Service center Hydroelectric AEMS power generation Cloud Solar power Integrated DMS Service generation Visualize distribution network Optimize voltage and reactive power Interact with EMS and create DR plan Peak shaving The illustration shows a DR solution that Hydroelectric will minimize peak demand and realize local power generation Wind-power production and consumption of energy generation Solar power (via micro-grids) by means of interacting a generation Thermal power generation cloud-based integrated distribution manFactories agement system (DMS: control system of distribution networks) that can be used by FEMS Buildings multiple electricity distribution companies with energy management systems (EMSs: BEMS systems that use IT for the management * 1. BEMS: Building-Energy Management System of electric power, gas and other forms of * 2. FEMS: Factory-Energy Management System * 3. AEMS: Area-Energy Management System energy) installed by consumers. 31 Special Feature 3 Fostering Industries with the Aim of Generating Business Technology Development Organization (NEDO), which is designed to build and demonstrate systems for the low-cost strengthening of Slovenia’s power distribution network and stabilization of the country’s power supply-demand situation. The demonstration project aims to utilize advanced Japanese technologies in the fields of power distribution and information and communication technology (ICT) to ensure the stability of the distribution network, achieve efficient operations, establish demand response (DR) solutions to minimize peak demand, and realize local energy production and consumption of energy. Leveraging the know-how it has accumulated in connection with eco-city projects, Mizuho conducted surveys and analyses of the electric power industry and related regulatory systems as well surveys of equipment suppliers, approached government officials, and implemented other measures required to build and evaluate the feasibility of a business model designed to benefit all Japanese and Slovenian parties involved in the project. Category 2 Medical Care and Health As Japan is an advanced country regarding the challenges associated with the aging population and declining birthrate, measures to overcome the challenges through the progress of the medical care and health industry are a crucial means of enabling Japan’s sustained growth. Based on its abundant industry expertise, Mizuho is promoting the establishment of medical care and health-related government policies and is building support systems for a wide range of customers. Japanese Average Life Expectancy and Healthy Life Expectancy by Gender (2013) Difference between average life expectancy and Average life expectancy 80.21 healthy life expectancy Male Healthy life expectancy 71.19 9.02 years Average life expectancy 86.61 Female Healthy life expectancy 74.21 12.40 years 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 (Age) (Source) Prepared by MHFG based on materials issued by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s Health Science Council. Case 1 Investment in Regional Healthcare Industry Support Fund Owing to the rapid progress of aging population and declining birthrate, Japan has a strong need to expeditiously devise means of restraining growth in its social security expenses, and fostering the growth of the industries related to the extending of healthy life expectancy has, therefore, become one of the country’s top-priority tasks. Aiming to help overcome related challenges, the Regional Economy Vitalization Corporation of Japan (REVIC) and AGS Consulting cooperatively established the Regional Healthcare Industry Support Fund as a joint public-/private-sector fund in September 2014. Approximately 20 regional financial institutions and other entities from throughout Japan have invested in the fund. In addition to its having undertaken the largest single investment in the fund, MHBK intends to take various initiatives to help foster and promote the healthcare industry’s development in various regions going forward. 32 Opportunities Overview of the Regional Healthcare Industry Support Fund By providing growth-stage healthcare providers and other entities with Financial investment necessary risk money along with manRegional Healthcare Industry Support Fund MHBK New healthcare businesses • Creation of new agement personnel, the fund is aiming to healthcare industry Financial investment (medical institutions, nursing care providers and peripheral business entities model cases help invigorate regional economies by Regional Financial Institutions as well as those parties’ joint ventures) developing and promoting the expanded • Responding to the use of new business models. As of April aging population and REVIC 2015, the f und had exe cute d seve n declining birthrate Allocate management personnel Collaboration Collaboration investments. REVIC Capital • Invigorating regional economies Cross-industry Regional core AGS Consulting • Creating new jobs entities, etc. hospitals, etc. Case 2 Participation in the Wellness Point Project Aiming to help Japan realize a society with long healthy life expectancies, MHBK and MHIR are participating in the Wellness Point Project, a joint public-/private-sector demonstration project being implemented by participants, including relevant government ministries and agencies such as the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba, and Tsukuba Wellness Research and other private-sector companies. By employing ICT and an incentive system, the project is seeking to promote behavior changes in the approximately 70% of the population that is believed to be relatively uninterested in health issues. The project aims to provide individuals opportunities to proactively extend their healthy life expectancy by visualizing their health conditions * These include Urayasu City, Chiba Prealong with rewarding “wellness points” that are exchangeable for gift certificates. fecture; Ohtawara City, Tochigi Prefecture; In its first fiscal year, the pilot project designed an efficacious incentive system and Okayama City, Okayama Prefecture; built a measurement and verification system for evaluating the effects on regional Takaishi City, Osaka; Date City, Fukushieconomic vitalization and reduction of medical care expense of pilot initiatives taken ma Prefecture; and Mitsuke City, Niigata in cooperation with six partner cities*. Plans call for continuing to analyze this pilot Prefecture. data going forward. Mizuho is playing an important role in the project. MHIR is the project’s represenThe “Wellness Point” System tative company that oversees the whole project, while MHBK is considering related In light of the recognized health beneﬁts business models. of walking, individuals are rewarded wellness points when they join and continue participation in exercise classes sponsored by local governments and exercise Earn points by Earn points by walking Earn points by Accumulate points participating obtaining results programs by private sector. They are also rewarded wellness points in accordance Muscle training and Foregoing the use of cars Put on more muscles, walking with fellow particifor walkable destinations weight reduction with improvements in health conditions as pants in exercise classes effects of individuals’ regular walking and Exchange points other daily health promotion activities. The six participating cities offer a total of more than 100 programs to facilitate participation by residents with low levels Use at supermarkets and shops of health awareness. A system has been built to enable the conversion of wellness points into such forms as membership card system points, regional gift certiﬁcates, and social contributions (donations). 33 Special Feature 3 Fostering Industries with the Aim of Generating Business Category 3 Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Believing that transforming Japan’s agriculture, forestry, and fisheries industries into growth industries is a key means of overcoming issues associated with expanding domestic demand, creating domestic employment, and invigorating regional economies, Mizuho is leveraging its industry expertise and other capabilities as well as its nationwide base of customers to support the transformation of agriculture, forestry, and fisheries industries into growth industries. Agricultural and Fishery Products and Food Product Export Trends and the Government’s Growth Target (billions of ¥) 1,200 1,000.0 1,000 800 611.7 600 550.5 445.4 492.0 451.1 449.7 400 200 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2020 (Source) Prepared by MHFG based on the Ministry of Finance’s Trade Statistics and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries’ Exports of Agriculture, Forestry and Marine Products, Etc. Case Proactive Promotion of Sixth Industry Transformation 1 There have been increasing efforts to rebuild and revitalize Japan’s agriculture, forestry, and fisheries industries in recent years by means of sixth industry transformation* initiatives. The Agriculture, Forestr y and Fisheries Fund Cor poration for Innovation, Value-chain and Expansion Japan (A-FIVE), financial institutions, and local government entities provide funds to establish the Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Sixth Industry Fund (hereinafter, “the Fund”). The Fund is established for each region and each theme. Believing that the Fund is an effective means of transforming agriculture, forestry, * Sixth Industry initiatives: This is a drive and fisheries industries into growth industries, Mizuho has established the “Sixth to promote stable growth and developIndustry Initiative Support Desk” within MHBK across multiple related divisions to ment of the agriculture, forestry, and ﬁsheries industries and promote revival of Scheme of the Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Sixth Industry Fund the regions’ economies by increasing added value in the agriculture, forestry, Direct investment National level and ﬁsheries industries through the inteBusiness entities that will Subordinated loan (quasi-capital) gration of their production, processing, and logistical operations under a model Investments Investment in which their practitioners (primar y A-FIVE Sub-fund (Industrial investment) Loans Management sector entities) not only supply the raw support turn into a “Sixth Industry” materials, but also take a core, comprehensive role in the secondar y sector Investments (Partly private sector) (manufacturing and processing), and the Private-sector (ﬁnancial instituter tiar y sector (wholesale, retail, and tions, local governments) tourism) businesses. 34 Opportunities cooperate with regional financial institutions and A-FIVE by proactively participating in the establishment of sub-funds. In management of these sub-funds, MHBK is drawing on its broad customer base and Proactively contributing knowledge of industries, collaborating with joint sub-fund investors, including regional financial institutions, local governments and their entities, and A-FIVE, to play the roles to creating a prosperous of supporting business matching at the global level for technology and sales channels. In addition, Mizuho Capital, which has abundant experience providing venture companies future by fostering with capital and management support, is taking part in the management of some of the sub-funds. As of March 31, 2015, Mizuho had invested a total of ¥1.7 billion in 13 growth industries. sub-funds (total investments made by these 13 funds amounts to ¥16.8 billion) and had made investments in nine business entities that will turn into a “Sixth Industry.” Case Establishment of the Gulf Japan Food Fund 2 Japan is seeking to create specific initiatives toward expanding the export of food-related products, as the government has stated a target of doubling foodstuff and agriculture, forestry, and fisheries product exports by 2020 under its “Japan is Back strategy.” Improving food security is also a significant policy challenge in each Middle East nation. Accordingly, we believe that there is strong demand for both safe and high-quality food products as well as technology to support improving efficiency and adding value to food production and processing within the region. With the objective of responding to these needs of Middle East nations and providing support on the financing side for the expansion of exports such as foodstuffs, agricultural, forestry, and fisheries products, and related products and technologies from Japan into the Middle East region, MHBK is preparing to establish the Gulf Japan Food Fund, a private equity fund that is scheduled to be established during autumn 2015. Gulf Japan Food Fund Background Structure Establishment of this fund is an initiative based on the memorandum of underJapan Gulf s t a n d i n g fo r b u s i n e s s c o o p e r a ti o n Partners Investment (investors, etc.) signed in August 2013 between MHBK Corporation Double agricultural product and food and the Kuwait-based Gulf Investment exports to ¥1 trillion by 2020 Corporation (GIC), a government-owned Transform agriculture into a investment corporation formed through growth industry Gulf Japan Food Fund equal investment by the six member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf. In addition to GCC* countries providing ﬁnancial support through the Investments in food-related companies fund, MHBK and the GIC will take mutual Aims to improve food security advantage of the broad networks that Demand for safe and high-quality food our two companies enjoy to ﬁnd busiNeeds for food production and Production Processing Distribution Facilities ness par tners in both Japan and the processing technologies Middle East and provide various support * Gulf Cooperation Council: Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Kuwait, Qatar, and Bahrain to the investment targets of the fund. 35 36 Growth Strategies 37 Growth Strategies Business Environments Economic and Financial Environments in that promote sustainable development. Japan and Overseas As for the economies of the region as a whole, the situation in which growth momentum was lacking continued partially due to Reviewing the economic environment over the fiscal year the weakening of exports to Europe. As for the future direction ended March 31, 2015, although the global economy as a of the economy, while domestic demand is expected to be whole continued to recover gradually, weakness in the recovboosted by the decline in oil prices, since there are some conery is seen in some regions. As for the future direction of the cerns including depreciation of currencies that may be caused economy, although continued recovery is expected particularby the expected increase in interest rates in the United States, ly in the major industrialized countries, the effect of decline in the rate of economic expansion is expected to remain gradual. oil prices and increase of geopolitical risk need continued and Going forward, it will be important to keep an eye on the careful observation. impact of lower oil prices on oil exporting countries’ economies, In the United States, the economy continues to recover as the possibility of economic deceleration in a portion of emergemployment conditions improved and consumer spending ing countries, and the rise of geopolitical risks centered on the picked up. As for the future direction of the economy, Middle East and Russia. In addition to these increasing unceralthough the possible effects of movements toward normaltainty factors, the global economy’s persistent excess liquidity ization of monetary policy should be noted, steady recovery in will sustain an environment in which numerous markets are the economy is expected to continue. characterized by occasional bouts of volatility and sharp price On the other hand, in Europe, the economies of the Euro surges, and that situation calls for close attention. area continued to recover gradually, in addition to steady In Japan, the gradual economic recovery trend continued, recovery in the United Kingdom. It is expected that the econoand improvement was seen in employment conditions and cormies of the region will continue to be on a gradual recovery porate earnings. On the other hand, it remains undeniable that trend on the back of the U.S. economy’s steady recovery and there are weaknesses remaining in some parts of the Japanese increase in exports owing to the depreciated euro; however, economy. In particular, the burden on households stemming such factors as the consequence of debt problems (including from the consumption tax rate hike and yen depreciation has developments in Greece) and high unemployment rates, the grown heavy, causing a somewhat of a delay in the recovery of effect of the slowdown of the Russian economy, and trends in consumption, and companies had been maintaining prudent monetary policy still require attention. stance regarding the economic outlook. Currently, however, the In Asia, China’s economy continued to grow in a stable prudent stances of both households and companies are gradumanner, although the growth speed was slightly reduced. ally becoming more relaxed. Going forward, the Japanese This trend is expected to continue; however, a possibility of a economy can be expected to continue picking up, supported slowdown in the growth rate began to be recognized mainly by such factors as consumer spending growth backed by a due to the issue of excess equipment in the manufacturing recovery in employee compensation and increased exports sector and weakness in the real estate market. Recognizing due to the continued trend of yen depreciation against other the advent of the “new normal,” the Chinese government major currencies encouraged by the declining oil prices. itself has announced that it believes it to be desirable to Given the economic situations reviewed above, there seems guide a transition from high speed growth to mediumto to have been a transition from the “government policy-led high-speed growth. Continuing from last year, the governeconomic recovery” phase to a “creating firm foundation for ment is working to employ fiscal and financial policies to economic recovery led by vitality of the private sector” phase. support the economy while also working to deepen reforms In fields including agriculture, medical care, and tourism, new businesses such as the Japanese government’s “Cool Japan” strategy and infrastructure industry are taking shape both in Japan and overseas. Such additional factors as the Trans-Pacific Japan Private Consumption Integrated Estimates (Real) Partnership (TPP) negotiations, the drafting of new energy (2005=100) policies, the Tokyo Global Financial Center concept, and the 116 (Consumption tax rate hike) Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games are spurring 114 112 moves that appear likely to make Japan’s mediumto 110 long-term growth outlook firm within the global society. 108 106 Environment for Financial Institutions 104 102 1 3 5 7 9 11 1 3 5 7 9 11 1 3 5 7 9 11 1 Regarding financial institutions’ business environment, we 2012 2013 2014 2015 believe that due attention should be given to the following four points. (Source) Prepared by Mizuho Research Institute based on the Cabinet Office, Government of Japan’s Private Consumption Integrated Estimates 38 First, the economic environment for banks’ traditional busibanking services as settlement services, and this trend is crenesses is harsh. Against the backdrop of persistent ultralow ating a competitive environment quite different from the previinterest rates, rates of return on loans and bills discounted are ous environment. On the other hand, the use of information continuing to decrease, and the economic environment for and communication technology (ICT), artificial intelligence (AI), loan business and other traditional businesses is severe overand other leading-edge technologies is making it possible to all. In the housing loan market, for example, the intensity of offer a growing number of innovative services, and the scope competition is increasing. of associated new business opportunities is becoming proSecond, social demands for financial institutions are changgressively broader. ing. Rather than on traditional financing functions, there has Fourth, while there is an intensifying debate proceeding been a further rise in emphasis on consulting functions that regarding the revision of financial regulations, the direction of enable a grasp of issues and needs that customers themselves regulatory trends remains unclear. The outlines of Basel III are not aware of and enable the offerings of specific solutions regulations and the response to the “too big to fail” issue are for those issues and needs. In particular, there has been a rise approaching their final forms, but there remain movements in the diversity and importance of institutions’ role in the areas toward the introduction of noteworthy new regulations, and of fostering the development of SMEs and middle-market corthe situation is one that will require prudent responses to porations that support regional economies to promote regional such developments. revitalization as well as fostering the development of companies and industries that are globally competitive. Third, financial institutions are facing competition from other industries as well as new business opportunities. In recent years, a series of companies from other industries have been establishing presences in fields centered on such retail The Economic Impact of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games (trillions of yen) Value-addedTypes of effects induction amount Economic effect estimated based on a macro-economic approach 36.0 Economic effect estimated by building up individual effects 28.9 Direct impact (facility improvement, games operating expenses) 1.3 Incidental impact 27.7 Urban infrastructure improvements, acceleration of investment in Tokyo Olympics-related industries, acceleration 15.2 of improvements in earthquake resistance Acceleration in measures addressing diversity 1.1 Increase in sports-related spending, facility improvements 0.5 Increase in tourism demand 7.8 Other (accelerated purchases of 4K/8K televisions, etc.) 3.0 Prepared by Mizuho Research Institute Introduction of Basel III by Stages Summary/Objectives Introduction schedule Raising minimum capital adequacy ratios, strengthening capital • Application by stages from 2013 Capital Adequacy Requirement quality and risk capture, etc. • Complete implementation in 2019 • Ratio disclosure starting from 2015 Non-risk-based leverage ratio regulation Leverage Ratio • Aiming to introduce mandatory leverage (complementing the capital adequacy requirements) ratio requirements from 2018 Sufficient high-quality liquid assets required to respond to fund • Application by stages from 2015 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) outflows under stressed conditions • Complete implementation in 2019 Mediumto long-term stable funding required with respect to assets Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) • Application from 2018 for which short-term disposal is difficult Prepared by Mizuho Financial Group 39 Growth Strategies Medium-term Business Plan and Its Progress Five Basic Policies Ten Basic Strategies 1. Strengthen Strengt integrated ﬁnancial services by unifying banking, 1 banking, and securities functions to respond to ﬁnely delineated trust ba Further develop corporate and personal banking segments corpor integrated strategies across the Group for each customer segment to respond to the diverse needs of our customers Perform consulting functions taking advantage of our industry and 2 business knowledge and forward-looking perspective 2. Support formation of personal ﬁnancial assets in Japan and invigorate Business Strategies 3 Contribute to their investment sustainable development of the world and Japan by proactively responding to change Strengthen proactive risk-taking functions for growth industries and 4 corporations 3. Strengthen and expand Asia-related business in Japan and on a 5 global basis Mizuho Means Asia: accelerate globalization Cultivate multi-level transactions by capturing the accelerating global 6 capital and trade ﬂows 4. Build strong financial 7 Strengthen stable ﬁnancial foundations based on abundant liquidity and Business Management, appropriate capital levels and management foundations to support the essence Establish the optimal management foundations (human resources and of Mizuho 8 business infrastructure) to support business strategy Management Foundations, etc. 5. Form strong 9 Further strengthen proactive governance and risk management corporate governance and culture in the spirit of Embed the new Mizuho corporate identity toward forming a common One Mizuho 10 culture throughout the Group and take actions toward being the best ﬁnancial services provider 40 Overview of Achievements By promoting the integration of banking, trust banking, and securities functions and the broad-ranging cross-divisional sharing of the Group’s ﬁnancial know-how and industry expertise, we are quickly responding to all types of customer needs by combining the Group’s comprehensive capabilities to provide diverse ﬁnancial services. Concurrently, we are taking such measures as those to create joint branches of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. We are performing sophisticated consulting functions on a global basis taking advantage of our industry and business knowledge and forward-looking perspective through activities such as arrangement of project ﬁnance for a post-combustion carbon capture-enhanced oil recovery project in the United States and participation in a smart community demonstration project in Slovenia. To respond to customers’ wide range of asset management needs, we are striving to develop and strengthen our lineup of such products as investment trusts to meet the asset formation needs that are a particular focus of working age households as well as the asset management needs that are emphasized by the retired generation. In addition, we are proceeding with preparations and discussions concerning the integration of our asset management group companies. Regarding such ﬁelds as agriculture, medical care, and energy, we are investing in funds that support sixth industry transformation initiatives for the agriculture, forestry, and ﬁsheries industries as well as foster the development of health care and medical/nursing care businesses, and we are also providing funding for renewable energy businesses. Through these activities, we will actively provide broad support for the initiatives of our customers in growth ﬁelds. We acquired a North American wholesale business credit portfolio from Royal Bank of Scotland and thereby accelerated the expansion of transactions with non-Japanese global corporations. Furthermore, we have created a system to enable our ofﬁces throughout the world to collaborate in providing support to customers with the aim of offering them a global business development. In addition, we are devoting resources to further develop our global network, centered on the Asia region. We respond to customers’ needs on a global basis by offering sophisticated cash management services. Furthermore, we provide cutting-edge solutions including cross-border settlement services for various emerging currencies, hedges against foreign exchange risk, issuing bonds for foreign trade, securitization of overseas accounts receivable, and trade ﬁnance ECA (export credit agencies) ﬁnance. Transformation toward stable and sustainable proﬁt structure centered on income from CustomFinancial Highlights er Groups makes steady progress. At the same time, we have ensured a sufﬁcient level of capital (Inside pages 3 and 4) as of March 31, 2015. Along with optimizing the training and use of human resources as well as business operations Strengthening Management Foundations from a groupwide perspective, we are working to develop stable management foundations, (pages 76 and 77, pages 80 and 81) including next-generation IT systems. In addition to strengthening the functions of the holding company, we transformed into a “Company Special Features (pages 22 and 23) with Three Committees” in June 2014. We will move ahead with establishing a further advanced Strengthening Management Foundations governance structure appropriate for a ﬁnancial services group with a global presence. (pages 66 to 75) The One Mizuho Promotion Project Team is leading diverse measures. Speciﬁcally, they are providing Strengthening Management Foundations support for the realization of their visions created by each of the Group’s divisions and branches and (pages 78 and 79) are sustaining such programs as the “Discussions with Senior Management” programs. 41 Growth Strategies Key Strategies for Fiscal 2015 Thoroughly Strengthen Operations in the Four Key Focus Areas (1) Establish Competitive Edge in the Area of Transactions with Financial Transactions with Large Corporate Customers Large Corporate Customers We are seeking to “establish an overwhelming competitive edge in the area of ﬁnancial transactions with large corporate customers” by fully leveraging our large corporate customer base, which encompasses approximately 70% of listed companies in Japan; the capabilities of more than 100 “dual hat” employees, who are concurrently assigned to units within both MHBK and MHSC; and our Industry Research Division, which is the largest such unit of any Japan-based bank. Speciﬁcally, we are using our industry expertise on a global basis to provide optimal solutions and present strategic conditions, and thereby expanding our proﬁtability from the non-interest business in all sectors of the banking, Business Strategies trust banking, and securities subsidiaries. We intend to expeditiously strengthen the Mizuho brand in the area of ﬁnancial transactions with large corporate customers and realize our objective of becoming No.1 in comprehensive business promoting capability. (2) Enhance Our Integrated Approach to Transactions with Both corporations and Their Owners SMEs and Middle-Market Corporations We are ahead of other ﬁnancial institutions in promoting an integrated approach to both corporations and their owners, which enables us to provide optimal solutions in an integrated manner between banking, trust banking, and securities functions for dealing with business succession and asset inheritance needs and other needs that corporations owners have both as company owners and as individuals. We have established a solid management foundation in the form of joint branches providing banking, trust banking, and securities functions, ofﬁces with an integrated approach to both corporations and their owners, and other channels, in addition to building up expertise and know-how on business succession and real estate. Going forward, we will be leveraging our strengths as a pioneer in this ﬁeld to provide consulting functions to an increasingly broad range of customers with business succession and asset inheritance needs, and we will thereby progressively strengthen our integrated approach to both corporations and their owners. Financial Strategies to Support Our Business Strategies (1) Additional profit structure reform to achieve growth in non-interest income By promoting further growth in non-interest income and a further rise in RORA, we will realize increases in both our Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio and ROE. Financial Strategies (2) Financial strategies responding to stricter regulations To respond to stricter global ﬁnancial regulations, we will take measures to steadily strengthen our capital base and implement efﬁcient balance sheet management practices. (3) Measures for achieving our cross-shareholdings reduction target By reducing our stock portfolio taking into account of the market trends, we seek to reduce our balance of stock portfolio to “approximately 25% of Tier 1 capital,”* a target set forth in our medium-term business plan. * Hedging effects are included. Although preferred stocks are not classiﬁed as CET1 capital under Basel III, our calculation includes the Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock (mandatory conversion date: July 2016) in CET1 capital. 42 (3) Development of the Super 30 Strategy Transactions with Non-Japanese Blue Chip Customers In our Super 30 strategy, we have selected approximately 30 non-Japanese blue chip customers (a total of approximately 120) at each of our four overseas regional units (the Americas, the Europe, Middle East and Africa, Asia and Oceania, and the East Asia units) and begun working to increase multifaceted transactions such as lending as well as settlement and securities with those customers, aiming to build long-term relationships. These efforts are steadily bearing fruit in such forms as our leading role in arranging large-scale ﬁnance for industry sectors undergoing reorganization. Going forward, we will further promote our differentiation strategies—such as those for expanding our non-Japanese Business Strategies blue chip customer base, for strengthening our industry sector-focused approach by operating a proposal-based model and for strengthening the integrated management of banking and securities functions—with the objective of becoming a global core bank for non-Japanese blue chip companies with strong presences in Japan and Asia. (4) Make Asset Management the “Fourth Pillar” of Our Business Asset Management Business The shift from savings to investments, pension system reforms, and other trends are spurring major changes in the environment for asset management business. Amid this environment, we are promoting group-wide strategies across our banking, trust banking, securities, and asset management subsidiaries to precisely respond to the diverse needs of a wide variety of customers ranging from individuals to pension funds and regional ﬁnancial institutions and offer the highest quality solutions. Going forward, we are strengthening our asset management business to make it the “fourth pillar” of our business, after the banking, trust banking, and securities. To establish a top brand in the asset management sector in both qualitative and quantitative terms, we are striving to invigorate Japan’s ¥1,700 trillion in monetary assets and thereby contribute to the expansion of the Japanese asset management market while also undertaking pension asset management that facilitate Japan’s adjustment to the progress in country’s aging trend. Building Governance Systems and Establishing Culture (1) Highly transparent management centered on RAF Positioning its Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) as the cornerstone of its risk governance, we establish risk appetiterelated policies. By sharing those policies throughout our organization and making sure that operations are manManagement Foundations aged in accordance with those policies, we are seeking to realize management characterized by a high level of self-discipline and transparency. (2) Spreading the One Mizuho Culture throughout the Group The One Mizuho Promotion Project Team, which promotes the practice of “Mizuho Values (values and standards of behavior shared by all employees) is playing the central role in supporting the realization of the “Vision of Individual Ofﬁces,” which deﬁnes the visions to be aimed for by each division and branch; organizing the “General Managers Off-site Meeting,” which serves as a forum for general managers to discuss corporate culture-related issues; and moving ahead with a variety of other measures designed to spread the One Mizuho culture throughout the group. 43 Growth Strategies Realizing the “New Frontier” of Finance Looking ahead at the next 10 years, we will aim to contribute to the recovery and ongoing growth of the Japanese economy, and growth in Asia and its associated effects on Japan’s economic development. To this end, in April 2013, we have newly formed four project teams, namely: “Next-generation Retail Service,” “Next-generation Industry Development,” “Next-generation Asia-related Business,” and “Invigoration of Domestic Financial Assets,” thus, implementing consideration and initiatives for the realization of the “new frontier” of finance. Developing Next-generation Industries What Mizuho Aims to Be Assuming the changes in Japan’s industrial structure over necessary” and “industries that have growth potential,” with a the next ten years, we will endeavor to contribute to Mizuho’s view especially to restructuring and sustainable development growth strategy by nurturing “new industries that will be of the Japanese economy. Overview Based on the discussion of the Japanese government’s customers’ needs in the aggregate as well as by drawing on Industrial Competitiveness Council, Mizuho’s Next-Generation the know-how of external organizations and specialists. Industry Development PT (Project Team) has selected three These initiatives have generated concrete results in such focus fields—“environment and energy,” “agriculture,” and forms as the establishment of funds and arrangement of advi“medical care and silver industries”—and established individual sory contracts focused on industry development. They are teams to focus on each field. These teams progressively deepcontributing to foster next-generation industries while also ened their studies and took measures to address individual promoting the expansion of Mizuho’s business operations. issues. Also, we have adopted a 10-year perspective on industry development and are striving to identify additional developSpecial Feature (pages 30 to 35) ment themes based on analyses of Mizuho’s expertise and its Providing Next-Generation Retail Services What Mizuho Aims to Be The progress of IT and expansion of social media has been situation, Mizuho is employing leading-edge technologies as accompanied by a diversification of communications methit seeks to maintain close relationships with its customers ods, expanded use of electronic settlement methods in indiand provide them with services characterized by ever higher viduals’ day-to-day lives, and other trends that are propelling levels of convenience and amenity. noteworthy progress in financial technologies. Amid this Overview In fiscal 2013, we established “Next-generation Retail PT” when the system determines that customers are experienccomprised of mainly young employees across several diviing difficulties. sions to envisage financial services in the future. In April 2014, we also established the Incubation Department. While Introduced combined service of Speech Recognition aggregating expertise, technologies, and other resources system and IBM Watson Technology at call centers from within and outside the Group, the PT has worked to gain a deeper understanding of customer needs and move Speech ahead with efforts to develop new services. Recognition (1) Inquiry system (2) Transcription In fiscal 2014, we introduced new call center systems that incorporate Watson* speech recognition technology, and Watson Technology these systems have made it possible to provide responses (3) Display (4) Response with even greater speed and accuracy. Moreover, we have Customer response inaugurated a new service through a system that undertakes real-time analysis of the situations of customers accessing Operator MHBK’s website and offers effective chat-based advice * Watson Technology is IBM’s cognitive computing technology (computer technology aiming to emulate human cognitive capabilities). 44 Developing Business in Asia What Mizuho Aims to Be Mizuho positions Asia as an extremely important region due investments in Asia, we are taking initiatives to create and to the excellent prospects for ongoing economic growth. To build new businesses in Asia by drawing on our accmulated respond to the strong demand for funds that will be needed know-how regarding financial markets and financial services. along with the high growth and increases in infrastructure Overview The Next-generation Asia Business PT is engaged in efforts of bond markets in the Asia region. centered on the Asia Bond Market Development Project. In April 2015, we acquired regulatory approval from the Besides private-sector-level efforts to promote bond market Ministry of Finance of Thailand to issue THB-denominated development through mutual cooperation with Asian financial bonds in the Thai domestic market (up to THB3.2 billion) institutions, the PT is realizing bond issuances based on the under the AMBIF. Accordingly, we have commenced specific ASE AN+3 MultiCurre ncy Bond Issuance Framewor k preparation work toward issuance. This will be the first issu(AMBIF) that are contributing to the additional development ance of bonds under the AMBIF. Invigorating Domestic Financial Assets What Mizuho Aims to Be Amid the economic environment shift from deflation to inflaMizuho has established a project team to invigorate Japan’s tion, maintaining and expanding households’ financial assets approximately ¥1,700 trillion in monetary assets. Through mearequires more than investments in such safe assets as savings sures including those to provide services in line with changes accounts and government bonds. It is becoming increasingly in the environment, the project team is moving ahead with important for individuals to equip themselves with adequate efforts to realize fund flows that enable growth in household levels of financial literacy so that they can select the most assets and also promote the growth of Japan’s economy. appropriate financial products. Overview Noting that a high share of Japan’s households’ financial promote mediumto long-term asset accumulationand assets are held by seniors and that those assets are generalmaintenance-related objectives in light of the trends of rising ly fixed in forms centered on savings accounts, the Domesinflation and increasingly long lifespans. For working age housetic Financial Asset Invigoration PT studied cases of financial holds, we are making government policy recommendations and asset invigoration in other developed countries. We are at an taking other initiatives to promote the use of long-term and appropriate stage for considering concerted publicand fund-based asset formation methods and encourage greater private-sector ef for ts over the long term centered on diffusion of defined contribution pension and NISA systems. mediumto long-term investments as well as on defined contribution pension systems, Financial assets held by households (comparison Percentage ratio to the NISAs*, and others. As a financial institution total financial assets (%) of Japan and U.S., as of December 2014) with such assets as channels, consulting Currency and deposits Insurance and pension reserves Shares and equities capabilities, and an array of financial product, Investment trusts Bonds Others 1.7 Mizuho is working based on a long-term 52.5 26.4 9.5 5.5 4.4 perspective to act as a leader in the financial Japan industry and contribute to the invigoration of (¥1,694 trillion) 13.4 32.5 33.4 13.1 4.7 domestic financial assets by implementing United States diverse measures. (USD68.0 trillion) 2.9 Specifically, for the retired generation, we are 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 promoting the provision of consulting services * “Others” is the residual which is the remaining after deducting “Currency and deposits,” “Insurance and that not only respond to asset management pension reserves,” “Shares and equities,” “Investment trusts” and “Bonds” from total financial assets. Source: Prepared by MHFG based on Bank of Japan’s “Flow of Funds—Overview of Japan, US, and the Euro area—” needs emphasizing short-term gains but also * NISA: Nippon Individual Savings Accounts 45 Growth Strategies Contributing to the Solution of Social Issues to Promote Sound Economic Mizuho recognizes that CSR initiatives help contribute to the sustainable development of society and provide the platform for creating and advancing our group’s corporate value. Based on this idea, we have identiﬁed the strengthening efforts to promote businesses that contribute to the sustainable development of society as one of our CSR initiative policies to address over the mediumto long-term. Therefore, in addition to harnessing our broad ﬁnancial service functions and supporting the real economy from the mediumand long-term perspective, we are promoting business that contributes to the sustainable development of society in response to the renewed expectations of stakeholders as a global ﬁnancial group. Social Issues Mizuho’s Major Initiatives Toward sustainable social development Protect the • Applies the Equator Principles to promote ﬁnance-related consideration of environmental and social impacts Environment Global Environment • Offers ﬁnancial products and services that encourage society to promote and while Simultaneously environmental consideration Energy Providing Stable • Provides eco-friendly loans and ﬁnancings for renewable energy projects Supply of Energy • Implements initiatives for environmental city projects • Engages in environment-related consulting services, surveys and research Special Features (pages 30 to 32) Toward the realization of a safe and dynamic society Aging Initiatives • Promotes the application of barrier-free and universal design concepts Society addressing an • Develops and provides products that respond to needs related to effective asset utilization and asset inheritance with aging society • Provides services that are simple and convenient, as well as easy to Declining with a declining understand and use Birthrate birthrate • Makes efforts to prevent ﬁnancial crimes Business Approaches (pages 50 to 55) Toward contributions to social and economic development over the coming 10 years Responding • Activities to support growth companies and nurture next-generation Industrial industries Special Features (pages 30 to 35) to Changes Development in Social • Pursues next-generation business models in retail ﬁnance and and Industrial • Fosters the development of Asian bond markets with an eye to promoting economic growth and increased infrastructure investment Innovation Structure • Works to invigorate domestic asset ﬂows to promote growth in household assets and economic growth Growth Strategies (pages 44 and 45), Business Approaches (pages 49 to 63) Toward regional revivals and the recovery of disaster-stricken areas Revitalizing Regional Economies • Cooperates with local government entities and regional ﬁnancial instituBased on tions to revitalize regions Regional Consideration of • Leverages ﬁnancing and consulting functions to help solve challenges Revitalization Challenges Associated faced by local companies • Provides sustained support for the recovery of industries and societies of with Population the disaster-stricken areas of the Great East Japan Earthquake in ways that Decreases generate employment opportunities Business Approaches (pages 58 and 59, 62 and 63) 46 and Social Development Initiatives for the Equator Principles Consistently Applying the Equator Principles to Financing Projects The Equator Principles are guidelines to conﬁrm that when and the communities and incorporate compliance measures ﬁnancial institutions are participating in large scale infrastructo meet the guidelines as a requirement of their funding. ture projects, these projects are taking environmental and MHBK became the ﬁrst Asian bank to adopt the Equator social risk impacts into consideration. Under the Equator Principles in 2003 and since its adoption, it applies the princiPrinciples framework, Equator Principles Financial Institutions ples globally through the original Mizuho Equator Principles (EPFIs) will assess the impact of projects on the environment Implementation Manual and consistent in-house training. Exerting Leadership in Equator Principles Association Activities More than ten years since its adoption, MHBK has been involved Sustainable Society,” which have been signed by approxiin operation and planning of the Equator Principles Association mately 190 ﬁnancial institutions and other companies in Japan. (EPA). In May 2014, it assumed the role of the Chair of the Equator Principles Association as the ﬁrst bank in Asia and plays a leadership role in the organizational management of the Association. These activities have been highly evaluated, and MHBK has Annual Meeting of the Equator been selected for special recognition for its good practices in Principles Assoaccordance with the “Principles for Financial Action towards a ciation (EPA) Promotes the application of barrier-free and universal design concepts The Mizuho Heartful Project—Aiming to be “a Bank that Is Easy for Anyone to Use” Aiming to be “a bank that is easy for anyone to use regardless who have difﬁculty communicating orally. Regarding psychoof age, gender, or disability,” MHBK has been implementing its logical initiatives during the ﬁscal year, MHBK and MHTB Heartful Project since 2005. The Heartful Project is promoting implemented “dementia supporter” training courses for more the use of barrier-free and universal design concepts through than 1,200 participants, bringing the cumulative number of three kinds of initiatives—facility-related initiatives (buildings, participants to more than 3,000. While regarding facility-related facilities, devices, etc.), service-related initiatives (customer initiatives, MHSC made preparations for the installation of forms and documents, Internet contents, etc.), and psychologautomated external deﬁbrillators (AED) at all of its branches. ical initiatives (education and training to improve customer relation skills, etc.). Since ﬁscal 2013, MHTB and MHSC have been implementing the same kinds of measures. Service-related initiatives in ﬁscal 2014 included MHBK’s revision of its ATM screen formats to increase customer conSigns are posted by the entrances and venience and MHTB’s introduction of white boards at all its exits of each MHBK branch to explain branches to facilitate written communications with customers the branch’s barrier-free status. Mizuho Heartful Business—Aiming to Spread Heartful Practices throughout Society Since ﬁscal 2010, MHBK has been pursuing its “Mizuho Heartful Business,” which supports initiatives undertaken by corpo* Heartful Companies rate and individual customers to promote barrier-free concepts • Companies that offer products or services that improve and Universal Design Principles. MHBK’s ﬁnancial support the lives of the elderly or disabled. program for Heartful Companies* among its corporate customers offers such products as Mizuho Heartful Loans and • Companies that actively employ the elderly or disabled and improve workplace environments toward that end. Mizuho Heartful Private Placements and also undertakes business matching services and other services for companies • Companies that recognize diverse work styles and create focused on business aimed at elderly customers. workplaces that are open to all. 47 48 Business Approaches 49 Business Approaches Personal Banking Unit To be a financial group that continues to be chosen by customers by improving ability to provide services In order to satisfy the needs of individual customers throughout their lives, Mizuho prepares ﬁnancial plans to meet the various stages and circumstances of their lives and provides each customer with optimal products and services. By fully leveraging our banking, trust banking, and securities functions, we will respond to a wide range of ﬁnancial needs of our customers. Tetsuhiko Saito Head of Personal Banking Unit Business Environment and Mizuho’s Strategies Achievements in Fiscal 2014 While the Japanese economy is gradually recovering, the Aiming to more accurately address customers’ increasingly progress of demographic graying is increasing customer’s diverse needs, Mizuho is maintaining its efforts to further augneeds related to asset formation and management. Given that ment its banking, trust banking, and securities functions. roughly 60% of Japan’s approximately ¥1,700 trillion in moneResponding to customers’ wide range of asset managetary assets is held by people aged 60 and above, the current ment needs, MHBK and MHSC are increasing their lineup of “shift from savings to investment” trend is expected to be asset management products, and each MHBK branch has going forward by growing moves to transfer assets to the next begun undertaking Financial Instruments Intermediary Service generation. for MHSC’s ﬁnancial products as well as promoting asset Moreover, individual customers’ lifestyles are changing with formation methods involving Nippon Individual Savings the progress of digital technologies and diffusion of social Accounts (NISAs). media, and ﬁnancial needs related to those lifestyles are To support the customers’ asset inheritance processes becoming increasingly diverse. smoothly, MHTB has signed testamentary trust agency conRecognizing these changes in the business environment, tracts with MHBK and MHSC, which are expanding their relatwe are striving to provide products and services of MHBK, ed consultation window operations. In addition, MHTB has MHTB, and MHSC in ways that comprehensively satisfy the begun offering qualiﬁed educational fund giving trusts named needs of individual customers throughout their lives, including “Manabi no Okurimono” as well as Mizuho Family Trust and the asset accumulation needs that are a particular focus of “Omoi no Okurimono” aged donation trust products. working age households along with the asset management Aiming to further increase customers’ convenience in using needs that are emphasized by the retired generation. Mizuho services, we are expanding our branch network and In addition, given the growing diversity of transaction settleare also striving to upgrade our Internet banking and smartment methods—including those involving Internet transactions phone banking services, revise ATM interface screen formats, and those involving electronic money—we are proactively and take a continuing series of other measures designed to striving to provide customers with increasingly convenient make use of our services easy for all kinds of customers. services by leveraging the latest technologies with the goal of anticipating and pioneering next-generation ﬁnancial methods. External Environment and Mizuho’s Strong Points MHBK MHTB MHSC MHBK+MHSC Balance of Investment Products Number of Inheritance Distribution Service Collaboration (trillions of ¥) Mizuho offers a variety (No. of contracts) 120% of investment products, 130% Industry-leading 25 1,200 and MHBK has taken performance 20 1,000 the initiative to introduce MHTB acts as agent for 800 15 its customers with secuheirs in executing the rities investment needs 600 procedure s of inheri10 to MHSC. As a result, 400 t a n c e. C u s to m e r s of 5 the balance of invest200 MHBK and MHSC are 0 ment products is steadi0 also making use of this FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 50 ly increasing. service. Providing ﬁnancial functions in line with customers’ life stages and life events Asset buildup stage Asset management and inheritance stage Life Stage 10s 20s 30s 40s 50s 60s 70s 80s of Customers Entrance House Children’s into Employment Marriage purchase entrance Retirement To the next generation College into school Financial needs Daily settlements Loans, Insurance, Monthly deposits Asset management Asset inheritance Provide products and services with Practice consulting-based marketing that leverages strong emphasis on customer convenience integrated banking, trust banking, and securities functions Mizuho’s Approach Provide advanced products and services while expanding Offer asset management and asset inheritance products provision channels in line with customers’ lifestyles and services in line with customers’ needs Case (1) Case (2) Revision of ATM Screens Expansion of Branch Network Based on the opinions expressed by customers, MHBK has T h e n u m b e r of M i zu h o’s j o i nt revised and enhanced its ATM interface screen formats. branches providing banking, trust Having adopted universal design elements for the layouts, banking, and securities functions, colors, and other aspects of these screens, MHBK became the has increased to 186 branches ﬁrst company in Japan’s ﬁnancial industry to receive Usability as of March 31, 2015. On top of Veriﬁed by User Testing mark certiﬁcation from JITSUKEN this, Mizuho has banking branchINSTITUTE. es in ever y prefecture, and the industry-leading securities branch network in Japan. Case (3) Example of Efforts to Promote Mediumto Long-Term Growth Enhancing Services Provided through Internet, Smartphone, and Other Channels MHBK has begun offering a housing knowing transferees’ detailed bank Controlled using loan refunding, for which applicaaccount information. LINE Pay tion can be completed via the InterMizuho is developing and net without visiting a branch ofﬁce. releasing new applications and Charging up Debiting Moreover, MHBK has begun services on smartphones, and it of fering Charging-up/Debiting has become the ﬁrst company in Funds can be transferred without knowing functions to “LINE Pay”, so MHBK any industry to receive the MCPC transferees’ detailed bank account information customers can now easily transfer Award’s Encouragement Prize for money to other LINE users without four consecutive years. LINE Pay Account Charging-up/Debiting Functions *MCPC: Mobile Computing Promotion Consortium No.1 ATM Network No.1 in Survey Number of ATMs “Retail Banking Survey” on Product AEON Bank ATMs are Offering Adequacy* Mizuho has been rated ATMs of MHBK: located nationwide in No.1 on Product Offerapproximately 1,800 Locations Rank Bank Score ing Ad e quacy in th e Japan in supermarkets, convenience stores, and 1 Mizuho Bank 75.8 banking industry in the ATMs of Aeon Bank: elsewhere. Customers 2 THE NISHI-NIPPON CITY BANK 74.6 sur vey conducte d by approximately 4,900 Locations will have access to ATM 3 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank 73.6 Nikkei. No.1 ATM Network among se r v ic e s at the s a m e 4 Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 71.7 Japanese Megabanks fees charged via MHBK 5 Resona Bank 71.3 approximately 6,700 Locations ATMs. * Nikkei survey conducted in September 2014 51 Business Approaches Retail Banking Unit / Corporate Banking Unit Retail Banking Unit Realizing our goal of being a long-term business partner with regard to both corporations and their owners In line with our “Connecting customers’ businesses and assets as a long-term business partner regarding both corporations and their owners” policy, we are meeting the needs of customers centered on corporate owners by leveraging our “integrated approach to both corporations and their owners” and our “integrated strategy for banking, trust banking, and securities functions” to provide comprehensive solutions. Keiichiro Ogushi Head of Retail Banking Unit / Head of Corporate Banking Unit Business Environment and Mizuho’s Strategies Achievements in Fiscal 2014 Currently, the average age of presidents of Japanese compaAs a result of our strengthening of such pioneering efforts, we nies is progressively rising, while the rate of president succeswere able in ﬁscal 2014 to increase the number of new cussion is remaining low. Moreover, against the backdrop of tomers to 1.8 times the level in ﬁscal 2012 and further expand increases in the Nikkei Stock Average and in land prices, the our customer base. Reﬂecting our approach focused on inheritance-related costs of corporate owners and land owners business and asset inheritance, we increased the value of are trending upward. Amid this environment, business and real estate for lease-related lending to corporate owners and asset inheritance issues are becoming increasingly urgent, and asset administration companies to 1.3 times, and asset the methods are becoming increasingly diverse, so there is a management-related income grew to 1.4 times the ﬁscal 2012 strong need for solutions that enable customers to handle level. Moreover, we have prepared brochures and other tools inheritance processes in an appropriate and smooth manner. for group-wide use that explain various kinds of succession Positioned as a specialized unit, this unit has since ﬁscal and inheritance methods, and we are developing additional 2013 been augmenting its efforts to address issues centered presentation tools that enable corporate owners to more on those related to business and asset inheritance in line with easily understand their options. the “integrated approach to both corporations and their To still further upgrade our services, the general managers owners” and “integrated strategy for banking, trust banking, are beginning to directly meet with and handle relations with and securities functions.” Although competition in this ﬁeld is approximately 20,000 selected customers while making use intensifying, we are positioned to leverage ﬁve competitive of the functions of various group companies and business advantages that enable us to continue providing customers divisions. Regarding ultra-high net-worth individuals, our with optimal solutions, in addition to the advantage we have as group company exclusively providing private bank ing a pioneer in this ﬁeld. Aiming to further accelerate our integratservices, Mizuho Private Wealth Management, is leveraging ed approach to both corporations and their owners strategy integrated banking, trust banking, and securities functions to going forward, we are establishing training and other systems address ﬁnancial issues and is also providing non-ﬁnancial that enable us to foster the development of human resources services through such means as referrals to medical instituequipped with the skills needed to approach customers with tions, education-related companies, and others. respect to both corporationsand their owner-related issues. External Environment and Mizuho’s Strong Points Average Age of President In ﬁscal 2014, the number President Succession Rate and Average Number of New Customers Age of President President Succession Rate of new loan transaction (times) (Age) (%) The average age of presi2.0 1.8 times customers rose to 1.8 60 5 times the number in dents is steadily rising. More ove r, the pre siﬁscal 2012, and we are 58 4 1.5 dent succe ssion rate continuing our efforts to 56 3 has been trending fur ther expand our 1.0 customer base. 54 2 downward since 2010. (Source)Teikoku Databank 52 1 0.5 1992 1995 1998 2001 2004 2007 2010 2013 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 52 “Owner” business model of Mizuho Corporations Expansion of the customer base Owners Differentiation from other banks Five Competitive Advantages of Mizuho “Corporate owner” Perpetuate corporate business relationship Perpetuate individual business relationship Business expansion Stable management of total assets Ofﬁce network in Tokyo Metropolitan Financing Provide solutions related to succession in Investment trust & insurance Area for integrated sales promotion to Business an integrated approach to “both corporations and their Asset both corporations and their owners expansion Business matching owners” as well as in an integrated manner between Equity & bonds build-up No.1 in the number of joint branches “banking, trust banking and securities” functions between “banking, trust banking and Business succession Asset inheritance securities” functions MHBK Succession consulting MHTB Business Asset succession succession Expertise of the trust function in real MHTB Testamentary trust MBOs/M&As MHSC estate business Obtain “main bank status” leveraging Consulting knowledge of successions (30 succession / inheritance services Inheritance Next years for MHTB and 10 years for MHBK) generation Financing Real estate IPOs/POs MHBK MHTB MHSC Capabilities to provide ﬁnancial Investment trust & insurance Trust products Equity & bonds solutions to corporate customers leveraging industry knowledge Case (1) Case (2) Integrated Approach to both Corporations and Their Owners Strengthening Proposal Capabilities through Use of Tablet Terminals As part of its efforts to build close ties with regional communiMizuho is equipping all of its relaties, Mizuho is proactively approaching chambers of comt i o n s h i p m a n a g e r s ( R M s) w i t h merce and other regional assembly as a means of strengthentablet terminals loaded with diverse ing its relationships with corporate owners. In addition to kinds of information and presentaresponding to owners’ business inheritance needs, we offer tion tools, such as sof tware for advice on methods of passing personal assets on to the next calculating inheritance taxes. When generation (asset inheritance). RMs are assessing every customer’s needs, the tablets make it possible for them to speedily provide information and offer solutions. Case (3) Example of Efforts to Promote Mediumto Long-Term Growth Strengthening Relationships with Customers through Seminars and Corporate Membership Associations for Corporate Owners As part of our activities addressto provide owners with informaing corporate owners, we utilize tion and advice in accordance an integrated strategy for bankwith their needs. ing, trust banking, and securities In addition, more than 20,000 functions to organize top owners’ business owners have become seminars and seminars focused members of the Group’s FORUM-M on individual topics related to association, which is exclusively business and asset inheritance for corporate owners. and asset management. We do our utmost through these activities Reﬂecting our approach O w i n g to M i z u h o’s Value of Loans related to Real Estate Asset Management-Related Proﬁt for Lease fo c u s e d o n b u s i n e s s integrated approach to (times) (times) and asset inheritance, 1.4 times both corporations and 1.5 1.5 1.3 times Mizuho Bank increased their owners, the the value of its real Mizuho Group’s asset estate for lease-related m a n ag e m e nt-re l ate d 1.0 l e n d i n g to i n d i v i d u a l 1.0 proﬁt grew to 1.4 times custome rs a nd as set the ﬁscal 2012 level. administration compa0.5 n i e s to 1.3 ti m e s th e 0.5 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 ﬁscal 2012 level. FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 53 Business Approaches Retail Banking Unit / Corporate Banking Unit Corporate Banking Unit Contributing to economic growth in Japan by performing a wide range of financial functions and supporting the growth strategies of corporations We are utilizing the group-wide capabilities to meet the diverse needs of our SME and middle-market corporate customers in line with their development stages—not only providing funds and settlement solutions but also offering growth strategy support in management issues, such as those related to business strategies and ﬁnancial strategies, including M&A, business inheritance, overseas business expansion support. Keiichiro Ogushi Head of Retail Banking Unit / Head of Corporate Banking Unit Business Environment and Mizuho’s Strategies Achievements in Fiscal 2014 The Japanese economy’s gradual recovery trend has been Owing to our intensiﬁcation of these efforts during ﬁscal 2014, accompanied by rising expectations of a gradual recovery in we were able to increase the number of new customers to a the funding demands of our SME and middle-market corpolevel 1.3 times the ﬁscal 2012 level. By responding to diverse rate customers. As our customers’ ﬁnancial needs are kinds of funding needs, we realized year-on-year growth in the becoming increasingly diverse, sophisticated, and global, we value of our loans to SMEs and middle-market corporations. are seeking to provide them with optimal products and soluIn light of rising needs related to M&A transactions and tions to contribute to the resolution of customers’ manageoverseas business launches in connection with the growth ment challenges and to the elevation of their corporate value. strategies of owner-managed companies at maturing stages, Amid this environment, the Corporate Banking Unit is we have been striving to appropriately respond to manageworking to expand its customer base and seeking to gain ment issues characteristic of customers’ corporate life-cycle good understandings of the special management challenges stages through the integrated responses by various group so that it can make full use of the Group’s advisory and condivisions and companies that are designed to elevate customsulting functions and thereby proactively move ahead with ers’ corporate value. Regarding suppor t for customers’ measures to support customers’ growth strategies. launches of overseas operations, we are endeavoring to proSpeciﬁcally, we are enhancing our efforts to identify promvide optimal information and services related to such processising companies at their creation and growth stages, and es as overseas business strategy formulation, the establishworking to supply business matchingand integrated bankment of overseas subsidiaries, and the post-establishment ing, trust banking, and securities function-related support for business management of overseas subsidiaries. Consequentcustomers’ IPOs. For customers at mature and transitional ly, the value of our business supporting launches of overseas development stages of their life cycles, we are offering growth operations during ﬁscal 2014 was 1.2 times the 2012 level. strategy support such as those related to MBOs, business In collaboration with MHSC, MHTB, and other group cominheritance, entries into new business ﬁelds, business reorgapanies, we are proactively working to provide services to nizations, and the launch of overseas operations. In all these strengthen our response to customers’ M&A strategy-related respects, Mizuho as a whole is striving to work to provide advisory and ﬁnance arrangement needs and meet the needs customers with sophisticated ﬁnancial solutions. of customers planning IPOs. External Environment and Mizuho’s Strong Points Large Enterprises Reﬂecting our efforts to BOJ Tankan (Short-Term Economic Survey Number of New Customers of Enterprises in Japan) Business Conditions Medium-sized Enterprises expand our customer (times) DI (Manufacturing/ Results) *Diffusion index of base, the number of our 1.50 1.3 times (% points) loan-transaction custom40 “Favorable” minus “Unfavorable” ers in ﬁscal 2014 was 20 1.25 (Source) Bank of Japan 1.3 times the ﬁscal 2012 0 level. 1.00 –20 –40 0.75 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 54 Addressing Customers’ Management Issues According to the Growth Stages of a Company Business start-up stage, Growth stage Maturing stage, Transition stage · Launching new businesses and growing and transforming · Expansion of sales · Expansion of sales channels existing businesses channels (overseas) · Expansion of sales channels (overseas) Expansion · Financing · Acquisition of competitors · Increasing the sophistication of funding and management methods stage · Stabilize business · Establishing brand · Acquisition of competitors · Cross-industry acquisitions, etc. infrastructure · Funding · Stable ﬁnancing, etc. · Risk management · Business reorganization Growth · Intra-family business inheritance Maturing · Securing human stage resources · Rationalizing and increasing the efﬁciency of funding stage · Strengthening ﬁnancial bases · Review of capital structure, etc. · Cutting costs · Business renovation, organization, and disposal Business · POs, IPOs Decline · Debt reduction, management reform phase start-up stage · Cut costs, etc. Case (1) Case (2) Business Matching Business Inheritance To provide its customers with Business inheritance is one of the most important managevenues for encountering prospecment issues for SME and middle-market corporate customers tive business par tners, MHBK because it simultaneously raises succession issues pertaining organizes sessions of the Busito the company’s ownership and the owner’s own assets. ness Matching Forum. In ﬁscal Regarding business inheritance-related challenges, Mizuho 2014, approximately 200 busioffers custom designed proposals based on an understanding ness discussions between cusof the special aspects of each business. tomers took place in each forum held by Mizuho. Case (3) Example of Efforts to Promote Mediumto Long-Term Growth IPO Support Framework To facilitate active exchanges of The meeting held in July 2014 information among customers was attended by representatives planning IPOs, Mizuho has of approximately 140 corporate become the only mega-bank customers. group to offer networking events Going forward, Mizuho group for such custome rs (Mizuho companies will continue closely Wakaba Association meetings) collaborating to support customthat are jointly organized by the ers’ IPO-related activities and A Mizuho Wakaba Association Group’s banking, trust banking, the re by contribute to Japan’s meeting jointly organized by and securities companies. industrial development. MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. We are proactively As a result of our efforts Balance of Loans to SMEs, etc. Number of Customers Provided with responding to SME and Overseas Business Launch Support to provide optimal solu(trillions of ¥) 31 middle-market corpo(times) tions to custom e r s’ 1.25 1.2 times rate customers’ widemanagement challengranging growth funding es, the number of our needs. c u s to m e r s p r o v i d e d 30 1.00 with suppor t for overseas business launches is rising. 29 0.75 End of FY2012 End of FY2013 End of FY2014 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 55 Business Approaches Corporate Banking Unit (Large Corporations) Fully leveraging Mizuho’s No.1 customer base and industry expertise in the industry and establishing competitive edge for large corporate customers Based on its strong and long-lasting relationships with approximately 1,600 groups of large corporate customers, Mizuho is positioned to offer a full lineup of ﬁnancial solutions that combine its specialized functions in banking, trust banking, and securities to meet customer needs for fund-raising and management as well as ﬁnancial strategies. Daisuke Yamada Head of Corporate Banking Unit Business Environment and Mizuho’s Strategies Achievements in Fiscal 2014 With the increasingly diversiﬁed, sophisticated, and globalized In ﬁscal 2014, the Corporate Banking Unit (Large Corporaﬁnancial needs of large corporate customers, ﬁnancial institutions) implemented initiatives centered on ﬁve kinds of meations need to offer comprehensive solutions to their customers. sures. The ﬁrst kind of measures relates to “seamless manTo respond to those needs, Mizuho is moving ahead with agement of integrated banking, trust banking, and securities its integrated management of banking, trust banking, and operations.” We systematically strengthened MHSC’s coversecurities businesses. Staff members are concurrently workage and developed domestic and overseas collaboration ing in some divisions at both MHBK and MHSC, thus promotrelated to cross-border M&A transactions, and emphasized ing further collaboration within the Group at home and overproposal-based marketing utilizing our consulting power in seas. In addition, RMs of MHBK and MHTB are working trust banking. The second, focused on the “borderless mantogether to offer the optimal trust solutions to their customers agement of integrated domestic-overseas operations,” we such as real estate, pensions, and securities administration. advanced with the building of global-basis marketing postures We are also collaborating with Mizuho’s Industry Research for each type of operations while also emphasizing the obtainDivision, which acts as the research team, proposing global ing of new overseas customers with ties to Japan. The third— and comprehensive solutions to customers on the basis of its “effectively utilizing risk money”—included hybrid ﬁnanceand deep understanding of industry. By fully leveraging these real estate-related equity investments, and we also moved advantages, Mizuho’s RMs for large corporate customers forward with efforts to make contributions to the government’s accurately identify their customers’ management issues and growth strategies for the ﬁelds of agriculture, energy, and offer diversiﬁed solutions to help them realize their growth healthcare. The fourth, to the “development and strengthening strategies. Services range from precisely identifying customof a stable proﬁt foundation,” we took steps to strengthen our ers’ management issues to providing support for realignment lending-related responses to customers’ needs as well as to of domestic businesses, implementing cross-border M&A, strengthen our transaction business. The ﬁfth—“corporate/inand global business development. Furthermore, we will leverdividual coordination”—we progressively strengthened the age our sophisticated risk-taking functions to pursue “new coordination of our marketing departments and branches in growth business” initiatives, such as agriculture, energy, and connection to efforts to respond to the needs of large domeshealthcare. tic companies’ afﬁliated companies and employees. External Environment and Mizuho’s Strong Points Proportion of Overseas IN-OUT Amount Proportion of Overseas Production and Production Any Japanese Involvement M&A Amount Proportion of Overseas Capital Expenditure and Proportion of Overseas M&A IN-OUT Proportion (%) Proportion of Overseas Capital Expenditure (trillions of ¥) (%) (Source) Thomson Financial 30 9 70 25 (Source) Ministr y of 8 60 20 Ec o n o my, Tr a d e a n d 7 50 Industry’s 44th Survey 6 40 15 of Overseas Business 5 30 10 4 20 5 Activities Survey (Survey 3 10 held in July 2014) 0 2 0 FY2004 FY2007 FY2010 FY2013 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 56 Image of the Corporate Banking Unit (Large Corporations) Large Corporate Customers Accounting and Management and Human resources and Business divisions Treasury divisions Planning divisions Administration divisions Marketing units are the keystone of efforts via all kinds of channels to grasp customer needs and become No.1 in comprehensive business promoting capability RMs for large Each function divisions corporate customers Industry Research Division The One Mizuho strategy’s ‘hub functions’ are key drivers of the Group’s growth. Domestic ofﬁces MHTB MHSC Overseas ofﬁces Group companies Case (1) Case (2) Softbank’s Subordinated Bond for Retail Investors Project Financing for JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Centering on the Corporate Banking Divisions of MHBK and This project ﬁnance loan is for the MHSC, which work in close cooperation, the two group comworld’s largest “Post-Combustion panies have engaged in sustained discussions about customCarbon Capture-Enhanced Oil ers’ ﬁnancial and business strategies going forward and how Recovery Project.” best to meet those needs. One result of those efforts is the MHBK arranged loans as the under writing of a large-scale subordinated corporate bond sole mandated lead arranger, issuance for retail investors, for which MHSC served as the leveraging its sophisticated expertop-left bookrunner. tise in the areas of natural resourcWA Par ish Powe r Plant in es and environmental business as Te x a s , U S A ( c o n c e p t u a l well as its know-how on ﬁnance. drawing) Case (3) Example of Efforts to Promote Mediumto Long-Term Growth Development of Medical Device Business Incubation Fund Together with Innovation Network and medical device manufacturThe role of the fund in the commercialization process C o r p o r ati o n of Ja p a n (IN C J), ers, aiming to develop a road map Business Development Clinical testing Regulatory Idea (including pre-clinical (including clinical Commercialization design approval MHBK established the Medical for and successful model for the studies) studies) Device Business Incubation Fund commercialization of Japanese MPI-1 Investment Limited Partnership (MPI-1 Investment Limited Partmedical device technology, in nership). This fund was estabhope of improving the incubation Funding Clinical Sell Medical device manufacturers lished to become a bridge environment for medical devices needs Special-Purpose between the technology seeds in Japan. Innovative Companies Medical device Medical technologies Sell Sell device held by Japanese universities, start-up company manufacturers research institutes, and SMEs (Source) Compiled by MHBK based on the MedVenture Partners website * Underwriting amount * Based on No. of deals Domestic Straight Bond League Table M&A Advisory Ranking for Publicly basis, including wholeAnnounced Deals Japanese companies sale bonds, electr ic were involved in (April Amount Share No. of Amount Rank Company Name (billions of ¥) (%) power bonds, and Rank Company Name deals (billions of ¥) 2014 to March 2015) retail bonds (April 2014 (Source) Compiled by 1 Mizuho Securities 1,584.7 22.4 1 Mizuho FG 167 3,753.4 to March 2015, pricing MHBK, based on infor2 Nomura 1,516.9 21.5 date basis) 2 Sumitomo Mitsui Finl Grp 140 1,086.5 mation from Thomson 3 Daiwa Securities 1,194.3 16.9 (Source) Compiled by 3 Nomura 112 3,825.2 Reuters MHBK, based on data from I-N Information Systems 57 Business Approaches Financial Institutions & Public Sector Business Unit Providing customers among financial institutions and public-sector entities with comprehensive financial services and enhancing regional innovation Mizuho offers optimal solutions to meet the needs of customers among ﬁnancial institutions and public-sector entities. These include advise on ﬁnancial strategies, proposals for investment products, underwriting public bonds and performing services as a designated ﬁnancial institution. Moreover, by collaborating with customers among those institutions, we are working to enhance regional innovation. Kenji Tsujitsugu Head of Financial Institutions & Public Sector Business Environment and Mizuho’s Strategies Achievements in Fiscal 2014 In ﬁelds emphasized by the Japan Revitalization Strategy,— In ﬁscal 2014, Mizuho organized collaboration among its such as business related to agriculture and public-private group companies to provide numerous ﬁnancial institution partnerships and private ﬁnancing initiatives (PPPs and PFIs), customers with optimal solutions by providing supports relatbusinesses are being created and opportunities are emerging ed to the overseas M&A initiatives of major insurance compathat are related to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic nies, offering ﬁnance-associated responses being made Games and other initiatives. In addition, to promote the crebased on responses to new regulations, proposing a wide ation of autonomously sustainable societies in each region of range of asset management products, and other issues. Japan, the government is moving ahead with various initiaFor our customers among public-sector entities, we offered tives designed to support the reinvigoration of regions. comprehensive ﬁnancial services including the provision of Working in cooperation with regional ﬁnancial institutions as ﬁnancing support through the underwriting of public bonds, well as central and regional government units, we are striving the performance of designated ﬁnancial institution services for to contribute to regional revitalization by offering consulting such customers as the Tokyo metropolitan government, parservices, funding arrangements, and other kinds of support. ticipation in PFI/PPP schemes, and the arrangement of syndiSpeciﬁcally, we have joined and are funding the Agriculture, cated loans. Forestry, and Fisheries Sixth Industry Fund and are supportTo revitalize regional economies, we worked in cooperation ing regional development in growth ﬁelds. with ﬁnancial institution and public-sector entity customers to Against the backdrop of such trends as rising needs assoprovide risk money to growth sectors and offer investee comciated with major insurance companies’ moves to step up panies growth-related support. Collaborating with regional their overseas business development, needs related to the ﬁnancial institutions and with central and local governments, increasingly diverse and sophisticated asset management we are funding 13 Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Sixth operations of public pension funds and ﬁnancial institutions, Industry Fund. Through this funding, we are supporting the and growing needs related to regional ﬁnancial institutions transformation of these industries into growth sectors in capital policies, Mizuho is striving to enable its customers to Japan. In addition, we are providing Mizuho’s industry experovercome the challenges they face by providing optimal solutise and a comprehensive range of group capabilities to protions based on cooperation among group companies. mote the vitality of regional economies. External Environment and Mizuho’s Strong Points * Fiscal 2014 * As of April 1, 2014 Publicly offered local government bonds No. of PPP/PFI deals Mizuho is involved in * 10 y e a r s y n d i c a t i o n (Source) Japan PFI/PPP method weighted average Association Rank Financial Institutions Share (Source) Compiled by Rank Company Name No. of deals 1 Mizuho Bank 12.1% MHBK, based on public 1 Paciﬁc Consultants 61 2 materials from Japan Nomura 9.3% 2 Mizuho Research Institute 37 Local Government 3 Daiwa Securities 9.1% 3 PWC 35 Bond Association 4 The Japan Economic Research Institute 35 58 Financial Services for Customers of Financial Institutions & Public-Sector Business Unit Advice on ﬁnancial strategies, proposals for investment Customers of ﬁnancial institutions & public-sector entities products, the Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Sixth Industry Fund, etc. Central ﬁnancial institutions Regional ﬁnancial companies Financial (Life and casualty insurance company(Regional banks, second-tier institutions related central ﬁnancial institutions, etc.) regional banks, credit unions, etc.) Mizuho Central Government and Related Institutions Public-sector (public ofﬁces, incorporated Local governments entities (prefectural and city governments, etc.) administrative agencies, etc.) Underwriting public bonds, performing services as a designated ﬁnancial institution, PPP/PFI, etc. Case (1) Case (2) Business Revitalization Agreement SME Support Agreement Mizuho has signed a cooperation agreement with the Tajima Mizuho and Chofu City signed the Comprehensive CooperaBank and Yabu City, that has been designated a National Stration Agreement related to Support for Small and Medium-Sized tegic Special Zone. Besides establishing an Agriculture, ForestEnterprises in Chofu City. The agreement calls for collaborary, and Fisheries Sixth Industry Fund, the agreement calls for tively utilizing the know-how of Chofu City and Mizuho to helping revitalize Yabu’s economy through such measures as promote support for SMEs through the implementation of those to provide Yabu-based businesses seeking to expand “Business Creation Support Field” measures, “Business Suctheir operations with management support and assistance in cession Field” measures, and other measures and thereby conexpanding marketing channels. tributing to regional economic revitalization and development. Case (3) Example of Efforts to Promote Mediumto Long-Term Growth Supporting the Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake Mizuho is working closely with capital in such forms as share potentials, and we have become entities such as regional ﬁnancial acquisitions for the fostering of a founding member of the “New institutions and local governments local industries. We have invested Tohoku” Council for Promoting of the Tohoku region. in a total of three companies, Publicand Private-Sector With the aim of contributing to including a shipbuilding company Cooperation. th e re c ove r y a n d m e d iu mto t h r o u g h t h e f u n d s o f a r. O u r long-term growth of the Tohoku post-ear thquake revitalization Launching of a new ship region, we established the Mizuho efforts aims to make the Tohoku c o n s t r u c te d b y a n i n v e s te e Tohoku Industr y Development r e g i o n a n e w l y r e i n v i g o r a te d company of the Mizuho Tohoku Fund to provide equity-related region that creatively realizes its Industry Development Fund In cooperation with Map of the Agriculture, Forestry, and regional ﬁnancial instituFisheries Sixth Industry Fund tions and regional Mizuho is funding and involved in public entities throughout Japan, Mizuho has i n v e s t e d i n 13 s i x t h industr y funds for the agriculture, forestry, and ﬁshing sectors 59 Business Approaches International Banking Unit Aiming to be the top financial group in Asia, capable of providing integrated financial services between banking, trust banking, and securities functions By leveraging advanced ﬁnancial technologies and know-how to provide highly specialized services, the International Banking Unit is providing integrated domestic and overseas support for Japanese companies’ overseas business development. Utilizing Mizuho’s global network, we are proactively working to promote transactions with non-Japanese corporate customers in countries throughout the world. Tatsufumi Sakai Head of International Banking Unit Business Environment and Mizuho’s Strategies Achievements in Fiscal 2014 In recent years, Asian economies’ high growth rates have The International Banking Unit steadily increased its perforbeen a key locomotive for the global economy, and Japanese mance during ﬁscal 2014, attaining new record high levels of and other Asian banks have been elevating their presence. overseas gross operating proﬁt and overseas loans for the Amid this environment, Mizuho is seeking to reinforce its posiﬁfth consecutive year. We are strengthening our support tion as a ﬁnancial institution with a top-level presence by structures for Japanese customers considering new entrance focusing on global ﬁnancial business stemming from the into overseas markets such as Asia and expansion of their “Japan and other Asian countries” and is striving to increase existing operations. For non-Japanese customers, we are its proﬁt by simultaneously promoting both “customer-based” seeking to develop the Super 30 strategy by (1) expanding our and “function-based” initiatives. With respect to our customerblue chip customer base (toward Super 50), (2) strengthening based initiatives, we are supporting the overseas business the industr y sector focused approach, and (3) fur ther expansion of our Japanese corporate customers. For strengthening banking and securities cooperation. This stratnon-Japanese blue-chip customers, we have selected egy is steadily bearing fruit and as an initiative to accelerate approximately 30 non-Japanese customers for focused busithese activities, we acquired the North American wholesale ness promotion as Super 30 customers at each of the 4 overasset portfolio from RBS. seas regional units (total of approximately 120 customers) and Regarding business infrastructure, we established the are seeking to expand our business by establishing a Singapore-based Asia Transaction Banking Division as a long-term relationship with these customers. On the other means of offering one-stop responses to a wide range of hand, as our function-based initiative, we are integrating a Asia-centered needs. In addition, we are engaging proactively wide range of products in banking, securities, and trust bankin expanding our ofﬁce network and in Asia, MHBK’s subsidiing at a high level, as well as strengthening transaction bankary in China opened a Changshu Sub-branch and MHBK ing functions and implementing initiatives to increase deposits. opened the Eastern Seaboard Branch in Thailand. In South Furthermore, as part of developing our business infrastrucAmerica, MHBK also opened the Santiago Representative ture, we are striving to strategically expand the ofﬁce network Ofﬁce in Chile. Furthermore, we are forming alliances with and enhance the business portfolio by utilizing investments major ﬁnancial institutions and government-afﬁliated instituand acquisitions as required. tions worldwide. External Environment and Mizuho’s Strong Points Emerging and Europe Real GDP Growth of Each Region Developing Asia Overseas Gross Proﬁts (Customer Groups) and Loan Balance Americas (%) ASEAN-5 (Figures from ﬁscal 2014 and on are forecasts) (millions of $) 3,527 (billions of $) Asia 12 G7 4,000 3,262 182.0 200 Loan Balance (right axis) 9 Japan 3,037 159.5 2,445 144.8 863 6 3,000 126.6 827 150 * Emerging and Devel774 3 oping Asia: Composed 2,000 657 790 837 1,056 100 0 of 27 countries 668 (Source) IMF’s Global 1,000 50 –3 1,121 1,474 1,598 1,608 –6 Economic Outlook (April 0 0 2000 2003 2006 2009 2012 2015 2015) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 60 Aim to increase proﬁt by simultaneously promoting both “customer-based” and “function-based” initiatives Customer-based Function-based NonStrategy focusing on blue-chip core customers Investment Japanese Promote the deepening of business through Banking Integrate a wide range of banking, securities, integrated management between banking and Cross-regional and trust products at a high level Customers securities functions Products Strengthen global Strengthen capturing businesses related to collaboration Strengthen transaction banking functions with Japanese overseas expansion between ofﬁces Transaction an aim to capture customers’ trade ﬂows Customers Obtain settlement business and foreign currency based in Japan and Banking Implement initiatives to increase deposits with deposits by capturing customer trade ﬂows elsewhere in Asia an aim to strengthen the funding base Infrastructure Develop business infrastructure to support business expansion Development Strategically expand the ofﬁce network and enhance the business portfolio by utilizing investments and acquisitions as required Case (1) Case (2) Building an Even Stronger Network in Asia Collaboration Agreement with the Australian Trade Commission In March 2015, MHBK opened a branch ofﬁce in the Eastern SeaIn March 2015, MHBK signed a board Industrial Estate in Rayong collaboration agreement with the Province in Thailand, making it Australian Trade Commis sion our second ofﬁce in Thailand. (Austrade). Mizuho will use this agreement to further strengthen our support structures for customOpening Ceremony of the ers considering new entrance into Eastern Seaboard Branch the Australian market or expansion of their existing operations. Case (3) Example of Efforts to Promote Mediumto Long-Term Growth Acquisition of North American Asset Portfolio from Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) In Fe b r u a r y 2015, M H B K a n d principally high-quality investment Portfolio Outline* · Can improve the relationship Strengthen lending and bond business RBS reached a deﬁnitive agreegrade corporations, in the wholestatus with existing customers Exposure Approx. US$36.5 billion and cultivate relationships with ment for the acquisition by MHBK sale market in North America and (o/w drawn assets) (Approx. US$3.2 billion) new customers in the short term of North American credit portfoi s m a d e u p of a p p r ox i m a te l y · Aim for high RORA by increasing lio, f u r th e r ac c e l e rating th e $ 3 6.5 b i l l i o n i n l o a n c o m m i tnon-interest income through Number of Approx. 200 customer groups banking and securities cooperation expansion of transactions with ments, including $3.2 billion of customers (incl. existing customers) · More than 100 front, middle, non-Japanese global corporate drawn assets. and back ofﬁce staff members customers. The portfolio consists Investment Approx. 90% joining from RBS, including grade ratio of a p p rox im ate l y 20 0 l e ading management-level personnel U.S. and Canadian customers, * Based on MHBK’s press release on February 26, 2015 Super 30 gross profits Overseas Loan Portfolio Proﬁtability of Super 30 Customers (As of March 2015) Super 30 RORA (millions of $) (%) (right axis) Americas 1,500 4.5 4.19 35% Asia 49% 1,200 3.81 4.0 3.47 Total 900 3.5 $182.0 billion 899 600 725 3.0 627 300 2.5 Europe 16% 0 2.0 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 61 Business Approaches Management Support for SME Customers and Regional Revitalization Management Support for SME Customers Responding to Customers’ Funding Needs Mizuho proactively works to provide funding support to such SME Customer Management Support Policies customers as those founding new companies, new businessMizuho will strive to strengthen its follow-up measures after es, and expanding businesses in growth ﬁelds. Representaconsultations and applications regarding ﬁnancing, the adjusttive efforts include the following. ment of loan conditions and other items and to proactively Support for New Companies and New Businesses offer consulting services regarding management challenges MHBK and Mizuho Capital jointly syndicated the “Mizuho aimed at providing problem resolution proposals, thereby Growth Support Fund,” which provides risk money for diverse fulﬁlling its responsibilities as a ﬁnancial institution to provide purposes, including business start-ups, mezzanine funding, support for customers’ business expansion, business improveand MBO-related needs. ment, business revitalization, and other efforts based on a Support for Growth Businesses and Investments in Growth Fields good understanding of customers’ perspectives. We have formed the Regional Healthcare Industry Support Fund and Medical Device Business Incubation Fund to foster Creation of SME Customer Management Support Systems and support launches of new businesses with strong growth The specialized section to support the business revitalization potential in medical careand nursing-related ﬁelds. within the credit group in Mizuho works intensively to provide Tokyo Metropolitan Government “Special Policy Loans” support for SME customers’ business improvement and busiMHBK is leveraging its special know-how to utilize the Tokyo ness revitalization while the Bank’s Corporate Finance SupMetropolitan Government’s “Special Policy Loan” system as a port Department and Financial Facilitation Promotion Departmeans of promoting the development of growth SMEs and ment provide consultation and guidance to branches with helping them overcome management challenges. respect to collaboration with external organizations, external specialists, and other ﬁnancial institutions. Regional Revitalization Initiatives SME Customer Management Support Initiatives Utilizing its network of branches in each of Japan’s prefecBased on a strong recognition of its role as a ﬁnancial institutures, Mizuho is striving to promote the revitalization of regiontion, Mizuho is strengthening its capabilities for responding to al economies and industries by providing its customers with its customers’ fund procurement needs. In the course of our smooth supplies of funding, engaging in management consulmanagement-related discussions with customers and our tations, and supplying various other kinds of management management support efforts, we proactively offer consulting support as well as through such initiatives as those to invest in functions tailored to meet the special needs associated with the Mizuho Tohoku Industry Development Fund and the Agrieach of our customers’ life stages. culture, Forestry, and Fisheries Sixth Industry Fund. Furthermore, MHBK partnered with Small and Medium Enterprise Management Consultant Association (SMECA) of Finance Facilitation and Management each region in Japan to organize a new program in which the Guarantee Guideline Initiatives SME business consultants who are members of SMECA provide support to help Mizuho’s customers draft business Finance Facilitation Initiatives improvement plans. Earnestly determined to fulﬁll a ﬁnancial institution’s social role SME Customers Consulting MHFG External institutions / external experts Branches and Corporate Banking Specialized section to support Divisions the business revitalization SME Business Rehabilitation Regional Economy Vitalization Consulting ﬁrms SME Management Consultants Other ﬁnancial institutions, etc. Tax accountants / accountants / Support Corporate Finance Support Financial Facilitation Divisions in charge of (real-estate/leasing/think tank Group companies • Promoting support related • Guidance for Credit Group • Business matching • M&A Support Co-operative Corporation of Japan to management/consulting • Support for overseas lawyers solution support Collaboration Promotion Department business launches Department and branches /etc.) • Syndicated loans /guidance, etc. • Business inheritance, etc. 62 Initiatives of facilitating ﬁnance, Mizuho works to promote facilitating activities throughout the Group. Besides establishing specialﬁnance in accordance with the Group’s fundamental policies ized ﬁnancing facilitation management units and complaint by appropriately responding to such customer requests as reception units, we have appointed “Finance Facilitation Prothose for new loans and loan condition adjustments while also motion Managers” at each domestic ofﬁce. striving to utilize consulting functions. Initiatives Related to “Guidelines for Management Guarantee” Organization and Systems Having created systems to promote appropriate responses to Mizuho has appointed “Finance Facilitation Managers” to be customer consultations and other interactions with customresponsible for the promotion of facilitating ﬁnance as a means ers, Mizuho is earnestly striving to meet customer needs in of undertaking uniﬁed ﬁnancing facilitation management accordance with the “Guidelines for Management Guarantee.” Management Support Efforts for SME Customers Utilizing Consulting Functions Besides implementing support for customers various small and medium enterprise conthrough the use of such tools as ﬁnancial diagsultant associations to organize Seminars nosis reports, we strive to provide solutions on the Utilization of Subsidies Etc. for Small that utilize such MHBK functions as those and Medium Enterprises for SME customers related to real estate and business inherifacing such management challenges as tance and such MHRI functions as those those associated with new corporate and related to research studies and consulting. b u s i n e s s e s e s t a b l i s h m e n t s, b u s i n e s s During ﬁscal 2014, we cooperated with improvement, and business inheritance. the Small and Medium Enterprise Agency, Seminal sessions were held in Tokyo and the Organization for Small and Medium Osaka, and approximately 270 customers Enterprises and Regional Innovation, and participated in them. Regional Revitalization Efforts Fostering the Development of Tohoku Region Automobile-Related Enterprises In cooperation with the Tohoku Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry as well as the Advisory support (1) A p p l i c ati o n fo r p a r ti c i p ati o n, Japan Industrial Location Center, MHBK (2) registration of corporate information established the “Tohoku Intercompany Team(2) Business matching by means of work Platform” to develop automobile-related Tohoku advisory support* and other advice enterprises in the Tohoku region. The platIntercompany based on registered information (1) Teamwork Platform (1) *Such support is obtained by means form is helping to strengthen the competitive of conferences with former automopower of automobile-related enterprises in Companies outside (3) Tohoku bile manufacturer employees and the Tohoku region while also meeting such Tohoku companies others with relevant expertise. needs as those of Chubu region compa(3) One-on-one matching nies to reduce manufacturing costs and delivery costs. Overview of the Tohoku Intercompany Teamwork Platform Efforts Based on Business Viability Evaluations Proactive Measures to Fund New Child Care Establishments Mizuho is proactively working to provide appropriateness. As a result, we were able funding for the establishment of new child to provide the funding needed to help estabcare facilities. lish several dozens of new child care faciliMizuho assiduously undertakes market ties during ﬁscal 2014. s t u d i e s b a s e d o n c o o p e r a ti o n a m o n g By continuing to provide funding in this MHBK’s Industr y Research Division and way g o i n g fo r wa rd, M i zu h o i nte n d s to other group research units together with sustain its support for augmented measures venture capital ﬁrms and shares strategic to meet social needs along with its support information with child care facility operafor the corporate growth of companies meettors, seeking to evaluate the child care ing such needs. facility operators’ business viability and 63 64 Strengthening Management Foundations 65 Strengthening Management Foundations Corporate Governance RAF Risk Management Compliance IT Strategy Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group Corporate Governance Basic Policy regarding compliance with Japanese and foreign laws and regulations Corporate Governance System as a ﬁnancial group expanding across the globe. The basic policy regarding corporate governance system of Corporate Governance Structure MHFG, the holding company, is shown below: (1) Secure the effectiveness of corporate governance by We have adopted a Company with Three Committees strucensuring the separation of supervision and management ture with the belief that, under the current legal system, a and making supervision of the management such as the Company with Three Committees is the most effective as a execution of duties, etc., by executive ofﬁcers the primary system to realize our fundamental perspectives regarding our focus of the Board of Directors. corporate governance system. (2) Make it possible for the management to make swift and ﬂexible decisions and realize expeditious corporate manSupervision agement by the Board of Directors’ delegating decisions on business execution to executive ofﬁcers. Board of Directors (3) Utilize committees, etc., comprising mainly of outside The main roles of the Board of Directors of MHFG are making directors who are independent from the management decisions on business execution such as basic management of Mizuho, and secure transparency and fairness in policies, which are legally matters to be determined solely by decision-making processes and the effective supervision the Board of Directors, and supervising the execution of of the management. duties by directors and executive ofﬁcers. The Board of Direc(4) In the course of designing the organizations, etc., compristors, in principle, delegate to our President & Executive Ofﬁing the corporate governance system that realizes matters cer, who is also the Group CEO, decisions on business exeset out in items (1) through (3) above, MHFG is to actively cution (excluding matters that are legally required to be adopt operations and practices that are recommended at determined solely by the Board of Directors), for the purpose a global level regarding corporate governance as well as of realizing swift and ﬂexible decision-making and expeditious MHFG’s Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee Outside Directors (all the members) Outside Directors, Internal Directors Non-Executive Directors (Non-Executive Directors are Audit (Outside Directors are Human Resources Review Meeting in the majority) in the majority) Risk Committee External Director Session Supervision Audit Executive Management Committee CEO (Group CEO) Internal Audit Committee Executive Ofﬁcers Includes outside advisors Group Strategy Conferences Business Policy Committees Unit, Group, etc. Internal Audit Group 66 Human Resources Strategy Social Contribution Activities corporate management and strengthening the supervision of Directors received reports on such topics as the execution of directors and executive ofﬁcers by the Board of Directors. management strategies, business performance and other In light of the role of the Board of Directors to supervise important issues. management, the majority of the members of the Board of Directors consist of outside directors and internal directors Nominating Committee who do not concurrently serve as persons performing execuThe Nominating Committee of MHFG determines the contents tive roles (“Internal Non-Executive Directors,” and together of proposals regarding the appointment and dismissal of with outside directors, “Non-Executive Directors”). At least six directors of MHFG to be submitted to the general meeting of directors shall be outside directors. shareholders and exercises the approval rights held by MHFG with respect to the appointment and dismissal of directors of Composition of the Board of Directors (as of June 23, 2015) each of the Core Subsidiaries (MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC) and exercises the approval rights held by MHFG with respect Chairman Hiroko Ota (Outside Director) to the appointment and removal of representative directors Percentage of and senior directors of the Core Subsidiaries. Non-Executive Directors 62% (8 out of 13) •Regarding How it is operated appointment of directors and other issues of Percentage of 46% (6 out of 13) MHFG and the Core Subsidiaries, the President & CEO draftOutside Directors ed proposals in accordance with the Nominating Committee Chairman’s instructions and the Nominating Committee The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall, in principle, be engaged in repeated deliberations regarding those proposals. an outside director in light of the role of the Board of Directors During this process, the Human Resources Review Meeting to supervise management. Currently, an outside director (see page 68) undertook deliberations based on consideration serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors. of objective indicators of external evaluations, specialized Each outside director has the following qualiﬁcations. He or expertise fostered through work experience, and other facshe has deep insight and knowledge and extensive experitors; undertook such measures as those to ensure opportunience in areas such as corporate management, risk manageties to obtain information from individual personal interviews ment, compliance with laws and regulations, crisis manageand reports presented by ofﬁcers to the Board of Directors; ment, ﬁnancial accounting, internal control, macroeconomic and thereby has striven to realize a highly transparent and policy, organizational and cultural reform, or global manageobjective process of appointing directors by mainly outside ment. Each outside director also has the ability to get an overdirectors, ensuring the assignment of the appropriate persons view and understanding of the overall management of Mizuho, in appropriate positions. the ability to grasp essential issues and risks, and the ability to In ﬁscal 2014, the Nominating Committee held 7 meetings appropriately interview management and express opinions and passed resolutions concerning such matters as the deterto and persuade them. In addition, all the outside directors mination of MHFG director candidates and the appointment of satisfy the Independence Standards of Outside Directors the directors of Core Subsidiaries. of MHFG. •Regarding How it is operated the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee of MHFG determines the comof Directors plays a central role in narrowing down the agenpensation for each individual director and executive ofﬁcer of das’ to enable concentration on truly necessary proposals MHFG, exercises the approval rights held by MHFG regarding and, regarding proposals associated with core management compensation of each individual director of the Core Subsidissues, promotes comprehensive discussions of essential iaries, and determines the basic policies and compensation points in a free and vigorous manner with the inclusion of system for directors and executive ofﬁcers of MHFG and the high-quality opinions and suggestions from outside directors. Core Subsidiaries. Regarding the Board of Directors’ operations, initiatives are being taken to prepare materials that clearly articulate issues •Considering How it is operated such factors as MHFG’s mediumto long-term and challenges and to ensure that the delivery of such materibusiness performance and economic and societal environals and explanations is implemented prior to meetings. ment, the President & CEO drafted proposals with respect to In ﬁscal 2014, the Board of Directors held 16 meetings to the compensation policy based on the role and responsibility deliberate and pass resolutions about the ﬁscal 2015 business assigned to and the performance of each of the Directors, in plan and other issues. In addition, to realize such objectives accordance with the Compensation Committee Chairman’s as providing directors with a good understanding of the overinstructions, and the Compensation Committee engaged in all management from a panoramic perspective, the Board of repeated deliberations regarding those proposals. Based on a 67 Strengthening Management Foundations Corporate Governance RAF Risk Management Compliance IT Strategy Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group highly transparent and objective consideration process by information through internal directors who are familiar with the mainly outside directors and in light of sound incentivization for ﬁnancial business and related regulations, share information sustainable growth and restraint on excessive risk taking, peramong the Audit Committee, and to have sufﬁcient coordinaformance payments and performance-based stock compensation with internal control departments, we in principle appoint tion systems were introduced to more appropriately reﬂect each one or two Internal Non-Executive Directors as full-time memdirector’s performance, the ratios of variable compensation to bers of the Audit Committee. ﬁxed compensation were determined, and other measures were taken to create a compensation system that gives due consid•Regarding How it is operated items necessary for audits of directors’ and execueration to value creation on behalf of diverse stakeholders. tive ofﬁcers’ performance of duties, the Audit Committee In ﬁscal 2014, the Compensation Committee held 6 meetobtained timely and appropriate reports and explanations ings and passed resolutions concerning such matters as the from directors, executive ofﬁcers, as deﬁned in the Compapolicy for determination of the executive compensation, the nies Act, employees, and the accounting auditor (hereinafter, determination of compensation for individual MHFG’s direc“directors, etc.”) and gave instructions and recommendations tors and executive ofﬁcers, as deﬁned in the Companies Act, when necessar y. In addition, the Audit Committee has and the approval of compensation for individual directors of ensured the effectiveness of its audits by conﬁrming the prothe Core Subsidiaries. cesses and contents of decision making by the business execution division through such measures by full-time Audit Audit Committee Committee members as those to arrange for the attendance The Audit Committee of MHFG audits the execution of duties at important meetings held by the business execution division, by the directors and executive ofﬁcers, monitors and inspects examine impor tant decision-related documents, obtain the establishment and management of the internal control reports from directors, etc., and coordinate operations with system of MHFG and its subsidiaries, monitors and inspects the Internal Audit Group and other group units. the condition of the execution of duties with respect to corpoIn ﬁscal 2014, the Audit Committee held 14 meetings and rate management of subsidiaries and others by executive passed resolutions concerning such matters as the formulaofﬁcers, and prepares audit reports. tion of audit plans and determination of auditing standards In addition, the Audit Committee audits the legality and and also conﬁrmed such matters as the situation regarding appropriateness of the execution of duties by directors and the execution of duties by directors and by executive ofﬁcers, executive ofﬁcers and executes its duties through effective as deﬁned in the Companies Act, etc. coordination with the Internal Audit Group, etc., on the premise of the establishment and management of an internal conMHFG has established committees and other organizations on a trol system of MHFG and its subsidiaries. The members of the voluntary basis in addition to the above three legally-required Audit Committee who have been authorized to collect reports committees as set forth below: and investigate business property shall directly execute audits of directors, executive ofﬁcers and the management level of Human Resources Review Meeting each department and subsidiary. We established the Human Resources Review Meeting that Given that it is necessary for the Audit Committee to gather consists of the President & Executive Ofﬁcer and outside Composition of the Legally-required Three Committees (as of June 23, 2015) Outside: outside directors Non-executive: Internal Non-Executive Directors Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Chairman Outside Mitsuo Ohashi Outside Tatsuo Kainaka Non-executive Hideyuki Takahashi Outside Takashi Kawamura Outside Tetsuo Seki Outside Tetsuo Seki Outside Tatsuo Kainaka Outside Takashi Kawamura Outside Tatsuo Kainaka Committee members Outside Hiroko Ota Outside Hirotake Abe Non-executive Nobukatsu Funaki 68 Human Resources Strategy Social Contribution Activities directors who serve as members of the Nominating Commitmatters concerning the execution of business operations as tee and Compensation Committee as a deliberative body that necessary. The business policy committees and group strategy mainly conducts the deliberation of proposals to appoint conferences have been established to comprehensively executive ofﬁcers, as deﬁned in the Companies Act, and discuss and coordinate cross-sectional issues and important executive ofﬁcers, as deﬁned in our internal regulations, with matters in terms of group business strategy. The business title of MHFG and executive ofﬁcers, as deﬁned in our internal policy committees meetings and group strategy conferences regulations, with title of Core Subsidiaries and assessment of are held as necessary. executive ofﬁcers. Group Operational Structure centered on the Holding Company Risk Committee With the aim of promoting the implementation of rapid and We established the Risk Committee that in principle fully conintegrated group strategy and planning, MHFG has moved to sists of Non-Executive Directors or external experts as an a group operational structure* under which it determines and advisory body that mainly advises the Board of Directors with promotes strategy and plans across group-wide banking, respect to the supervision of the determination and the impletrust banking, securities and other business areas. Speciﬁcalmentation relating to risk governance. ly, we established 10 units which are responsible for business strategy implementation across group-wide business areas. External Director Session * For group operational structure, refer to Special Features on page 24. We established the External Director Session that consists of all outside directors and the President & Executive Ofﬁcer as a Internal Audit Function and Others forum for free discussions with an aim to deepen outside directors’ understanding of our group and share the top manThe Internal Audit Committee fulﬁlls an internal audit function agement’s awareness of issues through communication under the President & Executive Ofﬁcer. The committee among directors. discusses and determines important matters concerning internal audit on the basis of the basic policy determined by Execution of Duties the board and reports decisions made by the committee and important matters to the board. Executive Officers To ensure independence of the internal audit function from Executive ofﬁcers of MHFG take charge making decisions on the audited sections, we separate the Internal Audit Group business execution delegated by a resolution of the Board of from the groups which it audits and establish it as an indeDirectors and implementing the business execution of MHFG. pendent group in its own right under the control of the Internal We appoint the Group CEO and, in principle, the following Audit Committee. (1) and (2) as executive ofﬁcers based on the policy that it is External experts in their ﬁeld (consisting at present of one necessar y to appoint as executive of ﬁcers people who lawyer and one CPA) are also on the Internal Audit Committee assume a managing role. (1) Persons with the right to give to strengthen the specialist nature and impartiality of the instructions to Unit Heads, Group Heads, or the Head of Intercommittee. nal Audit to the extent that they have been so instructed by The internal audit infrastructure MHFG has established is the Group CEO; and (2) All Unit Heads, Group Heads, and the as follows: MHFG has set up an Internal Audit Division to carry Head of Internal Audit. out internal audits based on the basic audit policies and the While the President & Executive Ofﬁcer is responsible for internal audit regulations determined by the Board of Directhe business execution of MHFG, from the perspective of protors. It also checks the internal control structure of the various viding a checks and balances function and ensuring sufﬁcient companies on the basis of the reports it receives from the consideration in connection with decision-making, in principle, major group companies of the results of internal audits and determination of delegated matters relating to making deciproblems and issues that have been investigated by them. sions on business execution following the transition to a ComThus, all information on the status of the major group compapany with Three Committees structure shall be based on nies’ internal audits is held and controlled by MHFG’s Internal deliberation of the Executive Management Committee, which Audit Division. serves as an advisory body for the President & Executive OfﬁThe results of both MHFG’s and the major group compacer (however, excluding matters ensured to be deliberatnies’ internal audits are reported to the Internal Audit Commited and discussed under sufﬁcient checks and balances by tee on a regular basis and at other times as necessary by the Non-Executive Directors such as through the Nominating head of the Internal Audit Group. Committee, Compensation Committee and Human Resources Review Meeting). The Executive Management Committee discusses important 69 Strengthening Management Foundations Corporate Governance RAF Risk Management Compliance IT Strategy Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) The Purpose of Introducing Enhancement Committee deliberates issues related to the Risk Appetite Framework enhancement and establishment of our RAF. Under the leadership of the Group CEO, Group CRO *1, Group CFO *2 and the Mizuho’s Risk Appetite Framework (R AF ) is a common Group CSO *3 will take the initiative to integrate business stratintra-group framework designed to promote discussion, egy, ﬁnancial strategy and risk management. In addition the understanding, and evaluation of the level of risk Mizuho is head of each line of business are responsible for managing willing to assume. business operations in accordance with our risk appetite, and The purpose of our RAF is to maximize our corporate value they also attend the committee. and fulﬁll our social responsibilities by taking risk and providThe Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Group ing solution based on our customers’ actual needs, establishCRO, monitors the operation of the RAF during the ﬁscal year. ing our competitive advantage against our peers. The group CRO may directly present reports on matters Speciﬁcally, we have determined our business strategies discussed at the Risk Management Committee to the Board and measures as well as our resource allocation and ﬁnancial of Directors and the Risk Committee. plans based on our risk appetite. By integrating business The Balance Sheet Management Committee, chaired by strategy, ﬁnancial strategy and risk taking in this manner we the Group CFO, has the task of formulating and promoting the aim to balance our risk-return. implementation of balance sheet-centered strategies related to risk control and risk taking. Risk Appetite Framework Control Structure *1. Head of Risk Management Group *2. Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group The RAF is the cornerstone of Mizuho’s risk governance, and *3. Head of Strategic Planning Group the Board of Directors is responsible for determining our risk appetites and other fundamental matters including the goverFormulation and Monitoring of Risk Appetite nance structure of RAF and the documentation of the Risk Appetite Statement (RAS). When formulating our business plan, we will ﬁrst discuss In addition, the Risk Committee (comprised of Nonbusiness areas to focus on and the level of risk taking Executive Directors and external experts), which is an advisory required in realizing our business strategy and ﬁnancial body to the Board of Directors, advises the Board of Directors strategy. as well as makes proposals to the management. Simultaneously, we will discuss external risk factors related At the management level, the Management Governance to our business such as the global economic environment and MHFG’s Risk Appetite Framework Control Structure • Determines basic matters regarding RAF and RAS Board of Directors • Supervises business execution by the management based on the above determinations Supervision Audit Committee • Audits the execution of duties by the directors and the management regarding RAF Risk Committee • Advises the Board of Directors and makes proposals to the management regarding risk governance President & CEO Management Committee Group CEO / Group CRO / Group CFO / Group CSO Head of Each Unit / Head of Each Group • Formulates Risk Appetite Policy • Conducts business operations consistent Management Governance Enhancement Committee • Establishes Risk Appetite Metrics and level with the risk appetite Management [Chairperson: Group CEO] • Formulates RAS • Embed sound risk culture to each line of business Risk Management Committee • Monitors the operation of RAF [Chairperson: Group CRO] Balance Sheet Management Committee • Formulates and promotes balance sheet management-centered strategies [Chairperson: Group CFO] related to risk control and risk taking 70 Human Resources Strategy Social Contribution Activities regulatory developments. In particular, several risk scenarios undertaken during the year. Monitoring elements include related to global economic environments will be established whether external economic and market condition require for the purpose of running a stress test. Stress test will enable change in our risk scenario or not, whether business strategy us to capture the effect of stress events on our earnings and is pursued within the risk appetite policy or not and our capital. The results of stress test will be analyzed to make for ward looking risk proﬁle in comparison with our risk sure that our business plan aligns with our risk appetite. appetite. Mizuho’s risk appetite consists of a Risk Appetite Policy A sound and healthy risk culture is vital for ef fective that serves as the fundamental policy regarding our risk implementation of RAF within the Group. Accordingly, we are taking activity and Risk Appetite Metrics that serve as means striving to embed a sound risk culture by promoting risk of quantif ying the level of risk taking based on the Risk awarene ss and elevating capabilitie s in adapting and Appetite Policy. responding to risks. The Risk Appetite Policy includes three main elements—a universal risk-taking domain encompassing the risk taking required to maximize Mizuho’s corporate value and fulﬁll Mizuho’s social responsibilities, a medium-term objective based on the medium-term business plan and changes in the business environment, and a single-year objective based on ﬁscal year business plan. R is k A p p eti te M etr ic s a re d ete r m in e d by se l e c ting appropriate indices for measuring capital, risk-return, liquidity etc., and then the level of risk (risk appetite level) we are willing to assume is established taking into account our business and ﬁnancial strategy. Group level risk appetite is cascaded down into each line of business. Each line of business formulates their own business plans and manages their operations based on reference to Mizuho’s group-wide risk appetite. In order to ensure that business is conducted within our established risk appetite, regular monitoring activity is Image of Mizuho’s Formulation of Risk Appetite Universal Risk-taking Domain Mizuho’s Medium-term Objective Risk Appetite Policy Strategies and Measures Single-year Objective Mizuho’s Risk Appetite Metrics Stress Test Resource Allocation Capital Risk-return Liquidity Profit Plan Risk Appetite Metrics for Each Line of Business Capital Risk-return Liquidity Risk Culture 71 Strengthening Management Foundations Corporate Governance RAF Risk Management Compliance IT Strategy Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group Risk Management Basic Approach audits to measure the effectiveness and suitability of the risk management structure. In line with these basic policies, we We recognize the conducting of operations tailored to various maintain various measures to strengthen and enhance the types of risk and managing such risks as a key issue relating to sophistication of our risk management system. overall management. In order to implement our business strategy while maintaining our ﬁnancial stability, we maintain compreRisk Management Structure hensive risk management and control measures. MHFG maintains basic policies for risk management estabEach of our subsidiaries adopts appropriate risk management lished by its Board of Directors that are applicable to the measures for its business based on the size and nature of its entire Group. These policies clearly deﬁne the kinds of risks to risk exposures, while MHFG controls risk management for the be managed, set forth the organizational structure and proGroup as a whole. vide for the human resources training necessary for appropriAt MHFG, the Risk Management Committee chaired by the ate levels of risk management. The policies also provide for Group Chief Risk Ofﬁcer (Group CRO) provides integrated MHFG Board of Directors Supervision, Board of Directors Audit Committee President & CEO Executive Management Committee Audit Ofﬁcers responsible for risk management Business Policy Committees ManageExecutive Management President & Group CEO (CRO, etc.) ment Committee (Group CEO) Business Policy Committees Ofﬁcers responsible for Divisions responsible for risk management MHBK (Risk Management risk management Risk Management Credit Risk Management IT & Systems Planning Operations Planning Legal Division Group Human Resources Global Career Management Administration Strategic Planning Corporate Communications Committee, etc.) (Group CRO, etc.) Set risk management policies Divisions responsible for risk management Division Division Division Division Division Division Division Division Division Risk Management Division Credit Risk Management Division IT & Systems Planning Division Operations Planning Division Legal Division Group Human Resources Division Global Career Management Division Administration Division Strategic Planning Division Corporate Communications Division Comprehensive Risk MHTB Operational Risk Credit Risk Market Risk, Liquidity Risk Operational Risk Credit Risk Give instructions and approval concerning risk management Information Technology Operations Risk Legal Risk Human Resources Human Resources Regulatory Change Reputational Risk Tangible Asset Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk MHSC Board of Directors Report the risk management situation President & CEO Executive Management Committee Ofﬁcers responsible for risk management Business Policy Committees Comprehensive Risk (CRO, etc.) Operational Risk Credit Risk Market Risk, Liquidity Risk Operational Risk Credit Risk Departments responsible for risk management Information Technology Risk Operations Risk Legal Risk Human Resources Risk Human Resources Risk Tangible Asset Risk Regulatory Change Risk Reputational Risk Risk Management Credit Risk Management IT & Systems Planning Operations Planning Legal & Trust Credit Human Resources Administration Corporate Planning Submit applications concerning risk management Major group companies other Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department than MHBK, MHTB and MHSC Comprehensive Risk Operational Risk Market Risk, Liquidity Risk Operational Risk Credit Risk Information Technology Operations Risk Legal Risk Human Resources Regulatory Change Reputational Risk Tangible Asset Risk Risk Risk Risk 72 Human Resources Strategy Social Contribution Activities monitoring and management of the overall risk for the Group. within the Group’s ﬁnancial base in accordance with the risk The Group CRO reports the risk management situation to the capital allocation framework. Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, the Executive ManMore speciﬁcally, we allocate risk capital to our core agement Committee and the President & Group CEO, on a group companies, including their respective subsidiaries, to regular basis and as needed. MHFG regularly receives reports control risk within the limits set for each company. We also and applications concerning the risk management situation control risk within managerially acceptable limits by working to from our core group companies and gives them appropriate ensure that the overall risk we hold on a consolidated basis instructions concerning risk management. does not exceed shareholders’ equity and other measures of Our core group companies each maintains its own systems ﬁnancial strength. To ensure the ongoing ﬁnancial health of for managing various types of risk, regularly receiving reports MHFG and our core group companies, we regularly monitor on the status of risk at their respective subsidiaries, and gives the manner in which risk capital is being used in order to them appropriate instructions concerning risk management. obtain a proper grasp of the risk proﬁle within this framework. Reports are also submitted to the Board of Directors and General Concept of Risk Management other committees of each company. Risk capital is allocated to MHBK, MHTB and MHSC by risk category, and is further Basic Approach allocated within their respective business units based on We classify our risk exposures according to the various kinds established frameworks. of risk, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and operational risk, and manage each type of risk according to its characteristics. In addition to managing each type of risk individually, we have established a risk management structure to identify and evaluate overall risk and, where necessary, to devise appropriate responses to keep risk within limits that are managerially acceptable in both qualitative and quantitative terms. In line with the basic policies relating to overall risk management laid down by MHFG, companies within the Group identify risk broadly and take a proactive and sophisticated approach to risk management, including methodologies for operations that involve exposures to multiple categories of risk such as settlement and trust businesses. Risk Capital Allocation We endeavor to obtain a clear grasp of the Group’s overall risk exposure and have implemented measures to keep such risks Risk Category Definition The Group’s exposure to the risk of losses that may be incurred due to a decline in, or total loss of, the value of assets Credit risk (including off-balance-sheet instruments), as a result of deterioration in obligors’ ﬁnancial position. The risk of losses incurred by the Group due to ﬂuctuations in interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. Our Market risk deﬁnition includes the risk of losses incurred when it becomes impossible to execute transactions in the market because of market confusion or losses arising from transactions at prices that are signiﬁcantly less favorable than usual. The risk of losses arising from funding difﬁculties due to a deterioration in our ﬁnancial position that makes it difﬁcult for us Liquidity risk to raise necessary funds or that forces us to raise funds at signiﬁcantly higher interest rates than usual. The risk of losses that the Group may incur resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or Operational risk from external events. Operational risk consists of several components such as technology risk, operations risk, etc. Risk Management Structure on page 106 of the Appendix for speciﬁc components of operational risk. 73 Strengthening Management Foundations Corporate Governance RAF Risk Management Compliance IT Strategy Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group Compliance Basic Compliance Policy the compliance administrator at each unit reviews the status of compliance. As the leading Japanese ﬁnancial services group with a global MHFG has established the Internal Controls and Audit presence and a broad customer base, we remain conscious Hotline*1, a system designed for obtaining concerns regarding of the importance of our social responsibilities and public misquestionable accounting or auditing matters from in and outsion at all times. We deﬁne compliance as “the strict obserside the company. vance of all laws and regulations and the pursuit of fair and As shown in the diagram below, MHFG monitors the status honest corporate activities that conform to the norms acceptof compliance of the group through reports submitted by our ed by society” and view ongoing compliance as one of the core group companies and adopts appropriate responses basic principles of sound business management. Each of our when necessary. Compliance at subsidiaries of our core group companies maintains its own compliance structure in group companies is monitored and managed by their respecline with the basic policies established by MHFG. tive parent. *1. Internal Controls and Audit Hotline: Refer to “Contacts regarding ComCompliance Structure pliance” on page 94 of the Appendix. The chief executive ofﬁcer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, and Compliance Activities MHSC each generally oversees compliance matters of the respective company, and the chief executive ofﬁcer, etc. also “Mizuho Code of Conduct” and “Compliance Manual” head their respective Compliance Committees at which We have established the Mizuho Code of Conduct, which sets important matters concerning compliance are discussed. The forth clear and concrete standards of ethical behavior. Furfour companies also have individual compliance divisions thermore, each of our group companies has also prepared a under a chief compliance ofﬁcer. These divisions are responcompliance manual, which serves as a practical guidebook sible for compliance planning and implementation and control for rigorous compliance enforcement and clariﬁes the laws overall compliance management at the respective companies. and regulations that the group companies must observe in At the level of each organizational unit (such as branches and pursuing their business activities and the compliance activities divisions) at the four companies, the head of the unit is they are required to follow. responsible for guidance and implementation related to compliance matters within such unit, and the compliance ofﬁcer or Enforcing Compliance The Mizuho Code of Conduct is distributed to all directors, senior management and employees of the group so that they Compliance Structure are well aware of its content and act accordingly. We also MHFG conduct compliance training for directors, senior manageSupervision, Audit ment and employees so that they are fully acquainted with the contents of the compliance manual. In addition, we monitor Board of Directors Audit Committee the status of compliance levels through self assessments conducted by individual organizational units and monitoring conducted by the compliance division of each company. President & CEO (Group CEO) Executive Management Committee Putting PDCA into Practice Compliance Committee Every ﬁscal year, each of our group companies establishes a Management (Chairman: President & CEO) compliance program, which contains concrete measures for Group Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer (Group CCO) compliance enforcement such as measures related to the (Compliance Division) management of the compliance framework, training and Every organizational unit assessments. Progress regarding the implementation of the Compliance Ofﬁcer / Head of each unit compliance program is monitored every six months. Compliance Administrator Implementing Group Strategies MHBK, MHTB, MHSC and other major group companies The integrated strategy of banking, trust banking, and securities functions that we are implementing includes progressively increasing the sophistication of compliance divisions’ compliSubsidiaries of the above group companies ance management systems to enable the expansion and deepening of business involving the collaboration of banking, 74 Human Resources Strategy Social Contribution Activities trust banking, and securities functions and the smooth progthe CEO or a president), and these committees take action to ress of increasingly diverse and complex projects. sever relations with anti-social elements through a group-wide cooperation. Approaches to the Financial Alternative Furthermore, major group companies maintain centralized Dispute Resolution (ADR) System divisions or appoint an ofﬁcer to manage anti-social element issues and make efforts to maintain effective frameworks, for In order to deal expeditiously, fairly and appropriately with example, by establishing a manual on how to manage such complaints, etc., from customers, MHBK and MHTB have issues and conducting training sessions. If required for specifconcluded contracts with dispute resolution institutions *2 ic cases, we consult with third party experts and authorities respectively. and handle the cases. *2. For more information on dispute resolution institutions, refer to “Contacts regarding Compliance” on page 94 of the Appendix. Maintaining Sound and Normal Relations with Political and Governmental Administrative Entities Information Management The Group has relations with numerous countries throughout Along with the evolution of the advanced informationthe world including Japan in connection with various occatelecommunication society, use of information increases sions. With respect to laws and regulations associated with exponentially and further attention is paid to protection of perconducting business operations, the use of public services sonal information. For these reasons, we, as providers of comnecessary for business operations, the loaning of funds to prehensive ﬁnancial services in Japan and abroad, believe that countries and national enterprises, the procurement of funds appropriate protection and use of informational resources are from central banks, and other occasions, the Group complies extremely important issues. We have clariﬁed the managewith national laws and regulations in each and every one of ment system, various safety management measures and these occasions and maintains sound and normal relationmanagement methods for information security management ships with each country’s government entities and politicians as well as fully communicate them to every employee, thereby with jurisdiction over the Group’s businesses. appropriately protecting informational assets and strengthenThe Group is committed to a fundamental policy of maining our information security management system. taining sound and transparent relationships with political and governmental administrative entities and persons, and it does Efforts to Prevent Money Laundering, Etc. not take any actions that could be construed as entering into “cozy” or collusive relationships with respect to such entities In response to an increase in international demands for and persons. Within the Group’s compliance manual, this funanti-money laundering and countering terrorist ﬁnancing meadamental policy and other points to be considered are clearly sures in recent years, the Group is positioning the implemennoted. Through compliance training courses and other meatation of measures for preventing money laundering, terrorist sures, the Group is working to ensure that all senior manageﬁnancing, and other ﬁnancial crimes as a top management ment and employees are thoroughly familiar with this policy, priority. We are striving to prevent ﬁnancial crimes through and it is simultaneously taking measures to rigorously monitor such activities as those to ensure that each branch thoroughly and manage the implementation of this policy. conﬁrms requisite items based on applicable laws and regulations when new accounts are opened and through the establishment of specialized units that undertake the systematic monitoring of transactions that are improper, suspicious, or otherwise potentially problematic. Severing Transactions with Anti-Social Elements In order to prevent anti-social elements from inﬂuencing corporate management and to avoid any harm caused by anti-social elements, MHFG established the “Mizuho Code of Conduct” which sets out a policy to sever any ties with anti-social elements that threaten the rule of law, public order and safety. MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC have each established an Anti-Social Elements Elimination Committee (chaired by 75 Strengthening Management Foundations Corporate Governance RAF Risk Management Compliance IT Strategy Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group IT Strategy Basic Approach Internet banking, and other businesses. As we move ahead with the development of various IT sysIT systems are crucial elements of ﬁnancial institutions’ mantems, we are seeking to build on our past efforts in ensuring agement and business strategies, and high-quality IT stratestable systems operations and responding to customers’ gies are key means of differentiating an institution from its serviceand business-related needs to develop the nextcompetitors and establishing superior competitiveness. generation IT systems*1, and we are making steady progress. Based on this understanding and the lessons learned from *1. Next-generation IT systems for deposits, exchange, loans, forex, and past system troubles, we are engaged in risk management other areas. designed to ensure the stable operations of IT systems that play important roles in our settlement infrastructure. Amid a societal Efforts to Strengthen IT Governance and Ensure Stable environment characterized by changes—such as those related Systems Operations to Support the Group’s Businesses to the growing pervasiveness of the Internet, globalization of economy, and the tightening supervisory regulations—we are We are continually making efforts to ensure stable systems striving to meet customer needs by leveraging IT systems to prooperations by developing frameworks for the safe and reliable vide secure, safe and seamless services in an “integrated manner development of IT systems and implementing such IT investbetween the banking, trust banking, and securities entities.” ments as those that promote common operational infrastrucDuring the period of Mizuho’s Transformation Program, we ture, strengthen the management and increase the stability of began developing a common IT system on a group-wide basis already operating systems. and promoted reforms of system structures and IT-cost strucFu r th e r m o re, by p ro m oti n g m e a s u re s to e s t a b l i s h tures. Moreover, under our current medium-term business plan, group-wide data management systems and countermeasures we are planning IT investments on an unprecedented scale for frequent and sophisticated cyber attacks, we are striving and are engaged in systems development to meet the various to strengthen our system infrastructure to efﬁciently support needs associated with the expansion of Asia-related business, our business while elevating levels of safety and security. Efforts to Stabilize IT System Operations and Advancement in IT Systems From April 2002 December 2004 April 2010 to March 2013 July 2013 December 2016 (scheduled) Current medium-term business plan Merger of Three Banks Mizuho’s “System integration” and Integration of systems Integrated strategy between Integration and reorgaTransforma“the new frontier of Migration to branches the “banking, trust banking, nization into Two Banks tion Program finance” —One System and securities entities” Stable operation of IT system Reform of legacy Thorough system risk management/ Improvement of systems risk assessment IT systems system quality management Improvement of response capabilities to cyber attacks Build core accounting systems (rebuild areas including Upgrade services and functions deposits, exchange, Domestic loans and forex; replace Strategic existing systems) Common infrastructure Improve One Bank rebuilding Cost reduction functions project • Improvement of products and services (new channels, big data) Next-generation IT systems • Globalization of finance (strengthening of global competitiveness) Rebuild peripheral Introduce common • Respond to ﬁnancial regulations Introduce hub & IT systems in stages IT infrastructure (respond as a G-SIFI*2) spoke system Overseas Return to Japan Expansion of global network Renewal of core systems *2. G-SIFIs: Global Systemically Important Financial Institutions 76 Human Resources Strategy Social Contribution Activities Efforts to Strengthen IT Governance and Ensure Stable Systems Operations to Support the Group’s Businesses Customers Mizuho MHBK MHTB Provide customers with secure, safe and seamless Group strategy services in an “integrated manner between banking, (regarding IT, MHSC trust banking, and securities functions” business, and management) Other group companies Efforts to strengthen IT governance and ensure stable systems operations to support the group’s businesses Group-wide IT governance centered on the holding company IT system infrastructure Data management Stable systems operations Project management Development of Information security Data center Organizational structure IT human resources Cyber security Data Management Cyber Security Owing to the tightening of international ﬁnancial regulations As cyber-space is becoming an increasingly important platand the progress in IT, increasing attention is being focused form for economic activities and it is forecast that the threat on “data management” for compiling and analyzing data to be from cyber attacks will escalate, we are determined to protect put into practical use in management. Aiming to develop and our customers’ safety by implementing diverse countermeaupgrade data infrastructure and to promote the analysis and sures designed to prevent illegal money transfer. utilization of data, we have established the Data Management Mizuho-CIRT *3 is taking the initiative in collaborating with Department and is striving to increase the sophistication of specialized institutions outside the Group to strengthen our risk governance by developing data base of management capabilities for rapidly and effectively dealing with cyber information and to increase the sophistication of attacks. non-face-to-face channel marketing that make use of data *3. Cyber Incident Response Team analysis infrastructure. Data Management Cyber Security Customers and others Attackers Illegal money transfers Customers MHBK, MHTB and MHSC Internet banking Accounting systems Targeted cyber attacks CounterBranches ATMs Treasury systems measures Website alteration Mizuho Call Information systems Distributed denial of Websites centers service (DDoS) attack Security measures for illegal money transfers Data analysis Management information infrastructure database For individual customers For corporate customers One-time password card Electronic certificate One-time password distributed by e-mail Anti-virus software Marketing data Risk, profit data Additional authentication using secret passwords Authority setting for every user Monitoring of illegal One-time password Sophistication of marketing Sophistication of risk governance money transfers 77 Strengthening Management Foundations Corporate Governance RAF Risk Management Compliance IT Strategy Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group Basic Approach General Managers Off-site Meetings As one of the ten basic strategies in our medium-term busiWe are continuing to hold “General Managers Off-site Meetness plan, we have set “Embed the new Mizuho corporate ings” for the managers of all of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC ofﬁcidentity toward forming a common culture throughout the es in Japan and overseas. In ﬁscal 2013 and ﬁscal 2014, a total group and take actions toward being the best ﬁnancial of 1,251 people participated in the meetings. By providing a services provider.” Established in 2015, the One Mizuho Proforum for free and vigorous discussions among managers from motion Project Team (PT) is continuing its efforts in Japan and different ofﬁces throughout the Group, we have enabled all overseas to ensure that each and every group employee managers to share their ideas about how to realize the Group’s shares a common value system that encourages them to take Vision. Besides fostering a a ﬂexible approach to changes in society and proactively step sense of group unity and up to the challenges they face, and it is also striving to drive solidarity, the meetings have the self-starting actions of each and every employee across facilitated our efforts to cultithe group. vate a corporate culture in which employees can articCreation of “Vision of Individual Offices” ulate their ideas in an open and Supporting the Initiatives towards and frank manner. Realizing These Visions By combining the ideas and actions of individual employees, Efforts to Become “the Best Financial Services Provider” Mizuho seeks to realize its Vision for the future within Mizuho’s Corporate Identity as a whole group. Based on this concept, We are putting the “Mizuho Service Spirit (MSS),” which is the employees and managers at every ofﬁce of MHBK, MHTB and Group’s common approach to improving customer satisfacMHSC in Japan and overseas have undertaken discussions tion (CS), into practice. culminating in the drafting of “Vision of Individual Ofﬁces.” The staff members of each ofﬁce are striving to effectively proBecoming “the Best Financial Services Provider” mote progress toward the realization of their respective visions. through the Practice of MSS In addition, each ofﬁce has organized the “One Mizuho Day” Cycle of Interaction with Customers meetings to evaluate the actions taken in the previous ﬁscal year and deliberate about the initiatives that should be impleI mented in the current ﬁscal IV Provide friendly service IV year. These ef for ts have Take prompt Take prompt action action fostered a shared desire among each ofﬁce’s staff members to proactively work III II to improve their ofﬁces, and Think of the best solution Know the customer for the customer this desire has led to an increase in the self-directed efforts of each ofﬁce. IV Take prompt action Discussion Meetings with Senior Management All of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC ofﬁces in Japan and overseas have Becoming the best ﬁnancial services provider held “Discussion Meetings with Senior Management.” These Positive Customer satisfaction meetings are promoting a impression sense of unity among emof Mizuho! ployees and the senior management and they are also fostering a sense of ownership regarding the respective roles and responsibilities of Continual implementation of MSS initiatives individual par ticipants in realizing Mizuho’s Vision. 78 Human Resources Strategy Social Contribution Activities In addition, we are implementing the “Best Financial Services Provider Promotion Group Activities” initiative, which organizes discussions among members of branch and head ofﬁces aimed at upgrading the quality of services. In ﬁscal 2014, a total of 74 employees participated in discussions of eight themes, and proposals regarding each theme were compiled. The Mizuho Values 1. Customer First: The most trusted partner lighting the future We are proud to be our customers’ most trusted partner lighting the future. We put our customers ﬁrst and place their interests at Operational Process Reevaluation the core of our business. We bring together our group-wide expertise and provide the best ﬁnancial products and services to them Aiming to upgrade customer convenience and also spur still with honesty and integrity. We thereby earn our customers’ trust, greater energetic vitality on the parts of each employee which is fundamental to Mizuho, and contribute with our customers when providing services to customers, we are undertaking to the prosperity of economies and societies. an “Operational Process Reevaluation” initiative that is seeking to streamline, systematize, and otherwise improve 2. Innovative Spirit: Progressive and flexible thinking operational processes. In accordance with Mizuho’s efforts We consistently adopt a progressive and for ward thinking to foster a common corporate culture throughout the Group, approach, identifying new trends in the movements on the world we solicited opinions and proposals from a wide range of stage with wider vision. We value, encourage, and implement innoemployees. Based on that feedback, we are moving ahead vative ideas in a ﬂexible way of thinking to respond effectively to with efforts to go paperless and promote increased operacustomer needs and changes in both local and global economies tional efﬁciency. and societies. 3. Team Spirit: Diversity and collective strength Events for Employees We always keep an open mind, embrace diversity in all its forms, As part of our efforts to promote group unity and solidarity, and foster a strong team spirit to maximize our collective strength we organize such group-wide events as “Japan National as experienced ﬁnancial service professionals. Soccer Team Match Live Viewing” as well as “Mizuho Volunteer Day” events, through which the employees of ofﬁces 4. Speed: Acuity and promptness in each region undertake We strive to provide our customers with the best products and social contribution activiservices with a focus on promptness and accuracy. We are acutely ties. Approximately 3,100 sensitive to our customers’ needs and respond quickly. employees, including employees of each group 5. Passion: Communication and challenge for the future company, par ticipated in the “Japan National Soccer We are passionate about overcoming any challenges to open the Team Match Live Viewing” way to a bright future of our customers, society and ourselves. We bring fruitfulness to them by acting as our customers’ most trusted events. partner and fulﬁlling our social responsibilities. Mizuho provides them with lasting value. It is what makes us invaluable. One Mizuho Culture Prize To spread the Mizuho Values which are the shared values and principles of Mizuho’s employees, uniting all senior management and employees together to pursue Mizuho’s Vision, the One Mizuho Culture Prize is awarded by the Group CEO in recognition of outstanding examples of putting the Mizuho Values into practice. In ﬁscal 2014, 53 employees won this prize. 79 Strengthening Management Foundations Corporate Governance RAF Risk Management Compliance IT Strategy Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group Human Resources Strategy Human Resources (HR) Vision MHSC, and other group companies, we also are proactively using programs for training and seconding personnel and In order to realize the corporate philosophy within Mizuho’s transferring personnel hired outside of Japan (“National Staff,” Corporate Identity of creating lasting value for our customers hereinafter NS) to the Head Ofﬁce as a means of fostering and the economies and communities of which we are a part, employee development on a group-wide and global scale. By it is important for employees to be able to relate to and take enabling employees to obtain work experience in each group action in line with Mizuho’s Corporate Identity. To create such company, we are broadening individual employees’ range of a corporate culture, Mizuho is implementing human resources experience and perspective while also increasing the depth of initiatives in line with its HR Vision. mutual understanding among employees in various group companies in a manner that promotes the strengthening of group integration and coordination. HR Vision Group-wide Training Programs In addition to the training programs of each group company Mizuho Financial Group ﬁrmly believes that the designed to enable employees to equip themselves with spepersonal development of individual employees concialized expertise and business skills in accordance with the tributes to the stable and sustainable grow th of strategies of each group unit, our “Mizuho University” frameMizuho as a whole. work encompasses training programs focused on MBA curricMizuho recognizes those employees who make an ulum topics, programs to dispatch employees to study at gradeffort to put the Mizuho Values into practice and helps uate schools and other educational institutions in Japan and employees to create a more fulﬁlling life through their work. around the world, and programs inviting applications for overseas study opportunities as well as group-wide programs that enable NS and Japanese staff to train together at the Head • Mizuho encourages employees to utilize their strengths, Ofﬁce. To foster a sense of unity among all the group compaand provides opportunities for them to use their skills nies and to create the foundations of close collaboration and to develop their abilities. between those companies, the Group’s banking, trust banking, and securities arms cooperatively implement such • Mizuho encourages employees who differ in terms of career-stage-speciﬁc training programs as “joint training for gender, country of origin, cultural background, and newly hired personnel,” “managerial training,” and “managementvalues to understand, respect, and inspire each other. level training courses.” • Mizuho works with its employees to create a corporate culture that encourages people to be passionate Fostering the Development of Globally-minded Employees about and to take pride in their work. In step with the expansion of our business outside of Japan, we have proactively transferred Japanese staff to overseas posts and training assignments in line with our emphasis on fostering the development of employees who can dynamically Developing Employees to Better Equip them to beneﬁt our businesses in a global manner. Support Business Strategies We are also proactively hiring NS and, to enable NS to realize diverse career paths and fully make use of their potential for Cross-Company Personnel Transfers contributing to Mizuho’s business, we are moving ahead with In addition to personnel transfers across MHBK, MHTB, such measures as those to transfer NS to other countries, Banking division Number of Cross-company Number of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC Percentage of Female Management-level Employees (MHBK and MHTB) Personnel Transfers between Employees with Experience at (%) Securities division MHBK, MHTB and MHSC Multiple Group Companies 20 (MHSC) Goal: around 15% 15.9 * March 2012 ﬁgure for 14.3 15 13.0 the S e c u r i t i e s d i v i 11.6 s i o n is the sum of the employees employees 10 12.0 pre-merger MHSC and (ﬁscal 2014) (as of March 31, 2015) 10.5 Goal: around 12% 9.2 the pre-merger Mizuho 8.1 5 Investor Securities. March 2012 March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 80 Human Resources Strategy Social Contribution Activities appoint NS to high-level positions, and offer NS an augmented thereby encourage employees to be passionate about and range of training opportunities. The Global Career Management take pride in their work. Division, which is responsible for NS-related personnel management, has become the ﬁrst Head Ofﬁce division in Japan Promoting Diversity headed by a non-Japanese general manager. Mizuho is working to create work environments in which employees of different nationality, race, gender, and values can Human Resource Management that consistently maintain mutual respect for each other while Encourages Employees to Be Passionate taking full advantage of opportunities to make the most of their about and Take Pride in Their Work individual and collective abilities. In accordance with our “Four Rs” basic policy on promoting Putting the Mizuho Values into Practice the career development of female employees, we are supporting We believe that realizing Mizuho’s Corporate Identity will require female employees’ careers by enhancing our systems for helpfostering the development of a corporate culture in which each ing women realize an optimal balance between work and raising employee takes self-directed action in line with the “Mizuho a child or assisting family members who require special care, Values.” organizing training courses and seminars designed to support The Mizuho Values provide an important reference point female employees’ career development, and proactively promotregarding employee evaluation, and we are creating systems ing female employees to management posts. In these and other that facilitate employees’ efforts to effectively implement the ways, we are encouraging female employees to be highly motiMizuho Values during the course of their daily work. vated and ambitiously seek to fully realize their potential. Furthermore, we are measuring the degree of individual emWe are striving to deepen employees’ understanding of ployees’ efforts to effectively implement the Mizuho Values diversity and spur changes of perspectives and behavior through the means of “360-degree evaluations,” which is a through initiatives such as regular articles in the group comsystem where an employee is evaluated by colleagues, includmunication magazine and organizing managerial training. At ing direct reports. The 360-degree evaluations not only the same time, we are working to establish ﬂexible work sysimprove the transparency and acceptance of employee evalutems and tools that support the diverse work styles of emations, but also encourage employees to be proactive in ployees with a wide variety of personal backgrounds. changing their behavior. Support for Career Development The “Four Rs”: Basic Policy for Empowering Women in the Workplace Mizuho provides diverse kinds of support to enable employees to think about, plan, and develop their own careers going for ward. These suppor t methods—such as the “Career Support the activities of women Promote active Sheet” system, which enables employees to share information in diverse areas and promote hiring of women them to managerial positions about their work experience, area of specialty, and hoped-for assignments with their managers; a career interview system that provides consultations with specialist advisors; the “Job Create environments Actively promote internal and Application System,” which enables employees to directly that sustain external dialog to encourage motivation and a change in mindset for the submit applications for new posts; and the “Global Opportuniprevent turnover organization as a whole ty Program,” which offers young NS opportunities to work in Head Ofﬁce positions—are all designed to help employees pursue the career development paths of their own choice and Each group company anEurope Employee Opinion Survey Results Change in the Number of NS The Americas nually conﬁrms the nature of employee opinions by (No. of NS) Asia 10,000 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 implementing an employ8,218 7,745 ee opinion survey, includ8,000 6,745 7,163 1,427 1,560 3.7 3.7 ing questions regarding 1,303 1,325 Job satisfaction 6,000 1,679 1,805 1,460 1,546 the level of respondents’ 4,000 Pride in being a 3.7 3.7 “Job satisfaction” and 3,982 4,292 4,639 4,853 Mizuho employee 2,000 “Pride in being a Mizuho * Figures represent group-wide averages of employee.” 0 March 2012 March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 responses on a scale of 1 (low) to 5 (high). 81 Strengthening Management Foundations Corporate Governance RAF Risk Management Compliance IT Strategy Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group Social Contribution Activities One key goal ar ticulated within Mizuho’s Mediumand well as government organizations, NPOs, regional commuLong-term CSR Initiative Policy is “Promote social contribunities, and others tions activities that take into consideration the needs of local For more details, please access MHFG’s websites. regions and society.” Based on this objective, Mizuho has http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/csr/local/index.html drafted its “Standards for Social Contribution Initiatives,” which include such items as Policies for Social Contribution Support for Financial Education Initiatives and priority initiatives, and group companies are cooperating to promote its social contribution activities in Mizuho has drawn on its practical knowledge and know-how accordance with these policy frameworks. as a provider of comprehensive ﬁnancial services to move ahead with the provision of support for ﬁnancial education at Policies for Social Contribution Initiatives two levels—elementary and secondary level and the higher education level. In ﬁscal 2005, we clariﬁed our policy regard• Mizuho harmonizes its own proﬁt-making activities with initiatives that beneﬁt society, and, as “a good corporate ing the proactive promotion of support for ﬁnancial education and, as a result of our progressive efforts in this regard, the citizen” striving to support society and develop together aggregate number of people who have participated in ﬁnanwith society, Mizuho fulﬁlls its responsibilities for contributcial education programs implemented by Mizuho has reached ing to society. approximately 41,000. In addition, Mizuho is implementing a • Mizuho believes that, through its social contribution initiatives, it contributes to the sustainable development of sociwide range of initiatives overseas based on local needs. ety and, thereby, works to realize the vision of Mizuho’s Activities in Elementary and Secondary Education Corporate Identity and build the base for creating its corpoMizuho has been conducting a joint research on ﬁnancial educarate value and developing its activities. tion with Tokyo Gakugei University since ﬁscal 2006. By leverag• Mizuho believes the social contribution initiatives of Mizuho employees contribute to employee growth and developing the special strengths and networks of each of the two partners, including Mizuho’s ﬁnance-related resources and Tokyo ment of a sense of being members of society. Accordingly, Gakugei University’s education-related resources, the research Mizuho actively supports these initiatives. project has developed ﬁnancial education tools as well as taken • Mizuho proactively discloses information regarding our corporate stance toward social contribution initiatives and our diverse initiatives designed to promote the implementation of ﬁnancial education programs on a broader scale. actual activities. In addition, Mizuho will continue to improve Based on the results of the research, Mizuho has arranged these initiatives, by encouraging close communication with for its employees to visit society through dialogue with stakeholders to ensure that schools and teach ﬁnanceour corporate activities conform to social standards and related classes as guest expectations. instructors, and it is also cooperating in accepting Priority Initiatives children and students for work experience. • Initiatives that take full advantage of our management resources and promote initiatives that contribute to regional and social development Activities in Higher Education • Initiatives in collaboration and cooperation with regional societies that are the basis for the activities of Mizuho as In the area of higher education, as an effort to develop human resources with high-level ﬁnancial knowledge who will be Corporate Citizenship Outlays Number of Yellow Badges*1 Delivered to First Graders Environment and others 5.0% A total of Activities to revitalize local communities and create a safe society 6.2% 1965 to 2015 Total outlay million badges Humanitarian activities Education, research and ¥915 million and social welfare 7.6% international exchange 42.6% Fiscal 2014 *1. Yellow Badges: Badges with trafﬁc accident insurance Health and sports 19.1% (20% of which are presented to ﬁrst graders nationwide with the intent of ﬁnancial education) ensuring daily safe commutes for schoolchildren. Arts and culture 19.5% *2. In cooperation with Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance, Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance and The Dai-ichi Life Insurance. 82 Human Resources Strategy Social Contribution Activities responsible for the next generation, we started offering Fukushima Prefecture, which was severely affected by the Tsunafull-scale, donated lectures and courses at universities in mi. In April 2013, Mizuho signed an agreement with Fukushima ﬁscal 2006. Prefecture, Iwaki City and the owners of the disaster-prevention Employees with hands-on expertise are deployed to give forest to restore the approximately 1.3 hectare forest of Iwaki lectures and courses that leverage knowledge Mizuho has City, Fukushima Prefecture by March 2019. As of May 2015, a acquired through the comprehensive ﬁnancial services it offers total of approximately 260 employee volunteers have particiin banking, trust banking, securities and asset management. pated together with local Furthermore, we endeavor government associates and to establish themes to take local residents in two treeinto account the latest ﬁplanting campaigns that nancial environment and succeeded in planting apissues affecting the ﬁnanproximately 9,000 Japanese cial sector in order to make black pine tree seedlings. the lectures and courses more practical. Volunteer Activities by Employees Activities in India Mizuho proactively encourages volunteer activities in the comMHBK is conducting a ﬁnancial literacy program at its branch munities that are the foundation of its activities. The aims of ofﬁces in India in concert with the concept of the Reserve these activities include strengthening relationships with local Bank of India (India’s cencommunities and contributing to nurturing a unity of purpose tral bank)’s Financial Incluamong all management and employees as well as developing sion Project. Each branch a sense of being members of society. joined with NGOs and other groups to teach students Mizuho Volunteer Day and youth about the imporSince ﬁscal 2006, a period has been designated each year for tance of prudent spending “Mizuho Volunteer Day” for management and employees to and saving. focus on engaging actively in substantive volunteer activities. Employees are engaged in a wide range of activities that were Social Contribution Activities in the designed to meet community needs. Disaster-Stricken Areas During the period from July to November 2014, a total of approximately 5,100 Mizuho employees, the members of their To promote the recovery of industries and regions that suffered families, and others at 61 locations in 19 countries participatfrom the Great East Japan Earthquake Disaster, Mizuho is ed in the Mizuho Volunteer Day. engaging in various social contribution activities in a sustained manner. These activities include providing employee volunteers, offering information to persons who have ﬂed from the stricken areas, and organizing ﬁnancial education programs. Mizuho Forest Project Mizuho is engaging in the Mizuho Forest Project, aimed at reviving the disaster-prevention forest planted along the coast of Participants of Mizuho’s Financial Education Programs Number of Participants of the Mizuho Volunteer Day During ﬁscal During ﬁscal 2006 to 2014 Approximately people 2006 to 2014 Approximately people 83 Strengthening Management Foundations Stakeholder Communications Having articulated its fundamental ethical posture towards its stakeholders in Mizuho Code of Conduct, Mizuho proactively undertakes communication activities and strives to ensure that its corporate activities are in harmony with common sense as well as being fair and transparent. Mizuho’s Stakeholder Communication • Dialog at branches and through our sales staff • Customer feedback cards • Call centers • Website • Questionnaires for customers and customer satisfaction surveys • General meeting of shareholders, brochure • PR activities entitled the “Report to Our Shareholders” • Investor Briefings, IR contact page • Dissemination of information through • Appropriate responses to super visor y websites and disclosure materials authorities • PR activities • Activities through industry associations • Responding to socially responsible • Public-private partnership initiatives Customers investment surveys, etc. • Policy recommendations Government Authorities Shareholders Mizuho Suppliers and Competitors Employees • Purchasing activities and outsourcing • Education and training contracts based on the Mizuho Code of • In-house communication activities Conduct as well as on compliance regula• Employee opinion surveys tions, outsourcing regulations, etc. Regional/ • Labor-management consultations • Coordination and cooperation in business Local Communities • Arrangement for responding to consulactivities tations and complaints • Cooperation through industry associa• Social contribution activities tions and diverse initiatives • Support for financial education • Stakeholder dialog • PR activities * Sum of MHBK, MHTB * Sum of MHBK, MHTB The Number of Customer The Number of Phone Inquiries Feedback Cards Collected and MHSC Received at Call Centers and MHSC (thousand cards) (thousand inquiries) 30 350 25 300 20 250 15 200 150 10 100 5 50 0 0 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 84 Communication Activities Example (1) – Communication Activities Example (2) – Communication with customers Communication with shareholders Mizuho is improving customer satisfaction by putting the We are striving to be understood well taking advantage of Group’s common approach, Mizuho Service Spirit into practice. interactive communication with shareholders and other We consider customer feedback to be an important maninvestors. agement resource that facilitates our efforts to investigate and analyze the causes of problems, clarify the tasks that must be addressed, and implement the measures required to elevate the level of the entire Group’s management quality and The 13th ordinary general meeting improve the Group’s products and services going forward. of shareholders Held on June 23, 2015 at Tokyo International Forum. Participants: 3,303 shareholders Customer Feedback Cards Call centers Investor briefings for institutional and individual investors Seven briefings were held in fiscal 2014. Participants: approximately 1,000 investors in total Communication Activities Example (3) – Participation in Initiatives Mizuho, given its global perspective and role as a financial institution, participates in domestic and overseas initiatives to advance activities for the formation of a sustainable society. United Nations Global Compact UNEP Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Ten principles addressing matters International partnership of financial like human rights, labor, the enviinstitutions concerning sustainable ronment, and anti-corruption. practices in the various operations in which financial institutions are involved. Equator Principles Applies the Equator Principles to Principles for Financial Action for require consideration of environmenthe 21st Century Website tal and social impacts of large-scale p r o j e c tr e l a t e d fi n a n c i n g a s a Initiatives by financial institutions in fundamental principle. Japan for financial action towards a sustainable society. UN’s “Principles for Business and Biodiversity Responsible Investment” (PRI) Offsets Program (BBOP) Principles which ensure environmenI n i ti ati ve s to c re ate a c o m m o n tal, social, and corporate governance global framework for protection of issues are incorporated into the biodiversity. Mizuho is a member of decision-making processes. the BBOP advisory group. July 2015 R a n ke d N o.1 a m o n g Published the Integratbanks in “Gomez IR ed Repor t for the first website ranking 2015” time for the second consecutive year. 85 Mizuho’s Office Network We utilize our office network, which covers every prefecture in Japan as well as major overseas cities, to respond to our customers’ diversified and globalizing financial needs while supporting the smooth progress of economic activities. Europe, the Middle East and Africa Asia and Oceania MHBK 18 offices MHBK 43 offices MHTB 1 office MHSC 7 offices MHSC 4 offices DIAM 2 offices DIAM 1 office Amsterdam Brussels Düsseldorf London Frankfurt Beijing Luxembourg Tianjin Moscow Dalian Qingdao Paris Vienna Nanjing Wuxi Seoul Madrid Istanbul Hefei Zurich Wuhan Suzhou Milan Tehran Xiamen New Delhi Shenzhen Bahrain Guangzhou Shanghai Riyadh Hong Kong Dubai Hanoi Taipei Mumbai Taichung Bangalore-Devanahalli Kaohsiung Chennai Yangon Bangkok Manila Eastern Seaboard Phnom Penh Ho Chi Minh City Kuala Lumpur Labuan Singapore Jakarta Johannesburg Sydney 86 International Network (As of June 30, 2015) MHBK: 81 offices MHTB: 2 offices MHSC: 24 offices DIAM: 4 offices Overseas branch or relevant office Overseas subsidiary Overseas subsidiary Overseas subsidiary Overseas representative office Overseas representative office Overseas subsidiary Note: Overseas subsidiaries include head offices, branches or relevant offices, and representative offices of overseas subsidiaries. Americas MHBK 20 offices MHTB 1 office MHSC 13 offices DIAM 1 office Chicago Calgary Toronto Boston Vancouver Hoboken San Francisco New York Atlanta Houston Los Angeles Nassau Cayman Mexico City Network in Japan (As of May 31, 2015) MHBK Head Office and Branches: 421 Sub-branches: 40 MHTB Head Office and Branches: 36 Sub-branches: 17 MHSC São Paulo Head Office and Departments: 3 Branches: 105 Planet Booths: 165 M H B K o p e n e d th e E a s te r n S e a b o a rd Santiago Branch in March 2015. Financial Advisors Sales Department: 1 *Planet Booths are the consulting booths Mizuho Bank Nederland opened the Vienna of MHSC located in MHBK’s Branches Branch in July 2015. M H B K o p e n e d th e Ya n g o n B r a n c h i n August 2015. MHBK opened the San Francisco Representative Office in September 2015. MHBK opened the Ahmedabad Branch in September 2015. 87 Corporate Profile Company Name: Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Stock Listing (Code): Tokyo Stock Exchange (8411) New York Stock Exchange (MFG) Location of Head Office: 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan Tel. +81-(0)3-5224-1111 Representative: Yasuhiro Sato, President & CEO Capital: ¥2,255,404 million Issued Shares: 25,536,649,967 shares Common Stock: 24,621,897,967 shares Preferred Stock: 914,752,000 shares Number of Employees: 1,152 (Total number of employees on a consolidated basis: 54,784) Date of Establishment: January 8, 2003 (As of March 31, 2015) Mizuho’s Group Structure Mizuho Financial Group Mizuho Bank Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Securities Trust & Custody Services Bank Mizuho Asset Management DIAM Mizuho Research Institute Mizuho Information & Research Institute Mizuho Private Wealth Management 88 Websites Information useful to our customers can be found on our website including company information and introductions of business operations at group companies. Moreover, information on IR, finance, exchange rates and branch guidance, various financial products and services, as well as industrial and economic reports are available. Some of the banking transactions and inquires can also be made. Mizuho Financial Group http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/index.html About Mizuho Investor Relations Financial Information IR Information Stock Information CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) CSR Report Careers News Release News Release E-mail Distribution Service Mizuho Bank http://www.mizuhobank.com/index.html About Mizuho Bank Corporate Information A Message from the Management Products & Services Markets & Reports Foreign Exchange Report Industry and Economic Report Economic Report News Release Overseas Offices Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Securities http://www.mizuho-tb.co.jp/english/index.html http://www.mizuho-sc.com/english/index.html 89 90 Appendix 91 Profiles of Group Companies (As of March 31, 2015 except for each company’s office network, which is as of May 31, 2015) Mizuho Bank (MHBK) Mizuho Securities (MHSC) Date of Establishment: July 1, 2013 Date of Establishment: January 4, 2013 Capital: ¥1,404,065 million Capital: ¥125,167 million Location of Head Office: 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Location of Head Office: Otemachi First Square, 1-5-1, Otemachi, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan Tel. +81-(0)3-3214-1111 Tel. +81-(0)3-5208-3210 Representative: Nobuhide Hayashi, President & CEO Representative: Hiroshi Motoyama, President & CEO Number of Employees: 26,561 Number of Employees: 6,848 Domestic Network Head Office and Branches: 421 Domestic Network Head Office and Departments: 3 Sub-branches: 40 Branches: 105 Overseas Network Branches or Relevant Offices: 38 Planet Booths: 165 Representative Offices: 7 Financial Advisors Sales Department: 1 Subsidiaries: 36 Overseas Network Representative Offices: 2 Subsidiaries: 22 Mizuho Trust & Banking (MHTB) Trust & Custody Services Bank (TCSB) Date of Establishment: March 12, 2003 As Mizuho’s trust bank specializing in asset administration, TCSB will continue to provide high-quality, high-value-added trust and custody services to customers including large institutional investors. As of Capital: ¥247,369 million March 31, 2015, the balance of assets under custody and administration exceeded ¥380 trillion, the largest scale in Japan. Location of Head Office: 1-2-1, Yaesu, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8670, Japan Date of Establishment: January 22, 2001 Tel. +81-(0)3-3278-8111 Capital: ¥50,000 million Representative: Takeo Nakano, President & CEO Location of Head Office: Tower Z, Harumi Triton Square, 1-8-12, Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo Number of Employees: 3,152 Representative: Akira Moriwaki, President & CEO Domestic Network Head Office and Branches: 36 Sub-branches: 17 (Trust Lounges: 16) Number of Employees: 603 Overseas Network Subsidiaries: 2 92 Mizuho Asset Management (MHAM) Mizuho Information & Research Institute (MHIR) MHAM’s core businesses are investment trust business, mainly for With IT as its core technology, MHIR is a professional organization individuals and financial institutions, and investment advisory business, with more than 4,000 employees that provides assistance to corprincipally for public and private pensions, financial institutions and porations in increasing their corporate value through its consulting, corporations. MHAM’s asset management products and services system integration and outsourcing services. cover a wide range from equities and bonds to alternative investments. Date of Establishment: October 1, 2004 Date of Establishment: July 1, 2007 Capital: ¥1,627 million Capital: ¥2,045 million Location of Head Office: 2-3 Kanda-Nishikicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of Head Office: 3-5-27, Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo Representative: Junichi Nishizawa, President & CEO Representative: Hidetake Nakamura, President Number of Employees: 4,245 Number of Employees: 229 Mizuho Private Wealth Management (MHPW) DIAM MHPW offers consulting services tailored to the needs of its customers. DIAM is an asset management company in which The Dai-ichi Life Insurance These services range from consulting on customers’ financial matters and Mizuho both have equity holdings. DIAM collaborates with its offices in such as wealth management, arranging for business inheritance to Europe, the United States and Asia to offer investment trust products to advice on customers’ individual matters, including health of the cusindividuals and corporate customers, as well as provide investment advisory tomers themselves as well as family members and children’s education. services to customers including Japanese and overseas pension funds. Date of Establishment: October 3, 2005 Date of Establishment: October 1, 1999 Capital: ¥500 million Capital: ¥2,000 million Location of Head Office: 1-1-5, Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of Head Office: New Tokyo Building 5th Floor, 3-3-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Representative: Takeru Watanabe, President (Appointed on April 1, 2015) Representative: Yasumasa Nishi, President & CEO Number of Employees: 35 Number of Employees: 433 Overseas Network Subsidiaries: 4 Mizuho Research Institute (MHRI) MHRI is a think tank with high-level research and solution-development divisions as well as its own corporate membership organization. MHRI’s missions are working to contribute to the wide prosperity of its customers and the development of society. Mizuho Financial Strategy (MHFS) merged with Mizuho Office Management on July 1, 2015, with Mizuho Office Date of Establishment: October 1, 2002 Management as the absorbing company and MHFS as the dissolving company. Capital: ¥900 million Notes: 1. The representatives of each company have representation rights. Location of Head Office: 1-2-1, Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 2. The numbers of employees do not include each company’s employees dispatched outside each company while it includes employees dispatched from outside each company. This figure Representative: Mitsuaki Tsuchiya, President & CEO also includes overseas local staff but excludes executive officers and temporary employees. Number of Employees: 291 3. Overseas subsidiaries includes head offices, branches and representative offices of subsidiaries. 93 Compliance Contacts “Internal Controls and Audit Hotline” Approaches to the Financial Alternative —A system designed for obtaining concerns Dispute Resolution (ADR) System regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters— In order to deal expeditiously, fairly and appropriately with complaints, etc., from customers, MHBK and MHTB have conReporting Items: MHFG has established a hotline to receive cluded the basic contract for the implementation of dispute reports from in and outside the company in resolution procedures with the Japanese Bankers Association, connection with problems concerning internal which is a designated dispute resolution institution as defined controls and audits of accounts and financial in Japan’s Banking Act. MHTB has also concluded the basic reports. contract for the implementation of dispute resolution proceContact Point: This hotline has been established within an dures with the Trust Companies Association of Japan, which is external law office. Please use conventional a designated dispute resolution institution as defined in mail or e-mail for reporting. Japan’s Trust Business Act and Act on Concurrent Operation, Conventional mail: etc. of Trust Business by Financial Institutions. 12th Floor, Kasumigaseki Bldg., The designated dispute resolution institution takes the steps Kasumigaseki 3-2-5, Chiyoda-ku, towards resolution from a fair and neutral perspective in cases Tokyo 100-6012 where the solutions to customers’ complaints adopted by the Mizuho Accounting Hotline, c/o Daiichi two banks are not accepted. Fuyo Law Office E-mail: kaikei-mizuho@daiichifuyo.gr.jp The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution as Defined in Japan’s Banking Act which MHBK and MHTB Concluded • When reported matters are within the scope of the reporting the Basic Contract with items, MHFG will do reasonable efforts to investigate the The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution: facts behind the information received and report back on the the Japanese Bankers Association results. Contact: Advisory Center of the Japanese Bankers Association • Anonymous tips are also acceptable, but there are cases Tel.: +81-(0)3-5252-3772 where it will not be possible to fully satisfy the intentions behind such tips owing to constraints on investigations and The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution as Defined in the inability to report back. Japan’s Trust Business Act and Act on Concurrent • Information on persons making such reports is not disclosed Operation, etc. of Trust Business by Financial Institutions to third parties other than the group companies except in which MHTB Concluded the Basic Contract with cases where the assent of the person in question has been The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution: obtained or such disclosure is required under laws and ordiTrust Companies Association of Japan nances, etc. Contact: Trust Consultation Center of the Trust Companies Association of Japan Tel.: +81-(0)3-6206-3988 94 Risk Management Structure Commitment to Risk Management Risk Management Structure Basic Approach MHFG Progress in financial deregulation and internationalization has Supervision, led to growth in the diversity and complexity of banking operaBoard of Directors Audit Committee tions, exposing financial institutions to various risks, including Audit credit, market operations, information technology, legal, settlement and other risks. We recognize the conducting of operaPresident & Group CEO Executive Management (Group CEO) Committee tions tailored to the risks and managing such risks as a key issue relating to overall management. In order to implement our Business Policy Committees (Risk Management business strategy while maintaining our financial stability, we Committee, etc.) Management maintain comprehensive risk management and control measOfficer responsible for risk management ures. MHFG maintains basic policies for risk management (Group CRO, etc.) established by its Board of Directors that are applicable to the entire group. These policies clearly define the kinds of risks to Risk Management Division be managed, set forth the organizational structure and provide Credit Risk Management Division for the human resources training necessary for appropriate levDivisions responsible for risk management els of risk management. The policies also provide for audits to measure the effectiveness and suitability of the risk management structure. In line with these basic policies, we maintain various measures to strengthen and enhance the sophistica• Set risk management policies • Report the risk management • Give instructions and apsituations tion of our risk management system. • Submit applications conprovals concerning risk management cerning risk management Risk Management Structure Each of our subsidiaries adopts appropriate risk management Core group companies measures for its business based on the size and nature of its Other risk exposures, while MHFG controls risk management for the MHBK MHTB MHSC core group Group as a whole. At MHFG, the Risk Management Committee companies chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer (Group CRO) provides integrated monitoring and management of the overall risk for the Group. The Group CRO reports the risk management situBoard of Directors MHBK MHTB ation to the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, the President & CEO Executive Management Executive Management Committee and the President & Group Committee CEO, on a regular basis and as needed. MHFG regularly Business Policy Committees receives reports and applications concerning the risk management situation from our core group companies and gives them CRO appropriate instructions concerning risk management. Our core group companies each maintains its own system for manRisk Management Division <Market operations> Middle offices aging various types of risk, regularly receiving reports on the Credit Risk Management Division status of risk at their respective subsidiaries, and gives them Divisions responsible for risk management appropriate instructions concerning risk management. • Set risk management policies • Report the risk management • Give instructions and apsituations provals concerning risk • Submit applications conmanagement cerning risk management Subsidiaries managed by the core group companies 95 Risk Management Structure Approach to the Basel Regulatory Framework to review the treatments related to capital requirements. We will comply with new requirements appropriately. And Basel III Framework, the regulations for international stanwe have been identified as a G-SIB by the Financial dards of the health of banks, is being phased in from 2013, Stability Board in November 2014. In case we are to be which consists of minimum capital requirements, a leveridentified as a G-SIB, the stricter capital requirements will age ratio and a global liquidity standard. Basel III is based be applied. on the Basel II framework which requires the observance of A leverage ratio also has been implemented under “Pillar “three pillars.” “Pillar 1” is minimum requirements relating to 3” from March 31, 2015 and we began disclosing it. And a risk which should be maintained by banks. “Pillar 2” is the global liquidity standard has been implemented under self-disciplined risk management by financial institutions “Pillar 1” from March 31, 2015 in Japan and we have been with a supervisory review process. “Pillar 3” is market discicalculating our liquidity coverage ratio. pline allowing for assessment by the market through appropriate disclosure. Glossary Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) Approach We have been calculating our capital adequacy ratios by AIRB is one of the calculation methods for credit risk assets provided for by applying the Advanced Internal Ratings Based approach Basel II. Under AIRB, both probability of default and loss given default used for the calculation of credit risk from March 31, 2009 and for calculation of credit risk assets are estimated by the bank’s own internal the Advanced Measurement Approaches for the calculaexperiences. tion of operational risk from September 30, 2009. In Japan, Advanced Measurement Approaches (AMA) AMA is one of the calculation methods for operational risk assets provided for from March 31, 2013, the minimum capital requirements by Basel II. AMA is a risk asset calculation method based on statistics that not based on Basel III began to be phased in, and we have only utilizes data from internal losses experienced by the company, but also been calculating capital adequacy ratios based on the reviutilizes scenario data to calculate the impact of events that may be experisions to capital adequacy guidelines published by the enced in the future. Financial Services Agency. The Basel Committee continues General Concept of Risk Management measures of financial strength. To ensure the ongoing financial health of MHFG and our core group companies, we regularly Basic Approach monitor the manner in which risk capital is being used in order We classify our risk exposures according to the various kinds to obtain a proper grasp of the risk profile within this frameof risk, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and operwork. Reports are also submitted to the Board of Directors and ational risk, and manage each type of risk according to its other committees of each company. Risk capital is allocated to characteristics. In addition to managing each type of risk indiMHBK, MHTB and MHSC by risk category, and is further allovidually, we have established a risk management structure to cated within their respective business units based on estabidentify and evaluate overall risk and, where necessary, to lished frameworks. devise appropriate responses to keep risk within limits that are managerially acceptable in both qualitative and quantitative Stress Testing terms. In line with the basic policies relating to overall risk manWe conduct stress testing based on several scenarios, such as agement laid down by MHFG, companies within the Group economic recession and turmoil in financial markets. We measidentify risk broadly and take a proactive and sophisticated ure and analyze the impacts on us from each scenario. The approach to risk management, including methodologies for results of stress testing are utilized for setting the level of risk operations that involve exposures to multiple categories of risk appetite, identifying the appropriateness of our business plansuch as settlement and trust businesses. ning, and assessing our internal capital adequacy. Our stress testing scenarios are formulated through discussions regarding Risk Capital Allocation down-side risks in the macro-environment based on underlying We endeavor to obtain a clear grasp of the group’s overall risk macroeconomic events and economic outlook and significant exposure and have implemented measures to keep such risks risks for us specified through analysis of our business portfolio. within the Group’s financial base in accordance with the risk We estimate the impact on us by setting parameters such as capital allocation framework. More specifically, we allocate risk economic output, stock market and interest rate levels for each capital to our core group companies, including their respective scenario. subsidiaries, to control risk within the limits set for each company. We also control risk within managerially acceptable limits by working to ensure that the overall risk we hold on a consolidated basis does not exceed shareholders’ equity and other 96 Allocation of Risk Capital (Example) MHFG MHBK Risk limits, etc., based on risk capital are set, and controls are The group’s financial The group’s risk imposed on each type of risk. strength exposure Credit risk Allocated risk capital MHBK Market risk Allocation to Equity risk each business unit Core group MHTB companies’ Operational risk risk exposure* Group Capital, etc. MHSC companies, etc. MHTB Other risk exposure MHSC * Including risk exposures of the subsidiaries of the core group companies. Credit Risk Management The Process of our Stress Testing Basic Approach Define and generate through discussion regarding external and internal environment We define credit risk as the Group’s exposure to the risk of [Major macroeconomic indices] losses that may be incurred due to a decline in, or total loss of, GDP growth rates, stock prices, interest rates, the value of assets (including off-balance-sheet instruments), foreign exchange rates, etc. 1. as a result of deterioration in obligors’ financial position. We Development of stress External environment (economic have established the methods and structures necessary for testing environment, economic outlook) grasping and managing credit risk, which has become increasscenarios Specify downside risks of macro environment ingly complex due to financial deregulation, internationalization and the growing sophistication of transactions. MHFG manInternal environment (business portfolio, etc.) ages credit risk for the Group as a whole. More specifically, we Specify significant risks for us*1 have adopted two different but mutually complementary approaches in credit risk management. The first approach is “credit management,” in which we manage the process for Measure and analyze the impact on us from each individual transaction and individual obligor from execu2. each scenario tion until collection, based on our assessment of the credit Measurement and analysis [Major items measured] quality of the customer. Through this process, we curb losses of the impacts Pre-provision net revenue, capital adequacy ratios, VAR, etc. in the case of a credit event. The second is “credit portfolio management,” in which we utilize statistical methods to assess the potential for losses related to credit risk. Through this process, we identify credit risks and respond appropriately. Utilize for setting the level of risk appetite, 3. Utilizing identifying the appropriateness of our the result business planning, and assessing our internal Credit Risk Management Structure capital adequacy*2 •OurCredit Risk Management of MHFG Board of Directors determines the Group’s basic matters *1. Examples would include: an increase in provision for loan losses due to deterioration of credit; and a sharp deterioration in the profit and loss status of stockholdings due to a stock market decline pertaining to credit risk management. In addition, the Risk *2. In assessing our internal capital adequacy, we add the scenario based on Management Committee of MHFG discusses and coordinates historical stress events, etc., to the scenario developed under process1 above matters relating to basic policies and operations in connection with credit risk management and matters relating to credit risk monitoring for the Group. Under the control of the Group Chief 97 Risk Management Structure Risk Officer of MHFG, the Risk Management Division and the and approves/disapproves individual transactions in terms of Credit Risk Management Division jointly monitor, analyze and credit review, credit management and collection from cussubmit suggestions concerning credit risk and formulate and tomers in accordance with the lines of authority set forth by execute plans in connection with basic matters pertaining to each bank. In addition, each bank has established internal credit risk management. audit divisions that are independent of the business divisions in •OurCredit Risk Management at Our Core Group Companies core group companies manage their credit risk according order to ensure appropriate credit risk management. to the scale and nature of their exposures in line with basic Individual Credit Management policies set forth by MHFG. The Board of Directors of each company determines important matters pertaining to credit •TheCredit Codes basic code of conduct for all of our officers and employrisk management. The respective business policy committees ees engaged in the credit business is set forth in our credit of MHBK and MHTB (the two banks) are responsible for discode. Seeking to fulfill the bank’s public and social role, our cussing and coordinating overall management of their individbasic policy for credit business is determined in light of fundaual credit portfolios and transaction policies towards obligors. mental principles focusing on public welfare, safety, growth The Chief Risk Officer of each bank is responsible for matters and profitability. relating to planning and implementing credit risk management. The credit risk management division of each bank is responsi•OneInternal Rating System of the most important elements of the risk management ble for planning and administering credit risk management and infrastructure of the two banks is the use of an internal rating conducting credit risk measuring and monitoring, and such system that consists of credit ratings and pool allocations. division regularly presents reports regarding its risk manageCredit ratings consist of obligor ratings which represent the ment situation to MHFG. Each credit division determines policies level of credit risk of the obligor, and transaction ratings which Connection between Obligor Ratings, Definition of Obligor Classifications of Self-Assessments, Claims Disclosed under the FRA and Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Definition of Obligor Category I Category IV Claims Non-Accrual, Obligor ClassifiRatings Disclosed Past Due & Definition of Ratings (NonCategory II Category III (Noncations of Self(Major under the RestrucAssessment Category) Categorized) Collateralized) FRA tured Loans Obligors whose certainty of debt fulfillment A1–A3 is very high, hence their level of credit risk is excellent. Obligors whose certainty of debt fulfillment poses B1–B2 no problems for the foreseeable future, hence their level of credit risk is sufficient. All credit given Normal to Normal Obligors Obligors whose certainty of debt fulfillment Obligors. Normal C1–C3 and their level of credit risk pose no probClaims lems for the foreseeable future. Obligors whose current certainty of debt fulfillD1–D3 ment poses no problems, however, their resistance to future environmental changes is low. E1 Obligors who require close watching going forward because there are problems with their borrowings, such as reduced or susCredit given to pended interest payments, problems with Watch Obligors Watch Restructured fulfillment such as de facto postponements other than those Obligors Claims for Loans E2 R of principal or interest payments, or probincluded in lems with their financial positions as a Category I. Special Attention Loans Past Due result of their poor or unstable business for 3 Months or conditions. More Obligors who are not yet bankrupt but are in Credit to Credit given to financial difficulties and are deemed to be obligors which Intensive ConIntensive very likely to go bankrupt in the future has pledged trol Obligors Claims with because they are finding it difficult to make Control F1 progress in implementing their management collateral or is other than those Collection Obligors covered by included in CatRisk improvement plans (including obligors who guarantees, egory I and CatNon-Accrual are receiving ongoing support from financial considered of Credit to obligegory II. Delinquent institutions). high quality, ors which is Loans Obligors who have not yet gone legally or such as deposit covered by genThe difference Credit to BankSubstantially formally bankrupt but who are substantially collateral. eral collateral, between the rupt and SubstanBankrupt G1 bankrupt because they are in serious finansuch as real assessed value and Claims tially Bankrupt Obligors cial difficulties and are not deemed to be estate and market value of colagainst Obligors, other capable of restructuring. guarantees. lateral on credit to Bankrupt and than those in CatBankrupt and Subegory I, Category Substantially stantially Bankrupt II and Category III Bankrupt Obligors (i.e., the (credit that is Obligors, and Loans to Bankrupt Obligors who have already gone bankrupt, portion of loans for H1 judged to be equivalent Bankrupt Obligors from both a legal and/or formal perspective. which final collection unrecoverable or Obligors problems or losses without value). are anticipated). 98 represent the possibility of ultimately incurring losses related to actual quality of assets and determine the appropriate each individual claim by taking into consideration the nature of accounting treatment, including reserves for loan losses and any collateral or guarantee and the seniority of the claim. In off-balance-sheet instruments and write-offs. Specifically, the principle, obligor ratings apply to all obligors and are subject to credit risk management division of each bank is responsible for regular reviews at least once a year to reflect promptly the fisthe overall control of the self-assessment of assets of the cal period end financial results of the obligors, as well as sperespective banks, cooperating with the administrative divisions cial reviews as required whenever the obligor’s credit standing specified for each type of asset, including loan portfolios and changes. This enables the two banks to monitor both individual securities, in executing and managing self-assessments. obligors and the status of the overall portfolio in a timely fashion. Because we consider obligor ratings to be an initial phase •Prevention Credit Review of new non-performing loans through routine credit of the self-assessment process regarding the quality of our management is important in maintaining the quality of our overloans and off-balance-sheet instruments, such obligor ratings all loan assets. Credit review involves analysis and screening of are closely linked to the obligor classifications and are an inteeach potential transaction within the relevant business division. gral part of the process for determining the reserves for loan In case the screening exceeds the authority of the division, the losses and write-offs in our self-assessment of loans and offcredit division at headquarters carries out the review. The credbalance-sheet instruments. (Please refer to Connection it division has specialist departments for different industries, between Obligor Ratings, Definition of Obligor Classifications of business sizes and regions, carries out timely and specialized Self-Assessments, Claims Disclosed under the FRA and Nonexaminations based on the characteristics of the customer and Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans). its market, and provides appropriate advice to the business Pool allocations are applied to small claims that are less division. In addition, in the case of obligors with low obligor ratthan a specified amount by pooling customers and claims with ings and high downside risks, the business division and credit similar risk characteristics and assessing and managing the division jointly clarify their credit policy and in appropriate cases risk for each such pool. We efficiently manage credit risk and assist obligors at an early stage in working towards credit credit screening by dispersing a sufficient number of small soundness. claims within each pool. We generally review the appropriateness and effectiveness of our approach to obligor ratings and • Corporate Restructuring, Collection and Disposal of Non-performing Loans pool allocations once a year in accordance with predetermined With respect to collection and disposal of non-performing procedures. loans, our specialist unit maintains central control and pursues • Self-assessment, Reserves for loan losses, Off-balance-sheet Instruments and Write-offs corporate restructuring or collection efforts, as appropriate, toward taking the non-performing loans off-balance. We conduct self-assessment of assets to ascertain the status Specifically, we believe that supporting the restructuring efforts of assets both as an integral part of credit risk management of corporations is an important role for financial institutions, and in preparation for appropriate accounting treatment, and we support corporations undergoing restructuring by including reserves for loan losses and off-balance-sheet instrureviewing business plans, advising on restructuring methods ments and write-offs. During the process of self-assessment, and utilizing corporate restructuring schemes such as divestiobligors are categorized into certain groups taking into considtures and mergers and acquisitions, taking advantage of our eration their financial condition and their ability to make paygroup-wide resources. These efforts have been steadily proments, and credit ratings are assigned to all obligors, in princiducing satisfactory results. In addition, we work on final disple, to reflect the extent of their credit risks. The related assets posal of non-performing loans efficiently and swiftly by conare then categorized into certain classes based on the risk of ducting bulk sales and by utilizing Mizuho Servicing, our subimpairment. This process allows us to identify and control the sidiary that specializes in performing debt collection services Method for Reserves and Write-Offs Calculate the value of estimated loss based on the probability of failure over the coming year for loans by obligor rating and appropriate it for the Normal Obligors General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans. Calculate the estimated loss on loans based on the probability of failure over the next three years and appropriate it for the General Reserve for PosWatch Obligors sible Losses on Loans. Further, in regard to Special Attention Obligors, for obligors with large claims more than a certain amount, if the cash flow from the return of principal and interest payments can reasonably be estimated, set up a reserve under the DCF method. Provide an amount for Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans as calculated by one of the following methods after deducting amounts anticipated to be recoverable from the sale of collateral held against the claims and from guarantors of the claims: a) an amount calculated based on the Intensive Control overall ability of the obligor to pay, or b) the estimated loss calculated on the basis of the balance and the probability of failure over the next three Obligors years. Further, for obligors with large claims more than a certain amount, if the cash flow from the return of principal and interest payments can reasonably be estimated, set up a reserve under the DCF method. Substantially Bankrupt Obligors Provide the entire balance after deducting amounts anticipated to be recoverable from the sale of collateral held against the claims and from guarantors of the claims for Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans, or write-off the entire balance. Bankrupt Obligors 99 Risk Management Structure for our group companies. In the case of debt forgiveness, we examine the borrower’s •WeRisk Control Methods recognize two types of risk arising from allowing unexpectcondition carefully and make a determination based on the ed loss to become too large. One type is “credit concentration possible impact on the interests of shareholders and deposirisk,” which stems from granting excessive credit to certain tors. We provide debt forgiveness as per industry guidelines individual counterparties or corporate groups. The other type is that are shared among members of the Japanese Bankers “chain-reaction default risk,” which arises from granting excesAssociation. sive credit to certain areas, industrial sectors and other groupings. We make appropriate management to control these risks Portfolio Management in line with our specific guidelines for each. The individual risk • Risk Measurement We use statistical methods to manage the possibility of losses management divisions of the two banks are responsible for monitoring adherence to these guidelines and reporting to their by measuring the expected average loss for a one-year risk respective business policy committees (please refer to horizon (Expected Loss) and the maximum loss within a certain Allocation of Risk Capital and Control of Credit Risk). confidence interval (“credit Value-at-Risk (VaR)”). The difference between expected loss and credit VaR is measured as the Market and Liquidity Risk Management credit risk amount (Unexpected Loss). In establishing transaction spread guidelines for credit transBasic Approach actions, we aim to ensure an appropriate return from the transWe define market risk as the risk of losses incurred by the action in light of the level of risk by utilizing credit cost data as a Group due to fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices and reference. Also, we monitor our credit portfolio from various foreign exchange rates. Our definition includes the risk of lossperspectives and set guidelines noted below so that losses es incurred when it becomes impossible to execute transacincurred through a hypothetical realization of the full credit VaR tions in the market because of market confusion or losses ariswould be within the amount of risk capital and loan loss ing from transactions at prices that are significantly less favorreserves. able than usual. We define liquidity risk as the risk of losses arising from funding difficulties due to a deterioration in our financial position that makes it difficult for us to raise necessary Loss Distribution funds or that forces us to raise funds at significantly higher interest rates than usual. MHFG manages market and liquidity Frequency risk for the Group as a whole. Average This amount depends on the confidence interval. For Market Risk Management Structure example, if the confidence interval is set at 99%, it is the 9,900th smallest loss figure •OurMarket Risk Management of MHFG Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining to out of 10,000 trials. market risk management policies. The Risk Management Committee of MHFG broadly discusses and coordinates matters relating to basic policies in connection with market risk Loss Amount management, market risk operations and market risk monitoring. The Group Chief Risk Officer of MHFG is responsible for Credit VaR matters relating to market risk management planning and Expected Unexpected Loss operations. Loss The Risk Management Division of MHFG is responsible for Allocation of Risk Capital and Control of Credit Risk Allocation of risk capital Credit VaR Credit concentration risk Chain reaction default risk 3 Geographical area/country-based 1 Individual company credit guidelines credit guidelines 2 Corporate group-based credit Control 4 Industrial sector-based credit guidelines guidelines MHBK: Sets 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 MHTB: Sets 1 , 2 , 4 Equivalent to credit concentration risk amounts Equivalent to chain reaction default risk amounts 100 monitoring market risk, reports and analyses, proposals, they have established middle offices specializing in risk mansetting limits and guidelines, and formulating and impleagement that are independent of their front offices, which menting plans relating to market risk management. The Risk engage in market transactions, and their back offices, which Management Division assesses and manages the overall are responsible for book entries and settlements. When VaR is market risk of the Group. It also receives reports from our core not adequate to control risk, the middle offices manage risk group companies on their market risk management that enable using additional risk indices, carry out stress tests and set stop it to obtain a solid grasp of the risk situation, submitting reports loss limits as needed. They monitor their market liquidity risk for to the President & Group CEO on a daily basis and to our individual financial products in the market while taking turnover Board of Directors and the Executive Management Committee and other factors into consideration. of MHFG on a regular basis. To manage market risk, we set limits that correspond to risk Status of MHFG’s Market Risk capital allocations according to the risk profiles of our core group companies and thereby prevent market risk from •WeValue-at Risk use the VaR method, supplemented with stress testing, as exceeding our ability to withstand losses based on our financial our principal tool to measure market risk. The VaR method strength represented by capital, etc. The amount of risk capital measures the maximum possible loss that could be incurred allocated to market risk corresponds to VaR and additional due to market movements within a certain time period (or holdcosts that may arise in order to close relevant positions. For ing period) and degree of probability (or confidence interval). trading and banking activities, we set limits for VaR and for Trading Activities losses. For banking activities, we set position limits based on VaR related to our trading activities is based on the following: interest rate sensitivity as needed. • variance co-variance model for linear risk and Monte-Carlo These limits are discussed and coordinated by the Risk simulation for non-linear risk, which are simply aggregated Management Committee, discussed further by the Executive to determine total risk; Management Committee, then determined by the President & • confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; Group CEO. Various factors are taken into account including • holding period of one day; and business strategies, historical limit usage ratios, risk-bearing • historical observation period of one year. capacity (profits, total capital and risk management systems), The following tables show the VaR related to our trading profit targets and the market liquidity of the products involved. activities by risk category for the fiscal years ended March 31, •MHBK, Market Risk Management at Our Core Group Companies MHTB and MHSC, which account for most of the 2013, 2014 and 2015 and as of March 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015: Group’s exposure to market risk, have formulated their basic policies in line with the basic policies determined by MHFG. Their Boards of Directors determine important matters relating VaR by Risk Category (Trading Activities) (billions of yen) to market risk management while their Chief Executive Officers Fiscal 2012 are responsible for controlling market risk. Their respective Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 business policy committees, including their ALM & Market Risk Interest rate 1.6 2.2 1.1 1.2 Management Committees, are responsible for overall discusForeign exchange 2.3 3.4 1.1 2.7 sion and coordination of market risk management. Specifically, Equities 0.5 0.9 0.1 0.4 these committees discuss and coordinate matters relating to Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 basic asset and liability management policies, risk planning and Total 3.4 4.6 2.6 3.5 market risk management. The Chief Risk Officer of each subFiscal 2013 sidiary is responsible for matters pertaining to planning and Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 implementing market risk management. Based on a common Interest rate 2.0 2.7 1.5 1.6 group risk capital allocation framework, the above-mentioned Foreign exchange 4.1 5.6 1.1 4.8 companies manage market risk by setting limits according to Equities 1.0 3.1 0.2 0.4 the risk capital allocated to market risk by MHFG. Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 These companies have established specialized companyTotal 5.7 7.4 3.3 5.4 wide market risk management divisions to provide integrated Fiscal 2014 monitoring of market risk, submit reports, analyses and proDaily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 posals, set limits and formulate and implement plans relating to Interest rate 1.8 2.6 1.4 1.5 market risk management. The risk management divisions of Foreign exchange 3.0 5.8 1.6 5.6 each company submit reports on the status of market risk Equities 0.5 1.3 0.2 0.3 management to their respective Chief Executive Officers and Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 top management on a daily basis, and to their Board of Total 4.4 7.1 3.1 6.5 Directors and Executive Management Committee on a regular basis. They also provide regular reports to MHFG. To provide a system of mutual checks and balances in market operations, 101 Risk Management Structure The following graph shows VaR figures of our trading activities for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015: Fiscal 2014 VaR (Banking Activities) (VaR: billions of yen) (%) 400 0.4 Fiscal 2014 VaR (Trading Activities) (VaR: billions of yen) 300 0.3 8 7 200 0.2 6 5 0.1 100 4 VaR Interest rate on five-year government bonds 3 0.0 0 04/01/2014 04/15/2014 04/29/2014 05/13/2014 2 05/27/2014 06/10/2014 06/24/2014 07/08/2014 07/22/2014 08/05/2014 08/19/2014 09/02/2014 09/16/2014 09/30/2014 10/14/2014 1 10/28/2014 11/11/2014 11/25/2014 12/09/2014 12/23/2014 01/06/2015 01/20/2015 02/03/2015 02/17/2015 03/03/2015 03/17/2015 03/31/2015 0 04/01/2014 04/15/2014 04/29/2014 05/13/2014 05/27/2014 06/10/2014 06/24/2014 07/08/2014 07/22/2014 08/05/2014 08/19/2014 09/02/2014 09/16/2014 09/30/2014 10/14/2014 10/28/2014 11/11/2014 11/25/2014 12/09/2014 12/23/2014 01/06/2015 01/20/2015 02/03/2015 02/17/2015 03/03/2015 03/17/2015 The following table shows the VaR figures relating to our 03/31/2015 banking activities for the fiscal years indicated: The following table shows VaR figures of our trading activities for the fiscal years indicated: VaR (Banking Activities) (billions of yen) Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Change As of fiscal year end 215.9 281.7 325.6 43.8 VaR (Trading Activities) (billions of yen, except number of cases) Maximum 297.9 300.7 349.0 48.3 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Change Minimum 213.3 186.8 265.0 78.2 As of fiscal year end 3.5 5.4 6.5 1.1 Average 246.3 253.5 307.9 54.4 Maximum 4.6 7.4 7.1 (0.3) Minimum 2.6 3.3 3.1 (0.2) Average 3.4 5.7 4.4 (1.2) The number of cases where Characteristics of VaR Model 1 0 2 2 losses exceeded VaR VaR is a commonly used market risk management technique. However, VaR models have the following shortcomings: • By its nature as a statistical approach, VaR estimates possible losses over a certain period at a particular confidence Non-Trading Activities level using past market movement data. Past market The VaR related to our banking activities is based on the same movement, however, is not necessarily a good indicator of conditions as those of trading activities, but the holding period future events, particularly potential future events that are is one month. extreme in nature. The following graph shows the VaR related to our banking • VaR may underestimate the probability of extreme market activities excluding our strategically-held equity portfolio for the movements. year ended March 31, 2015. • The use of a 99.0% confidence level does not take account of, nor makes any statement about, any losses that might occur beyond this confidence level. • VaR does not capture all complex effects of various risk factors on the value of positions and portfolios and could underestimate potential losses. •WeInterest Sensitivity Analysis also conduct interest sensitivity analyses of interest risk, our main source of market risk. The following table shows sensitivity to yen interest risk in our banking activities as of the dates indicated. Interest rate sensitivity (10 BPV ) shows how much net present value varies when interest rates rise by 10 basis points (0.1%), and it explains the impact of interest rate movements on net present value when shortand long-term interest rates behave differently. 102 and the results of the evaluation of the model assumptions, we Interest Sensitivity by Maturity will make adjustments to the models as appropriate. Changes At March 31, (billions of yen) to fundamental portions of the VaR models are subject to the 2013 2014 2015 Change Up to one year (7) (2) (1) 1 approval of our Group Chief Risk Officer. From one to five years (56) (47) (35) 11 Over five years (35) (12) (14) (2) Fiscal 2014 Back Testing Total (99) (62) (51) 11 Assumptive profit or loss (billions of yen) 8 7 6 5 •TheStressed Value-at-Risk stressed value-at-risk (“stressed VaR”) measurement is 4 3 2 based on a continuous 12-month period of significant financial 1 stress. Stressed VaR related to our trading activities is based 0 (1) on the following: (2) • variance co-variance model for linear risk and Monte-Carlo (3) (4) simulation for non-linear risk, which are simply aggregated (5) to determine total risk; (6) • confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; (7) (8) • holding period of one day; and 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 VaR (billions of yen) • historical observation period of one year of significant Note: We conduct our back testing and assess the number of cases where financial stress. losses exceed VaR based on a 250 business day year. The expected The following table shows stressed VaR figures of our tradaverage number of instances where one-day trading losses exceeded VaR at the 99% confidence level is 2.5. ing activities for the fiscal years indicated: Stressed VaR (Trading Activities) Because the value-at-risk method is based on statistical (billions of yen) assumptions, we conduct stress testing to simulate the levels Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Change of losses that could be incurred in cases where the market As of fiscal year end 9.2 12.6 20.2 7.5 moves suddenly to levels that exceed these assumptions. The Maximum 12.0 15.3 24.8 9.5 stress testing methods we use include the calculation of losses Minimum 5.0 8.3 8.5 0.2 on the basis of the largest fluctuations occurring over a period Average 8.0 11.6 13.2 1.5 of more than five years and the calculation of losses based on market fluctuations occurring during historical market events. In addition, we conduct stress testing based on a sharp drop •WeStrategically-held Equity Portfolio Management Activities take the market risk management approach with use of in the price of securitization and other products due to diminished market liquidity. The table below shows the assumed VaR and risk indices for strategically-held equity portfolio manmaximum loss results of stress testing in trading activities using agement activities as well as for trading activities and nonthe methods described above: trading activities. The risk index for strategically-held equity portfolio management for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, consisting of the sensitivity of the strategically-held Fiscal 2014 Stress Testing At March 31, 2015 (billions of yen) equity portfolio to a 1% change in the equity index of TOPIX, was ¥37.4 billion. Assumed maximum loss result calculated by stress testing •In order Back Testing and Stress Testing to evaluate the effectiveness of market risk measure(holding period: one month) 69.2 Assumed maximum loss result calculated by stress testing based ments calculated using the value-at-risk method, we carry out on a sharp drop in the price of securitization and other products 9.0 due to diminished market liquidity (holding period: one year) regular back tests to compare value-at-risk with assumptive profits and losses. Assumptive profits and losses accounts for general market risk. The following graph shows daily value-atrisk of trading activities for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, and the corresponding paired distribution of profits and losses. We had two cases where losses exceeded value-at-risk •AsOutlier Criteria part of the capital adequacy requirements under Basel during the period. In addition, we conduct evaluations of the Regulatory Framework, the losses arising from a banking assumptions related to the value-at-risk models. Based on the book in hypothetical interest rate shock scenarios under cernumber of times losses exceeded VaR through back testing tain stress conditions are calculated and compared with 103 Risk Management Structure Broadly-defined capital. If the interest rate risk of the banking multiplication factor as used in the bullet point above. book leads to an economic value decline of more than 20% The following table shows total market risk equivalent as of of Broadly-defined capital, we will be deemed an “outlier” and the dates indicated calculated using the standardized measmay be required to reduce the banking book risk or adopt urement method and internal models: other responses. We measure losses arising from our banking book each month as a part of our stress tests. The table below shows the results of calculations of losses Fiscal 2014 Market Risk Equivalent in the banking book in cases where interest rate fluctuations At March 31, (billions of yen) 2014 2015 Change occur under stress conditions. The results of calculations of Calculated using standardized losses in the banking book show that they are 5.5% of measurement method 62.8 78.8 15.9 Broadly-defined capital. Because the amount of risk on the Calculated using internal models 170.6 199.0 28.4 banking book is therefore well under the 20% threshold and Total market risk equivalent 233.5 277.9 44.3 within controllable limits, we do not fall under the “outlier” catNote: VaR and stressed VaR used to calculate market risk equivalent is based egory. The loss ratio to capital increased from the previous on the following: • variance co-variance model for linear risk and Monte-Carlo simulation fiscal year due mainly to the increase of interest rate risk. for non-linear risk, which are simply aggregated to determine total risk; • confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; • holding period of 10 days; and • historical observation period of one year. Fiscal 2014 Results of Calculations under the Outlier Framework (billions of yen) Amount BroadlyLoss ratio of loss defined to capital Liquidity Risk Management Structure capital At March 31, 2013 499.1 8,344.5 5.9% •OurLiquidity Risk Management of MHFG Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining to At March 31, 2014 386.6 8,655.9 4.4% At March 31, 2015 529.2 9,508.4 5.5% liquidity risk management policies. The Risk Management Effect of yen interest rate 77.9 Committee of MHFG broadly discusses and coordinates matEffect of dollar interest rate 364.7 ters relating to basic policies in connection with liquidity risk Effect of euro interest rate 69.3 management, operations, monitoring and proposes responses Notes:1. In the above results of calculations of losses, a part of demand deto emergencies such as sudden market changes. The Group posits without fixed intervals for amending applicable interest rates is Chief Risk Officer of MHFG is responsible for matters relating deemed core deposits and is treated accordingly in the calculation. 2. For the interest rate shock scenario used in connection with the to liquidity risk management planning and operations. The Risk above figures, we generate annual rate fluctuation data for five years Management Division of MHFG is responsible for monitoring derived from daily raw historical interest rate data of the past six years and then apply the actual fluctuation data, which show a rise liquidity risk, reports and analyses, proposals, and formulating in interest rates, at a 99.0% confidence level to the shock scenario. and implementing plans relating to liquidity risk management. In addition, the Group Chief Financial Officer of MHFG is additionally responsible for matters relating to planning and •In order Market Risk Equivalent to calculate the amount of capital necessary to meet running cash flow management operations, and the Financial Planning Division is responsible for monitoring and adjusting the capital requirements relating to market risk (the “market risk the cash flow management situation and for planning and equivalent”), we apply internal models to calculate general marimplementing cash flow management to maintain appropriate ket risk (risks related to factors that apply generally to the marfunding liquidity. Reports on the liquidity risk management are ket, e.g., interest rates, foreign exchange rates) and the stansubmitted to the Risk Management Committee, the Executive dardized measurement method to calculate specific risks (risks Management Committee and the President & Group CEO on a other than general market risk, e.g., credit quality and market regular basis. liquidity of an individual security or instrument). In addition, our To manage liquidity risk, we use indices pertaining to cash internal models are applied to trading transactions with market flow, such as limits on funds raised in the market. Limits on liqliquidity based on the relevant holding period. uidity risk set for Japanese yen and foreign currencies taking Under the internal models, the market risk equivalent is into account characteristics and strategies of each core group expressed as the sum of; companies, are discussed and coordinated by the Risk The higher of (i) VaR on the calculation date and (ii) the averManagement Committee, discussed further by the Executive age of VaR for the preceding 60 business days (including the Management Committee and determined by the President & calculation date) multiplied by a multiplication factor ranging Group CEO. In addition, limits on liquidity risk are set for each from 3.00 to 4.00 that is determined based on the number of currency at core group companies. times VaR is exceeded upon back testing; and We have established a group-wide framework of liquidity The higher of (i) stressed VaR on the calculation date and (ii) risk stage such as “Normal,” “Anxious” and “Crisis,” which the average of stressed VaR for the preceding 60 business reflects funding conditions. In addition, we set Early Warning days (including the calculation date) multiplied by the same Indicators (“EWIs”) and monitor on a daily basis to manage 104 liquidity conditions. As EWIs, we select stock prices, credit ratregulatory change risk and reputational risk. We have deterings, amount of liquidity reserve assets such as Japanese govmined risk management policies for each kind of risk. MHBK, ernment bonds, our funding situations and so on. MHTB, MHSC and TCSB respectively manage operational risk We have established a liquidity contingency funding plan for in an appropriate manner pursuant to risk management poliemergency situations which are deemed to fall into the cies determined by MHFG. “Anxious” or “Crisis.” In emergency situations, we will consider measures such as a reduction in the amount of investments Operational Risk Management Structure made, an expansion of funding from financial markets and MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, MHSC and TCSB share common deposits, the sale of investment securities and borrowings from rules for data gathering, and we measure operational risk on a the central bank. regular basis, taking into account possible future loss events In order to evaluate the sufficiency of liquidity reserve assets and the changes in the business environment and internal and the effectiveness of liquidity contingency funding plan, we management. conduct stress testing under market-wide, idiosyncratic and We have established and are strengthening management combined scenario. Furthermore, we utilize stress testing for methods and systems to appropriately identify, assess, measevaluating the appropriateness of our annual funding plan. ure, monitor and control the operational risks which arise from •MHBK, Liquidity Risk Management at Our Core Group Companies MHTB and MHSC have formulated their basic policies the growing sophistication and diversification of financial operations and developments relating to information technology by in line with the basic policies determined by MHFG. Their utilizing control self-assessments and improving measurement Boards of Directors determine important matters relating to liqmethods. uidity risk management while their Chief Executive Officers are Glossary responsible for controlling liquidity risk. Their respective busiControl Self-Assessments ness policy committees, including their ALM & Market Risk An autonomous method of risk management in which risk inherent in operations is Management Committees, are responsible for overall discusidentified and, after evaluating and monitoring risks that remains despite implementsion and coordination of liquidity risk management. Specifically, ing risk control, the necessary measures are implemented to reduce risk. these committees discuss and coordinate matters relating to risk planning, cash flow management planning and proposes Definition of Risks and Risk Management Methods responses to emergencies such as sudden market changes. As shown in the table on page 106, we have defined each The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for matters relating to component of operational risk and we apply appropriate risk liquidity risk management planning and operations and the management methods in accordance with the scale and senior executives of the ALM and trading units are responsinature of each risk. ble for matters pertaining to planning and conducting cash flow management. The methodologies used for ensuring precise control of liquidity risk include the formulation of management indices pertaining to cash flow, such as limits on funds raised in the market. As with MHFG, the above-mentioned companies have established liquidity risk stage, such as “Normal” to “Anxious” and “Crisis,” which reflects funding conditions and have established liquidity contingency funding plan for emergency situations which are deemed to fall into the “Anxious” or “Crisis” categories. Each subsidiary has adopted stringent controls that call for the submission of reports on liquidity risk management and cash flow management to the ALM & Market Risk Management Committee and other business policy committees, the Executive Management Committee and the Chief Executive Officer of each subsidiary. Operational Risk Management Basic Approach We define operational risk as the risk of loss that we may incur resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. We recognize that operational risk includes information technology risk, operations risk, legal risk, human resources risk, tangible asset risk, 105 Risk Management Structure Definition Principal Risk Management Methods • Identify and evaluate the risk by setting specific standards that need to be complied with Risk that customers may suffer service disruptions, and implementing measures tailored based on evaluation results to reduce the risk. Information Technology or that customers or the group may incur losses • Ensure ongoing project management in systems development and quality control. arising from system defects such as failures, faults, Risk • Strengthen security to prevent information leaks. or incompleteness in computer operations, or illegal • Improve effectiveness of emergency responses by improving backup systems and holding or unauthorized use of computer systems. drills. Risk that customers may suffer service disruptions, • Establish clearly defined procedures for handling operations. as well as the risk that customers or the group may • Periodically check the status of operational processes. Operations Risk incur losses because senior executives or employ• Conduct training and development programs by headquarters. ees fail to fulfill their tasks properly, cause accidents • Introduce information technology, office automation and centralization for operations. or otherwise act improperly. • Improve the effectiveness of emergency responses by holding drills. • Review and confirm legal issues, including the legality of material decisions, agreements Risk that the group may incur losses due to violation and external documents, etc. Legal Risk of laws and regulations, breach of contract, entering • Collect and distribute legal information and conduct internal training programs. into improper contracts or other legal factors. • Analyze and manage issues related to lawsuits. Risk that the group may incur losses due to drain or loss of personnel, deterioration of morale, inade• Conduct employee satisfaction surveys. quate development of human resources, inapproHuman Resources Risk • Understand the status of vacation days taken by personnel. priate working schedule, inappropriate working and • Understand the status of voluntary resignations. safety environment, inequality or inequity in human resource management or discriminatory conduct. Risk that the group may incur losses from damage • Manage the planning and implementation of construction projects related to the repair and to tangible assets or a decline in the quality of replacement of facilities. Tangible Asset Risk working environment as a result of disasters, crimi• Identify and evaluate the status of damage to tangible assets caused by natural disasters, nal actions or defects in asset maintenance. etc., and respond appropriately to such damage. • Understand important changes in regulations or systems that have significant influence on Risk that the group may incur losses due to our business operations or financial condition in a timely and accurate manner. Regulatory Change Risk changes in various regulations or systems, such as • Analyze degree of influence of regulatory changes and establish countermeasures. those related to law, taxation and accounting. • Continuously monitor our regulatory change risk management mentioned above. Risk that the group may incur losses due to dam• Establish framework to identify and manage, on an integrated basis, information that may age to our credibility or the value of the Mizuho have a serious impact on group management and respond to such risk in a manner approbrand when market participants or others learn Reputational Risk priate to its scale and nature. about, or the media reports on, various adverse • Swiftly identify rumors and devise appropriate responses depending on the urgency and events, including actual materialization of risks or possible impact of the situation to minimize possible losses. false rumors. We also recognize and manage Information Security Risk and Compliance Risk, which constitute a combination of more than one of the above components of operational risk, as operational risk. Measurement of Operational Risk Equivalent employing both internal loss data (i.e., actually experienced •We have adopted the Advanced Measurement Approach Implementation of Advanced Measurement Approach operational loss events) and scenario data to reflect unexperienced potential future loss events in the measurement. (AMA) from September 30, 2009, for the calculation of operaIn the measurement of operational risk equivalent as of tional risk equivalent in association with capital adequacy ratios March 31, 2015, we did not exclude expected losses and also based on Basel II. However, we use the Basic Indicator did not recognize the risk mitigating impact of insurance. In Approach (BIA) for entities that are deemed to be less imporaddition, we did not take into account the events related to tant in the measurement of operational risk equivalent and for credit risk in measuring operational risk equivalent. entities that are preparing to implement the AMA. The measOutline of Measurement Model urement results under the AMA are used not only as the operaOperational risk equivalent is calculated as a simple sum of tional risk equivalent in the calculation of capital adequacy those related to the seven loss event types defined by Basel II, ratios but also as Operational VAR for internal risk managelarge-scale natural disasters and litigation. In the measurement of ment purposes for implementing action plans to reduce operaoperational risk equivalent as of March 31, 2015, we did not tional risk, etc. reflect the correlation effects among operational risk related to •Outline Outline of the AMA of Measurement System each of the seven loss event types. Operational Risk by the Loss Event Type We have established the model by taking account of four eleLoss Distribution (Compound Poisson Distribution) Approach ments: internal loss data; external loss data; scenario analysis (LDA) is adopted for the calculation of operational risk. LDA is and business environment; and internal control factors based on the assumption that Poisson Distribution applies to (BEICFs). We calculate the operational risk equivalent amount the occurrence frequency of operational risk events, and loss by estimating the maximum loss using a 99.9th percentile oneseverity is expressed through a separate distribution. tailed confidence interval and a one-year holding period etc., Operational risk is calculated for each of the seven loss event 106 types employing both internal loss data, based on our actual occurrence, as opposed to estimating Frequency Distribution experience as operational loss events and scenario data. and Loss Severity Distribution. Scenario data, expressed as numerical values of occurrence Operational Risk of Litigation frequency and loss severity, reflects external loss data and Each litigation is converted into data according to the profile of BEICFs, in order to estimate unexperienced potential future the individual litigation to which Monte-Carlo simulation is loss events (of low frequency and high severity). applied, as opposed to estimating Frequency Distribution and Frequency Distribution and Severity Distribution are estimatLoss Severity Distribution. In the measurement process, we ed employing the above mentioned internal loss data and sceassume that final decisions will be made on all litigation within nario data, and Monte-Carlo simulations are then applied to one year. these distributions to measure operational risk. The detailed Verification steps of creation of scenario data are explained later in We confirm the appropriateness of the measurement model by Scenario Analysis. verifying it, in principle, semi-annually. Estimation of Frequency Distribution and Loss Severity Distribution •Outline Scenario Analysis of Scenario Analysis Frequency Distribution is estimated by applying information on In the process of scenario analysis, scenario data is created as occurrence frequency of both internal loss data and scenario numerical values of occurrence frequency and loss severity data to Poisson Distribution. Loss Severity Distribution is genreflecting external loss data and BEICFs, in order to estimate erated as the result of combining, through a statistical unexperienced potential future operational risk events (of low approach (Extreme Value Theory), of the actual distribution for frequency and high severity). the low severity distribution portion created by internal loss As for external loss data, we refer to data publicly reported data and another loss distribution (Log-normal Distribution or by domestic and overseas media, and such data are reflected Generalized Pareto Distribution) for the high severity distribuin the estimation of occurrence frequency and loss severity distion portion created by scenario data. tribution in the process of scenario analysis. In addition, BEICFs Operational Risk of Large-scale Natural Disasters are utilized as indices to adjust occurrence frequency and loss Monte-Carlo simulation is applied to the datasets expressed as severity distribution in the process of scenario analysis. a combination of the probability of occurrence of large-scale We categorize scenario analysis into four approaches in natural disasters and the probable loss amount in case of such accordance with the characteristics of each loss event type Outline of Measurement Model Internal loss data External loss data Business environment and Litigation data internal control factors Scenario analysis Risk amount for litigation risk Risk amount for large-scale Scenario data Large-scale natural natural disasters disaster scenario data Risk amount for internal fraud Risk amount for external fraud Risk amount for employment Distribution of Distribution of Unified practices and workplace safety Loss distribution internal loss scenario data distribution Risk amount for customers, Monte-Carlo simulation products and business practices Frequency Frequency Frequency Risk amount for damage to distribution distribution distribution physical assets information information information Risk amount for business Risk amount Loss severity Loss severity Loss severity disruption and system failure distribution distribution distribution Calculate risk amount by seven loss event Risk amount for execution, information information information delivery and process management types defined by BIS Operational VaR (Total operational risk amount) 107 Risk Management Structure and risk management structures. Example of Scenario Data Approach Loss event type(s) to be applied Final loss severity distribution Internal fraud/External fraud/Customers, products & business pracSeverity range (billions of yen) A tices/Execution, delivery & process management 0.1 0.5 1 5 10 Total B Employment practices and workplace safety Occurrence ratio (%) 40 30 15 10 5 100 C Damage to physical assets Occurrence frequency (times) 0.4 0.3 0.15 0.1 0.05 1 D Business disruption and system failure Final occurrence frequency At MHFG, loss event types to which Approach A is applied account for a considerable amount of operational risk. The detailed process of Approach A is explained below as a typical (As of June 23, 2015) example of scenario analysis. Setting Units for Scenario Analysis In order to ensure completeness and sufficiency, we set units that are commonly applied across group entities that adopt AMA (hereinafter, the Group Entities) by referencing and categorizing risk scenarios recognized through control selfassessment, internal loss data of the Group Entities and external loss data, etc. Then each of the Group Entities selects the unit on which scenario analysis is conducted from the units established on a group-wide basis in accordance with its business activities and operational risk profile. Estimation of Occurrence Frequency Basic occurrence frequency (once a year) is calculated for each scenario analysis unit. If a certain scenario analysis unit has relevant internal loss data of a pre-determined threshold amount or above, its basic occurrence frequency is calculated based on such data, and if not, the basic occurrence frequency (the occurrence frequency per year of losses at or above a predetermined threshold) is calculated with reference to the situation of occurrence of internal loss data of less than the threshold amount and/or external loss data. The basic occurrence frequency is then adjusted within a pre-determined range for the purpose of reflecting the most recent BEICFs to determine the final occurrence frequency. Estimation of Loss Severity Distribution In order to estimate loss severity distribution, we use a predetermined series of severity ranges. Basic loss severity distribution is calculated for each scenario analysis unit as an occurrence ratio (in percentile figures) of loss at each severity range when losses at or above a pre-determined threshold occurred, with reference to transaction amount data, external loss data, etc. Then the basic severity distribution is adjusted, if necessary, from the viewpoint of statistical data processing to determine the final loss severity distribution. Creation of Scenario Data For each scenario analysis unit, scenario data is generated as a series of combinations of occurrence frequency per year at each severity range, based on the final occurrence frequency and the final loss severity distribution. 108 Internal Audit Structure Basic Approach Internal audits are designed as an integrated process, indeInternal Audit Management Structure pendent from other business operations, for evaluating the MHFG extent to which internal control achieves its objectives in key Supervision, areas, including appropriate risk management, efficient and Board of Directors Audit Committee effective business operations, reliable financial reporting and Audit compliance with laws, regulations and internal rules. We conduct internal audits from an objective and comprehensive President & CEO Internal Audit Committee standpoint, independent of operational reporting lines, and (Group CEO) (Chairman: President & CEO) Management offer advice and remedial recommendations in connection Internal Audit Group with any problems that may be identified. Through this process, internal audits assist the Boards of Directors of each Every Internal Audit Internal Audit of our group companies to fulfill their managerial duties effiorganizational Division unit ciently and effectively. In line with the Basic Policy for Internal Audit established by MHFG, our core group companies conduct internal audits, Advice, guidance Report the which include the auditing of their respective subsidiaries. In Management and remedial results of internal by MHFG addition, with respect to the management of risks applicable recommendations audit, etc. across the Group, we coordinate internal audits throughout the Group to assess the risk management status of the MHBK, MHTB, MHSC and other Group as a whole. core group companies Internal Audit Management Structure •OurMHFG Internal Audit Committee determines all important matters Subsidiaries of the above group companies concerning internal audits. The committee is chaired by the President & CEO and is independent of our other business operations. Our Internal Audit Committee monitors and manages inter(As of June 23, 2015) nal audits at our core group companies through internal audit reports submitted by such subsidiaries. Our Internal Audit Committee discusses and makes decisions regarding internal audits at our core group companies and submits the results, together with the results of their examination of the internal audit reports, to our Board of Directors. •MHBK MHBK and MHTB and MHTB have also established Internal Audit Committees that are independent of their other business operations. The two banks have established internal audit divisions and credit review divisions (Credit Assessment and Auditing Office at MHTB) to conduct internal audits at their respective domestic and overseas business offices, head office divisions and group companies. Specifically, the internal audit divisions assess the suitability and effectiveness of business activities associated with compliance and risk management. The credit review divisions (Credit Assessment and Auditing Office at MHTB) audit credit ratings and the status of credit management in addition to auditing the self-assessment of assets to verify the accuracy and suitability of matters deemed necessary to assure the soundness of assets. •Other Other Core Group Companies core group companies have also established effective and efficient internal audit structures adapted to the characteristics of their respective businesses. 109 Senior Executives Mizuho Financial Group Katsunobu Motohashi Kazuhisa Sawa Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Executive Officers as Defined in Head of Asset Management Unit Deputy Head of Strategic Planning Group / Deputy the Companies Act Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group / Deputy Keiichiro Ogushi Head of IT & Systems Group / Deputy Head of Yasuhiro Sato Managing Executive Officer Operations Group President & Group CEO Head of Retail Banking Unit / Head of Corporate Member of the Board of Directors Banking Unit Takashi Kamada (Representative Executive Officer) Managing Executive Officer Group CEO Tatsufumi Sakai Deputy Head of Personal Banking Unit / Deputy Head Managing Executive Officer of Retail Banking Unit Shusaku Tsuhara Head of International Banking Unit Director and Senior Managing Executive Officer Yoshihito Bando Head of Compliance Group (Group CCO) Daisuke Yamada Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Asset Management Unit Ryusuke Aya Head of Corporate Banking Unit (Large Corporations) Director and Managing Executive Officer Shuichi Shimada Head of Risk Management Group (Group CRO) Kazuya Kobayashi Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of International Banking Unit / Deputy Junichi Shinbo Head of Investment Banking Unit / Head of Transaction Head of Investment Banking Unit / Deputy Head of Director and Managing Executive Officer Banking Unit Strategic Planning Group Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group (Group CFO) Kenji Tsujitsugu Hidefumi Kobayashi Koji Fujiwara Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Director and Managing Executive Officer Head of Financial Institutions & Public Sector Business Deputy Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group / Head of Strategic Planning Group (Group CSO) Unit Deputy Head of Risk Management Group Hideyuki Takahashi Satoshi Ishii Yoshio Shimizu Director Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of Human Resources Group (Group CHRO) Deputy Head of International Banking Unit / Deputy Nobukatsu Funaki Head of Investment Banking Unit Director Executive Officers as Defined in Tatsuya Yamada Mitsuo Ohashi Our Internal Regulations Managing Executive Officer Director (Outside Director) Deputy Head of IT & Systems Group / Deputy Head of Masaaki Kono Operations Group Tetsuo Seki Deputy President & Executive Officer Director (Outside Director) Deputy President (Western Japan (Kinki, Chugoku, and Tetsuhiro Sakamoto Shikoku regions)) Managing Executive Officer Takashi Kawamura Deputy Head of Human Resources Group Director (Outside Director) Hiroshi Suehiro Senior Managing Executive Officer Junichi Yamada Tatsuo Kainaka In charge of Compliance with US FBO Regulation Managing Executive Officer Director (Outside Director) Deputy Head of Financial Institutions & Public Sector Haruki Nakamura Business Unit / Deputy Head of Markets Unit Hirotake Abe Managing Executive Officer Director (Outside Director) Joint Head of IT & Systems Group Masuo Fukuda Managing Executive Officer Hiroko Ota Koji Arita Deputy Head of Corporate Banking Unit (Large Director (Outside Director) Managing Executive Officer Corporations) Joint Head of Operations Group Toshitsugu Okabe Shinya Hanamura Deputy President & Executive Officer Masahiro Otsuka Managing Executive Officer (Representative Executive Officer) Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Financial Institutions & Public Sector Head of Strategic Planning and Management Control Joint Head of Personal Banking Unit Business Unit (Personal Banking, Retail Banking and Corporate Banking) and Strategic Planning (Priority Assignments) Tadashi Ohi Hiroto Koda Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Daisaku Abe Deputy Head of Human Resources Group Deputy Head of Retail Banking Unit / Deputy Head of Deputy President & Executive Officer Corporate Banking Unit Head of IT & Systems Group (Group CIO) / Head of Shinya Tanaka Operations Group (Group COO) Managing Executive Officer Naomi Tsumura Deputy Head of Investment Banking Unit Managing Executive Officer Tadashi Kanki Deputy Head of Compliance Group Senior Managing Executive Officer Masato Monguchi Head of Internal Audit Group (Group CA) Managing Executive Officer Yasuto Hamanishi Deputy Head of Risk Management Group / Deputy Managing Executive Officer Akira Sugano Head of Compliance Group Deputy Head of Corporate Banking Unit Senior Managing Executive Officer Head of Strategic Planning and Management Control Makoto Okayama Kouji Yonei (International Banking, Investment Banking, Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer Deputy Head of Corporate Banking Unit (Large General Manager of IT & Systems Planning Division Transaction and Asset Management) and Strategic Corporations) / Deputy Head of Corporate Banking Unit Planning (Priority Assignments) / Deputy Head of Financial Institutions & Public Sector Takahiko Yasuhara Tetsuhiko Saito Business Unit Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer General Manager of International Coordination Division Head of Personal Banking Unit Nobumitsu Watanabe Managing Executive Officer Shinji Taniguchi Junichi Kato Deputy Head of International Banking Unit / Deputy Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of Investment Banking Unit / Deputy Head of General Manager of Investment Banking Coordination Head of Markets Unit Transaction Banking Unit / Deputy Head of Markets Unit Division 110 Hidenobu Mukai Executive Officers Hidefumi Kobayashi * Executive Officer (Head of Each Region Overseas) Managing Director & Managing Executive Officer General Manager of Personal Banking Coordination Head of Global Finance / Head of Research Group / Division Hiroshi Suehiro Head of Finance & Accounting Group / In charge of Senior Managing Executive Officer Due Diligence Department Masamichi Ishikawa Head of the Americas Executive Officer Masaya Usuha* General Manager of Asset Management Coordination Hokuto Nakano Managing Director & Managing Executive Officer Division Managing Executive Officer SC Group Chief Audit Executive / Head of Internal Head of East Asia Audit Division Makoto Umemiya Executive Officer Katsuyuki Mizuma Naomi Tsumura* General Manager of Financial Planning Division Managing Executive Officer Managing Director & Managing Executive Officer Head of Asia & Oceania excl. East Asia Head of Compliance Group Goji Fujishiro Executive Officer Teiji Teramoto Masaya Oishi* General Manager of Executive Secretariat Managing Executive Officer Managing Director & Managing Executive Officer Head of Europe, Middle East and Africa In charge of JA Sales Department of Markets & Shuji Kojima Products Division / In charge of Corporate Investment Executive Officer Services & Retail Business Division General Manager of Compliance Division Mizuho Trust & Banking Keizo Ohashi Naoto Takahashi Director Executive Officer Directors Chairman of Mizuho Securities UK / Chairman of General Manager of Next-Generation IT Systems Mizuho International Coordination Project Team Takeo Nakano* President & CEO (Representative Director) Kenji Fujii * Tadashi Ohi * Director Mizuho Bank Deputy President (Representative Director) Head of Global Risk Management / Head of Risk Management Group Head of Human Resources Group / Head of Internal Directors Audit Group Yasushi Higo Nobuhide Hayashi * Masato Monguchi * Director President & CEO (Representative Director) Managing Director Yasuhiro Sato Head of Risk Management Group / Head of Masaaki Kono* Director Compliance Group / In charge of Credit Department Deputy President (Representative Director) Deputy President (Western Japan (Kinki, Chugoku and Kazuhisa Sawa* Hidetaka Kawakita Shikoku regions)) Director (Outside Director) Managing Director Head of Strategic Planning, Financial Control & Masaru Ono Kosuke Nakamura* Accounting Group / Head of IT & Systems Group / Head Deputy President (Representative Director) Director (Outside Director) of Operations Group / In charge of Executive Secretariat Head of Business Promotion Tsuyoshi Hatsuzawa Nobuyuki Fujii * Director Notes: Senior Managing Director (Representative 1. indicates directors concurrently serving as execuDirector) Yasuhiro Sato * tive officers, as defined in the Companies Act. Head of Business Promotion Director 2.The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman of the Shusaku Tsuhara* Masayuki Satake Board of Directors, and the committee member Senior Managing Director Director (Outside Director) and the Chairman of each committee of Mizuho Head of Compliance Group Financial Group are as follows: Masaru Ono Chairman of the Board of Directors: Hiroko Ota Ryusuke Aya* Director (Outside Director) Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors: Managing Director Hideyuki Takahashi Head of Risk Management Group Eiji Ogawa Nominating Committee members: Mitsuo Ohashi Director (Outside Director) Junichi Shinbo* (Chairman), Takashi Kawamura, Tatsuo Kainaka Managing Director and Hiroko Ota Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group Compensation Committee members: Tatsuo Mizuho Securities Kainaka (Chairman), Tetsuo Seki and Takashi Koji Fujiwara* Directors Kawamura Managing Director Audit Committee members: Hideyuki Takahashi Head of Strategic Planning Group Hiroshi Motoyama* (Chairman), Tetsuo Seki, Tatsuo Kainaka, Hirotake Hideyuki Takahashi President & CEO (Representative Director) Abe and Nobukatsu Funaki Director Risk Committee members: Hideyuki Takahashi Yasuhiko Imaizumi * (Chairman), Hidetaka Kawakita (outside expert) Hirohisa Kashiwazaki Deputy President (Representative Director) & and Izumi Kobayashi (outside expert) Director Deputy President Executive Officer 3.The corporate auditors and executive officers, Head of Corporate Business excluding the directors concurrently serving as execYasuhiro Sato Yasuo Agemura* utive officers and executive offices responsible for Director Deputy President & Deputy President global regional operations of Mizuho Bank, have not Yukio Machida Executive Officer been listed. Director (Outside Director) Head of Global Markets / Head of Markets & Products 4.The corporate auditors and executive officers, Division / Head of Global Business & Markets excluding the directors concurrently serving as execSeiji Koga utive officers of Mizuho Trust & Banking and Mizuho Director (Outside Director) Shuichi Shimada* Securities, have not been listed. Managing Director & Managing Executive Officer Head of Strategic Planning Group / In charge of Investment Department (As of June 23, 2015) 111 Location of Overseas Offices (As of June 30, 2015) Network of Mizuho Bank Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. New Delhi Branch Wuxi Branch 1st Floor, DLF Capitol Point, Baba Kharag Singh 8th Floor, Wuxi SI Park B, No.16 Changjiang Road, Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi, 110001, India WND, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province 214028, TEL 91-11-3041-0900 Asia and Oceania The People’s Republic of China (Country/Region) TEL 86-510-8522-3939 Indonesia China Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. PT. Bank Mizuho Indonesia Dalian Economic & Technological Sinar Mas Land Plaza Menara 2, 24th Floor, Jl. M. H. Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Development Area Sub-Branch Thamrin No.51, Jakarta 10350, Republic of Indonesia 23rd Floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, 22nd Floor, International Business Building of Gugeng, TEL 62-21-392-5222 100 Century Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai No.81 Hongmei Area, Dalian Economic & 200120, The People’s Republic of China Technological Development Area, Dalian, Liaoning Cambodia TEL 86-21-3855-8888 Province 116600, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-411-8793-5670 Phnom Penh Representative Office Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. 13A Floor, Phnom Penh Tower, #445, Monivong Blvd Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone Sub-Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. (St. 93/232) Sangkat Boeung Pralit, Khan 7 Makara, Room 01, 08, 09, 10, 11, 12, 7F, Shanghai Kunshan Sub-Branch Phnom Penh, Cambodia International Communication and Trade Building, 55 Room D,E, 18th Floor, Dongan Building, No.258 TEL 855-23-964-490 Jilong Road, Shanghai 200131, Chunxu Road, Development Zone Kunshan City, The People’s Republic of China Kunshan, Jiangsu Province 215300, Korea TEL 86-21-3855-8888 The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-512-6733-6888 Seoul Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. 19th Floor, Seoul Finance Center, 136, Sejong-daero, Beijing Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea 8th Floor, West Wing, World Financial Center, Changshu Sub-Branch TEL 822-3782-8500 No.1 Dong San Huan Zhong Road, Chaoyang District, Room701-704, Kechuang Building, No.333 Dongnan Beijing 100020, The People’s Republic of China Road, Changshu New&Hi-tech Industrial Development Malaysia TEL 86-10-6525-1888 Zone, Jiangsu Province, 215500, The People’s Republic of China Labuan Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. TEL 86-512-6733-6888 Level 9 (B) & (C), Main Office Tower, Financial Park Dalian Branch Labuan, Jalan Merdeka, 87000 Federal Territory of 23rd Floor, 24th Floor-A, Senmao Building, 147 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Labuan, Malaysia Zhongshan Road, Xigang District, Dalian, Liaoning Tianjin Heping Sub-Branch TEL 60-87-417766 Province 116011, The People’s Republic of China Room 1902, Tianjin International Building, No.75 TEL 86-411-8360-2543 Nanjing Road, Heping Area, Tianjin 300050, Labuan Branch, Kuala Lumpur The People’s Republic of China Marketing Office Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. TEL 86-22-6622-5588 Level 27, Menara Maxis, Kuala Lumpur City Centre, Guangzhou Branch 50088 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 25th Floor, International Finance Place, No.8 Huaxia Nanjing Representative Office TEL 60-3-2070-6880 Road, Zhujiang New Town, Tianhe District, Room 2220, Suning Universal Hotel, 188 Guangzhou Guangzhou, Guangdong Province 510623, Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province 210024, Mizuho Bank (Malaysia) Berhad The People’s Republic of China The People’s Republic of China Level 27, Menara Maxis, Kuala Lumpur City Centre, TEL 86-20-3815-0888 TEL 86-25-8332-9379 50088 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia TEL 60-3-2058-6881 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Xiamen Representative Office Hefei Branch Room 2102, The Bank Center, No.189 Xiahe Road, Myanmar Room No.1902-1907, No.7 Office Building Wanda Siming District, Xiamen, Fujian Province 361003, Plaza, 130 Maanshan Street, Baohe District, Hefei, The People’s Republic of China Yangon Representative Office Anhui Province, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-592-239-5571 Room #03-12, Level 3, Sedona Business Suites, TEL 86-551-6380-0690 No.1, Ka Ba Aye Pagoda Road, Yankin Township, Hong Kong Yangon, Republic of the Union of Myanmar Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. TEL 95-1-544-071 Qingdao Branch Hong Kong Branch 44th Floor, Qingdao International Finance Center, 59 17th Floor, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Philippines Hong Kong Middle Road, Shinan District, Qingdao, Hong Kong, S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China Shandong Province 266071, TEL 852-2103-3000 Manila Branch The People’s Republic of China 25th Floor, Zuellig Building, Makati Avenue corner TEL 86-532-8097-0001 Kowloon Sub-Branch Paseo de Roxas, Makati City 1225, Metro Manila, 16th Floor, Sun Life Tower, The Gateway, Philippines Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, TEL 63-2-860-3500 Shenzhen Branch Hong Kong, S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China TEL 852-2102-5399 Singapore 30th Floor, Huanggang Business Center Tower1, Jintian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province 518046, The People’s Republic of China Mizuho Capital Markets (HK) Limited Singapore Branch TEL 86-755-8282-9000 16th Floor, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, 12 Marina View, #08-01 Asia Square Tower 2, Hong Kong, S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China Singapore 018961, Republic of Singapore Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. TEL 852-2537-3815 TEL 65-6805-2000 Suzhou Branch 17th Floor, Genway Building, 188 Wangdun Road, India Taiwan Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province 215123, The People’s Republic of China Bangalore-Devanahali Branch Kaohsiung Branch TEL 86-512-6733-6888 #462/440/339, 2nd Floor, Near Jain Temple, 12th Floor, No.2, Chung Cheng 3rd Road, Kaohsiung N.H.7/4-207, B.B. Road, Vijayapura Cross, 800, Taiwan Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Devanahalli Town, Bangalore Rural District – 562 110, TEL 886-7-236-8768 Karnataka, India Tianjin Branch TEL 91-80-4968-2000 5th Floor, E2 ABC, East Wing Binhai Finance Zone, Taichung Branch No.20 Xinchengdong Road, TEDA, Tianjin 300457, 8th Floor, No.169, Fuhui Parkway, Taichung 407, Chennai Branch Taiwan The People’s Republic of China Unit No.11B, 11th Floor, Prestige Palladium Bayan, TEL 886-4-2374-6300 TEL 86-22-6622-5588 Nos. 129 to 140, Greams Road, Chennai – 600 006, Tamil Nadu, India Taipei Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. TEL 91-44-4928-6600 Wuhan Branch 2nd Floor, Hung Kuo Building, 167 Tun Hua North Road, Taipei 105, Taiwan 5th Floor, Tower A, New World Center Tower, Mumbai Branch TEL 886-2-2715-3911 634 Jiefang Avenue, Hankou, Wuhan, Hubei Province Maker Chamber III , 1st Floor, Jamnalal Bajaj Road, 430032, The People’s Republic of China Nariman Point, Mumbai, 400 021, India TEL 86-27-8342-5000 TEL 91-22-2288-6638 112 Thailand Spain The Americas (Country/Region) Bangkok Branch Mizuho Bank Nederland N.V. 18th Floor, TISCO Tower, 48 North Sathorn Road, Madrid Representative Office Bahamas Silom, Bangrak, Bangkok 10500, Thailand Calle Orense 34, Planta 6, Edificio Iberia Mart II , TEL 66-2-638-0200 28020 Madrid, Spain Mizuho Bank (USA) TEL 34-91-598-2905 Eastern Seaboard Branch Nassau Branch 300/7 ESIE Plaza 2, Unit No. 2-05 Moo 1, Tambol Ta 308 East Bay Street, P.O. Box N-7768, Nassau, The Netherlands Bahamas Sit, Amphoe Pluak Daeng, Rayong 21140, Thailand TEL 66-3-899-7000 Mizuho Bank Nederland N.V. Brazil Apollolaan 171, 1077 AS Amsterdam, The Netherlands Vietnam TEL 31-20-5734343 Banco Mizuho do Brasil S.A. Hanoi Branch Avenida Engenheiro Luiz Carlos Berrini, United Kingdom 71610andar, Brooklin Novo, São Paulo, SP, CEP. 4th Floor, 63 LTT Building, 63 Ly Thai To Street, Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam 04571-000, Brazil London Branch TEL 55-11-5504-9844 TEL 84-4-3936-3123/3124 Bracken House, One Friday Street, London, EC4M 9JA, UK Canada Ho Chi Minh City Branch TEL 44-20-7012-4000 18th Floor, Sun Wah Tower, 115 Nguyen Hue Boulevard, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Canada Branch Mizuho Capital Markets (UK) Limited 100 Yonge Street, Suite 1102, Toronto, Ontario, Socialist Republic of Vietnam One Friday Street, London, EC4M 9JA, UK TEL 84-8-3827-8260/8292 Canada, M5C 2W1 TEL 44-20-3192-1300 TEL 1-416-874-0222 Australia Bahrain Calgary Office Sydney Branch Suite 1000, 888 3rd Street, South West, Calgary, Bahrain Representative Office Alberta, Canada, T2P 5C5 Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Suite 201-202, Entrance 4, 2nd Floor, Manama Australia TEL 1-403-444-5375 Center, Manama, Bahrain (P.O. BOX 5759, Manama, TEL 61-2-8273-3888 Bahrain) Vancouver Office TEL 973-17-224522 Suite 305, South Tower, 5811 Cooney Road, Mizuho Australia Ltd. Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, V6X 3M1 Iran TEL 1-604-231-3725 Australia TEL 61-2-8273-3888 Tehran Representative Office Cayman Islands 3rd Floor, No.1, 14th Street, Khaled Eslamboli Avenue, Tehran 15117, Iran Cayman Branch TEL 98-21-8872-6593 190 Elgin Avenue, Grand Cayman KY1-9005, Europe, the Middle East and Africa Turkey Cayman Islands (Country/Region) Chile Istanbul Representative Office Austria Office 813, Tekfen Tower 8th Floor, Buyukdere Santiago Representative Office Caddesi No.209, 4. Levent 34394, Istanbul, Turkey Av. Apoquindo 3472, Piso 7, Las Condes, Santiago, Mizuho Bank-BA Investment Consulting TEL 90-212-371-8474 Chile GmbH TEL 56-2-3203-5773 Landhausgasse 4/7, 1010 Vienna, Austria U.A.E TEL 43-1-5355868 Mexico Dubai Branch Belgium The Gate Village, Building Number 5, Level 2, Dubai Mexico Representative Office International Financial Centre, P.O.Box No:506607, Torres E3, Blvd. Manuel Avila Camacho No.32, Piso 7, Mizuho Bank Nederland N.V. Dubai, United Arab Emirates Oficina 702 Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegacion Brussels Branch TEL 971-4-425-9200 Miguel Hidalgo, 11000, Mexico, D.F., Mexico Avenue Louise 480, 1050 Brussels, Belgium TEL 52-55-5281-5037 TEL 32-2-645-5280 Russia U.S.A. France AO Mizuho Bank (Moscow) 5th floor, 20, bld.1, Ovchinnikovskaya nab., 115035 Chicago Branch Paris Branch Moscow, Russian Federation 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2020, Chicago, Washington Plaza 40, rue Washington, TEL 7-495-212-0333 IL 60606, USA 75408 Paris Cedex 08, France TEL 1-312-855-1111 TEL 33-1-5383-4100 Moscow Representative Office Millennium House Business Center, 12, Trubnaya New York Branch Germany Street, Moscow 107045, Russian Federation 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, TEL 7-495-787-2771 NY 10020, USA Duesseldorf Branch TEL 1-212-282-3000 Benrather Strasse 18-20, 40213 Duesseldorf, South Africa F.R. Germany Los Angeles Branch TEL 49-211-13020 Johannesburg Representative Office 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, 2nd Floor, West Tower, Maude Street, Nelson CA 90071, USA Frankfurt Branch Mandela Square, Sandton 2196, South Africa, TEL 1-213-243-4500 An der Hauptwache 7, 60313 Frankfurt am Main, P.O.Box 785553, Sandton 2146 F.R. Germany TEL 27-11-881-5410 Atlanta Representative Office TEL 49-69-29-72-95-0 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Atlanta Financial Center, Saudi Arabia Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA Italy TEL 1-404-364-1550 Mizuho Saudi Arabia Company Milan Branch North Lobby 1st Floor, Al Faisaliah Tower, Houston Representative Office 6th Floor, Largo Augusto 7, 20122 Milan, King Fahd Road, Olaya District, Riyadh 11544, 2700 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 1270, Houston, Republic of Italy Kingdom of Saudi Arabia TX 77056, USA TEL 39-02-778-0001 TEL 966-11-273-4111 TEL 1-713-499-4800 113 Location of Overseas Offices Mizuho Bank (USA) Network of Mizuho Securities Mizuho Securities USA Inc. 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, Chicago Office NY 10020, USA 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 700, Chicago, TEL 1-212-282-3030 Beijing Representative Office 8th Floor, Chang-Fu-Gong Office Building, Jia 26, IL 60606, USA Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang District, TEL 1-312-294-8800 Mizuho Bank (USA) Beijing 100022, The People’s Republic of China Atlanta Representative Office TEL 86-10-6523-4779 Mizuho Securities USA Inc. 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Atlanta Financial Center, Chicago Office (Investment Banking) Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA Shanghai Representative Office 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2020, Chicago, TEL 1-404-364-1550 17th Floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, IL 60606, USA No.100, Century Ave., Pudong New Area, TEL 1-312-855-1111 Mizuho Bank (USA) Shanghai 200120, The People’s Republic of China Chicago Representative Office TEL 86-21-6877-8000 Mizuho Securities USA Inc. 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2020, Chicago, Hoboken Office IL 60606, USA Mizuho Investment Consulting Waterfront Corporate Center, 111 River Street, TEL 1-312-855-1111 (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Suite 1100, Hoboken, NJ 07030, USA 33th Floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, No.100, TEL 1-201-626-1000 Mizuho Bank (USA) Century Ave., Pudong New Area, Houston Representative Office Shanghai 200120, The People’s Republic of China Mizuho Securities USA Inc. 2700 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 1270, Houston, TEL 86-21-6877-5888 Houston Office (Investment Banking) TX 77056, USA 2700 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 1270, Houston, TEL 1-713-499-4800 Mizuho Investment Consulting TX 77056, USA (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. TEL 1-713-499-4800 Mizuho Bank (USA) Beijing Office Los Angeles Representative Office 6010, Chang-Fu-Gong Office Building, Jia 26, Mizuho Securities USA Inc. 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang District, Los Angeles Office CA 90071, USA Beijing 100022, The People’s Republic of China 1875 Century Park East, Suite 700, Los Angeles, TEL 1-213-243-4500 TEL 86-10-6526-7577 CA 90067, USA TEL 1-310-284-3270 Mizuho Alternative Investments, LLC Mizuho Securities Asia Limited 757 Third Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, 12th Floor, Chater House, 8 Connaught Road Central, Mizuho Securities USA Inc. NY 10017, USA Hong Kong, S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China Los Angeles Office (Investment Banking) TEL 1-212-282-4804 TEL 852-2685-2000 350 South Grand Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90071, USA Mizuho Capital Markets Corporation Mizuho Securities India Private Limited TEL 1-214-243-4500 1440 Broadway, 25th Floor, New York, Unit 141-144, 14th Floor, Free Press House, NY 10018, USA 215 Free Press Journal Marg, Nariman Point, Mizuho Securities USA Inc. TEL 1-212-547-1500 Mumbai-400 021, India New York Office (Investment Banking) TEL 91-22-6121-7600 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020, USA Mizuho Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. TEL 1-212-282-3000 One Raffles Quay, North Tower Unit 32-02, Mizuho Desk Singapore 048583, Republic of Singapore Mizuho Securities USA Inc. (Country/Region) TEL 65-6603-5688 San Francisco Office 3 Embarcadero Center, Suite 1620, San Francisco, Austria Mizuho Bank (Switzerland) Ltd CA 94111, USA Loewenstrasse 32, 8021 Zurich, Switzerland TEL 1-415-268-5500 TEL 41-44-216-9111 Raiffeisen Bank International AG Am Stadtpark 9, A-1030 Vienna, Austria Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Mizuho International plc TEL 43-1-71707-1375 Bracken House, One Friday Street, London EC4M San Francisco Office (Investment Banking) 9JA, U.K. One Market, Spear Tower, 36th floor, San Francisco, U.A.E TEL 44-20-7236-1090 CA 94105, USA TEL 1-415-293-8071 Mashreqbank psc Mizuho International plc Japan Desk, Mashreqbank Building 3F, Dubai Internet City, Mashreqbank, P.O.Box 1250, Frankfurt Office Dubai, United Arab Emirates An der Welle 4, 60322 Frankfurt am Main, Germany TEL 971-4-363-2324/2285 TEL 47-160-910-72-690 “Mizuho Desk” Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Network of DIAM By forming tie-ups with major financial institutions in London Office regions where Mizuho does not possess offices, we Bracken House, One Friday Street, London EC4M DIAM Asset Management (HK) Limited offer our customers financial services through vari9JA, U.K. Suites 1221-22, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, ous institutions. (Transactions are conducted directTEL 44-20-7776-5800 Hong Kong, S.A.R, The People’s Republic of China ly between the customer and the local financial TEL 852-2918-9030 institution.) Mizuho Securities USA Inc. 320 Park Avenue, 12th Floor, New York, DIAM SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. NY 10022, USA 2 Shenton Way #12-01 SGX Centre I, TEL 1-212-209-9300 Singapore 068804 TEL 65-6532-5470 Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Atlanta Office DIAM International Ltd Network of Mizuho Trust & Banking 3455 Peachtree Road, 5th Floor, Atlanta, Bracken House, One Friday Street, London, EC4M GA 30326, USA 9JA, UK Mizuho Trust & Banking (Luxembourg) TEL 1-404-995-6830 TEL 44-207-329-3777 S.A. 1B, rue Gabriel Lippmann, L-5365 Munsbach, Mizuho Securities USA Inc. DIAM U.S.A., Inc. Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Atlanta Office (Investment Banking) 1133 Avenue of the Americas, 28th Floor, New York, TEL 352-42-16-17-1 NY 10036, USA 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA TEL 1-212-350-7650 Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. (USA) TEL 1-404-364-1550 135 W. 50th Street, 16th Floor, New York, NY 10020, USA Mizuho Securities USA Inc. TEL 1-212-373-5900 Boston Office 125 High Street, 21st Floor, Boston, MA 02210, USA TEL 1-617-235-1722 114 Investor Information Date of Establishment (Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock) January 8, 2003 Percentage of shares outstanding Shares held (%) Paid-in Capital ¥2,255,404 million Marubeni Corporation 14,500,000 6.80 SHIMIZU CORPORATION 10,000,000 4.69 Issued Shares 25,536,649,967 shares ANA HOLDINGS INC. 6,000,000 2.81 Common Stock: 24,621,897,967 shares Kyushu Electric Power Company, Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock: 914,752,000 shares Incorporated 5,000,000 2.34 Shiseido Company, Limited 5,000,000 2.34 Number of Shareholders Chubu Electric Power Company, Common Stock: 895,176 Incorporated 5,000,000 2.34 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock: 1,045 FUJI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. 5,000,000 2.34 Major Shareholders NIPPON STEEL & SUMITOMO (Common Stock) METAL CORPORATION 4,200,000 1.97 Percentage of shares Century Tokyo Leasing Corporation 4,000,000 1.87 outstanding Shares held (%) Hitachi Urban Investment, Ltd. 4,000,000 1.87 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Notes:1. Figures for the percentage of shares outstanding are rounded (Trustee account) 866,823,400 3.52 down to the nearest second decimal place. The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 2. The percentages of shares outstanding are calculated by excluding (Trustee account) 783,003,000 3.18 the treasury stock (701,631,100 shares). Furthermore, the treasury stock is not included in the above list of major shareholders. THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON SA/NV 10 420,887,691 1.71 (As of March 31, 2015) Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. 353,151,143 1.43 STATE STREET BANK WEST CLIENT TREATY 505234 310,622,516 1.26 STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 505223 304,023,553 1.23 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trustee account 9) 286,686,100 1.16 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trustee account 5) 284,612,800 1.15 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trustee account 1) 283,836,500 1.15 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trustee account 6) 282,791,500 1.14 Notes:1. Figures for the percentage of shares outstanding are rounded down to the nearest second decimal place. 2. The percentages of shares outstanding are calculated by excluding the treasury stock (8,695,754 shares). 115 Investor Information Stock Listing Record Date for Distribution of Dividends from (Common Stock) Surplus Tokyo Stock Exchange The record dates for distribution of dividends from surplus of the Company shall be March 31 and September 30 of each Accounting Auditors year. Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Shareholder Register Manager Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Share Unit ADR* Information 100 shares Outline of Mizuho Financial Group’s ADR Fiscal Year 1. Exchange : New York Stock Exchange April 1 to March 31 2. Ticker Symbol : MFG 3. CUSIP : 60687Y109 Convocation of General Meetings of Shareholders 4. Conversion ratio : 1 ADR = 2 common shares An ordinary general meeting of shareholders of the Company 5. Depositary bank : The Bank of New York Mellon shall be convened no later than 3 months from the last day of 101 Barclay Street each business year and an extraordinary general meeting of New York, NY 10286 shareholders shall be convened whenever necessary. Phone: 1-201-680-6825 U.S. Toll Free: 888-269-2377 Record Date http://www.adrbnymellon.com/ 1. The Company shall deem shareholders having voting rights 6. Local custodian bank : Mizuho Bank, Ltd. appearing in writing or electronically in the register of shareholders as of the end of March 31 of each year as the share* ADRs are securities issued for the purpose of trading in the U.S. in place holders who are entitled to exercise their rights at the ordiof the underlying stock of foreign companies. As ADRs are registered with the SEC as U.S. securities, they are traded, settled and held in custody nary general meeting of shareholders for the relevant busiin substantively the same manner as the stocks of U.S. companies. ADR ness year. is an acronym for American Depositary Receipts. 2. The provision of the preceding paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to the record date for voting rights at the general meetings of holders of classes of stock, where there is a matter to be resolved at an ordinary general meeting of shareholders that requires, in addition to such resolution, a resolution by the relevant general meeting of holders of class of stock. 3. In addition to the preceding two paragraphs, the Company may set an extraordinary record date, when necessary, by a determination by Executive Officer(s) under the authority delegated by the Board of Directors and upon giving a prior public notice thereof. Organizations that Decide Dividends from Surplus, Etc. The Company shall decide distribution of dividends from surplus and other matters provided for in each item of Article 459, Paragraph 1 of the Companies Act of Japan, not by a resolution of a general meeting of shareholders, but by a resolution of the Board of Directors, unless otherwise provided for in laws or regulations. 116 Disclosure Policy Basic Principles auditing matters from both inside and outside Mizuho We are committed to growing together with our customers in Financial Group. a stable and sustainable manner and bringing together our group-wide expertise to contribute to the prosperity of Disclosure Methods, Other economies and societies throughout the world as the leading (1) Disclosure Methods Japanese financial services group with a global presence and With respect to the information which is required to be disa broad customer base. For this reason, we place one of the closed pursuant to applicable domestic and international highest management priorities on continuing to disclose inforlaws and regulations as well as stock exchange rules, we mation to our customers, shareholders, and investors both in follow the defined disclosure procedures such as publishand outside Japan in a fair, timely and appropriate manner, in ing such information in business reports (Jigyo-Hokoku), order that they may form proper judgments and appraisals of annual securities reports (Yukashoken-Hokokusho), the group. To achieve this aim, we observe applicable Integrated Report (Annual Review) and other disclosure domestic and international laws and regulations as well as publications, as well as providing such information through stock exchange rules relating to corporate disclosure, and we the information distribution systems of domestic and interestablish and implement appropriate Disclosure Controls and national stock exchanges and through press releases. We Procedures. also endeavor to disclose other information in a fair, timely and appropriate manner. When we disclose such informaDisclosure Controls and Procedures tion, we basically publish on our website the information (1) Establishment and Implementation of Disclosure Controls we disclose. In addition, we endeavor to utilize the latest and Procedures disclosure methods and tools to provide more fair and Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures are established to widespread disclosure. observe applicable domestic and international laws and (2) Investor Relations Activities regulations as well as stock exchange rules and to impleIn accordance with our Basic Principles described above, ment fair, timely and appropriate corporate disclosure. The and with due attention to two-way communication, we Disclosure Controls and Procedures are the process carendeavor sincerely to facilitate a proper understanding of ried out by directors, officers and employees of Mizuho our management strategies, financial condition and other Financial Group and include internal controls designed to matters. In this way, we aim to earn the trust of the market provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of and obtain an appropriate market reputation. Financial Reporting and the Preparation of Financial Beginning with the disclosure required by applicable Statements. We have established the basic principles domestic and international laws and regulations as well as underlying our Disclosure Controls and Procedures as well stock exchange rules, we endeavor to grasp properly the as our internal rules related to Disclosure Controls and types of information desired by the market and to disclose Procedures that govern the management framework for the useful and appropriate information voluntarily and proacentire Mizuho Financial Group including group companies, tively. Regarding disclosure of information we consider parand we endeavor to establish, implement and continuously ticularly important, we communicate such information on improve our Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Our an ad hoc basis as and when necessary, even if a press Disclosure Committee is the principal management body release has already been issued, through such means as that is responsible for discussing and exploring matters special briefing sessions. relating to Disclosure Controls and Procedures. In addition, we respect various disclosure principles (2) Evaluation of Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and including fair disclosure. Accordingly, at individual calls, priProcedures vate meetings or conferences hosted or attended by repreOur Disclosure Controls and Procedures are documented, sentatives of Mizuho Financial Group we endeavor to limit and evaluation of the overall effectiveness of our Disclosure carefully our explanations to matters already disclosed and Controls and Procedures is conducted regularly by reviewfacts commonly known. ing the contents of such documentation and their imple(3) Correction of Misconceptions in the Markets mentation. In addition, evaluation of the effectiveness and If we identify significant misconceptions regarding Mizuho appropriateness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures is Financial Group in the market due to the spread of rumors conducted through internal audits. or otherwise, we endeavor to investigate their causes and (3) Others correct such misconceptions promptly. We established a “Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals” to be observed by all directors and executive officers, as well as all managers and other employees within Mizuho Financial Group who engage in financial reporting, accounting or disclosure. We have also developed the “Internal Controls and Audit Hotline”, a system designed for obtaining concerns regarding questionable accounting or 117 Privacy Policy Regarding Customer Information Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (“MHFG”) hereby establishes Management of Sensitive Information and announces the “Privacy Policy Regarding Customer Mizuho Financial Group will not acquire, use and provide to Information” applicable to Mizuho Financial Group which is any third party sensitive information (e.g. political affiliation, composed of MHFG, its consolidated subsidiaries and affilireligion, participation in labor union, race, ethnic group, famates (which are accounted for by the equity method) that are ily origin, legal address on family registry and medical inforlisted in MHFG’s Financial Reports. mation) unless authorized by law or it is necessary to conduct business on condition that Mizuho Financial Group Policy of Management has customer consent. Mizuho Financial Group recognizes appropriate protection and use of personal information to be important social Security Measures responsibilities, and makes every effort to appropriately proMizuho Financial Group will maintain and manage accurate tect and use personal information complying with the and up to date personal information, and prevent leakage of Personal Data Protection Law in Japan, other related regulainformation with rational security measures. Mizuho Financial tions and the internal rules of Mizuho Financial Group, includGroup will properly supervise employees and parties ing the “Privacy Policy Regarding Customer Information” entrusted with handling personal information. when Mizuho Financial Group conducts business. Continuous Improvement Proper Acquisition Mizuho Financial Group will continuously review this policy Mizuho Financial Group will acquire personal information that according to the development of information technologies is necessary to conduct its business by proper and lawful and the changes in social demand, and improve the manmeans. agement of personal information. Purpose of Use Procedures to Request Disclosure Mizuho Financial Group will specify the purpose of use of Mizuho Financial Group will endeavor to properly and personal information and will not use it beyond the specified promptly cope with following requests from customers: purpose. Furthermore, Mizuho Financial Group will not use • notification of the purpose of use personal information beyond the purpose limited by related • disclosure of personal data regulations. • correction, addition and deletion of personal data that do The purpose of use of personal information is set forth not reflect the facts through the web site or other measures provided by each • suspension of use and elimination of personal data company of Mizuho Financial Group. • suspension of providing personal data to a third party Limitation on Providing Personal Information to a Customer Request Third Party Mizuho Financial Group will endeavor to cope with customer Mizuho Financial Group will not provide personal information requests for the management of personal information sinto any third party in principle unless the individual concerned cerely and promptly. has agreed to such use or it is authorized by law. However, Mizuho Financial Group may provide personal information to relevant entities without customer consent in following cases: • Mizuho Financial Group entrusts management of personal information that is necessary to achieve the purpose of use to a third party. • Mizuho Financial Group is one of the parties in a consolidation transaction. • Mizuho Financial Group uses personal information jointly with designated entities that are publicly informed. 118 Financial Analysis [Under Japanese GAAP] Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 120 Status of Asset Quality 122 119 Financial Analysis Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (Consolidated) Billions of yen As of or for the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total Income ¥ 3,180.8 ¥ 2,940.7 ¥ 2,914.0 ¥ 2,808.5 ¥ 2,777.0 Net Income 611.9 688.4 560.5 484.5 413.2 Comprehensive Income 1,941.0 832.9 1,270.8 627.5 266.6 Net Assets 9,800.5 8,304.5 7,736.2 6,869.2 6,623.9 Total Assets 189,684.7 175,822.8 177,411.0 165,360.5 160,812.0 Deposits 113,452.4 101,811.2 99,568.7 90,636.6 88,884.1 Debentures — — — — 740.9 Loans and Bills Discounted 73,415.1 69,301.4 67,536.8 63,800.5 62,777.7 Securities 43,278.7 43,997.5 53,472.3 51,392.8 44,782.0 Net Assets per Share (Yen) (Note 1) 322.86 253.25 229.70 187.19 177.53 Net Income per Share (Yen) (Note 1) 24.91 28.18 22.96 20.62 20.47 Diluted Net Income per Share (Yen) (Note 1) 24.10 27.12 22.05 19.75 19.27 Capital Adequacy Ratio (BIS Standard) (Note 2) / / / 15.50% 15.30% Total Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note 2) 14.58% 14.36% 14.19% / / Tier 1 Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note 2) 11.50% 11.35% 11.03% / / Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note 2) 9.43% 8.80% 8.16% / / Net Return on Equity 8.6% 11.6% 10.9% 11.3% 11.7% PER (Times) 8.47x 7.23x 8.66x 6.54x 6.74x Cash Flow from Operating Activities 6,654.9 (2,286.0) 5,858.6 4,163.0 6,051.5 Cash Flow from Investing Activities 2,619.2 10,607.4 (749.6) (6,175.6) (1,667.4) Cash Flow from Financing Activities (903.4) (305.7) (283.8) (680.6) 155.0 Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the fiscal year 27,840.7 19,432.4 11,347.5 6,483.1 9,182.4 Notes: 1. “Net Assets per Share,” “Net Income per Share” and “Diluted Net Income per Share” are calculated in accordance with “Accounting Standard for Earnings per Share” (ASBJ Statement No.2) and “Guidance for Accounting Standards for Net Earning per Share” (ASBJ Guidance No.4, September 25, 2002). 2. Capital Adequacy Ratio, Total Capital Ratio, Tier 1 Capital Ratio and Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio are based on the “Standards for Determining the Status of Capital Adequacy in consideration of assets held by a bank holding company and by its subsidiaries, in accordance with Banking Law Article 52-25” (Financial Services Agency Ordinance Announcement No.20, March 27, 2006). Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. has applied the new framework(Basel III) starting the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. 120 Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (Non-Consolidated) Billions of yen As of or for the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Operating Income ¥ 377.7 ¥ 316.8 ¥ 262.1 ¥ 37.7 ¥ 46.4 Net Income 349.0 285.8 241.3 10.2 18.5 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 2,255.4 2,254.9 2,254.9 2,254.9 2,181.3 Number of Shares Issued and Outstanding Common Stock 24,621,897,967 shares 24,263,885,187 shares 24,164,864,477 shares 24,048,165,727 shares 21,782,185,320 shares Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752,000 shares 914,752,000 shares 914,752,000 shares 914,752,000 shares 914,752,000 shares Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock — shares — shares 36,690,000 shares 36,690,000 shares 36,690,000 shares Net Assets 5,096.2 4,900.4 4,788.9 4,688.3 4,652.8 Total Assets 6,603.1 6,251.3 6,202.1 6,128.4 6,035.1 Net Assets per Share (Yen) (Note 1) 198.15 188.90 182.43 177.82 192.32 Dividends per Share (Yen) (Interim Dividends per Share) (Yen) Common Stock 7.5 6.5 6 6 6 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 20 20 20 20 20 Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock (Note 2) — — 30 30 30 Common Stock 3.5 3 3 3 — Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 10 10 10 10 — Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock (Note 2) — — 15 15 — Net Income per Share (Yen) (Note 1) 14.11 11.53 9.69 0.06 0.46 Diluted Net Income per Share (Yen) (Note 1) 13.74 11.25 9.46 0.06 0.45 PER (Times) 14.95x 17.68x 20.53x 2,017.69x 299.99x Dividend Propensity 53.12% 56.33% 61.91% 8,967.54% 1,304.32% Notes: 1. “Net Assets per Share,” “Net Income per Share” and “Diluted Net Income per Share” are calculated in accordance with “Accounting Standard for Earnings per Share” (ASBJ Statement No.2) and “Guidance for Accounting Standards for Net Earning per Share” (ASBJ Guidance No.4, September 25, 2002). 2. As Mizuho Financial Group Inc. acquired and cancelled all of the Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock as of July 11, 2013, the cash dividends per share of the Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock for and after fiscal 2013 have not been recorded. 121 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality  Credit-Related Costs Credit-Related Costs (Consolidated) Billions of yen For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 Change Credit-related Costs ¥ 4.6 ¥ (112.8) ¥ 117.5 Expenses related to Portfolio Problems (including Provision for (Reversal of) General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans) 87.0 23.3 63.6 Losses on Write-offs of Loans 84.5 22.4 62.0 Reversal of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans, etc. (82.3) (136.2) 53.8 Credit Costs for Trust Accounts — — —  Overview of Non-performing Loans (NPLs) as of March 31, 2015 (the Two Banks) (Banking Accounts) Billions of yen 1. Self-Assessment 2. Disclosed Claims under 3. Non-Accrual, Past Categorization Nonthe Financial ReconstDue & Restructured Obligor Category II Category III Category IV ruction Act (FRA) Loans Categorization 56.6 Claims against Bankrupt Loans to Bankrupt Obligors Bankrupt and Substantially Reserve and Substantially Bankrupt Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: Direct 5.9 Bankrupt Obligors Ratio Obligors 53.9 Write-offs 100% 56.6 56.6 Reserves for Possible Losses: 2.7 Coverage Ratio 100% Non-Accrual 339.4 60.1 Claims with Collection Risk Delinquent Loans Intensive Control 396.4 Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: Amounts for 399.5 Obligors 200.9 Reserve reserves are 399.5 Reserves for Possible Losses: Ratio Coverage Ratio 84.9% recorded under 138.4 69.6% Non-Categorization 53.8 (Note 2) Reserve Ratio against Loans Past Due for Claims for Special Uncovered Portion Three Months or More 37.3% Claims against Special Attention (Note 1) Claims for Special Watch Obligors Attention Obligors 3.4 Attention 542.9 Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: ·Coverage Ratio: 62.6% 542.9 192.8 ·Reserve Ratio Coverage Ratio 59.5% Restructured Loans Reserves for Possible Losses: for Uncovered Portion: 39.7% ·Reserve Ratio 539.4 130.7 against Entire Claims: 24.6% Special Attention Obligors Other Watch Obligors Reserve Ratio against Total Claims Total Coverage Normal Obligors ·Other Watch Obligors: 3.72% Ratio 72.1% ·Normal Obligors: 0.07% Total Total Total 83,027.1 999.1 945.3 Notes: 1. Claims for Special Attention is denoted on an individual loans basis. Claims against Special Attention Obligors includes all claims, not limited to claims for Special Attention. 2. The difference between total Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans and total Disclosed Claims under the FRA represents the amount of claims other than loans included in Disclosed Claims under the FRA. 122  Status of Disclosed Claims under the FRA Disclosed Claims under the FRA (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2015 2014 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥ 77.3 ¥ 80.2 ¥ (2.9) Claims with Collection Risk 404.2 484.9 (80.7) Claims for Special Attention 618.4 508.7 109.7 Total ¥ 1,100.0 ¥ 1,073.9 ¥ 26.0 Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below. Billions of yen 2015 2014 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥ 226.6 ¥ 194.5 ¥ 32.1 (Trust Accounts) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2015 2014 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Claims with Collection Risk 2.9 3.0 (0.0) Claims for Special Attention — — — Total ¥ 2.9 ¥ 3.0 ¥ (0.0) (Consolidated and Trust Accounts) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2015 2014 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥ 77.3 ¥ 80.2 ¥ (2.9) Claims with Collection Risk 407.2 488.0 (80.7) Claims for Special Attention 618.4 508.7 109.7 Total ¥ 1,103.0 ¥ 1,076.9 ¥ 26.0 123 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality  Status of Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2015 2014 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥ 10.2 ¥ 12.1 ¥ (1.9) Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 425.7 508.0 (82.2) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 3.4 4.1 (0.6) Restructured Loans 614.9 504.6 110.3 Total ¥ 1,054.4 ¥ 1,028.9 ¥ 25.5 Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below. Billions of yen 2015 2014 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥ 205.0 ¥ 166.7 ¥ 38.2 Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2015 2014 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors 0.01% 0.01% (0.00)% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 0.57 0.73 (0.15) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.00 0.00 (0.00) Restructured Loans 0.83 0.72 0.10 Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 1.43% 1.48% (0.04)% Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2015 2014 Change Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans ¥ 525.4 ¥ 616.3 ¥ (90.8) General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans 344.4 398.7 (54.2) Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans 180.3 216.7 (36.4) Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries 0.6 0.7 (0.1) Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below. Billions of yen 2015 2014 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥ 227.2 ¥ 195.1 ¥ 32.0 Reserve Ratios for Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans % As of March 31, 2015 2014 Change After Partial Direct Write-offs 49.83% 59.89% (10.06)% Note: Reserve Ratio = Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans / Total Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans. 124 (Trust Accounts) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2015 2014 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 2.9 3.0 (0.0) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More — — — Restructured Loans — — — Total ¥ 2.9 ¥ 3.0 ¥ (0.0) Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2015 2014 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors .—% .—% .—% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 18.68 17.38 1.29 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More .—. .—. .— Restructured Loans .— .— .— Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 18.68% 17.38% 1.29% (Consolidated and Trust Accounts) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2015 2014 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥ 10.2 ¥ 12.1 ¥ (1.9) Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 428.7 511.0 (82.2) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 3.4 4.1 (0.6) Restructured Loans 614.9 504.6 110.3 Total ¥ 1,057.4 ¥ 1,031.9 ¥ 25.4 Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2015 2014 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors 0.01% 0.01% (0.00)% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 0.58 0.73 (0.15) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.00 0.00 (0.00) Restructured Loans 0.83 0.72 0.10 Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 1.44% 1.48% (0.04)% Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. 125 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality  Status of Loans by Industry Outstanding Balances by Industry (Consolidated) Billions of yen, % 2015 2014 Change Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding As of March 31, Balance Composition Balance Composition Balance Composition Domestic Total (excluding Loans Booked Offshore) ¥ 52,540.1 100.00% ¥ 53,447.2 100.00% ¥ (907.0) / Manufacturing 7,953.8 15.14 7,620.7 14.26 333.1 0.88)% Agriculture & Forestry 42.3 0.08 36.8 0.07 5.4 0.01 Fishery 0.9 0.00 2.0 0.00 (1.0) (0.00) Mining, Quarrying Industry & Gravel Extraction Industry 264.0 0.50 239.9 0.45 24.0 0.05 Construction 758.4 1.44 757.1 1.42 1.3 0.02 Utilities 2,424.5 4.62 2,397.0 4.48 27.5 0.14 Communication 1,231.3 2.34 1,218.0 2.28 13.2 0.06 Transportation & Postal Industry 2,283.1 4.35 2,467.4 4.62 (184.2) (0.27) Wholesale & Retail 5,047.1 9.61 4,791.3 8.96 255.8 0.65 Finance & Insurance 3,915.8 7.45 3,604.9 6.75 310.9 0.70 Real Estate 6,453.1 12.28 6,312.5 11.81 140.6 0.47 Commodity Lease 1,784.4 3.40 1,536.7 2.88 247.7 0.52 Service Industries 2,488.9 4.74 2,419.6 4.53 69.2 0.21 Local Governments 1,005.5 1.91 1,112.7 2.08 (107.2) (0.17) Governments 3,605.2 6.86 5,619.6 10.51 (2,014.3) (3.65) Other 13,281.1 25.28 13,310.3 24.90 (29.2) 0.38 Overseas Total (including Loans Booked Offshore) 20,874.9 100.00 15,854.1 100.00 5,020.8 / Governments 681.9 3.27 522.0 3.29 159.9 (0.02) Financial Institutions 5,252.8 25.16 4,095.8 25.84 1,157.0 (0.68) Other 14,940.1 71.57 11,236.2 70.87 3,703.9 0.70 Total ¥ 73,415.1 / ¥ 69,301.4 / ¥ 4,113.7 / Note: Domestic Total = MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries (excluding their overseas offices). Overseas Total = Overseas offices of MHFG's domestic consolidated subsidiaries and MHFG's overseas consolidated subsidiaries.  Status of Loans by Nationality of Borrowers Balance of Loans to Restructuring Countries (Consolidated) As of March 31, 2015 Billions of yen, % As of March 31, 2014 Billions of yen, % Egypt ¥ 5.2 Egypt ¥ 5.0 Argentina 0.0 Venezuela 0.3 Argentina 0.0 Ecuador 0.0 Total ¥ 5.2 Total ¥ 5.3 Ratio to Total Assets 0.00% Ratio to Total Assets 0.00% Note: Listed are loans to the government and related agents in restructuring countries for which Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries are accounted as stipulated under the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (JICPA) Banking Audit Committee Report No.4. 126 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. [Under Japanese GAAP] Independent Auditors' Report 128 Consolidated Financial Statements 129 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 141 127 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Independent Auditors’ Report The Board of Directors Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc., which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2015, and the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in net assets, and cash flows for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, all expressed in Japanese yen. Management's Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, and for designing and operating such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditors' Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in Japan. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditors' judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. The purpose of an audit of the consolidated financial statements is not to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control, but in making these risk assessments the auditor considers internal controls relevant to the entity's preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. as of March 31, 2015, and their consolidated financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan. Convenience Translation We have reviewed the translation of these consolidated financial statements into U.S. dollars, presented for the convenience of readers, and, in our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been properly translated on the basis described in Note 1. June 22, 2015 Tokyo, Japan 128 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Assets Cash and Due from Banks (Notes 17, 39, 41 and 42) ¥ 29,096,166 ¥ 20,610,276 $ 241,923,727 Call Loans and Bills Purchased (Note 41) 444,115 467,758 3,692,653 Receivables under Resale Agreements (Note 41) 8,582,239 8,349,528 71,358,105 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions (Note 41) 4,059,340 5,010,740 33,751,897 Other Debt Purchased (Notes 41 and 42) 3,239,831 3,263,057 26,937,985 Trading Assets (Notes 10, 17, 41 and 42) 10,781,735 11,469,811 89,646,095 Money Held in Trust (Notes 41 and 42) 157,728 168,369 1,311,451 Securities (Notes 11, 17, 26, 41 and 42) 43,278,733 43,997,517 359,846,456 Loans and Bills Discounted (Notes 12, 17 and 41) 73,415,170 69,301,405 610,419,643 Foreign Exchange Assets (Note 13) 1,623,736 1,576,167 13,500,761 Derivatives other than for Trading Assets (Notes 41 and 43) 3,544,243 2,820,468 29,469,060 Other Assets (Notes 14, 17 and 42) 4,066,424 2,840,720 33,810,793 Tangible Fixed Assets (Notes 15, 28 and 40) 1,078,051 925,266 8,963,593 Intangible Fixed Assets (Note 40) 657,556 531,501 5,467,335 Net Defined Benefit Asset (Note 25) 743,382 413,073 6,180,950 Deferred Tax Assets (Note 27) 36,938 104,909 307,131 Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees (Note 26) 5,404,843 4,588,646 44,939,251 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (Notes 16 and 41) (525,486) (616,307) (4,369,226) Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments (2) (27) (21) Total Assets ¥ 189,684,749 ¥ 175,822,885 $ 1,577,157,639 129 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheetー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Liabilities and Net Assets Liabilities Deposits (Notes 17, 18 and 41) ¥ 113,452,451 ¥ 101,811,282 $ 943,314,641 Call Money and Bills Sold (Notes 17, 19 and 41) 5,091,198 7,194,432 42,331,405 Payables under Repurchase Agreements (Notes 17 and 41) 19,612,120 16,797,803 163,067,432 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions (Notes 17 and 41) 2,245,639 6,085,331 18,671,651 Commercial Paper (Note 20) 538,511 677,459 4,477,520 Trading Liabilities (Notes 10 and 41) 8,743,196 8,183,037 72,696,401 Borrowed Money (Notes 17, 21 and 41) 7,195,869 7,838,357 59,830,961 Foreign Exchange Liabilities (Note 13) 473,060 323,327 3,933,319 Short-term Bonds (Note 22) 816,705 584,568 6,790,600 Bonds and Notes (Notes 23 and 41) 6,013,731 5,245,743 50,001,929 Due to Trust Accounts 1,780,768 1,300,655 14,806,419 Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities (Notes 41 and 43) 3,474,332 3,004,497 28,887,773 Other Liabilities (Note 24) 4,261,955 3,570,902 35,436,566 Reserve for Bonus Payments 59,869 52,641 497,792 Net Defined Benefit Liability (Note 25) 47,518 46,006 395,102 Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits 1,527 1,547 12,702 Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans 13 1,259 110 Reserve for Contingencies 7,845 6,309 65,234 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 15,851 16,451 131,797 Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures 48,878 54,956 406,407 Reserves under Special Laws 1,607 1,273 13,369 Deferred Tax Liabilities (Note 27) 524,321 50,783 4,359,539 Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land (Note 28) 72,392 81,060 601,916 Acceptances and Guarantees (Note 26) 5,404,843 4,588,646 44,939,251 Total Liabilities ¥ 179,884,211 ¥ 167,518,336 $ 1,495,669,836 Net Assets Common Stock and Preferred Stock (Note 29) ¥ 2,255,404 ¥ 2,254,972 $ 18,752,846 Capital Surplus 1,110,006 1,109,508 9,229,290 Retained Earnings 2,769,371 2,315,608 23,026,283 Treasury Stock (Note 29) (3,616) (3,874) (30,066) Total Shareholders' Equity 6,131,166 5,676,215 50,978,353 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities (Note 42) 1,737,348 733,522 14,445,404 Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges 26,635 (6,677) 221,465 Revaluation Reserve for Land (Note 28) 146,419 140,745 1,217,424 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments (40,454) (63,513) (336,363) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans (Note 25) 160,005 (22,979) 1,330,389 Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 2,029,955 781,096 16,878,319 Stock Acquisition Rights (Note 30) 3,820 3,179 31,764 Minority Interests 1,635,595 1,844,057 13,599,367 Total Net Assets 9,800,538 8,304,549 81,487,803 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 189,684,749 ¥ 175,822,885 $ 1,577,157,639 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 130 Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Income Interest Income (Note 31) ¥ 1,468,976 ¥ 1,417,569 $ 12,213,991 Fiduciary Income 52,641 52,014 437,694 Fee and Commission Income 729,341 682,400 6,064,200 Trading Income (Note 32) 262,963 189,020 2,186,441 Other Operating Income (Note 33) 365,264 255,422 3,037,041 Other Income (Note 35) 301,652 344,275 2,508,131 Total Income 3,180,840 2,940,702 26,447,498 Expenses Interest Expenses (Note 31) 339,543 309,266 2,823,177 Fee and Commission Expenses 135,981 121,631 1,130,633 Trading Expenses (Note 32) — 1,598 — Other Operating Expenses (Note 34) 155,924 128,647 1,296,453 General and Administrative Expenses (Note 30) 1,351,611 1,258,227 11,238,145 Other Expenses (Note 36) 207,147 135,962 1,722,351 Total Expenses 2,190,208 1,955,335 18,210,759 Income before Income Taxes and Minority Interests 990,632 985,366 8,236,739 Income Taxes: Current 260,268 137,010 2,164,036 Deferred 44,723 77,960 371,860 Total Income Taxes 304,992 214,970 2,535,896 Income before Minority Interests 685,640 770,396 5,700,843 Minority Interests in Net Income 73,705 81,980 612,831 Net Income ¥ 611,935 ¥ 688,415 $ 5,088,012 131 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Per Share of Common Stock Yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Net Income: Basic ¥ 24.91 ¥ 28.18 $ 0.21 Diluted 24.10 27.12 0.20 Cash Dividends 7.50 6.50 0.06 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Income before Minority Interests ¥ 685,640 ¥ 770,396 $ 5,700,843 Other Comprehensive Income(Note 37): 1,255,433 62,531 10,438,458 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities 1,004,848 135,024 8,354,935 Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges 33,252 (91,618) 276,481 Revaluation Reserve for Land 7,531 3 62,621 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments 15,144 15,979 125,921 Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans 183,108 — 1,522,480 Share of Other Comprehensive Income of Associates Accounted for Using Equity Method 11,548 3,142 96,020 Comprehensive Income ¥ 1,941,073 ¥ 832,927 $ 16,139,301 Comprehensive Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent: ¥ 1,862,651 ¥ 741,562 $ 15,487,248 Comprehensive Income Attributable to Minority Interests: 78,422 91,365 652,053 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 132 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets Millions of yen Shareholders' Equity Common Total Stock and Capital Retained Treasury Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Preferred Surplus Earnings Stock Equity March 31, 2015 Stock Balance as of the beginning ¥ 2,254,972 ¥ 1,109,508 ¥ 2,315,608 ¥ (3,874) ¥ 5,676,215 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 16,107 16,107 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 2,254,972 ¥ 1,109,508 ¥ 2,331,715 ¥ (3,874) ¥ 5,692,322 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 431 431 863 Cash Dividends (176,136) (176,136) Net Income 611,935 611,935 Repurchase of Treasury (273) (273) Stock Disposition of Treasury 66 531 598 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,856 1,856 Reserve for Land Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 431 498 437,655 258 438,843 period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 2,255,404 ¥ 1,110,006 ¥ 2,769,371 ¥ (3,616) ¥ 6,131,166 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 133 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assetsー(Continued) Millions of yen Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net Remeasure Total Stock Unrealized Deferred Foreign Minority Total Revaluation -ments of Accumulated Acquisition Gains Gains or Currency Interests Net Assets Reserve for Defined Other Rights (Losses) on Losses on Translation Land Benefit Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Plans Income March 31, 2015 Securities Balance as of the beginning ¥ 733,522 ¥ (6,677) ¥ 140,745 ¥ (63,513) ¥ (22,979) ¥ 781,096 ¥ 3,179 ¥ 1,844,057 ¥ 8,304,549 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 573 16,681 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 733,522 ¥ (6,677) ¥ 140,745 ¥ (63,513) ¥ (22,979) ¥ 781,096 ¥ 3,179 ¥ 1,844,631 ¥ 8,321,230 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 863 Cash Dividends (176,136) Net Income 611,935 Repurchase of Treasury (273) Stock Disposition of Treasury 598 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,856 Reserve for Land Net Changes in Items other 1,003,826 33,313 5,674 23,059 182,985 1,248,859 640 (209,035) 1,040,464 than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 1,003,826 33,313 5,674 23,059 182,985 1,248,859 640 (209,035) 1,479,307 period Balance as of the end of the ¥1,737,348 ¥ 26,635 ¥ 146,419 ¥ (40,454) ¥ 160,005 ¥ 2,029,955 ¥ 3,820 ¥ 1,635,595 ¥ 9,800,538 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 134 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assetsー(Continued) Millions of yen Shareholders' Equity Common Total Stock and Capital Retained Treasury Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Preferred Surplus Earnings Stock Equity March 31, 2014 Stock Balance as of the beginning ¥ 2,254,972 ¥ 1,109,508 ¥ 1,814,782 ¥ (4,661) ¥ 5,174,601 of the period Changes during the period Cash Dividends (152,265) (152,265) Net Income 688,415 688,415 Repurchase of Treasury (37,387) (37,387) Stock Disposition of Treasury (31) 1,177 1,145 Stock Cancellation of Treasury (36,997) 36,997 － Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,604 1,604 Reserve for Land Change of scope of (3) (3) consolidation Increase in Retained Earnings due to change of 104 104 accounting period of subsidiaries Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the － － 500,826 787 501,614 period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 2,254,972 ¥ 1,109,508 ¥ 2,315,608 ¥ (3,874) ¥ 5,676,215 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 135 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assetsー(Continued) Millions of yen Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net Remeasure Total Stock Unrealized Deferred Foreign Minority Total Revaluation -ments of Accumulated Acquisition Gains Gains or Currency Interests Net Assets Reserve for Defined Other Rights (Losses) on Losses on Translation Land Benefit Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Plans Income March 31, 2014 Securities Balance as of the beginning ¥ 615,883 ¥ 84,634 ¥ 142,345 ¥ (90,329) ¥ － ¥ 752,533 ¥ 2,687 ¥ 1,806,407 ¥ 7,736,230 of the period Changes during the period Cash Dividends (152,265) Net Income 688,415 Repurchase of Treasury (37,387) Stock Disposition of Treasury 1,145 Stock Cancellation of Treasury － Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,604 Reserve for Land Change of scope of (3) consolidation Increase in Retained Earnings due to change of 104 accounting period of subsidiaries Net Changes in Items other 117,638 (91,311) (1,600) 26,816 (22,979) 28,562 492 37,649 66,705 than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 117,638 (91,311) (1,600) 26,816 (22,979) 28,562 492 37,649 568,319 period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 733,522 ¥ (6,677) ¥ 140,745 ¥ (63,513) ¥ (22,979) ¥ 781,096 ¥ 3,179 ¥ 1,844,057 ¥ 8,304,549 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 136 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assetsー(Continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Shareholders' Equity Common Stock Total Capital Retained Treasury and Preferred Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Surplus Earnings Stock Stock Equity March 31, 2015 Balance as of the beginning $ 18,749,255 $ 9,225,147 $19,253,417 $ (32,211) $ 47,195,608 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 133,925 133,925 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting $ 18,749,255 $ 9,225,147 $19,387,342 $ (32,211) $ 47,329,533 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 3,591 3,591 7,182 Cash Dividends (1,464,511) (1,464,511) Net Income 5,088,012 5,088,012 Repurchase of Treasury (2,276) (2,276) Stock Disposition of Treasury 552 4,421 4,973 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 15,440 15,440 Reserve for Land Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 3,591 4,143 3,638,941 2,145 3,648,820 period Balance as of the end of the $ 18,752,846 $ 9,229,290 $23,026,283 $ (30,066) $ 50,978,353 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 137 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assetsー(Continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net RemeasureTotal Stock Unrealized Deferred Foreign Minority Total Revaluation ments of Accumulated Acquisition Gains Gains or Currency Interests Net Assets Reserve for Defined Other Rights (Losses) on Losses on Translation Land Benefit Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Plans Income March 31, 2015 Securities Balance as of the beginning $6,098,961 $ (55,521) $1,170,242 $ (528,092) $ (191,068) $ 6,494,522 $ 26,441 $15,332,646 $69,049,217 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 4,772 138,697 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting $6,098,961 $ (55,521) $1,170,242 $ (528,092) $ (191,068) $ 6,494,522 $ 26,441 $15,337,418 $69,187,914 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 7,182 Cash Dividends (1,464,511) Net Income 5,088,012 Repurchase of Treasury (2,276) Stock Disposition of Treasury 4,973 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 15,440 Reserve for Land Net Changes in Items other 8,346,443 276,986 47,182 191,729 1,521,457 10,383,797 5,323 (1,738,051) 8,651,069 than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 8,346,443 276,986 47,182 191,729 1,521,457 10,383,797 5,323 (1,738,051) 12,299,889 period Balance as of the end of the $14,445,404 $ 221,465 $1,217,424 $ (336,363) $1,330,389 $16,878,319 $ 31,764 $13,599,367 $81,487,803 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 138 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Cash Flow from Operating Activities Income before Income Taxes and Minority Interests ¥ 990,632 ¥ 985,366 $ 8,236,739 Depreciation 156,946 153,098 1,304,955 Losses on Impairment of Fixed Assets 11,358 6,506 94,446 Amortization of Goodwill 3,698 3,672 30,748 Gains on Negative Goodwill Incurred — (5,621) — Equity in Loss (Gain) from Investments in Affiliates (15,052) (15,491) (125,154) Increase (Decrease) in Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (103,554) (143,059) (861,015) Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments (25) (14) (209) Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans (1,245) 1,210 (10,359) Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Contingencies 1,600 (16,385) 13,305 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Bonus Payments 5,113 4,331 42,517 Decrease (Increase) in Net Defined Benefit Asset (38,437) (32,414) (319,596) Increase (Decrease) in Net Defined Benefit Liability 4,297 3,011 35,733 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits (19) (88) (163) Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits (600) (12) (4,992) Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures (6,078) 19,538 (50,537) Interest Income—accrual basis (1,468,976) (1,417,569) (12,213,991) Interest Expenses—accrual basis 339,543 309,266 2,823,177 Losses (Gains) on Securities (219,340) (115,111) (1,823,736) Losses (Gains) on Money Held in Trust (145) (97) (1,210) Foreign Exchange Losses (Gains)—net (645,471) (903,027) (5,366,854) Losses (Gains) on Disposition of Fixed Assets 8,541 6,500 71,022 Decrease (Increase) in Trading Assets 999,513 2,944,549 8,310,582 Increase (Decrease) in Trading Liabilities 359,772 228,270 2,991,370 Decrease (Increase) in Derivatives other than for Trading Assets (639,290) 1,809,906 (5,315,458) Increase (Decrease) in Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities 386,732 (1,537,943) 3,215,539 Decrease (Increase) in Loans and Bills Discounted (2,289,581) (1,853,147) (19,037,015) Increase (Decrease) in Deposits 9,815,972 611,766 81,616,131 Increase (Decrease) in Borrowed Money (excluding Subordinated Borrowed Money) (544,370) 186,454 (4,526,233) Decrease (Increase) in Due from Banks (excluding Due from Central Banks) 471,141 195,716 3,917,367 Decrease (Increase) in Call Loans, etc. 918,102 1,920,731 7,633,677 Decrease (Increase) in Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 951,399 533,173 7,910,533 Increase (Decrease) in Call Money, etc. (1,521,429) (1,620,912) (12,650,113) Increase (Decrease) in Commercial Paper (253,152) (108,048) (2,104,872) Increase (Decrease) in Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions (3,839,692) (5,240,107) (31,925,605) Decrease (Increase) in Foreign Exchange Assets 88,558 (68,099) 736,335 Increase (Decrease) in Foreign Exchange Liabilities 149,446 140,124 1,242,594 Increase (Decrease) in Short-term Bonds (Liabilities) 232,137 107,168 1,930,135 Increase (Decrease) in Bonds and Notes ¥ 992,919 ¥ 25,941 $ 8,255,751 139 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flowsー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Increase (Decrease) in Due to Trust Accounts ¥ 480,112 ¥ 179,958 $ 3,991,957 Interest and Dividend Income—cash basis 1,476,736 1,497,731 12,278,507 Interest Expenses—cash basis (346,060) (328,747) (2,877,361) Other—net (84,770) (631,487) (704,838) Subtotal 6,826,983 (2,163,391) 56,763,809 Cash Refunded (Paid) in Income Taxes (172,024) (122,650) (1,430,319) Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities 6,654,958 (2,286,042) 55,333,490 Cash Flow from Investing Activities Payments for Purchase of Securities (81,055,617) (72,279,170) (673,947,100) Proceeds from Sale of Securities 76,467,302 73,065,653 635,796,981 Proceeds from Redemption of Securities 7,599,068 10,156,411 63,183,411 Payments for Increase in Money Held in Trust (5,770) (76,215) (47,977) Proceeds from Decrease in Money Held in Trust 16,408 3,871 136,427 Payments for Purchase of Tangible Fixed Assets (216,299) (89,425) (1,798,445) Payments for Purchase of Intangible Fixed Assets (187,451) (142,229) (1,558,589) Proceeds from Sale of Tangible Fixed Assets 1,585 5,172 13,184 Proceeds from Sale of Intangible Fixed Assets 0 0 0 Payments for Purchase of Stocks of Subsidiaries (affecting the scope of consolidation) — (36,584) — Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities 2,619,227 10,607,483 21,777,892 Cash Flow from Financing Activities Repayments of Subordinated Borrowed Money (100,000) (52,500) (831,463) Proceeds from Issuance of Subordinated Bonds 150,000 154,380 1,247,194 Payments for Redemption of Subordinated Bonds (464,705) (130,700) (3,863,848) Proceeds from Issuance of Common Stock 6 — 51 Proceeds from Investments by Minority Shareholders 866 1,069 7,208 Repayments to Minority Shareholders (241,729) — (2,009,890) Cash Dividends Paid (176,186) (152,162) (1,464,924) Cash Dividends Paid to Minority Shareholders (71,644) (88,829) (595,693) Payments for Repurchase of Treasury Stock (12) (37,013) (100) Proceeds from Sale of Treasury Stock 2 10 24 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities (903,401) (305,744) (7,511,441) Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents 37,565 69,190 312,340 Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 8,408,350 8,084,887 69,912,281 Cash and Cash Equivalents at the Beginning of the Fiscal Year 19,432,425 11,347,537 161,573,340 Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents Due to Change of Accounting Period of Subsidiaries — 0 — Cash and Cash Equivalents at the End of the Fiscal Year (Note 39) ¥ 27,840,775 ¥ 19,432,425 $ 231,485,621 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 140 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Basis for Presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared from the accounts maintained by Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (“MHFG”) and its consolidated subsidiaries in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Company Law of Japan and the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, and in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”) which are different in certain respects from the application and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards. Certain items presented in the consolidated financial statements which were previously filed with the Director General of the Kanto Local Finance Bureau are reclassified for the convenience of readers outside Japan. The notes to the consolidated financial statements include information which is not required under Japanese GAAP but is presented herein as additional information. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. Totals may not add up exactly because of such truncation. Amounts in U.S. dollars are included solely for the convenience of readers outside Japan. The rate of ¥120.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2015 has been used for translation. The inclusion of such amounts is not intended to imply that Japanese yen has been or could be readily converted, realized or settled into U.S. dollars at that rate or any other rate. 2. Scope of Consolidation (a) The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, “the Group”), including Mizuho Bank, Ltd. (“MHBK”), Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (“MHTB”), Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. (“MHSC”) and certain other subsidiaries. The numbers of consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2015 and 2014 were 150 and 159, respectively. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, Mizuho AsiaInfra Capital Pte. Ltd. and two other companies were newly included in the scope of consolidation as a result of new establishment. During the period, Mizuho Capital No.2 Limited Partnership and 11 other companies were excluded from the scope of consolidation as a result of dissolution and other factors. (b) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2015 and 2014. 3. Application of the Equity Method (a) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries under the equity method as of March 31, 2015 and 2014. (b) The numbers of affiliates under the equity method as of March 31, 2015 and 2014 were 21 for each year. Investments in affiliates include Orient Corporation, The Chiba Kogyo Bank, Ltd., Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam and certain other affiliates. (c) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries not under the equity method as of March 31, 2015 and 2014. (d) Certain other affiliates, including Asian-American Merchant Bank Limited, are not accounted for under the equity method, as they are not significant to the consolidated financial statements of MHFG. 141 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4. Balance Sheet Dates of Consolidated Subsidiaries (a) Balance sheet dates of consolidated subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 are as follows: July 31 1 company December 29 16 companies December 31 52 companies March 31 81 companies (b) Consolidated subsidiaries with balance sheet dates of December 29 were consolidated based on their tentative financial statements as of and for the period ended December 31. The consolidated subsidiary with balance sheet dates of July 31 was consolidated based on its tentative financial statement as of and for the period ended the consolidated balance sheet date. Other consolidated subsidiaries were consolidated based on their financial statements as of and for the period ended their respective balance sheet dates. The necessary adjustments have been made to the financial statements for any significant transactions that took place between their respective balance sheet dates and the date of the consolidated financial statements. 142 5. Standards of Accounting Method (1) Credited Loans pursuant to Trading Securities and Trading Income & Expenses Credited loans held for the purpose of trading are, in line with trading securities, recognized on a trade date basis and recorded in Other Debt Purchased on the consolidated balance sheet. Other Debt Purchased related to the relevant credited loans is stated at fair value at the consolidated balance sheet date. Interest received and the gains or losses on the sale of the relevant credited loans during the fiscal year, including the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, are recognized in Other Operating Income and Other Operating Expenses on the consolidated statement of income. (2)Trading Assets & Liabilities and Trading Income & Expenses Trading transactions intended to take advantage of short-term fluctuations and arbitrage opportunities in interest rates, currency exchange rates, market prices of securities and related indices are recognized on a trade-date basis and recorded in Trading Assets or Trading Liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Income or expenses generated on the relevant trading transactions are recorded in Trading Income or Trading Expenses on the consolidated statement of income. Securities and other monetary claims held for trading purposes are stated at fair value at the consolidated balance sheet date. Derivative financial products, such as swaps, futures and option transactions, are stated at their fair values, assuming that such transactions are terminated and settled at the consolidated balance sheet date. Trading Income and Trading Expenses include the interest received and paid during the fiscal year, the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value of securities and other monetary claims between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, and the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value of financial derivatives between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, assuming they were settled at the end of the fiscal year. (3) Securities In accordance with “Accounting Standard for Financial Instruments” (the Business Accounting Deliberation Council, January 22, 1999), MHFG classifies securities, excluding those of investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, into three categories based upon management's intent. These securities are accounted for as follows: (i) Trading securities are carried at market value and included in Trading Assets. (ii) Bonds held to maturity are stated at amortized cost (straight-line method) and determined by the moving average method. (iii) Other securities are securities which are not classified as either trading securities or bonds held to maturity. Other securities which have readily determinable fair value are stated at fair value with changes in net unrealized gains or losses, net of applicable income taxes after excluding gains and losses as a result of the fair-value hedge method, included directly in Net Assets. The fair value of Japanese stocks is determined based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date. The fair value of securities other than Japanese stocks is determined at the quoted market price if available, or other reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date (cost of securities sold is calculated primarily by the moving-average method). Other securities, the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine, are stated at acquisition cost or amortized cost which is determined by the moving-average method. In addition, investments in affiliates not under the equity method are stated at acquisition cost as determined by the moving average-method. Securities which are held as trust assets in Money Held in Trust accounts are valued in the same way as Securities above. Certain Securities other than Trading Securities (excluding Securities for which it is deemed to be extremely difficult to determine the fair value) are devalued to the fair value, and the difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value is treated as a loss for the fiscal year (“impairment (devaluation)”), if the fair value (primarily the closing market price at the consolidated balance sheet date) has significantly deteriorated compared with the acquisition cost (including amortized cost), and unless it is deemed that there is a possibility of a recovery in the fair value. The amounts of impairment (devaluation) were ¥3,206 million ($26,661 thousand) and ¥9,366 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The criteria for determining whether a security's fair value has “significantly deteriorated” are outlined as follows: ・Security whose fair value is 50% or less of the acquisition cost 143 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ・Security whose fair value exceeds 50% but is 70% or less of the acquisition cost and the quoted market price maintains a certain level or lower (4) Bills Discounted In accordance with “Accounting and Auditing Treatment relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Financial Instruments for Banks” (The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“JICPA”) Industry Audit Committee Report No. 24), bills discounted are accounted for as financing transactions. The banking subsidiaries have rights to sell or pledge these bankers' acceptances, commercial bills, documentary bills and foreign exchange bills purchased. The face value of these bills amounted to ¥1,370,730 million ($11,397,108 thousand) and ¥1,321,639 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. (5) Derivative Transactions Derivative transactions are valued at fair value with changes in fair value included in current income. Derivatives qualifying as hedges are mainly accounted for using either the fair-value hedge method or the deferred method of hedge accounting (see (21) Hedge Accounting). (6) Tangible Fixed Assets (Except for Lease Assets) Depreciation of buildings is computed mainly by the straight-line method, and that of others is computed mainly by the declining-balance method. The range of useful lives is as follows: Buildings 3 years to 50 years Others 2 years to 20 years (7) Intangible Fixed Assets (Except for Lease Assets) Amortization of Intangible Fixed Assets is computed by the straight-line method. Development costs for internally-used software are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful lives of mainly from five to ten years as determined by MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries. (8) Lease Assets Depreciation of lease assets booked in Tangible Fixed Assets and Intangible Fixed Assets which are concerned with finance lease transactions that do not transfer ownership is mainly computed by the same method as the one applied to fixed assets owned by us. (9) Deferred Assets Bond issuance costs are expensed as incurred. 144 (10) Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans of major domestic consolidated subsidiaries are maintained in accordance with internally established standards for write-offs and reserve provisions: • For claims extended to obligors that are legally bankrupt under the Bankruptcy Law, Special Liquidation under the Company Law or other similar laws (“Bankrupt Obligors”), and to obligors that are effectively in similar conditions (“Substantially Bankrupt Obligors”), reserves are maintained at the amounts of claims net of direct write-offs described below and the expected amounts recoverable from the disposition of collateral and the amounts recoverable under guarantees. • For claims extended to obligors that are not yet legally or formally bankrupt but are likely to be bankrupt (“Intensive Control Obligors”), reserves are maintained at the amounts deemed necessary based on overall solvency analyses of the amounts of claims net of expected amounts recoverable from the disposition of collateral and the amounts recoverable under guarantees. • For claims extended to Intensive Control Obligors and Obligors with Restructured Loans (defined in Note 12 below) and others, if the exposure to an obligor exceeds a certain specific amount, reserves are provided as follows: (i) if future cash flows of the principal and interest can be reasonably estimated, the discounted cash flow method is applied, under which the reserve is determined as the difference between the book value of the loan and its present value of future cash flows discounted using the contractual interest rate before the loan was classified as a Restructured Loan, and (ii) if future cash flows of the principal and interest cannot be reasonably estimated, reserves are provided for the losses estimated for each individual loan. • For claims extended to other obligors, reserves are maintained at rates derived from historical credit loss experience and other factors. • Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries is maintained in order to cover possible losses based on analyses of the political and economic climates of the countries. All claims are assessed by each claim origination department in accordance with the internally established “Self-assessment Standard,” and the results of the assessments are verified and examined by the independent examination departments. In the case of claims to Bankrupt Obligors and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors, which are collateralized or guaranteed by a third party, the amounts deemed uncollectible (calculated by deducting the anticipated proceeds from the sale of collateral pledged against the claims and amounts that are expected to be recovered from guarantors of the claims) are written off against the respective claim balances. The total directly written-off amounts were ¥227,209 million ($1,889,166 thousand) and ¥195,157 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Other consolidated subsidiaries provide the amount necessary to cover the loan losses based upon past experience and other factors for general claims and the assessment for each individual loan for other claims. (11) Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments is maintained to provide against possible losses on investments in securities, after taking into consideration the financial condition and other factors concerning the investee company. (12) Reserve for Bonus Payments Reserve for Bonus Payments, which is provided for future bonus payments to employees, is maintained at the amount accrued at the end of the fiscal year, based on the estimated future payments. (13) Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits, which is provided for future retirement benefit payments to directors, corporate auditors, and executive officers, is recognized at the amount accrued by the end of the respective fiscal year, based on the internally established standards. (14) Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans is provided for possible future losses on sales of loans at the amount deemed necessary based on a reasonable estimate of possible future losses. 145 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (15) Reserve for Contingencies Reserve for Contingencies is maintained to provide against possible losses from contingencies, which are not covered by other specific reserves. The balance is an estimate of possible future losses considered to require a reserve. (16) Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits is provided against the losses for the deposits derecognized from Liabilities at the estimated amount of future claims for withdrawal by depositors. (17) Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures is provided for the debentures derecognized from Liabilities at the estimated amount for future claims. (18) Reserve under Special Laws Reserve under Special Laws is Reserve for Contingent Liabilities from Financial Instruments and Exchange of ¥1,607 million ($13,369 thousand) and ¥1,273 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. This is the reserve pursuant to Article 46-5 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law and Article 175 of the Cabinet Office Ordinance regarding Financial Instruments Business, etc. to indemnify the losses incurred from accidents in the purchase and sale of securities, other transactions or derivative transactions. (19) Accounting Method for Retirement Benefits In calculating retirement benefit obligations, a benefit formula basis is used as a method of attributing expected retirement benefits to the period up to the end of this fiscal year. Unrecognized actuarial differences are recognized as income or expenses from the following fiscal year under the straight-line method over a certain term within the average remaining service period of the employees (mainly 10 years) of the respective fiscal years. Certain consolidated subsidiaries apply the simplified method that assumes the amount required for voluntary resignation at the end of the term to be retirement benefit obligations in computing net defined benefit liability and retirement benefit expenses. (20) Assets and Liabilities Denominated in Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and accounts of overseas branches of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and a domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiary are translated into Japanese yen primarily at the exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet date, with the exception of the investments in affiliates not under the equity method, which are translated at historical exchange rates. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies of the consolidated subsidiaries, except for the transactions mentioned above, are translated into Japanese yen primarily at the exchange rates in effect at the respective balance sheet dates. 146 (21) Hedge Accounting (a) Interest Rate Risk The deferred method, the fair-value hedge method or the exceptional accrual method for interest rate swaps are applied as hedge accounting methods. The portfolio hedge transaction for a large volume of small-value monetary claims and liabilities of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and some of domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries is accounted for by the method stipulated in the JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No.24. The effectiveness of hedging activities for the portfolio hedge transaction for a large volume of small-value monetary claims and liabilities is assessed as follows: (i) as for hedging activities to offset market fluctuation risks, the effectiveness is assessed by bracketing both the hedged instruments, such as deposits and loans, and the hedging instruments, such as interest-rate swaps, in the same maturity bucket. (ii) as for hedging activities to fix the cash flows, the effectiveness is assessed based on the correlation between the base interest rate index of the hedged instrument and that of the hedging instrument. The effectiveness of the individual hedge is assessed based on the comparison of the fluctuation in the market or of cash flows of the hedged instruments with that of the hedging instruments. Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges recorded on the consolidated balance sheet resulted from the application of the macro-hedge method based on the “Tentative Accounting and Auditing Treatment relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Financial Instruments for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No.15), under which the overall interest rate risks inherent in loans, deposits and other instruments are controlled on a macro-basis using derivatives transactions. These deferred hedge gains/losses are amortized as interest income or interest expenses over the remaining maturity and average remaining maturity of the respective hedging instruments. The unamortized amounts of gross deferred hedge losses on the macro-hedges, before net of applicable income taxes, were ¥856 million ($7,123 thousand) and ¥1,849 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The unamortized amounts of gross deferred hedge gains on the macro-hedges, before net of applicable income taxes, were ¥704 million ($5,860 thousand) and ¥1,500 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. (b) Foreign Exchange Risk Domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and some of domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries apply the deferred method of hedge accounting to hedge foreign exchange risks associated with various financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as stipulated in the “Accounting and Auditing Treatment relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Foreign Currency Transactions for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No.25). The effectiveness of the hedge is assessed by confirming that the amount of the foreign currency position of the hedged monetary claims and liabilities is equal to or larger than that of currency-swap transactions, exchange swap transactions, and similar transactions designated as the hedging instruments of the foreign exchange risk. In addition to the above methods, these subsidiaries apply the deferred method or the fair-value hedge method to portfolio hedges of the foreign exchange risks associated with investments in subsidiaries and affiliates denominated in foreign currency and Other securities denominated in foreign currency (except for bonds) identified as hedged items in advance, as long as the amount of foreign currency payables of spot and forward foreign exchange contracts exceeds the amount of acquisition cost of the hedged foreign securities denominated in foreign currency. (c) Inter-company Transactions Inter-company interest rate swaps, currency swaps and similar derivatives among consolidated companies or between trading accounts and other accounts, which are designated as hedges, are not eliminated and related gains and losses are recognized in the statement of income or deferred under hedge accounting, because these intercompany derivatives are executed according to the criteria for appropriate outside third-party cover operations which are treated as hedge transactions objectively in accordance with JICPA Industry Audit Committee Reports No.24 and 25. As for certain assets and liabilities of MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries, the deferred method, the fair-value hedge method or the exceptional accrual method for interest rate swaps are applied. 147 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (22) Consumption Taxes and Other With respect to MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries, Japanese consumption taxes and local consumption taxes are excluded from transaction amounts. (23) Amortization Method of Goodwill and Amortization Period Goodwill of Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. is amortized over a period of 20 years under the straight-line method. Other Goodwill is amortized over an appropriate period not to exceed 20 years under the straight-line method. The full amount of Goodwill that has no material impact is expensed as incurred. (24) Scope of Cash and Cash Equivalents on Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows In the consolidated statement of cash flows, Cash and Cash Equivalents consist of cash and due from central banks included in “Cash and Due from Banks” on the consolidated balance sheet. 6. Change in Accounting Policies Application of “Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits” and others Mizuho Financial Group has applied “Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits” (ASBJ Statement No. 26, May 17, 2012) (hereinafter, the “Accounting Standard”) and “Guidance on Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits” (ASBJ Guidance No. 25, March 26, 2015) (hereinafter, the “Guidance”), in terms of regulations stipulated in the text of the Accounting Standard, Paragraph 35 and the Guidance, Paragraph 67, beginning with the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. We have reviewed the calculation methods of retirement benefit obligations and service cost, changed the method of attributing the expected retirement benefits to periods of service from a straight-line basis to a benefit formula basis, and changed the method of determining the discount rate from the method using the discount rate based on the average period up to the estimated timing of the benefit payment and another period to the method using different discount rates according to the estimated timing of each benefit payment. The Accounting Standard and the Guidance have been applied in accordance with the transitional treatment stipulated in the Accounting Standard, Paragraph 37, and the amount of financial impact resulting from the change in the calculation method of retirement benefit obligations and service cost was added to or deducted from retained earnings at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. As a result of this, Net Defined Benefit Asset increased by ¥19,795 million ($164,594 thousand), Net Defined Benefit Liability decreased by ¥2,787 million ($23,175 thousand), Retained Earnings increased by ¥16,107 million ($133,925 thousand) and Minority Interests increased by ¥573 million ($4,772 thousand) at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. Ordinary Profits and Income before Income Taxes and Minority Interests for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 increased by ¥8,217 million ($68,324 thousand), respectively. 7. Issued but not yet Adopted Accounting Standard and Others Accounting Standard for Business Combinations (September 13, 2013) (i) Overview This accounting standard was revised mainly focusing on (a)the treatment of the parent company’s changes in equity of its subsidiary while the parent company’s control is continuing because of additional acquisition of shares of the subsidiary, (b)the treatment of acquisition-related expenses, (c)the treatment of provisional accounting, and (d)the presentation of Net Income and the change from minority interests to non-controlling interests. (ii) Scheduled Date of Application Mizuho Financial Group is scheduled to apply this accounting standard after revision from the beginning of the fiscal year starting on April 1, 2015. (iii) Effect of Application of this accounting standard The effect of the application of this accounting standard is under consideration. 8. Change in Presentation of Financial Statements Refund of Income Taxes separately presented in the previous fiscal year has been included within Current Income Taxes from this fiscal year due to decreased materiality. Refund of Income Taxes presented in the previous fiscal year was ¥(5,629) million. 148 9. Securities Lending and Borrowing Transactions MHFG does not have unsecured loaned securities which the borrowers have the right to sell or repledge as of March 31, 2015 and 2014. MHFG has the right to sell or repledge some of unsecured borrowed securities, securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed with cash collateral. Among them, the totals of securities repledged were ¥12,240,951million ($101,778,924 thousand) and ¥9,853,276 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and securities neither repledged nor re-loaned were ¥1,264,787 million ($10,516,236 thousand) and ¥1,681,484 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 10. Trading Assets and Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Trading Assets: Trading Securities ¥ 5,042,005 ¥ 7,038,301 $ 41,922,387 Derivatives for Trading Transactions 5,526,350 4,231,907 45,949,537 Derivatives for Trading Securities 213,379 199,602 1,774,171 Total ¥ 10,781,735 ¥ 11,469,811 $ 89,646,095 Trading Liabilities: Trading Securities Sold Short ¥ 3,200,813 ¥ 4,309,956 $ 26,613,564 Derivatives for Trading Transactions 5,335,870 3,690,911 44,365,763 Derivatives for Trading Securities 206,512 182,168 1,717,074 Total ¥ 8,743,196 ¥ 8,183,037 $ 72,696,401 149 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 11. Securities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Japanese Government Bonds ¥ 21,775,918 ¥ 26,097,592 $ 181,058,602 Japanese Local Government Bonds 238,587 244,662 1,983,769 Japanese Short-term Bonds 99 99 831 Japanese Corporate Bonds 2,674,037 2,792,469 22,233,617 Japanese Stocks*1 4,500,792 3,525,077 37,422,400 Other*2 14,089,298 11,337,616 117,147,237 Total ¥ 43,278,733 ¥ 43,997,517 $ 359,846,456 *1 Japanese Stocks included investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates of ¥229,160 million ($1,905,386 thousand) and ¥214,799 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. *2 Other included investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates of ¥62,814 million ($522,276 thousand) and ¥58,695 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 12. Loans and Bills Discounted Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Loans on Deeds ¥ 61,263,590 ¥ 58,101,716 $ 509,383,807 Overdrafts 7,960,639 7,862,209 66,189,736 Loans on Notes 3,216,933 2,603,952 26,747,594 Bills Discounted 418,171 343,933 3,476,937 Financing Receivables, including Factoring, Leasing and Property Financing 551,112 385,181 4,582,292 Other 4,723 4,412 39,277 Total ¥ 73,415,170 ¥ 69,301,405 $ 610,419,643 Loans and Bills Discounted as of March 31, 2015 and 2014 include the following: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors*1 ¥ 10,246 ¥ 12,194 $ 85,200 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans*2 425,778 508,001 3,540,192 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More*3 3,496 4,109 29,075 Restructured Loans*4 614,928 504,600 5,112,898 Total ¥ 1,054,450 ¥ 1,028,905 $ 8,767,365 *1 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors represent non-accrual loans to obligors who are legally bankrupt as defined in Article 96, Paragraph 1, Items 3 and 4 of the Corporate Tax Law Enforcement Ordinance (Government Ordinance No.97, 1965). *2 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans represent non-accrual loans other than (i) Loans to Bankrupt Obligors and (ii) loans of which payments of interest are deferred in order to assist or facilitate the restructuring of obligors in financial difficulties. *3 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors or Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans, both of which are classified as non-accrual, are not included in this category. *4 Restructured Loans represent loans on which contracts were amended in favor of obligors (e.g., the reduction of or exemption from stated interest, the deferral of interest payments, the extension of maturity dates, or renunciation of claims) in order to assist or facilitate the restructuring of obligors in financial difficulties. Note: The amounts given in the above table are gross amounts before deduction of amounts for the Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans. 150 Commitment Line for Loans Overdraft protection on current accounts and contracts of the commitment line for loans are contracts by which banking subsidiaries are bound to extend loans up to the prearranged amount, at the request of customers, unless the customer is in breach of contract conditions. The unutilized balance of these contracts amounted to ¥82,839,928 million ($688,782,972 thousand) and ¥69,141,157 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Of these amounts, ¥64,322,076 million ($534,813,969 thousand) and ¥57,623,467 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, relate to contracts of which the original contractual maturity is one year or less, or which are unconditionally cancelable at any time. Since many of these contracts expire without being exercised, the unutilized balance itself does not necessarily affect future cash flows. A provision is included in many of these contracts that entitles the banking subsidiaries to refuse the execution of loans, or reduce the maximum amount under contracts when there is a change in the financial situation, necessity to preserve a claim, or other similar reasons. The banking subsidiaries require collateral such as real estate and securities when deemed necessary at the time the contracts are entered into. In addition, they periodically monitor customers’ business conditions in accordance with internally established standards and take necessary measures to manage credit risks such as amendments to contracts. 13. Foreign Exchange Assets and Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Foreign Exchange Assets: Foreign Bills Bought ¥ 952,558 ¥ 977,705 $ 7,920,171 Foreign Bills Receivable 416,944 449,024 3,466,741 Due from Banks (Foreign) 254,167 136,836 2,113,307 Advance to Foreign Banks 65 12,600 542 Total ¥ 1,623,736 ¥ 1,576,167 $ 13,500,761 Foreign Exchange Liabilities: Due to Banks (Foreign) ¥ 416,320 ¥ 289,017 $ 3,461,551 Advance from Foreign Banks 25,800 9,455 214,519 Foreign Bills Payable 26,251 20,226 218,268 Foreign Bills Sold 4,688 4,628 38,981 Total ¥ 473,060 ¥ 323,327 $ 3,933,319 14. Other Assets Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Accrued Income ¥ 281,063 ¥ 264,605 $ 2,336,940 Prepaid Expenses 43,258 40,114 359,675 Other 3,742,102 2,536,000 31,114,178 Total ¥ 4,066,424 ¥ 2,840,720 $ 33,810,793 151 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 15. Tangible Fixed Assets Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Land ¥ 612,901 ¥ 459,986 $ 5,096,047 Buildings 340,101 323,194 2,827,820 Lease Assets 18,566 18,838 154,372 Construction in Progress 13,786 34,830 114,629 Other 92,695 88,415 770,725 Total ¥ 1,078,051 ¥ 925,266 $ 8,963,593 Accumulated Depreciation ¥ 842,605 ¥ 814,210 $ 7,005,948 Book Value Adjusted for Gains on Sales of Replaced Assets and Others 35,685 36,189 296,711 16. Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans ¥ (344,496) ¥ (398,737) $ (2,864,358) Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans (180,386) (216,787) (1,499,849) Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries (603) (782) (5,019) Total ¥ (525,486) ¥ (616,307) $ (4,369,226) 17. Assets Pledged as Collateral The following assets were pledged as collateral: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Trading Assets ¥ 2,567,206 ¥ 4,455,104 $ 21,345,362 Securities 11,209,154 15,486,954 93,199,924 Loans and Bills Discounted 6,580,383 8,528,194 54,713,423 Other Assets 1,006 1,112 8,371 The following liabilities were collateralized by the above assets: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Deposits ¥ 772,816 ¥ 877,876 $ 6,425,681 Call Money and Bills Sold 1,265,000 1,708,200 10,518,001 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 7,861,692 6,883,769 65,367,032 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 2,121,374 6,049,378 17,638,435 Borrowed Money 5,516,730 5,934,019 45,869,552 152 In addition, the settlement accounts of foreign and domestic exchange transactions or derivatives transactions and others were collateralized, and margins for futures transactions were substituted by Cash and Due from Banks of ¥34,156 million ($284,001 thousand) and ¥30,438 million, Trading Assets of ¥210,434 million ($1,749,687 thousand) and ¥152,908 million, Securities of ¥4,518,541 million ($37,569,980 thousand) and ¥3,172,665 million, and Loans and Bills Discounted of ¥191,639 million ($1,593,407 thousand) and ¥159,954 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Other Assets included guarantee deposits of ¥119,437 million ($993,078 thousand) and ¥127,301 million, collateral pledged for derivatives transactions of ¥529,449 million ($4,402,174 thousand) and ¥275,812 million, margins for futures transactions of ¥193,743 million ($1,610,907 thousand) and ¥141,401 million, and other guarantee deposits of ¥41,713 million ($346,836 thousand) and ¥35,637 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 18. Deposits Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Current Deposits ¥ 7,183,120 ¥ 6,625,385 $ 59,724,955 1 Ordinary Deposits* 45,900,575 41,564,578 381,646,093 Deposits at Notice 863,870 909,863 7,182,757 Time Deposits 38,409,156 35,409,276 319,357,749 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 15,694,906 12,755,776 130,497,265 Other 5,400,823 4,546,400 44,905,822 Total ¥ 113,452,451 ¥ 101,811,282 $ 943,314,641 *1 Ordinary Deposits includes savings deposits. 19. Call Money and Bills Sold Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Call Money ¥ 5,091,198 ¥ 7,194,432 $ 42,331,405 Bills Sold — — — Total ¥ 5,091,198 ¥ 7,194,432 $ 42,331,405 20. Commercial Paper Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Average interest rates*1 As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 2015 2014 Commercial Paper ¥538,511 ¥677,459 $ 4,477,520 0.22% 0.20% *1 Average interest rates are the weighted-average interest rates of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. 153 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 21. Borrowed Money Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Average interest rates*1 As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 2015 2014 Borrowed Money ¥7,195,869 ¥7,838,357 $ 59,830,961 0.32% 0.32% Bills rediscounted ― ― ― —% —% 2,3 Other Borrowings* 7,195,869 7,838,357 59,830,961 0.32% 0.32% *1 Average interest rates are the weighted-average interest rates of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. *2 Other Borrowings included subordinated debt of ¥456,000 million ($3,791,469 thousand) and ¥556,000 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. *3 Repayments for Other Borrowings are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2016 ¥ 965,869 million ($ 8,030,842 thousand) 2017 ¥ 982,827 million ($ 8,171,840 thousand) 2018 ¥ 122,026 million ($ 1,014,601 thousand) 2019 ¥ 4,246,985 million ($ 35,312,094 thousand) 2020 ¥ 58,987 million ($ 490,457 thousand) 22. Short-term Bonds Major components of Short-term Bonds at March 31, 2015 were as follows: Issuer Issue Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Interest rates Due MHFG Jan. 2015–Mar. 2015 ¥ 261,000 $ 2,170,117 0.11% Apr. 2015– [261,000] [2,170,117] Jun. 2015 MHBK Mar. 2015 25,000 207,866 0.06% Apr. 2015 [25,000] [207,866] MHSC Oct. 2014–Mar. 2015 456,500 3,795,627 0.03%–0.12% Apr. 2015– [456,500] [3,795,627] Oct. 2015 *1 Oct. 2014–Mar. 2015 74,205 616,990 0.12%–0.28% Apr. 2015– [74,205] [616,990] May 2015 Total ¥ 816,705 $ 6,790,600 *1 indicates the total amount of Short-term Bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, Allstar Funding Co., Ltd, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, BLUE HEAVEN FUNDING CORPORATION, ASTRO CAPITAL CORPORATIONⅡand ETERNAL FUNDING CORPORATION. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. No collateral was provided for the above Short-term Bonds. Major components of Short-term Bonds at March 31, 2014 were as follows: Issuer Issue Millions of yen Interest rates Due MHFG Jan. 2014–Feb. 2014 ¥ 182,000 0.22% Apr. 2014– May 2014 MHBK Mar. 2014 25,000 0.08% Apr. 2014 MHSC Oct. 2013–Mar. 2014 290,100 0.06%–0.11% Apr. 2014– Sep. 2014 *1 Oct. 2013–Mar. 2014 87,468 0.13%–0.31% Apr. 2014– May 2014 Total ¥ 584,568 *1 indicates the total amount of Short-term Bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, Allstar Funding Co., Ltd, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, BLUE HEAVEN FUNDING CORPORATION and ASTRO CAPITAL CORPORATIONⅡ. Note: No collateral was provided for the above Short-term Bonds. 154 23. Bonds and Notes Major components of Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2015 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Interest Issuer Description Issue Millions of yen dollars rates Due MHFG Straight Bonds Jul. 2014– ¥ 150,000 $ 1,247,194 0.62%– Jul. 2024Dec.2014 [—] [—] 4.25% Dec. 2029 MHTB Straight Bonds Dec. 2005– 42,200 350,877 1.91%– Dec. 2015– Aug. 2009 [30,000] [249,439] 3.19% MHBK Straight Bonds Aug. 2005– 4,624,117 38,447,805 0.10%– Apr. 2015– Mar. 2015 [540,420] [4,493,392] 9.00% (US$ 14,249,587 thousand) (AUD 660,000 thousand) (SGD 100,000 thousand) *1 Straight Bonds Jul. 2012– 359,949 2,992,847 4.20%– Jul. 2022– Mar. 2014 [—] [—] 4.60% Mar. 2024 (US$ 2,992,846 thousand) *2 Straight Bonds Jul. 1995– 54,000 448,990 1.30%– Jun. 2018– May 2012 [—] [—] 3.90% *3 Straight Bonds Jan. 2003– 783,464 6,514,216 0.00%– Apr. 2015– Mar. 2015 [179,556] [1,492,942] 18.80% Mar. 2045 (US$ 655,930 thousand) (AUD 18,970 thousand) (EUR 371,047 thousand) (BRL 14,500 thousand) Total ¥ 6,013,731 $ 50,001,929 *1 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 2 Limited and Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 3 Limited. *2 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Finance (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Finance (Curaçao) N.V. and Mizuho Finance (Aruba) A.E.C. *3 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, MHSC, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho International plc, Mizuho Bank (China),Ltd and Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. The amounts of foreign currency-denominated bonds are shown in original currencies in parentheses ( ). 3. Repayments for Bonds and Notes are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2016 ¥ 1,566,681 million ($13,026,373 thousand) 2017 ¥ 740,623 million ($ 6,158,005 thousand) 2018 ¥ 1,366,009 million ($11,357,858 thousand) 2019 ¥ 406,159 million ($ 3,377,064 thousand) 2020 ¥ 844,199 million ($ 7,019,199 thousand) 4. Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2015 included subordinated bonds and notes of ¥1,409,149 million ($11,716,552 thousand). 5. No collateral was provided for the above Bonds and Notes. 155 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Major components of Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2014 were as follows: Interest Issuer Description Issue Millions of yen rates Due MHBK Straight Bonds Aug. 2004– ¥ 3,958,105 0.10%– Apr. 2014– Mar. 2014 (US$ 5,796,166 thousand) 7.12% (AUD 180,000 thousand) MHTB Straight Bonds Dec. 2005– 61,500 1.91%– Dec. 2015– Aug. 2009 3.38% *1 Straight Bonds Mar. 2004– 462,323 4.20%– Apr. 2014– Mar. 2014 (US$ 4,492,068 thousand) 5.79% Mar. 2024 *2 Straight Bonds Jul. 1995– 57,400 1.30%– Jun. 2018– May 2012 3.90% *3 Straight Bonds Sep. 2002– 706,414 0.00%– Apr. 2014– Mar. 2014 (US$ 326,370 thousand) 18.10% Mar. 2044 (AUD 10,320 thousand) (EUR 160,800 thousand) (CNY 1,249,507 thousand) Total ¥ 5,245,743 *1 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 2 Limited and Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 3 Limited. *2 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Finance (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Finance (Curaçao) N.V. and Mizuho Finance (Aruba) A.E.C. *3 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, MHSC, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho International plc, Mizuho Bank (China),Ltd and Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Notes: 1. The amounts of foreign currency-denominated bonds are shown in original currencies in parentheses ( ). 2. Repayments for Bonds and Notes are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2015 ¥ 1,506,088 million 2016 ¥ 646,269 million 2017 ¥ 707,242 million 2018 ¥ 922,000 million 2019 ¥ 365,998 million 3. Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2014 included subordinated bonds and notes of ¥1,645,823 million. 4. No collateral was provided for the above Bonds and Notes. 24. Other Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Accrued Expenses ¥ 139,417 ¥ 137,297 $ 1,159,202 Unearned Income 149,019 151,975 1,239,039 Income Taxes Payable 158,755 57,132 1,319,989 1 2 Lease Liabilities* * 29,128 26,679 242,194 Other 3,785,635 3,197,817 31,476,142 Total ¥ 4,261,955 ¥ 3,570,902 $ 35,436,566 *1 Average interest rate is 1.78% and 2.03% in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. It is the weighted-average interest rate of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. *2 Repayments for Lease Liabilities are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2016 ¥ 7,171 million ($ 59,625 thousand) 2017 ¥ 6,481 million ($ 53,895 thousand) 2018 ¥ 5,889 million ($ 48,965 thousand) 2019 ¥ 5,229 million ($ 43,482 thousand) 2020 ¥ 3,309 million ($ 27,514 thousand) 156 25. Reserve for Employee Retirement Benefits (1) MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries have adopted the Corporate Pension Fund Plans (“Kigyo Nenkin Kikin Seido”), and the Termination Allowance Plans (“Taishoku Ichijikin Seido”) as Defined-Benefit Corporate Pension Plans. In addition, MHFG and certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries have adopted DefinedContribution Pension Plans as a part of the Termination Allowance Plans while certain other domestic consolidated subsidiaries have established employee retirement benefit trusts. (2) Defined-Benefit Corporate Pension Plans (i) Adjustment between the balances of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the beginning and at the end of the period Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Balance of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the beginning of the period ¥ 1,319,387 ¥ 1,326,443 $ 10,970,215 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Policies (22,582) ― (187,769) Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting Changes in Accounting Policies ¥ 1,296,804 ¥ 1,326,443 $ 10,782,446 Service Cost 33,703 31,901 280,230 Interest Cost 11,975 22,496 99,568 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences incurred 82,747 4,499 688,014 Retirement Benefits paid (67,070) (67,993) (557,670) Other 2,795 2,039 23,240 Balance of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the end of the period ¥ 1,360,954 ¥ 1,319,387 $ 11,315,828 Note: The above Retirement Benefit Obligations includes the amount measured by certain consolidated subsidiaries under the simplified method. (ii) Adjustment between the balances of Plan Assets at the beginning and at the end of the period Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Balance of Plan Assets at the beginning of the period ¥ 1,686,455 ¥ 1,512,741 $ 14,022,243 Expected Return on Plan Assets 36,875 36,046 306,605 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences incurred 332,402 134,779 2,763,806 Contributions from employer 48,776 49,524 405,562 Contributions from employee 1,178 1,181 9,803 Retirement Benefits paid (49,929) (49,693) (415,145) Other 1,058 1,875 8,802 Balance of Plan Assets at the end of the period ¥ 2,056,818 ¥ 1,686,455 $ 17,101,676 157 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (iii) Adjustment between the balances of Retirement Benefit Obligations and Plan Assets at the end of the period and Adjustment to the balances of Net Defined Benefit Liability and Net Defined Benefit Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Retirement Benefit Obligations ¥ 1,360,954 ¥ 1,319,387 $ 11,315,828 Plan Assets (2,056,818) (1,686,455) (17,101,676) Net amount of Liability and Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet ¥ (695,863) ¥ (367,067) $ (5,785,848) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Net Defined Benefit Liability ¥ 47,518 ¥ 46,006 $ 395,102 Net Defined Benefit Asset (743,382) (413,073) (6,180,950) Net amount of Liability and Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet ¥ (695,863) ¥ (367,067) $ (5,785,848) (iv) Employee Retirement Benefit Expenses and the breakdown Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Service Cost ¥ 32,967 ¥ 30,947 $ 274,109 Interest Cost 11,975 22,496 99,568 Expected Return on Plan Assets (36,875) (36,046) (306,605) Amortization of Unrecognized Actuarial Differences 22,548 21,162 187,480 Other 5,411 5,236 44,991 Net Retirement Benefit Expenses for DefinedBenefit Corporate Pension Plans ¥ 36,026 ¥ 43,797 $ 299,543 Notes: 1. The amount of employee contributions to Mizuho Pension Fund is deducted from Service Cost. 2. Retirement benefit expenses of some consolidated subsidiaries which adopt the simplified method for calculating retirement benefit obligations are included in Service Cost in full. (v) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Other Comprehensive Income Breakdown of Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Other Comprehensive Income (before deducting tax effect) was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences ¥ (272,213) ¥ ― $ (2,263,352) Total ¥ (272,213) ¥ ― $ (2,263,352) (vi) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Breakdown of Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (before deducting tax effect) was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences ¥ (229,825) ¥ 42,388 $ (1,910,910) Total ¥ (229,825) ¥ 42,388 $ (1,910,910) 158 (vii) Plan Assets (a) Ratio of each category to the total amount of Plan Assets was as follows: As of March 31, 2015 2014 Japanese Stocks 56.33% 49.68% Japanese Bonds 16.59% 19.09% Foreign Stocks 12.65% 14.23% Foreign Bonds 4.65% 5.05% General account of life insurance companies 5.73% 6.60% Other 4.05% 5.35% Total 100.00% 100.00% Note: The total amount of Plan Assets includes 57.20% and 52.11% of Employee Retirement Benefit Trusts established for the Corporate Pension Fund Plans and the Termination Allowance Plans as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. (b) Calculation of Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets In determining the Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets, current and expected allocation of Plan Assets and current and expected future long-term rate of return from various assets constituting Plan Assets have been considered. (viii) Basis of Actuarial Calculation Major Basis of Actuarial Calculation For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 Discount Rate mainly 0.07%1.62% mainly 1.70% Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets mainly 1.82%2.40% mainly 1.93%2.80% (3) DefinedContribution Pension Plans The required amount of contributions to DefinedContribution Pension Plans of MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries was ¥2,498 million ($ 20,776 thousand) and ¥2,437 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 26. Acceptances and Guarantees (1) All commitments and contingent liabilities of a material nature resulting from guarantees or otherwise are included in the contra-accounts Acceptances and Guarantees and Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees. The outstanding balances of the accounts were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Guarantees ¥ 5,170,320 ¥ 4,414,505 $ 42,989,276 Letters of Credit 163,196 126,552 1,356,917 Acceptances 71,327 47,588 593,058 Total ¥ 5,404,843 ¥ 4,588,646 $ 44,939,251 Note: Liabilities for guarantees on corporate bonds included in Securities, which were issued by private placement (Article 2, Paragraph 3 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (the Securities and Exchange Law as of March 31, 2007)) amounted to ¥1,036,575 million ($8,618,733 thousand) and ¥986,577 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. (2) The principal amounts promised to be indemnified for money trusts which are entrusted to domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries, were ¥701,373 million ($5,831,661 thousand) and ¥749,550 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 159 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 27. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities (1) Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities consisted of the following: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Deferred Tax Assets: Tax Losses Carried Forward ¥ 110,959 ¥ 139,463 $ 922,587 Devaluation of Securities 148,106 217,797 1,231,447 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans 197,846 229,671 1,645,020 Securities Contributed to Employee Retirement Benefit Trust 197,383 212,273 1,641,167 Other 185,948 201,350 1,546,092 Deferred Tax Assets Subtotal: 840,243 1,000,557 6,986,313 Valuation Allowance (294,907) (399,648) (2,452,042) Total ¥ 545,336 ¥ 600,908 $ 4,534,271 Deferred Tax Liabilities: Net Defined Benefit Asset ¥ (239,199) ¥ (146,897) $ (1,988,854) Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities (690,581) (307,491) (5,741,925) Other (102,939) (92,394) (855,900) Total ¥ (1,032,719) ¥ (546,783) $ (8,586,679) Net Deferred Tax Assets ¥ (487,383) ¥ 54,125 $ (4,052,408) Notes: 1. In addition to the balances shown in the above table, there is an equivalent amount of deferred tax assets corresponding to tax losses carried forward of ¥281,403 million ($2,339,764 thousand) and ¥309,462 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Since the tax losses carried forward resulted from transactions among consolidated subsidiaries, the deferred tax assets in the above table and in the consolidated balance sheet exclude the equivalent amount of deferred tax assets. 2. MHFG and domestic subsidiaries are subject to a number of different income taxes. (2) For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, the reconciliation of the statutory tax rate of MHFG to the effective income tax rate was as follows: For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, 2015 2014 Statutory Tax Rate 35.64% 38.01% Adjustments Change in Valuation Allowance (3.83) (11.72) Permanent Differences (e.g., Cash Dividends Received) (1.89) (2.46) Tax Rate Differences between the Consolidated Subsidiaries (5.07) (5.73) Adjustment to reduce the amount of deferred tax assets at the end of period due to changes in tax rates 2.70 0.89 Other 3.24 2.83 Effective Income Tax Rate 30.79% 21.82% 160 (3) The revision of the amount of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities due to the change in tax rate of the corporate tax, etc: “Act on Partial Amendment to the Income Tax Act, etc.” (Act No. 9, 2015) and “Act on Partial Amendment to the Local Tax Act, etc.” (Act No. 2, 2015) were promulgated on March 31, 2015, and accordingly, the corporate tax rate and other rates have been lowered from the fiscal year beginning on or after April 1, 2015. Due to this change, the effective statutory tax rate used for the calculation of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities has been revised from the previous rate of 35.64%. The rate of 33.06% has been applied to the temporary differences, expected to be either deductible, taxable or expired in the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2015, while the rate of 32.26% has been applied to the temporary differences, expected to be either deductible, taxable, or expired in or after the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2016. In addition, due to the revision of the carry-forward system of the net operating losses, the amount of net operating losses that can be deducted has been limited to the equivalent of 65% of taxable income before such deductions from the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2015 through the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2016, while the amount of net operating losses that can be deducted has been limited to the equivalent of 50% of taxable income before such deductions in or after the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2017. As a result of the changes in tax rates and the carry-forward system of the losses, Deferred Tax Liabilities decreased by ¥51,997 million ($432,342 thousand), Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities increased by ¥70,180 million ($583,522 thousand), Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges increased by ¥872 million ($7,256 thousand), Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans increased by ¥7,685 million ($63,902 thousand), and Deferred Income Taxes increased by ¥26,739 million ($222,326 thousand). Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land decreased by ¥7,531 million ($62,622 thousand) and Revaluation Reserve for Land increased by the same amount. 28. Revaluation of Land In accordance with the Land Revaluation Law (Proclamation No.34 dated March 31, 1998), land used for business operations of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries was revalued. The applicable income taxes on the entire excess of revaluation are included in Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land under Liabilities, and the remainder, net of applicable income taxes, is stated as Revaluation Reserve for Land included in Net Assets. Revaluation date: March 31, 1998 Revaluation method as stated in Article 3, Paragraph 3 of the above law: Land used for business operations was revalued by calculating the value on the basis of the valuation by road rating stipulated in Article 2, Paragraph 4 of the Enforcement Ordinance relating to the Land Revaluation Law (Government Ordinance No.119 promulgated on March 31, 1998) with reasonable adjustments to compensate for sites with long depth and other factors, and also on the basis of the appraisal valuation stipulated in Paragraph 5. The difference at the consolidated balance sheet date between the total fair value of land for business operation purposes, which has been revalued in accordance with Article 10 of the above-mentioned law, and the total book value of the land after such revaluation was ¥147,005 million ($1,222,293 thousand) and ¥156,731 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 161 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 29. Common Stock and Preferred Stock Common Stock and Preferred Stock at March 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Number of shares Per share (Yen) Interim Year-end With As of March 31, 2015 Issued and cash cash Liquidation Convertible Redemption Class of stock Authorized outstanding dividend dividend value or not or not Common Stock 48,000,000,000 24,621,897,967 ¥ 3.5 ¥ 4 ¥ — No No Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752,000 914,752,000 10 10 1,000 Yes No Notes: 1.Treasury Stock and stocks held by subsidiaries and affiliates are not excluded. The numbers are as follows: Common Stock 8,695 thousand shares Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 701,631 thousand shares 2. Each total number of shares which are authorized to be issued is as follows: First Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 1,500,000,000 in total. 162 Number of shares Per share (Yen) Interim Year-end With As of March 31, 2014 Issued and cash cash Liquidation Convertible Redemption Class of stock Authorized outstanding dividend dividend value or not or not Common Stock 48,000,000,000 24,263,885,187 ¥ 3 ¥ 3.5 ¥ — No No Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752,000 914,752,000 10 10 1,000 Yes No Notes: 1.Treasury Stock and stocks held by subsidiaries and affiliates are not excluded. The numbers are as follows: Common Stock 10,637 thousand shares Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 602,100 thousand shares 2. All of the shares of the Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock were acquired and cancelled on July 11, 2013. Accordingly, the common stock shareholders approved an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation accompanied by a decrease in the total number of authorized shares and the total number of authorized shares of the Class XIII preferred stock at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of MHFG held on June 24, 2014. As a result of the amendment, each total number of authorized shares, effective on the same day, shall be as follows: Common Stock 48,000,000 thousand shares Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752 thousand shares First Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 1,500,000,000 in total. 163 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 30. Stock Options (1) Total amount of stock options expensed were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 General and administrative expenses ¥ 1,795 ¥ 1,527 $14,929 Total ¥ 1,795 ¥ 1,527 $14,929 (2) Outline of stock options and changes For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 (i) Outline of stock options First Series of Stock Second Series of Stock Third Series of Stock As of March 31, 2015 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors 4 Executive Executive Executive 4 4 4 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 12 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 71 71 71 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 5,409,000 Common stock 5,835,000 Common stock 6,808,000 options*1 Grant date February 16, 2009 September 25, 2009 August 26, 2010 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB. Required service July 1, 2008 April 1, 2009 April 1, 2010 period to March 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2011 Exercise period February 17, 2009 September 28, 2009 August 27, 2010 to February 16, 2029 to September 25, 2029 to August 26, 2030 164 Fourth Series of Stock Fifth Series of Stock Sixth Series of Stock As of March 31, 2015 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 6 Directors 6 Directors 6 Executive Executive Executive 6 11 36 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 26 subsidiaries of 23 subsidiaries of 22 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 130 150 134 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 12,452,000 Common stock 11,776,000 Common stock 7,932,000 options*1 Grant date December 8, 2011 August 31, 2012 February 17, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which The grantee may exercise the have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director Stock Acquisition Rights which or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or have been allotted based on MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee his or her capacity as a loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, Director or an Executive Officer MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or MHSC. of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2011 April 1, 2012 April 1, 2013 period to March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Exercise period December 9, 2011 September 3, 2012 February 18, 2014 to December 8, 2031 to August 31, 2032 to February 17, 2034 Seventh Series of Stock As of March 31, 2015 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 2 Executive Officers as defined 12 in the Companies Act Executive Officers as defined 37 in our internal regulations Directors of subsidiaries of 32 MHFG Executive Officers of 113 subsidiaries of MHFG Number of stock Common stock 9,602,000 options*1 Grant date December 1, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 period Exercise period December 2, 2014 to December 1, 2034 *1: Shown in number of shares 165 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) Size of stock options and changes (a) Number of stock options (in shares) First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2015 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2014 345,000 740,000 1,230,000 4,391,000 7,275,000 Granted － － － － － Forfeited － － － － － Vested 181,000 292,000 425,000 1,549,000 2,435,000 Outstanding 164,000 448,000 805,000 2,842,000 4,840,000 Vested As of March 31, 2014 82,000 179,000 227,000 82,000 60,000 Vested 181,000 292,000 425,000 1,549,000 2,435,000 Exercised 263,000 471,000 652,000 1,631,000 2,495,000 Forfeited － － － － － Outstanding － － － － － Sixth Series of Seventh Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2015 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2014 7,932,000 － Granted － 9,602,000 Forfeited － － Vested 2,675,000 － Outstanding 5,257,000 9,602,000 Vested As of March 31, 2014 － － Vested 2,675,000 － Exercised 2,675,000 － Forfeited － － Outstanding － － Note: The above table is shown in number of shares. (b) Price information First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2015 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share Average stock price ¥ 204.31 ¥ 204.38 ¥ 204.34 ¥ 204.08 ¥ 203.81 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥ 190.91 ¥ 168.69 ¥ 119.52 ¥ 91.84 ¥ 113.25 per share per share per share per share per share Sixth Series of Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2015 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share Average stock price ¥ 203.94 － upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥ 192.61 ¥ 186.99 per share per share 166 (iii) Calculation for fair value of stock options The fair value of Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of MHFG granted in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 was calculated as follows: ● Calculation method: The Black-Scholes Model ● Assumptions used in calculation As of March 31, 2015 Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of MHFG Volatility of stock price*1 25.905% Estimated remaining outstanding period*2 2.46years Expected dividend*3 ¥ 7 per share Risk-free interest rate*4 0.011% *1: Historical volatility calculated from MHFG stock prices over the 128 weeks ending on the business day (November 28, 2014) prior to the grant date, an interval equivalent to the estimated remaining outstanding period of 2.46 years. *2: The average period of service of directors at MHFG. *3: The expected dividend on common stock for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. *4: Japanese government bond yield applicable to the estimated remaining outstanding period of the stock options. (iv) Estimated number of stock options to be vested Only the number of stock options actually forfeited is reflected because the number of stock options that will be forfeited in the future cannot be readily estimated. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 (i) Outline of stock options First Series of Stock Second Series of Stock Third Series of Stock As of March 31, 2014 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors 4 Executive Executive Executive 4 4 4 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 12 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 71 71 71 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 5,409,000 Common stock 5,835,000 Common stock 6,808,000 options*1 Grant date February 16, 2009 September 25, 2009 August 26, 2010 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB. Required service July 1, 2008 April 1, 2009 April 1, 2010 period to March 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2011 Exercise period February 17, 2009 September 28, 2009 August 27, 2010 to February 16, 2029 to September 25, 2029 to August 26, 2030 167 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Fourth Series of Stock Fifth Series of Stock Sixth Series of Stock As of March 31, 2014 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 6 Directors 6 Directors 6 Executive Executive Executive 6 11 36 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 26 subsidiaries of 23 subsidiaries of 22 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 130 150 134 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 12,452,000 Common stock 11,776,000 Common stock 7,932,000 options*1 Grant date December 8, 2011 August 31, 2012 February 17, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which The grantee may exercise the have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director Stock Acquisition Rights which or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or have been allotted based on MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee his or her capacity as a loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, Director or an Executive Officer MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or MHSC. of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2011 April 1, 2012 April 1, 2013 period to March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Exercise period December 9, 2011 September 3, 2012 February 18, 2014 to December 8, 2031 to August 31, 2032 to February 17, 2034 *1: Shown in number of shares 168 (ii) Size of stock options and changes (a) Number of stock options (in shares) First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of Sixth Series of For the Fiscal Year Stock Stock Stock Stock Stock Stock ended Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition March 31, 2014 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2013 648,000 1,374,000 2,452,000 7,452,000 11,208,000 － Granted － － － － － 7,932,000 Forfeited － － － － － － Vested 303,000 634,000 1,222,000 3,061,000 3,933,000 － Outstanding 345,000 740,000 1,230,000 4,391,000 7,275,000 7,932,000 Vested As of March 31, 2013 40,000 64,000 81,000 216,000 328,000 － Vested 303,000 634,000 1,222,000 3,061,000 3,933,000 － Exercised 261,000 519,000 1,076,000 3,195,000 4,201,000 － Forfeited － － － － － － Outstanding 82,000 179,000 227,000 82,000 60,000 － Note: The above table is shown in number of shares. (b) Price information First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of Sixth Series of Stock Stock Stock Stock Stock Stock Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition As of March 31, 2014 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share Average stock price ¥ 214.08 ¥ 213.78 ¥ 213.63 ¥ 212.06 ¥ 212.27 ¥ － upon exercise Fair value at grant ¥ 190.91 ¥ 168.69 ¥ 119.52 ¥ 91.84 ¥ 113.25 ¥ 192.61 date per share per share per share per share per share per share 169 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (iii) Calculation for fair value of stock options The fair value of Sixth Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of MHFG granted in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 was calculated as follows: ● Calculation method: The Black-Scholes Model ● Assumptions used in calculation As of March 31, 2014 Sixth Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of MHFG Volatility of stock price*1 28.156% Estimated remaining outstanding period*2 2.46years Expected dividend*3 ¥ 6.5 per share Risk-free interest rate*4 0.081% *1: Historical volatility calculated from MHFG stock prices over the 128 weeks ending on the business day (February 14, 2014) prior to the grant date, an interval equivalent to the estimated remaining outstanding period of 2.46 years. *2: The average period of service of directors at MHFG. *3: The expected dividend on common stock for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. *4: Japanese government bond yield applicable to the estimated remaining outstanding period of the stock options. (iv) Estimated number of stock options to be vested Only the number of stock options actually forfeited is reflected because the number of stock options that will be forfeited in the future cannot be readily estimate 170 31. Interest Income and Interest Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Interest Income: Loans and Bills Discounted ¥ 931,883 ¥ 920,295 $ 7,748,263 Securities 351,801 324,340 2,925,093 Call Loans and Bills Purchased 7,611 6,013 63,287 Due from Banks 50,093 35,771 416,513 Receivables under Resale Agreements 27,995 29,602 232,769 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 7,096 7,664 59,001 Other Interest Income 92,495 93,880 769,065 Total ¥ 1,468,976 ¥ 1,417,569 $ 12,213,991 Interest Expenses: Deposits ¥ 153,654 ¥ 133,876 $ 1,277,583 Call Money and Bills Sold 7,609 7,731 63,273 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 30,537 27,947 253,904 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 7,549 9,860 62,771 Commercial Paper 1,682 1,826 13,989 Borrowed Money 19,287 26,527 160,371 Other Interest Expenses 119,222 101,497 991,286 Total ¥ 339,543 ¥ 309,266 $ 2,823,177 Net ¥ 1,129,433 ¥ 1,108,303 $ 9,390,814 171 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 32. Trading Income and Trading Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Trading Income: Net Gains on Trading Securities ¥ 149,251 ¥ 137,351 $ 1,240,971 Net Gains on Derivatives for Trading Transactions 113,711 51,668 945,470 Total ¥ 262,963 ¥ 189,020 $ 2,186,441 Trading Expenses: Net Losses on Trading Securities — 1,598 — Total ¥ — ¥ 1,598 $ — Net ¥ 262,963 ¥ 187,421 $ 2,186,441 33. Other Operating Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Gains on Foreign Exchange Transactions ¥ 99,447 ¥ 74,672 $ 826,872 Gains on Sales of Bonds 175,364 118,865 1,458,093 Other 90,452 61,883 752,076 Total ¥ 365,264 ¥ 255,422 $ 3,037,041 34. Other Operating Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Losses on Sales of Bonds ¥ 97,058 ¥ 72,070 $ 807,006 Expenses on Derivatives other than for Trading or Hedging 10,062 6,466 83,663 Losses on Devaluation of Bonds 1,438 9,717 11,961 Other 47,365 40,392 393,823 Total ¥ 155,924 ¥ 128,647 $ 1,296,453 35. Other Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Gains on Sales of Stock ¥ 152,029 ¥ 87,477 $ 1,264,069 Recovery on Written-off Loans 16,862 25,160 140,209 Reversal of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans 73,301 103,690 609,473 Gains on Disposition of Fixed Assets 615 428 5,115 Other 58,843 127,517 489,265 Total ¥ 301,652 ¥ 344,275 $ 2,508,131 172 36. Other Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Write-offs of Loans ¥ 84,504 ¥ 22,431 $ 702,624 Losses on Disposition of Fixed Assets 9,156 6,929 76,136 Losses on Impairment of Fixed Assets 11,358 6,506 94,446 Other 102,126 100,094 849,145 Total ¥ 207,147 ¥ 135,962 $ 1,722,351 37. Comprehensive Income Reclassification adjustments and the related tax effects concerning Other Comprehensive Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities: The amount arising during the period ¥ 1,630,152 ¥ 314,090 $ 13,554,108 Reclassification adjustments (241,126) (130,934) (2,004,875) Before adjustments to tax effects 1,389,026 183,156 11,549,233 The amount of tax effects (384,178) (48,132) (3,194,298) Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities 1,004,848 135,024 8,354,935 Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges: The amount arising during the period 80,563 (97,898) 669,858 Reclassification adjustments (30,961) (36,274) (257,436) Adjustment to acquisition cost of assets — (8,217) — Before adjustments to tax effects 49,602 (142,390) 412,422 The amount of tax effects (16,349) 50,771 (135,941) Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges 33,252 (91,618) 276,481 Revaluation Reserve for Land: The amount arising during the period — — — Reclassification adjustments — — — Before adjustments to tax effects — — — The amount of tax effects 7,531 3 62,621 Revaluation Reserve for Land 7,531 3 62,621 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments: The amount arising during the period 13,108 15,979 108,995 Reclassification Adjustments 2,035 — 16,926 Before adjustments to tax effects 15,144 15,979 125,921 The amount of tax effects — — — Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments 15,144 15,979 125,921 Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans: The amount arising during the period 249,665 — 2,075,872 Reclassification Adjustments 22,548 — 187,480 Before adjustments to tax effects 272,213 — 2,263,352 The amount of tax effects (89,104) — (740,872) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans 183,108 — 1,522,480 Share of Other Comprehensive Income of Associates Accounted for Using Equity Method: The amount arising during the period 11,548 3,142 96,020 The total amount of Other Comprehensive ¥ 1,255,433 ¥ 62,531 $ 10,438,458 Income 173 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 38. Changes in Net Assets For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 (i) Types and number of issued shares and of treasury stock are as follows: Thousands of Shares As of Increase during Decrease during As of April 1, 2014 the fiscal year the fiscal year March 31, 2015 Remarks Issued shares Common stock 24,263,885 358,012 — 24,621,897 *1 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752 — — 914,752 Total 25,178,637 358,012 — 25,536,649 Treasury stock Common stock 13,817 1,235 3,404 11,649 *2 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 602,100 99,530 — 701,631 *3 Total 615,918 100,766 3,404 713,280 *1 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock (351,822 thousand shares) and exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock option) (6,190 thousand shares). *2 Increases are due to repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors. Decreases are due to exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock option) (1,997 thousand shares) and repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors (1,407 thousand shares). *3 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock. (ii) Stock acquisition rights and treasury stock acquisition rights are as follows: Class of Number of shares to be issued or transferred shares to upon exercise of stock acquisition rights be issued (Shares) or transferred Balance as upon Balance as of of March Breakdown of exercise of Increase Decrease March 31, 31, 2015 stock stock As of during during As of 2015 (Thousands acquisition acquisition April 1, the fiscal the fiscal March (Millions of of Category rights rights 2014 year year 31, 2015 yen) U.S.dollars) Remarks MHFG Stock acquisition rights － － － － ¥ － $ － (Treasury － (－) (－) (－) (－) (－) (－) stock acquisition rights) Stock acquisition － 3,820 31,764 rights as stock option Consolidated － － subsidiaries (Treasury － (－) (－) stock acquisition rights) ¥ 3,820 $ 31,764 Total － (－) (－) 174 (iii) Cash dividends distributed by MHFG are as follows (non-consolidated basis): Cash dividends paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 Cash Cash Cash Cash Dividends Dividends Dividends Dividends (Millions of (Thousand of per Share per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) U.S. dollars) (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Date Date June 24, March 31, Common Stock ¥ 84,886 $ 705,798 ¥ 3.5 $ 0.03 2014 2014 June 24, ( ) Ordinary Eleventh Series Class XI March 31, 2014 General 3,126 25,996 10 0.08 Meeting of Preferred Stock 2014 Shareholders November 14, September 30, Common Stock ¥ 85,344 $ 709,611 ¥ 3.5 $ 0.03 2014 2014 December 5, ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 2,778 23,106 10 0.08 September 30, 2014 2014 Total ¥ 176,136 $ 1,464,511 / / Cash dividends with record dates falling in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and effective dates coming after the end of the fiscal year Cash Cash Cash Cash Dividends Dividends Resource Dividends Dividends (Millions of (Thousand of of per Share per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) U.S. dollars) Dividends (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Date Date May 15, Retained 2015 Common Stock ¥ 98,452 $ 818,598 ¥4 $ 0.03 March 31, Earnings 2015 June 4, ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 2,131 17,720 Retained Earnings 10 0.08 March 31, 2015 2015 Total ¥ 100,584 $ 836,318 / / 175 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 (i) Types and number of issued shares and of treasury stock are as follows: Thousands of Shares As of Increase during Decrease during As of April 1, 2013 the fiscal year the fiscal year March 31, 2014 Remarks Issued shares Common stock 24,164,864 99,020 — 24,263,885 *1 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752 — — 914,752 Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock 36,690 — 36,690 — *2 Total 25,116,306 99,020 36,690 25,178,637 Treasury stock Common stock 22,128 1,472 9,783 13,817 *3 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 574,087 28,012 — 602,100 *4 Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock — 36,690 36,690 — *5 Total 596,216 66,175 46,473 615,918 *1 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock. *2 Decreases are due to cancellation of treasury stock (preferred stock). *3 Increases are due to repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors. Decreases are due to exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock option) (9,252 thousand shares) and repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors (531 thousand shares). *4 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock. *5 Increases and decreases are due to repurchase and cancellation of treasury stock (preferred stock). (ii) Stock acquisition rights and treasury stock acquisition rights are as follows: Class of Number of shares to be issued or transferred shares to upon exercise of stock acquisition rights be issued (Shares) or transferred Balance as upon Balance as of of March Breakdown of exercise of Increase Decrease March 31, 31, 2014 stock stock As of during during As of 2014 (Thousands acquisition acquisition April 1, the fiscal the fiscal March (Millions of of Category rights rights 2013 year year 31, 2014 yen) U.S.dollars) Remarks MHFG Stock acquisition rights － － － － ¥ － $ － (Treasury － (－) (－) (－) (－) (－) (－) stock acquisition rights) Stock acquisition － 3,179 30,897 rights as stock option Consolidated － － subsidiaries (Treasury － (－) (－) stock acquisition rights) ¥ 3,179 $ 30,897 Total － (－) (－) 176 (iii) Cash dividends distributed by MHFG are as follows (non-consolidated basis): Cash dividends paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 Cash Cash Cash Cash Dividends Dividends Dividends Dividends (Millions of (Thousand of per Share per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) U.S. dollars) (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Date Date June 25, March 31, Common Stock ¥ 72,435 $ 703,800 ¥3 $ 0.03 2013 2013 Eleventh Series Class XI March 31, June 25, ( ) Ordinary 3,406 33,100 10 0.10 General Preferred Stock 2013 2013 Meeting of Thirteenth Series Class March 31, Shareholders 550 5,348 15 0.15 XIII Preferred Stock 2013 November 14, September 30, Common Stock ¥ 72,562 $ 705,036 ¥3 $ 0.03 2013 2013 December 6, ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 3,310 32,168 10 0.10 September 30, 2013 2013 Total ¥ 152,265 $ 1,479,452 / / Cash dividends with record dates falling in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 and effective dates coming after the end of the fiscal year Cash Cash Cash Cash Dividends Dividends Resource Dividends Dividends (Millions of (Thousand of of per Share per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) U.S. dollars) Dividends (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Date Date June 24, Retained 2014 Common Stock ¥ 84,886 $ 824,780 ¥ 3.5 $ 0.03 March 31, Earnings 2014 June 24, ( ) Ordinary General Eleventh Series Class XI Retained March 31, 2014 Meeting of 3,126 30,378 10 0.10 Shareholders Preferred Stock Earnings 2014 Total ¥ 88,012 $ 855,158 / / 177 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 39. Cash Flows Cash and Cash Equivalents on the consolidated statement of cash flows reconciles to Cash and Due from Banks on the consolidated balance sheet as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Cash and Due from Banks ¥ 29,096,166 ¥ 20,610,276 $241,923,727 Less: Due from Banks excluding due from Central Banks (1,255,391) (1,177,851) (10,438,106) Cash and Cash Equivalents ¥ 27,840,775 ¥ 19,432,425 $231,485,621 178 40. Lease Transactions Finance Leases (Lessees) Finance lease transactions that do not transfer ownership: (1) Lease Assets: • Tangible fixed assets: mainly equipment • Intangible fixed assets: software (2) The method for computing the amount of depreciation is described in “5 Standards of Accounting Method (8) Lease Assets.” Operating Leases The future lease payments subsequent to the end of the fiscal year for noncancelable operating lease transactions are summarized as follows: Lessees: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Due in One Year or Less ¥ 48,614 ¥ 48,233 $ 404,210 Due after One Year 201,780 211,167 1,677,730 Total ¥ 250,394 ¥ 259,401 $ 2,081,940 Lessors: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Due in One Year or Less ¥ 779 ¥ 820 $ 6,484 Due after One Year 4,350 4,447 36,172 Total ¥ 5,130 ¥ 5,267 $ 42,656 179 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 41. Financial Instruments 1. Matters Relating to the Conditions of Financial Instruments (1) Policy on Financial Instruments Mizuho Financial Group (MHFG), which primarily engages in banking business, incurs financial liabilities such as customer deposits and market deposits on the funding side while holding financial assets such as customer loans, stocks and bonds on the investment side, and also engages in trading business for certain financial products. Some majorityowned consolidated subsidiaries and other subsidiaries conduct securities business and other financial business. For above funding and investment business, MHFG appropriately manages risks of each financial instrument and carefully watches term-gaps and other risk factors. (2) Contents and Risk of Financial Products The main financial assets of the Mizuho group consist of loans to customers and securities such as Japanese stocks and government bonds. The Group holds these securities for the purpose of reserves for deposit payments reserves and as investments. These financial assets are subject to various types of risk that may be incurred by the Group due to a decline in, or total loss of, the value of assets, as a result of deterioration in a counterparty’s and an issuer’s financial position (“credit risk”), or incurred by the Group due to fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates and so on (“market risk”). The main financing source of the Mizuho group is a stable source of deposits from its customers in addition to direct funding from the financial market. These financing sources are subject to the risk of losses (“liquidity risk”) arising from funding difficulties due to market disruption or a deterioration in our financial position that makes it difficult for us to raise the necessary funds or that forces us to raise funds at significantly higher interest rates than usual. In addition, the Mizuho group uses derivative financial products to control the interest rate risk related to the assets and liabilities of the Group, as part of our asset and liability management (“ALM”). The Group primarily utilizes the portfolio hedge by grouping numerous financial assets and liabilities such as loans and deposits into similar interest risk units in accordance with risk management policies. Some derivative products like interest rate swaps are used as hedging methods for cash-flow hedges or fair value hedges. The Group applies hedge accounting to the majority of these products, treating them as deferred hedges. The effectiveness of the hedges is assessed periodically by regression analysis and other methods to ensure whether the derivative financial products effectively work in order to offset the exposure to changes in fair value and variable cash flows from hedged items. It should be noted that the Mizuho group uses derivative financial products for trading purposes and so on as well. Progress in financial deregulation and internationalization has led to growth in the diversity and complexity of financial assets and liabilities of the Mizuho group, exposing the Group to various risks, including credit risk, liquidity risk and other risks. (3) Risk Management for Financial Products (a) Commitment to Risk Management We recognize the conducting of operations tailored to the risks and managing such risks as a key issue relating to overall management. In order to implement our business strategy while maintaining our financial stability, we maintain comprehensive risk management and control measures. We maintain basic policies for risk management established by our board of directors that are applicable to the entire Mizuho group. These policies clearly define the kinds of risks to be managed, set forth the organizational structure and provide for the human resources training necessary for appropriate levels of risk management. The policies also provide for audits to measure the effectiveness and suitability of the risk management structure. In line with these basic policies, we maintain various measures to strengthen and enhance the sophistication of our risk management system. (b) General Concept of Risk Management We classify our risk exposures according to the various kinds of risk, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and operational risk, and manage each type of risk according to its characteristics. In addition to managing each type of risk individually, we have established a risk management structure to identify and evaluate overall risk and, where necessary, to devise appropriate responses to keep risk within limits that are managerially acceptable in both qualitative and quantitative terms. 180 More specifically, we allocate risk capital to our principal banking subsidiaries, including their respective subsidiaries, and other core group companies to control risk within the limits set for each company. We also control risk within managerially acceptable limits by working to ensure that the overall risk we hold on a consolidated basis does not exceed shareholders’ equity and other measures of financial strength. To ensure the ongoing financial health of Mizuho Financial Group, our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies, we regularly monitor the manner in which risk capital is being used in order to obtain a proper grasp of the risk profile within this framework. Reports are also submitted to the board of directors and other committees of each company. (c) Credit Risk Management The board of directors of Mizuho Financial Group determines basic matters pertaining to credit risk management. In addition, we have established the Portfolio Management Committee as one of its business policy committees. This committee broadly discusses and coordinates basic policy in connection with credit risk management and matters in connection with overall credit portfolio management and credit risk monitoring for the Mizuho group. Under the control of the Chief Risk Officer of Mizuho Financial Group, the Risk Management Division and the Credit Risk Management Division jointly monitor, analyze and submit suggestions concerning credit risk and formulate and execute plans in connection with basic matters pertaining to credit risk management. We have adopted two different but mutually complementary approaches in credit risk management. The first approach is “credit management,” in which we manage the process for each individual transaction and individual obligor from execution until collection, based on our assessment of the credit quality of the customer. Through this process, we curb losses in the case of a credit event. The second is “credit portfolio management,” in which we utilize statistical methods to assess the potential for losses related to credit risk. Through this process, we identify credit risk and respond appropriately. We use statistical methods to manage the possibility of losses by measuring the expected average loss for a oneyear risk horizon (“expected loss”) and the maximum loss within a certain confidence interval (“credit VAR”). The difference between expected loss and credit VAR is measured as the credit risk amount (“unexpected loss”). We recognize two types of risk arising from allowing unexpected loss to become too large. One type is “credit concentration risk,” which stems from granting excessive credit to certain individual counterparties or corporate groups. The other type is “chain-reaction default risk,” which arises from granting excessive credit to certain areas, industrial sectors and other groupings. We manage these risks appropriately in line with our specific guidelines for each. The board of directors of each of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies determines key matters pertaining to credit risk in line with basic policies set forth by Mizuho Financial Group. Their respective business policy committees are responsible for discussing and coordinating overall management of their individual credit portfolios and transaction policies towards obligors. The Chief Risk Officer of each principal banking subsidiary and core group company is responsible for matters relating to planning and implementing credit risk management. The credit risk management division of each principal banking subsidiary is responsible for planning and administering credit risk management and conducting credit risk measuring and monitoring. Each credit division determines policies and approves/disapproves individual transactions regarding review and management of and collection from customers in accordance with the lines of authority set forth by each principal banking subsidiary. In addition, each of our principal banking subsidiaries has also established internal audit divisions that are independent of the business divisions in order to ensure appropriate credit risk management. (d) Market Risk Management The board of directors of Mizuho Financial Group determines basic matters pertaining to market risk management policies. In addition, we have established the ALM & market risk management committee as one of its business policy committees. The committee broadly discusses and coordinates matters relating to basic asset and liability management policies risk planning and market risk management and proposes responses to emergencies such as sudden market changes. The Chief Risk Officer of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for matters relating to market risk management planning and operations. The Risk Management Division of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for monitoring market risk, reports and analyses, proposals, setting limits and guidelines, and formulating and implementing plans relating to market risk management. In addition, the division assesses and manages the overall market risk of the Mizuho group as a whole and keeps track of the market risk situation of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies. The division also submits reports to the President & CEO on a daily basis and to our board of directors and the executive management committee of Mizuho Financial Group on a regular basis. 181 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements To manage market risk, we set limits that correspond to risk capital allocations. The amount of risk capital allocated to market risk corresponds to VAR and additional costs that may arise in order to close relevant positions. For trading and banking activities, we set limits for VAR and for losses. For banking activities, we set position limits based on interest rate sensitivity as needed. Our principal banking subsidiaries and certain other core group companies have formulated their basic policies in line with the basic policies determined by Mizuho Financial Group. Their boards of directors determine important matters relating to market risk management while their Chief Executive Officers are responsible for controlling market risk. Based on a common Mizuho group risk capital allocation framework, the above-mentioned companies manage market risk by setting limits according to the risk capital allocated to market risk by Mizuho Financial Group. Our principal banking subsidiaries and certain other core group companies have the same market risk management structure as the Mizuho Financial Group, such as their business policy committees being responsible for overall discussion and coordination of the market risk management, including their ALM & market risk management committees. In addition, they have established middle offices specializing in risk management that are independent of their front offices, which engage in market transactions, and their back offices, which are responsible for book entries and settlements. This system enables them to achieve mutual checks and control over market operations. When VAR is not adequate to control risk, the middle offices manage risk using additional risk indices such as 10 BPV (Basis Point Value), carry out stress tests and set stop loss limits as needed. (e) Situation of Market Risk i. Overview of Banking Activities The following table shows the VAR figures relating to our banking activities for the fiscal years indicated: Billions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 As of fiscal year end ¥ 325.6 ¥ 281.7 $ 2,707,355 Maximum 349.0 300.7 2,902,266 Minimum 265.0 186.8 2,204,112 Average 307.9 253.5 2,560,870 [Definition of Banking business] The following transactions are categorized as banking business, with trading business and strategically-held equity being categorized separately. (1) Deposits and loans as well as related funding activities, and hedge against interest rate risk. (2) Equity (excluding strategically-held equity), bonds, investment trusts, etc. and hedges against related market risk. The core deposit of liquid deposits is to be specified and incorporated into the measurement of market risk. Banking business VAR used to calculate Market Risk Equivalent is based on the following: • variance co-variance model for linear risk and Monte-Carlo simulation for non-linear risk; • VAR : the total amount of linear risk and non-linear risk; • confidence interval: one-tailed 99%; • holding period of one month ; and • historical observation period of one year. 182 ii. Trading Business The following table shows VAR figures of our trading activities for the fiscal years indicated : Billions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 As of fiscal year end ¥ 6.5 ¥ 5.4 $ 54,715 Maximum 7.1 7.4 59,229 Minimum 3.1 3.3 26,248 Average 4.4 5.7 37,234 [Definition of trading activities] (1) Transactions held for the purpose of short-term resale. (2) Transactions held for the purpose of making a profit from price fluctuations over a short period as well as fixing a profit from arbitrage activities. (3) Deals that have both aspects of (1) and (2) above. (4) Deals held for broking business or market making business. Trading business VAR used to calculate Market Risk Equivalent is based on the following: • variance co-variance model for linear risk and Monte-Carlo simulation for non-linear risk; • VAR: the total amount of linear risk and non-linear risk; • confidence interval: one-tailed 99%; • holding period of one trading day; and • historical observation period of one year. iii. Strategic Equity Holding We make the same market risk management based on VAR and risk indices for strategic equity holding portfolio as banking business and trading business. The risk index of the strategic equity holding portfolio (sensitivity of the portfolio to a 1% change in TOPIX index) is set as ¥37.4 billion ($310,963 thousand) and ¥30.0 billion for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. iv. Risk management using VAR VAR is a commonly used market risk management technique with statistical assumptions to measure maximum possible loss in the market, which will be incurred to the holding portfolio in a certain period with some probability. It should be noted that in general VAR model has the following shortcomings: • VAR estimates could differ by assumptions of holding period, confidence interval level and approaches for the measurement. • VAR which is calculated based on historical data does not necessarily indicate an accurate future possible maximum loss. • VAR might underestimate the probability of extreme market movements when the market gets inactive as VAR assumes sales of holding portfolio and hedges in the market during the holding period for the calculation. • The use of a 99% confidence level does not take account of, nor makes any statement about, any losses that might occur beyond this confidence level. The variance co-variance model used as the measurement technique of VAR assumes that change in a market movement follows a normal distribution. Therefore, the model might underestimate the risk under the circumstance that the market is likely to move extremely beyond the assumption. The model might also underestimate the risk when the normal correlation assumption between interest rate and share price collapses under the circumstances when a rise in the interest rate and a deterioration of share price happen simultaneously. We check the validity of the market risk measurement made by VAR approach periodically by the back-test which compares VAR with actual profit and loss. In addition to VAR, we make a wide variety of management and controls such as risk indices monitoring, implementation of stress tests, loss limit monitoring in order to make strict risk management by capturing carefully all risks, including what VAR approach is not able to cover. (f) Liquidity Risk Management Our liquidity risk management structure is generally the same as the market risk management structure described above (“Item (d) Market Risk Management”). However, the head of the Financial Control & Accounting Group of Mizuho Financial Group is additionally responsible for matters relating to planning and running cash flow management operations, while the Financial Planning Division is responsible for monitoring and adjusting the cash 183 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements flow management situation and for planning and implementing cash flow management. Reports on the cash flow situation are submitted to the ALM & market risk management committee, the executive management committee and the President & CEO. We measure liquidity risk using indices pertaining to cash flow, such as limits on funds raised in the market. Limits on liquidity risk are discussed and coordinated by the ALM & market risk management committee, discussed further by the executive management committee and determined by the President & CEO. We have established classifications for the cash flow conditions affecting the Group, ranging from “normal” to “anxious” and “crisis,” and have established procedures for dealing with cases which are deemed to fall into the “anxious” or “crisis” categories. In addition, we have constructed a system under which we will be able to respond smoothly in the event of emergency situations that affect our funding by establishing action plans. (4) Supplementary Explanation of Matters Relating to Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Others Fair values of financial instruments include the values based on market prices, and the values deemed as market prices obtained by the reasonable estimate when the financial instruments do not have market prices. Since certain assumptions and others are adopted for calculating such values, they may differ when adopting different assumptions and others. 184 2. Matters Relating to Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Others The following are the consolidated balance sheet amounts, fair values and differences between them as of March 31, 2015 and 2014. Unlisted stocks and others, the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine, are excluded from the table below (see (Note 2)). Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2015 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 ¥ 29,094,362 ¥ 29,094,362 ¥ — (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased *1 443,394 443,394 — (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements 8,582,239 8,582,239 — (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 4,059,340 4,059,340 — (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 3,239,582 3,239,662 79 (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 5,042,005 5,042,005 — *1 (7) Money Held in Trust 157,225 157,225 — (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 5,647,341 5,677,806 30,465 Other Securities 37,001,945 37,001,945 — (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 73,415,170 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans *1 (461,940) 72,953,230 74,059,603 1,106,373 Total Assets ¥ 166,220,667 ¥ 167,357,586 ¥ 1,136,918 (1) Deposits ¥ 97,757,545 ¥ 97,725,179 ¥ (32,366) (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 15,694,906 15,694,463 (442) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 5,091,198 5,091,198 — (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 19,612,120 19,612,120 — (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 2,245,639 2,245,639 — (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 3,200,813 3,200,813 — (7) Borrowed Money 7,195,869 7,171,622 (24,247) (8) Bonds and Notes 6,013,731 6,151,033 137,301 Total Liabilities ¥ 156,811,824 ¥ 156,892,070 ¥ 80,245 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting ¥ 313,667 Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting [23,904] *1 Reserves for Derivative Transactions (13,797) Total Derivative Transactions ¥ 275,965 ¥ 275,965 ¥ — *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. 185 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2014 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 ¥ 20,609,087 ¥ 20,609,087 ¥ — (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased *1 467,479 467,479 — (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements*1 8,349,032 8,349,032 — (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 5,010,740 5,010,740 — (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 3,262,798 3,261,309 (1,489) (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 7,038,301 7,038,301 — *1 (7) Money Held in Trust 168,367 168,367 — (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 4,040,082 4,057,817 17,734 Other Securities 39,267,868 39,267,868 — (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 69,301,405 *1 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (554,631) 68,746,774 69,863,796 1,117,022 Total Assets ¥ 156,960,533 ¥ 158,093,800 ¥ 1,133,267 (1) Deposits ¥ 89,055,505 ¥ 89,016,879 ¥ (38,626) (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 12,755,776 12,755,204 (572) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 7,194,432 7,194,432 — (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 16,797,803 16,797,803 — (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 6,085,331 6,085,331 — (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 4,309,956 4,309,956 — (7) Borrowed Money 7,838,357 7,846,427 8,069 (8) Bonds and Notes 5,245,743 5,348,781 103,037 Total Liabilities ¥ 149,282,908 ¥ 149,354,817 ¥ 71,908 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting ¥ 615,267 Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting [330,703] *1 Reserves for Derivative Transactions (11,710) Total Derivative Transactions ¥ 272,852 ¥ 272,852 ¥ — *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Receivables under Resale Agreements, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. 186 Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2015 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 $ 241,908,723 $ 241,908,723 $ — *1 (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased 3,686,660 3,686,660 — (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements 71,358,105 71,358,105 — (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 33,751,897 33,751,897 — (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 26,935,914 26,936,577 663 (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 41,922,387 41,922,387 — (7) Money Held in Trust *1 1,307,274 1,307,274 — (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 46,955,525 47,208,836 253,311 Other Securities 307,657,318 307,657,318 — (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 610,419,643 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans *1 (3,840,859) 606,578,784 615,777,865 9,199,081 Total Assets $ 1,382,062,587 $ 1,391,515,642 $ 9,453,055 (1) Deposits $ 812,817,376 $ 812,548,260 $ (269,116) (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 130,497,265 130,493,587 (3,678) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 42,331,405 42,331,405 — (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 163,067,432 163,067,432 — (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 18,671,651 18,671,651 — (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 26,613,564 26,613,564 — (7) Borrowed Money 59,830,961 59,629,354 (201,607) (8) Bonds and Notes 50,001,929 51,143,542 1,141,613 Total Liabilities $ 1,303,831,583 $ 1,304,498,795 $ 667,212 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting $ 2,608,025 Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting [198,758] *1 Reserves for Derivative Transactions (114,718) Total Derivative Transactions $ 2,294,549 $ 2,294,549 $ — *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. 187 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 1) Calculation method of fair value of financial instruments Assets (1) Cash and Due from Banks For Due from Banks which have no maturity, since fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. For Due from Banks which have maturity, since contractual terms of these items are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased, (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements and (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions Since contractual terms of these items are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (5) Other Debt Purchased Fair values of Other Debt Purchased are based on the values deemed as market prices obtained by the reasonable estimate such as those obtained from brokers and financial information vendors. (6)Trading Assets Fair values of securities held for trading, such as bonds held for trading, are based on the market prices and others. (7)Money Held in Trust As to securities managed as trust assets in a directed money trust for separate investment with the management of securities as its primary purpose, fair values of these items are calculated using the method stated in (8). For other Money Held in Trust, since fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. The notes to Money Held in Trust based on holding purpose are stated in “42.Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust.” (8)Securities Fair values of stocks are based on the prices on securities exchanges, and those of bonds and others are based on the market prices, valuations obtained from brokers and information vendors and others. Fair values of investment trusts are based on the disclosed net asset value and others. Fair values of private placement bonds are calculated by discounting the total amount of principal and interest and others at interest rates based on the discount rate reflecting expected loss and various risk factors by categories according to the internal ratings and terms. Fair values of securitized products are based on valuations obtained from brokers and others, and reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management. In deriving reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management mentioned above, we used the discounted cash flow method. The price decision variables include default rates, recovery rates, pre-payment rates, and discount rates. Fair values of Floating-rate Japanese Government Bonds, according to our determination that current market prices may not reflect the fair value, are based on the reasonably calculated prices as book value at the end of the current fiscal year. In deriving the reasonably calculated prices, we used the discount cash flow method as well as other methods. The price decision variables include the yield of 10-year Japanese Government Bonds and the volatilities of interest rate swap options for 10-year Japanese Government Bonds as underlying assets. The notes to Securities based on holding purpose are stated in “42.Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust.” (9)Loans and Bills Discounted Fair values of Loans and Bills Discounted are calculated by the total amount of principal and interest and others at interest rates based on the discount rate reflecting expected loss and various risk factors by categories according to the types, internal ratings and terms of the Loans and Bills Discounted. In addition, as to claims against bankrupt obligors, substantially bankrupt obligors and intensive control obligors, since the estimated amount of bad debts is calculated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows or the estimated amounts that we would be able to collect from collateral and guarantees, fair values approximate the amount of Debentures and others minus the amount of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans in the consolidated balance sheet as of the consolidated balance sheet date and we thus deem such amount to be fair values. 188 Of the Loans and Bills Discounted, for those without a fixed maturity due to loan characteristics such as limiting loans to within the value of pledged assets, we deem book values to be fair values since fair values are expected to approximate book values based on the estimated loan periods, interest rates and other conditions. Liabilities (1)Deposits (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit For demand deposits, we deem the payment amounts required on the consolidated balance sheet date (i.e., book values) to be fair values. In addition, fair values of fixed deposits and negotiable certificates of deposits are calculated by classifying them based on their terms and by discounting the future cash flows. The discount rates used in such calculations are the interest rates. Since fair values of those whose deposit terms are short (i.e., within six months) approximate book values, we mainly deem the book values to be fair values. (3)Call Money and Bills Sold, (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements and (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions Since contractual terms of these financial instruments are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (6)Trading Liabilities Fair values of Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased in Trading Liabilities are based on the market prices and others. (7)Borrowed Money Fair values of Borrowed Money are calculated mainly by discounting the total amount of the principal and interest of such Borrowed Money classified by certain period at the interest rates considered to be applicable to similar loans. (8)Bonds and Notes Fair values of Bonds and Notes issued by MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries are based on the market prices for Bonds and Notes which have market prices, and calculated by discounting the total amount of principal and interest by the interest rates considered to be applicable to similar Bonds and Notes for those which do not have market prices. Derivative Transactions Derivative transactions include interest rate-related transactions (futures, options, swaps and others), currency-related transactions (futures, options, swaps and others), bond-related transactions (futures, futures options and others), and are based on the prices on securities exchanges, discounted value of future cash flows, option pricing models and others. 189 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 2) Consolidated balance sheet amounts of financial instruments whose fair values are deemed to be extremely difficult to determine are indicated below, and are not included in “Assets (5) Other Debt Purchased”, “Assets (7) Money Held in Trust” and “Assets (8) Other Securities” in fair value information of financial instruments. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 2014 2015 As of March 31, Consolidated Balance Consolidated Balance Consolidated Balance Category Sheet Amount Sheet Amount Sheet Amount (i) Unlisted Stocks *1 ¥ 163,219 ¥ 213,486 $ 1,357,112 (ii) Investments in Partnerships and others *2 74,158 102,239 616,599 *3 (iii) Other 100,595 100,350 836,417 *4 Total ¥ 337,974 ¥ 416,076 $ 2,810,128 *1 We do not treat Unlisted Stocks as being subject to disclosure of fair values as there are no market prices and they are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values. *2 Of the Investments in Partnerships and others, we do not treat those whose assets consist of unlisted stocks and other financial instruments that are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values as being subject to disclosure of fair values. *3 We do not treat Preferred Securities and others included in Other as being subject to disclosure of fair values as there are no market prices and other factors and they are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values. *4 During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, the amounts of impairment (devaluation) were ¥3,525 million ($29,317 thousand) and ¥5,674 million, respectively, on a consolidated basis. (Note 3) Projected redemption amounts after the consolidated balance sheet date for financial assets and securities with maturities As of March 31, 2015 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks ¥ 28,079,235 ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Call Loans and Bills Purchased 444,115 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 2,830,119 104,074 49,705 10,511 6,419 235,890 *1 Securities 7,140,210 11,439,072 9,166,962 1,705,388 2,859,863 3,501,455 Bonds Held to Maturity 600,000 1,800,000 1,480,000 — 480,000 1,195,442 Japanese Government Bonds 600,000 1,800,000 1,480,000 — 480,000 — Foreign Bonds — — — — — 1,195,442 Other Securities with Maturities 6,540,210 9,639,072 7,686,962 1,705,388 2,379,863 2,306,012 Japanese Government Bonds 3,619,984 7,753,929 4,552,600 422,500 996,630 — Japanese Local Government Bonds 36,161 60,928 43,536 15,203 77,738 732 Japanese Corporate Bonds 489,761 762,405 427,237 125,564 55,091 781,179 Foreign Bonds 2,377,181 924,204 2,595,350 1,088,601 1,238,094 1,518,367 Other 17,121 137,604 68,238 53,519 12,309 5,732 *2 Loans and Bills Discounted 28,131,562 15,736,232 11,785,704 5,302,236 4,078,615 7,294,016 Total ¥ 66,625,243 ¥ 27,279,379 ¥ 21,002,373 ¥ 7,018,136 ¥ 6,944,899 ¥ 11,031,361 190 As of March 31, 2014 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks ¥ 19,259,245 ¥ 2,527 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Call Loans and Bills Purchased 467,758 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 2,787,584 74,967 60,351 30,122 12,505 293,408 *1 Securities 8,786,147 11,631,227 10,708,846 2,545,570 1,884,094 2,661,588 Bonds Held to Maturity 600,000 1,300,000 1,780,000 — 360,000 — Japanese Government Bonds 600,000 1,300,000 1,780,000 — 360,000 — Foreign Bonds — — — — — — Other Securities with Maturities 8,186,147 10,331,227 8,928,846 2,545,570 1,524,094 2,661,588 Japanese Government Bonds 5,925,125 7,789,736 5,981,000 1,294,200 919,830 — Japanese Local Government Bonds 30,258 56,375 73,922 15,575 64,604 779 Japanese Corporate Bonds 421,781 651,551 489,320 133,671 53,531 1,007,218 Foreign Bonds 1,796,757 1,778,151 2,334,421 1,093,728 467,120 1,650,999 Other 12,224 55,412 50,182 8,393 19,008 2,590 *2 Loans and Bills Discounted 27,834,054 13,956,403 10,609,798 4,760,685 3,830,892 7,209,394 Total ¥ 59,134,791 ¥ 25,665,125 ¥ 21,378,996 ¥ 7,336,378 ¥ 5,727,492 ¥ 10,164,391 As of March 31, 2015 Thousands of U.S. dollars Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks $233,468,328 $ 1 $ —$ —$ —$ — Call Loans and Bills Purchased 3,692,653 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 23,531,386 865,339 413,283 87,398 53,379 1,961,341 Securities *1 59,368,174 95,111,603 76,219,863 14,179,669 23,778,696 29,113,290 Bonds Held to Maturity 4,988,775 14,966,326 12,305,645 — 3,991,020 9,939,658 Japanese Government Bonds 4,988,775 14,966,326 12,305,645 — 3,991,020 — Foreign Bonds — — — — — 9,939,658 Other Securities with Maturities 54,379,399 80,145,277 63,914,218 14,179,669 19,787,676 19,173,632 Japanese Government Bonds 30,098,813 64,471,020 37,853,164 3,512,930 8,286,605 — Japanese Local Government Bonds 300,668 506,596 361,989 126,410 646,362 6,092 Japanese Corporate Bonds 4,072,185 6,339,119 3,552,318 1,044,019 458,063 6,495,218 Foreign Bonds 19,765,378 7,684,413 21,579,369 9,051,313 10,294,295 12,624,656 Other 142,355 1,144,129 567,378 444,997 102,351 47,666 *2 Loans and Bills Discounted 233,903,403 130,840,883 97,993,719 44,086,108 33,912,163 60,647,012 Total $553,963,944 $226,817,826 $174,626,865 $ 58,353,175 $ 57,744,238 $ 91,721,643 *1 Securities include those of which fair values are extremely difficult to determine. *2 Amounts do not include loans to bankrupt, substantially bankrupt, and intensive control obligors and other loans, of which redemption amounts cannot be projected, of ¥434,565 million ($3,613,250 thousand) and ¥518,604 million, and loans with no maturities of ¥652,236 million ($5,423,105 thousand) and ¥581,570 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 191 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 4) Projected repayment amounts after the consolidated balance sheet date for Bonds and Notes, Borrowed Money, and other interest-bearing liabilities As of March 31, 2015 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits *1 ¥ 93,499,413 ¥ 3,298,473 ¥ 819,434 ¥ 78,103 ¥ 62,120 ¥ — Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 15,642,151 52,968 — — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 5,091,198 — — — — — Borrowed Money *2 965,869 1,104,853 4,305,972 124,314 363,692 238,115 Short-term Bonds 816,705 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *2 749,976 2,106,632 1,250,358 193,731 1,025,914 647,078 Total ¥ 116,765,313 ¥ 6,562,928 ¥ 6,375,766 ¥ 396,149 ¥ 1,451,727 ¥ 885,194 As of March 31, 2014 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits *1 ¥ 84,980,956 ¥ 3,180,878 ¥ 759,550 ¥ 78,984 ¥ 55,135 ¥ — Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 12,746,255 9,699 — — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 7,194,432 — — — — — Borrowed Money *2 5,494,545 1,478,979 145,201 105,313 317,958 163,313 Short-term Bonds 584,568 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *2 921,520 1,353,512 1,287,998 311,135 661,207 650,985 Total ¥ 111,922,278 ¥ 6,023,068 ¥ 2,192,750 ¥ 495,433 ¥ 1,034,302 ¥ 814,299 As of March 31, 2015 Thousands of U.S. dollars Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits *1 $ 777,412,597 $ 27,425,575 $ 6,813,292 $ 649,401 $ 516,510 $ — Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 130,058,631 440,413 — — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 42,331,405 — — — — — Borrowed Money *2 8,030,841 9,186,441 35,802,552 1,033,630 3,023,967 1,979,844 Short-term Bonds 6,790,600 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *2 6,235,773 17,515,863 10,396,263 1,610,806 8,530,093 5,380,215 Total $ 970,859,847 $ 54,568,292 $ 53,012,107 $ 3,293,837 $ 12,070,570 $ 7,360,059 *1 Demand deposits are included in “Within 1 year.” *2 Amounts do not include Borrowed Money and Bonds and Notes with no maturities of ¥93,051 million ($773,686 thousand) and ¥40,900 million ($340,068 thousand), and ¥133,044 million and ¥60,200 million as of March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 192 42. Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust The following tables contain information relating to “Securities,” Trading Securities, Short-term Bonds, certain other items in “Trading Assets,” Negotiable Certificates of Deposit in “Cash and Due from Banks,” certain items in “Other Debt Purchased,” certain items in “Other Assets,” and “Money Held in Trust.” Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2015 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) ¥ 5,647,341 ¥ 5,677,806 ¥ 30,465 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥ 5,191,248 ¥ 5,222,508 ¥ 31,260 Japanese Government Bonds 4,260,214 4,289,216 29,001 Foreign Bonds 931,033 933,292 2,259 Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥ 456,092 ¥ 455,298 ¥ (794) Japanese Government Bonds 99,911 99,738 (173) Foreign Bonds 356,181 355,560 (621) Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2014 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) ¥ 4,040,082 ¥ 4,057,817 ¥ 17,734 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥ 3,830,230 ¥ 3,848,185 ¥ 17,954 Japanese Government Bonds 3,830,230 3,848,185 17,954 Foreign Bonds — — — Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥ 209,852 ¥ 209,632 ¥ (220) Japanese Government Bonds 209,852 209,632 (220) Foreign Bonds — — — Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2015 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) $ 46,955,525 $ 47,208,836 $ 253,311 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: $ 43,163,284 $ 43,423,201 $ 259,917 Japanese Government Bonds 35,422,091 35,663,224 241,133 Foreign Bonds 7,741,193 7,759,977 18,784 Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: $ 3,792,241 $ 3,785,635 $ (6,606) Japanese Government Bonds 830,726 829,284 (1,442) Foreign Bonds 2,961,515 2,956,351 (5,164) 193 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2015 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) ¥ 37,704,504 ¥ 35,173,125 ¥ 2,531,378*2 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥ 26,539,885 ¥ 23,916,691 ¥ 2,623,193 Japanese Stocks 3,838,387 1,651,030 2,187,357 Japanese Bonds: 14,292,166 14,236,356 55,809 Japanese Government Bonds 12,180,998 12,156,981 24,016 Japanese Local Government Bonds 223,065 218,882 4,183 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 1,888,103 1,860,492 27,610 Other: 8,409,331 8,029,303 380,027 Foreign Bonds 6,207,461 6,126,701 80,760 Other Debt Purchased 188,534 184,285 4,249 Other 2,013,335 1,718,317 295,018 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥ 11,164,618 ¥ 11,256,434 ¥ (91,815) Japanese Stocks 283,518 311,919 (28,401) Japanese Bonds: 6,036,256 6,047,965 (11,708) Japanese Government Bonds 5,234,793 5,236,173 (1,379) Japanese Local Government Bonds 15,522 15,538 (15) Short-term Bonds 99 99 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 785,840 796,153 (10,312) Other: 4,844,843 4,896,549 (51,705) Foreign Bonds 3,825,059 3,865,759 (40,699) Other Debt Purchased 299,661 301,081 (1,419) Other 720,122 729,708 (9,586) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust ¥ 3,415 ¥ 3,415 ¥ — 194 Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2014 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) ¥ 40,212,540 ¥ 39,084,860 ¥ 1,127,679*2 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥ 21,440,137 ¥ 19,964,600 ¥ 1,475,537 Japanese Stocks 2,687,603 1,489,738 1,197,864 Japanese Bonds: 13,767,572 13,719,445 48,126 Japanese Government Bonds 11,480,120 11,462,298 17,821 Japanese Local Government Bonds 182,761 179,978 2,783 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 2,104,690 2,077,168 27,521 Other: 4,984,962 4,755,416 229,546 Foreign Bonds 3,414,577 3,382,425 32,151 Other Debt Purchased 229,037 223,935 5,101 Other 1,341,347 1,149,054 192,293 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥ 18,772,402 ¥ 19,120,260 ¥ (347,858) Japanese Stocks 423,227 514,097 (90,869) Japanese Bonds: 11,326,974 11,343,728 (16,753) Japanese Government Bonds 10,577,389 10,581,809 (4,420) Japanese Local Government Bonds 61,900 62,006 (105) Short-term Bonds 99 99 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 687,584 699,811 (12,227) Other: 7,022,200 7,262,434 (240,234) Foreign Bonds 5,699,638 5,902,426 (202,787) Other Debt Purchased 485,888 488,822 (2,934) Other 836,673 871,185 (34,512) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust ¥ 1,513 ¥ 1,513 ¥ — 195 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2015 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) $ 313,498,828 $ 292,451,365 $ 21,047,463*2 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: $ 220,669,207 $ 198,858,332 $ 21,810,875 Japanese Stocks 31,914,757 13,727,702 18,187,055 Japanese Bonds: 118,834,010 118,369,975 464,035 Japanese Government Bonds 101,280,436 101,080,751 199,685 Japanese Local Government Bonds 1,854,704 1,819,922 34,782 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 15,698,870 15,469,302 229,568 Other: 69,920,440 66,760,655 3,159,785 Foreign Bonds 51,612,716 50,941,226 671,490 Other Debt Purchased 1,567,595 1,532,265 35,330 Other 16,740,129 14,287,164 2,452,965 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: $ 92,829,621 $ 93,593,033 $ (763,412) Japanese Stocks 2,357,347 2,593,496 (236,149) Japanese Bonds: 50,189,215 50,286,564 (97,349) Japanese Government Bonds 43,525,349 43,536,818 (11,469) Japanese Local Government Bonds 129,065 129,198 (133) Short-term Bonds 831 831 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 6,533,970 6,619,717 (85,747) Other: 40,283,059 40,712,973 (429,914) Foreign Bonds 31,803,937 32,142,341 (338,404) Other Debt Purchased 2,491,576 2,503,379 (11,803) Other 5,987,546 6,067,253 (79,707) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust $ 28,400 $ 28,400 $ — *1 The fair value of Japanese stocks is determined based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date. The fair value of securities other than Japanese stocks is determined at the quoted market price if available, or other reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date. *2 Unrealized Gains (Losses) or Difference include gains of ¥52,059 million ($432,857 thousand) and ¥37,413 million in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, by applying the fair-value hedge method and others. Note: A summary of Trading Securities and Money Held in Trust for investment purposes and related unrealized gains and losses recognized in the statement of income are as follows: * Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 2014 2015 Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized As of March 31, gains (losses) gains (losses) gains (losses) Trading Securities ¥(5,103) ¥(19,036) $(42,438) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 2014 2015 Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized As of March 31, Fair value gains (losses) Fair value gains (losses) Fair value gains (losses) Money Held in Trust for Investment ¥154,312 ¥ 25 ¥166,856 ¥ 31 $1,283,051 $ 211 * Fair values of trading securities as of March 31, 2015 and 2014 are described in “41. Financial Instruments.” 196 Other Securities Sold during the Fiscal Year Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Total amount Total amount Total amount Total amount For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, Proceeds of gains of losses Proceeds of gains of losses 2015 from sales on sales on sales from sales on sales on sales Stocks ¥ 175,816 ¥ 81,295 ¥ 2,228 $ 1,461,850 $ 675,940 $ 18,528 Bonds 57,275,999 63,014 4,322 476,228,477 523,942 35,936 Japanese Government Bonds 56,125,675 52,782 4,069 466,663,968 438,869 33,838 Japanese Local Government Bonds 67,442 53 47 560,757 442 398 Japanese Corporate Bonds 1,082,881 10,178 204 9,003,752 84,631 1,700 Other 19,379,289 208,921 102,348 161,131,530 1,737,106 850,988 Total ¥ 76,831,104 ¥ 353,231 ¥ 108,898 $638,821,857 $ 2,936,988 $ 905,452 Millions of yen Total amount Total amount For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, Proceeds of gains of losses 2014 from sales on sales on sales Stocks ¥ 152,135 ¥ 43,367 ¥ 2,978 Bonds 61,282,363 61,375 18,111 Japanese Government Bonds 60,283,392 55,395 16,420 Japanese Local Government Bonds 101,652 280 53 Japanese Corporate Bonds 897,318 5,699 1,637 Other 11,655,380 113,884 57,236 Total ¥ 73,089,879 ¥ 218,627 ¥ 78,326 Note: The above table contains Other Securities that are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values. Unrealized Gains/Losses on Other Securities Unrealized Gains/Losses on Other Securities as of March 31, 2015 and 2014 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Difference between Acquisition Cost and Fair Value*1 ¥ 2,479,388 ¥ 1,090,304 $20,615,184 *2 Other Securities 2,479,388 1,090,304 20,615,184 Other Money Held in Trust — — — Deferred Tax Liabilities (693,523) (309,344) (5,766,385) Difference between Acquisition Cost and Fair Value, net of Taxes 1,785,865 780,959 14,848,799 Amount Corresponding to Minority Interests 55,379 51,543 460,459 Amount Corresponding to Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities Owned by Affiliated Companies, which is attributable to MHFG 6,863 4,105 57,064 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities ¥ 1,737,348 ¥ 733,522 $ 14,445,404 *1 The difference between acquisition cost and fair value excludes ¥(52,059) million ($(432,857) thousand) and ¥(37,413) million were recognized in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, by applying the fair-value hedge method and others, and includes translation differences regarding securities which do not have readily determinable fair value. *2 Other securities includes translation differences regarding securities which do not have readily determinable fair value. 197 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 43. Derivatives Information The fair value of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting as of March 31, 2015 and 2014 is shown in the tables below. In the following tables: (i) Contract value represents notional amounts for swap transactions and contract amounts for other transactions. Contract value amounts do not indicate the market risk related to derivative transactions. (ii) Fair values of listed contracts are based on the closing prices of the Osaka Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the New York Mercantile Exchange and others. Fair values of over-the-counter contracts and intercompany or internal transactions are based on the discounted value of future cash flows, option pricing models and others. (1) Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting Transactions are marked to market, and changes in unrealized gains (losses) are included in the consolidated statement of income. (a) Interest Rate-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 20,114,158 ¥ 10,963,649 ¥ (72,633) ¥ (72,633) Bought 18,446,654 8,159,936 66,886 66,886 Options: Sold 1,400,403 171,604 (2,288) 1,258 Bought 2,237,975 216,340 2,977 (1,663) Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 10,996,182 2,026,655 (7,643) (7,643) Bought 10,280,528 901,965 4,519 4,519 Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 469,271,002 367,963,727 9,081,978 9,081,978 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 465,176,624 361,554,098 (8,881,155) (8,881,155) Receive Float / Pay Float 77,934,862 54,389,480 24,135 24,135 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 759,547 702,891 15,692 15,692 Options: Sold 12,678,598 7,466,690 (175,701) (175,701) Bought 8,857,843 5,410,994 146,701 146,701 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 4,955,416 4,692,702 92,893 92,893 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 11,634,436 10,636,915 (140,360) (140,360) Receive Float / Pay Float 42,678 — (5) (5) Total / / ¥ 155,997 ¥ 154,904 198 Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2014 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 11,434,707 ¥ 6,223,939 ¥ (21,915) ¥ (21,915) Bought 9,827,139 5,320,408 23,324 23,324 Options: Sold 2,186,768 595,526 (4,124) 315 Bought 1,999,072 529,727 3,435 (472) Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 8,433,201 412,133 (1,240) (1,240) Bought 8,632,960 595,270 1,172 1,172 Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 407,440,608 306,247,246 6,628,141 6,628,141 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 403,412,602 302,059,018 (6,518,422) (6,518,422) Receive Float / Pay Float 78,629,699 51,655,329 18,800 18,800 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 548,055 510,588 10,242 10,242 Options: Sold 11,831,701 8,344,424 (154,320) (154,320) Bought 9,905,879 6,449,245 143,026 143,026 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 4,501,399 4,096,364 42,775 42,775 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 9,999,717 8,903,953 (24,133) (24,133) Receive Float / Pay Float 41,922 41,922 (2) (2) Total / / ¥ 146,759 ¥ 147,292 199 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $ 167,241,694 $ 91,158,637 $ (603,917) $ (603,917) Bought 153,377,025 67,846,815 556,139 556,139 Options: Sold 11,643,833 1,426,828 (19,031) 10,467 Bought 18,607,929 1,798,786 24,757 (13,828) Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 91,429,138 16,850,885 (63,550) (63,550) Bought 85,478,745 7,499,505 37,582 37,582 Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 3,901,812,606 3,059,480,565 75,513,250 75,513,250 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 3,867,769,388 3,006,186,897 (73,843,481) (73,843,481) Receive Float / Pay Float 647,999,186 452,228,161 200,679 200,679 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 6,315,352 5,844,283 130,478 130,478 Options: Sold 105,417,800 62,082,734 (1,460,891) (1,460,891) Bought 73,649,647 44,990,395 1,219,765 1,219,765 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 41,202,430 39,018,068 772,374 772,374 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 96,735,984 88,441,966 (1,167,046) (1,167,046) Receive Float / Pay Float 354,852 — (46) (46) Total / / $ 1,297,062 $ 1,287,975 200 (b) Currency-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 26,333 ¥ 2,329 ¥ — ¥ — Bought 44,356 21,625 — — Options: Sold — — — — Bought — — — — Over-the-Counter: Swaps 39,935,672 25,590,121 (23,922) (68,615) Forwards: Sold 61,859,800 3,505,977 (729,229) (729,229) Bought 27,467,918 1,866,989 883,713 883,713 Options: Sold 4,079,543 1,354,653 (318,638) (184,339) Bought 3,666,208 1,159,267 145,563 18,054 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 2,293,679 1,534,304 184,643 3,577 Forwards: Bought 158,892 — (2,766) (2,766) Total / / ¥ 139,364 ¥ (79,605) Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2014 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 23,653 ¥ 2,370 ¥ 1,155 ¥ 1,155 Bought 36,577 — (12) (12) Options: Sold 1,591 — (2) (2) Bought 1,591 — 1 1 Over-the-Counter: Swaps 37,982,073 23,686,551 72,286 81,567 Forwards: Sold 48,353,520 2,396,363 (521,989) (521,989) Bought 21,270,382 1,582,140 584,296 584,296 Options: Sold 4,092,234 1,968,449 (254,982) (79,347) Bought 3,717,363 1,723,713 149,686 (28,017) Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 2,530,888 1,213,503 392,733 4,255 Forwards: Bought 142,564 — 858 858 Total / / ¥ 424,032 ¥ 42,764 201 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $ 218,951 $ 19,372 $ — $ — Bought 368,808 179,809 — — Options: Sold — — — — Bought — — — — Over-the-Counter: Swaps 332,050,155 212,772,274 (198,908) (570,515) Forwards: Sold 514,341,066 29,150,886 (6,063,267) (6,063,267) Bought 228,385,455 15,523,321 7,347,749 7,347,749 Options: Sold 33,919,876 11,263,440 (2,649,360) (1,532,715) Bought 30,483,149 9,638,876 1,210,304 150,116 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 19,071,087 12,757,165 1,535,245 29,745 Forwards: Bought 1,321,135 — (23,003) (23,003) Total / / $ 1,158,760 $ (661,890) (c) Stock-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold ¥ 390,456 ¥ 18,332 ¥ (3,833) ¥ (3,833) Bought 27,315 1,430 196 196 Index Futures Options: Sold 663,199 172,682 (68,155) (36,499) Bought 645,806 145,100 58,483 28,089 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 181,297 173,993 3,473 3,473 Options: Sold 495,265 364,698 (124,602) (111,770) Bought 317,510 218,019 133,441 120,027 Other: Sold 12,127 — 220 220 Bought 143,454 132,512 11,050 11,050 Total / / ¥ 10,275 ¥ 10,955 202 Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2014 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold ¥ 239,437 ¥ 3,127 ¥ (5,833) ¥ (5,833) Bought 19,249 1,375 694 694 Index Futures Options: Sold 813,856 160,012 (52,217) (21,940) Bought 747,113 108,037 57,001 26,616 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 316,375 269,784 9,384 9,384 Options: Sold 474,013 253,480 (107,163) (86,543) Bought 391,844 240,158 122,104 106,053 Other: Sold — — — — Bought 99,119 72,600 (1,103) (1,103) Total / / ¥ 22,866 ¥ 27,328 Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold $ 3,246,497 $ 152,427 $ (31,871) $ (31,871) Bought 227,121 11,894 1,631 1,631 Index Futures Options: Sold 5,514,257 1,435,790 (566,691) (303,476) Bought 5,369,643 1,206,452 486,266 233,554 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 1,507,417 1,446,687 28,882 28,882 Options: Sold 4,117,946 3,032,332 (1,036,021) (929,330) Bought 2,639,985 1,812,754 1,109,520 997,983 Other: Sold 100,833 — 1,838 1,838 Bought 1,192,772 1,101,794 91,882 91,882 Total / / $ 85,436 $ 91,093 203 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (d) Bond-Related Transactions Millions of yen 2015 2014 Contract value Contract value Over Fair Unrealized Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 651,757 ¥ — ¥ (3,524) ¥ (3,524) ¥ 711,733 ¥ 4,144 ¥ 1,047 ¥ 1,047 Bought 537,221 — 2,738 2,738 854,379 2,220 (1,061) (1,061) Futures Options: Sold 908,250 — (155) (44) 350,070 — (362) 80 Bought 45,968 — 35 0 306,172 — 618 (133) Over-the-Counter: Options: Sold 831,084 165,564 (22,095) (19,935) 642,479 38,617 (9,294) (5,703) Bought 843,332 165,564 21,287 19,923 538,920 38,617 8,279 5,989 Total / / ¥ (1,713) ¥ (840) / / ¥ (772) ¥ 219 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Contract value Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total One year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $ 5,419,122 $ — $ (29,303) $ (29,303) Bought 4,466,798 — 22,772 22,772 Futures Options: Sold 7,551,763 — (1,293) (372) Bought 382,209 — 292 6 Over-the-Counter: Options: Sold 6,910,155 1,376,610 (183,716) (165,752) Bought 7,011,990 1,376,610 177,000 165,660 Total / / $ (14,248) $ (6,989) 204 (e) Commodity-Related Transactions Millions of yen 2015 2014 Contract value Contract value Over Fair Unrealized Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 10,301 ¥ 170 ¥ 597 ¥ 597 ¥ 40,507 ¥ 1,373 ¥ (322) ¥ (322) Bought 10,330 365 (618) (618) 37,531 1,452 385 385 Over-the-Counter: Swaps 197 — (37) (37) — — — — Options: Sold 163,398 93,254 9,049 9,049 201,003 90,993 (10,918) (10,918) Bought 149,067 76,317 (4,657) (4,657) 184,254 74,989 17,683 17,683 Total / / ¥ 4,332 ¥ 4,332 / / ¥ 6,828 ¥ 6,828 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Contract value Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $ 85,653 $ 1,420 $ 4,970 $ 4,970 Bought 85,891 3,043 (5,145) (5,145) Over-the-Counter: Swaps 1,646 — (315) (315) Options: Sold 1,358,594 775,379 75,240 75,240 Bought 1,239,442 634,553 (38,725) (38,725) Total / / $ 36,025 $ 36,025 Note: Commodities include oil, copper, aluminum and others. 205 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (f) Credit Derivative Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold ¥ 2,441,236 ¥ 2,098,088 ¥ 33,718 ¥ 33,718 Bought 2,625,807 2,290,170 (28,307) (28,307) Total / / ¥ 5,410 ¥ 5,410 Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2014 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold ¥ 2,201,564 ¥ 1,876,471 ¥ 24,493 ¥ 24,493 Bought 2,548,197 2,129,993 (8,940) (8,940) Total / / ¥ 15,552 ¥ 15,552 Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold $ 20,297,968 $ 17,444,819 $ 280,358 $ 280,358 Bought 21,832,602 19,041,907 (235,368) (235,368) Total / / $ 44,990 $ 44,990 Note: “Sold” and “Bought” indicate assumption and cession of credit risk, respectively. 206 (2) Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting (a) Interest Rate-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2015 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds and Swaps: notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others ¥ 25,936,670 ¥ 23,540,848 ¥ 256,734 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 7,459,578 7,216,778 (120,535) Receive Float / Pay Float 42,678 — 5 Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 291,094 239,313 (1,384) Receive Float / Pay Float 1,774 1,199 (190) Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans, borrowings and Swaps: others Note 2. Receive Fixed / Pay Float 30,000 10,000 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 60,945 48,652 Total / / ¥ 134,629 Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2014 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds and Swaps: notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others ¥ 25,093,042 ¥ 20,684,955 ¥ 182,200 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 7,384,122 6,892,414 (103,681) Receive Float / Pay Float 121,922 71,922 65 Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 218,436 206,607 (1,004) Receive Float / Pay Float — — — Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans, borrowings and Swaps: others Note 2. Receive Fixed / Pay Float 30,000 30,000 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 93,122 83,213 Total / / ¥ 77,580 207 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2015 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds and Swaps: notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others $ 215,653,702 $ 195,733,338 $ 2,134,653 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 62,023,598 60,004,810 (1,002,211) Receive Float / Pay Float 354,852 — 46 Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 2,420,340 1,989,800 (11,514) Receive Float / Pay Float 14,754 9,970 (1,580) Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans, borrowings and Swaps: others Note 2. Receive Fixed / Pay Float 249,439 83,146 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 506,737 404,524 Total / / $ 1,119,394 Notes: 1. Primarily the deferred method is applied under “Accounting and Auditing Treatment Relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Financial Instruments for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No. 24). 2. Since derivative transactions qualifying for the exceptional accrual method are treated as a unit of loans and borrowings, hedged items, those fair values are included in fair values of such loans and borrowings in “41. Financial Instruments.” 208 (b) Currency-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2015 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of ¥ 7,560,770 ¥ 2,045,971 ¥ (136,735) Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and others Sold 281,490 — (33) Allocation Method : Short-term bonds Note 2. Forwards: Sold 2,729 — Total / / ¥ (136,769) Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2014 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of ¥ 6,803,174 ¥ 1,544,593 ¥ (406,588) Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and others Sold 276,593 — (2,496) Allocation Method : Short-term bonds Note 2. Forwards: Sold 3,391 — Total / / ¥ (409,084) Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2015 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of $ 62,864,975 $ 17,011,488 $ (1,136,907) Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and others Sold 2,340,486 — (277) Allocation Method : Short-term bonds Note 2. Forwards: Sold 22,696 — Total / / $ (1,137,184) Notes: 1. Primarily the deferred method is applied under “Accounting and Auditing Treatment Relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Foreign Currency Transactions for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No. 25). 2. Forward Exchange Contracts qualifying for the allocation method are treated as a unit of short-term bonds, hedged items. 209 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (c) Stock-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2015 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold ¥ 113,707 ¥ — ¥ (21,765) Index Futures: Sold 131 — (3) Bought 277 — 3 Total / / ¥ (21,764) Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2014 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold ¥ 23,327 ¥ — ¥ 800 Index Futures: Sold 106 — 2 Bought 252 — (3) Total / / ¥ 800 Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2015 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold $ 945,436 $ — $ (180,970) Index Futures: Sold 1,090 — (28) Bought 2,311 — 30 Total / / $ (180,968) 210 44. Segment Information Segment Information by Management Approach 1. Summary of Reportable Segment We engage in banking, trust banking, securities and other businesses through consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. As these subsidiaries and affiliates are in different industries and regulatory environments, we disclose business segment information based on the relevant principal consolidated subsidiaries such as MHBK, MHTB and MHSC for investors to measure the present and future cash flows properly. Operating segments of MHBK are aggregated based on the type of customer characteristics and are aggregated into the following seven reportable segments: Personal Banking; Retail Banking; Corporate Banking (Large Corporations); Corporate Banking; Financial Institutions & Public Sector Business; International Banking; and Trading and others. 2. Calculating Method of Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts), Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans), and the Amount of Assets by Reportable Segment The following information of reportable segment is based on internal management reporting. Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) is the total amount of Interest income, Fiduciary income, Fee and commission income, Trading income, and Other operating income. Net business profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) is the amount of which General administrative expenses (excluding non-recurring expenses) and Other (Equity in income from investments in affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments) are deducted from Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts). Asset information by segment is not prepared on the grounds that management does not use asset information of each segment for the purpose of asset allocation or performance evaluation. Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) relating to transactions between segments is based on the current market price. 211 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 3. Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) and Net Business Profits or Losses (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking Corporate Institutions national and For the Fiscal Year (Large banking & Public others ended March 31, corposector 2015 rations) business Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income ¥ 217,500 ¥ 78,400 ¥ 179,400 ¥ 100,500 ¥ 33,500 ¥ 141,900 ¥ 183,696 ¥ 934,896 ¥ 152,401 ¥ 1,087,298 Net Noninterest Income 49,800 53,300 127,800 79,400 27,300 170,100 52,874 560,574 37,845 598,420 Total ¥ 267,300 ¥ 131,700 ¥ 307,200 ¥ 179,900 ¥ 60,800 ¥ 312,000 ¥ 236,571 ¥ 1,495,471 ¥ 190,247 ¥ 1,685,718 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 233,500 118,400 94,400 76,500 30,300 92,600 188,037 833,737 70,963 904,700 Others — — — — — — — — (43,198) (43,198) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 33,800 ¥ 13,300 ¥ 212,800 ¥ 103,400 ¥ 30,500 ¥ 219,400 ¥ 48,533 ¥ 661,733 ¥ 76,085 ¥ 737,819 212 MHFG MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income ¥ 39,484 ¥ 1,753 ¥ 897 ¥ 1,129,433 Net Noninterest Income 122,565 335,799 61,520 1,118,305 Total ¥ 162,049 ¥ 337,552 ¥ 62,418 ¥ 2,247,738 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 94,527 267,970 54,025 1,321,224 Others (3,697) 32 (2,689) (49,552) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 63,824 ¥ 69,614 ¥ 5,703 ¥ 876,961 213 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking Corporate Institutions national and For the Fiscal Year (Large banking & Public others ended March 31, corposector 2014 rations) business Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income ¥ 164,600 ¥ 60,400 ¥ 170,700 ¥ 77,300 ¥ 30,700 ¥ 128,900 ¥ 167,508 ¥ 800,108 ¥ 133,741 ¥ 933,849 Net Noninterest Income (expense) 31,600 38,000 135,400 55,800 21,700 139,800 (24,097) 398,202 9,121 407,323 Total ¥ 196,200 ¥ 98,400 ¥ 306,100 ¥ 133,100 ¥ 52,400 ¥ 268,700 ¥ 143,410 ¥ 1,198,310 ¥ 142,862 ¥ 1,341,173 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 171,300 87,800 83,800 58,800 25,100 82,500 149,728 659,028 52,263 711,291 Others — — — — — — — — (56,037) (56,037) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 24,900 ¥ 10,600 ¥ 222,300 ¥ 74,300 ¥ 27,300 ¥ 186,200 ¥ (6,317) ¥ 539,282 ¥ 34,561 ¥ 573,844 214 MHFG MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income ¥ 40,181 ¥ 2,937 ¥ 131,334 ¥ 1,108,303 Net Noninterest Income (expense) 108,155 283,853 127,644 926,978 Total ¥ 148,337 ¥ 286,791 ¥ 258,979 ¥ 2,035,281 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 90,927 246,210 180,824 1,229,253 Others (2,929) 36 (2,831) (61,762) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 54,480 ¥ 40,617 ¥ 75,323 ¥ 744,264 215 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements （Aggregate of the former MHBK for the first quarter, the former MHCB for the first quarter, and MHBK after the merger from the second quarter to the fourth quarter ） Millions of yen Aggregate of the former MHBK for the first quarter, the former MHCB for the first quarter, and MHBK after the merger from the second quarter to the fourth quarter Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and For the Fiscal Year (Large & Public others ended March 31, corporation) sector 2014 business Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income ¥ 218,000 ¥ 80,700 ¥ 173,300 ¥ 102,500 ¥ 35,500 ¥ 128,900 ¥ 184,852 ¥ 923,752 Net Noninterest Income (expense) 39,800 49,800 140,400 70,100 24,100 139,800 (3,636) 460,363 Total ¥ 257,800 ¥ 130,500 ¥ 313,700 ¥ 172,600 ¥ 59,600 ¥ 268,700 ¥ 181,215 ¥ 1,384,115 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding Non-Recurring Losses) 226,400 116,700 87,200 77,700 29,000 82,500 171,616 791,116 Others — — — — — — — — Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 31,400 ¥ 13,800 ¥ 226,500 ¥ 94,900 ¥ 30,600 ¥ 186,200 ¥ 9,598 ¥ 592,998 216 Thousands of U.S. dollars MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading For the banking banking banking banking Institutions national and Fiscal Year (Large & Public others ended corposector March 31, rations) business 2015 Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income $1,808,431 $ 651,867 $1,491,644 $ 835,619 $278,540 $1,179,845 $1,527,369 $ 7,773,315 $1,267,160 $ 9,040,475 Net Noninterest Income 414,068 443,170 1,062,609 660,182 226,989 1,414,318 439,632 4,660,968 314,675 4,975,643 Total $2,222,499 $1,095,037 $2,554,253 $1,495,801 $505,529 $2,594,163 $1,967,001 $12,434,283 $1,581,835 $14,016,118 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 1,941,465 984,452 784,901 636,069 251,933 769,934 1,563,460 6,932,214 590,035 7,522,249 Others — — — — — — — — (359,177) (359,177) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) $ 281,034 $ 110,585 $1,769,352 $ 859,732 $253,596 $1,824,229 $ 403,541 $ 5,502,069 $ 632,623 $ 6,134,692 217 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income $ 328,299 $ 14,576 $ 7,464 $ 9,390,814 Net Noninterest Income 1,019,085 2,792,045 511,519 9,298,292 Total $ 1,347,384 $ 2,806,621 $ 518,983 $ 18,689,106 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 785,965 2,228,075 449,201 10,985,490 Others (30,746) 271 (22,359) (412,011) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) $ 530,673 $ 578,817 $ 47,423 $ 7,291,605 Notes: 1.Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) is reported instead of sales reported by general corporations. 2. “Others” includes elimination of transactions between each subsidiary. 3. Following the change in the allocation method between customer segments made in April, 2014, reclassification was made on the above table for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 to reflect the relevant change. 4. In the above table for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, “MHBK (Unconsolidated)” reports the results of the former MHCB for the first quarter and MHBK after the merger from the second quarter to the fourth quarter. “Others” includes the result of the former MHBK for the first quarter. 218 4. The Difference between the Total Amounts of Reportable Segments and the Recorded Amounts in Consolidated Statement of Income, and the Contents of the Difference (Matters relating to adjustment to difference) The above amount of Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) and that of Net business profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) derived from internal management reporting by reportable segment are different from the amounts recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income. The contents of the difference for the period are as follows: (a) The Total of Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) of Segment Information and Ordinary Profits Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2014 2015 Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts): Total Amount of the Above Segment Information ¥ 2,247,738 ¥ 2,035,281 $ 18,689,105 Other Ordinary Income 301,037 331,333 2,503,016 General and Administrative Expenses (1,351,611) (1,258,227) (11,238,145) Other Ordinary Expenses (186,296) (120,800) (1,548,987) Ordinary Profits ¥ 1,010,867 ¥ 987,587 $ 8,404,989 Note: Ordinary profits represents Total Income excluding certain special income less Total Expenses excluding certain special expenses. (b) The Total of Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) of Segment Information and Income before Income Taxes and Minority Interests Recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2014 2015 Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans): Total Amount of the Above Segment Information ¥ 876,961 ¥ 744,264 $ 7,291,605 Credit Costs for Trust Accounts — — — General and Administrative Expenses (non-recurring losses) (30,386) (28,973) (252,655) Expenses Related to Portfolio Problems (including reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) (87,051) (23,355) (723,798) Gains on Reversal of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans, and other 82,351 136,235 684,724 Net Gains (Losses) Related to Stocks 131,910 77,031 1,096,789 Net Extraordinary Gains (Losses) (20,235) (2,220) (168,250) Other 37,082 82,384 308,324 Income before Income Taxes and Minority Interests Recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income ¥ 990,632 ¥ 985,366 $ 8,236,739 219 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 5. Related Information (a) Information about Geographic Areas (i) Ordinary income Millions of yen Asia/Oceania 2015 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income ¥ 2,375,535 ¥ 284,770 ¥ 184,355 ¥ 335,564 ¥ 3,180,225 Millions of yen Asia/Oceania 2014 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income ¥ 2,275,599 ¥ 202,888 ¥ 180,856 ¥ 268,415 ¥ 2,927,760 Thousands of U.S. dollars Asia/Oceania 2015 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income $ 19,751,689 $ 2,367,756 $ 1,532,847 $ 2,790,092 $ 26,442,384 Notes: 1. Geographic analyses are presented based on geographic contiguity, similarities in economic activities, and relation of business operations. The above table shows Ordinary Income instead of sales of non-financial companies. 2.Japan includes Ordinary Income of MHFG and domestic consolidated subsidiaries excluding overseas branches, Americas includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in Canada, the United States of America and others, Europe includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in the United Kingdom and others and Asia/Oceania includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in Hong Kong, the Republic of Singapore and others. (ii) Tangible fixed assets Information on tangible fixed assets by geographical areas as of March 31, 2015 and 2014 is not disclosed since tangible fixed assets in Japan accounted for more than 90% of tangible fixed assets. (b) Information about Major Customers Information about major customers is not disclosed since there are no outside customers accounted for more than 10% of Ordinary Income of the Company. 220 6. Information about Impairment Loss on Tangible Fixed Assets by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and (Large & Public others For the Fiscal Year corposector ended March 31, 2015 rations) business Impairment Loss ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥10,387 ¥ 10,387 ¥ 0 ¥ 10,387 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Impairment Loss ¥ 59 ¥ 859 ¥ 52 ¥ 11,358 Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and (Large & Public others For the Fiscal Year corposector ended March 31, 2014 rations) business Impairment Loss ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 3,538 ¥ 3,538 ¥ 1,645 ¥ 5,184 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Impairment Loss ¥ 1,153 ¥ 149 ¥ 19 ¥ 6,506 221 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and For the Fiscal (Large & Public others Year ended corposector March 31, 2015 rations) business Impairment Loss $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 86,364 $ 86,364 $ 6 $ 86,370 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Impairment Loss $ 493 $ 7,143 $ 440 $ 94,446 7. Information about Amortization and Unamortized Balance of Goodwill by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and (Large & Public others For the Fiscal Year ended corposector March 31, 2015 rations) business Amortization of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 785 ¥ 785 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥10,553 ¥10,553 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Amortization of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 2,912 ¥ 3,698 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 48,063 ¥ 58,617 222 Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and (Large & Public others For the Fiscal Year ended corposector March 31, 2014 rations) business Amortization of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 685 ¥ 685 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 11,262 ¥11,262 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Amortization of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 2,986 ¥ 3,672 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 50,976 ¥ 62,238 Thousands of U.S. dollars MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and (Large & Public others For the Fiscal Year ended corposector March 31, 2015 rations) business Amortization of Goodwill $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 6,528 $ 6,528 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 87,751 $ 87,751 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Amortization of Goodwill $ — $ — $ 24,220 $ 30,748 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill $ — $ — $ 399,630 $ 487,381 223 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 8. Information about Gain on Negative Goodwill Incurred by Reportable Segment For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 ・There is no applicable information. Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and For the Fiscal Year (Large & Public others ended March 31, corposector 2014 rations) business Gain on Negative Goodwill Incurred ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 5,621 ¥ 5,621 MHFG MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Gain on Negative Goodwill Incurred ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 5,621 45. Related Party For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 ・There are no material additions to the current scope subject to disclosure. 224 46. Per Share Information Per share information as of or for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 are calculated based on the following information: Yen U.S. dollars As of or for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Net Assets per Share of Common Stock ¥ 322.86 ¥ 253.25 $ 2.68 Net Income per Share of Common Stock 24.91 28.18 0.21 Diluted Net Income per Share of Common Stock 24.10 27.12 0.20 Notes: 1. Total Net Assets per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Total Net Assets ¥ 9,800,538 ¥ 8,304,549 $ 81,487,803 Deductions from Total Net Assets 1,854,668 2,163,015 15,420,872 Paid-in Amount of Preferred Stock 213,120 312,651 1,772,021 Cash Dividends on Preferred Stock 2,131 3,126 17,720 Stock Acquisition Rights 3,820 3,179 31,764 Minority Interests 1,635,595 1,844,057 13,599,367 Net Assets (year-end) related to Common Stock 7,945,869 6,141,534 66,066,931 Year-end Outstanding Shares of Common Stock, based on which Total Net Assets per Share of Common Stock was calculated 24,610,248 Thousand shares 24,250,067 Thousand shares / 2. Net Income per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Net Income ¥ 611,935 ¥ 688,415 $ 5,088,012 Amount not attributable to Common Stock 4,910 6,744 40,826 Cash Dividends on Preferred Stock 4,910 6,437 40,826 Cancellation differences on Dividend Preferred Stock — 307 — Net Income related to Common Stock 607,025 681,670 5,047,186 Average Outstanding Shares of Common Stock (during the period) 24,368,115 Thousand shares 24,189,669 Thousand shares / 3. Diluted Net Income per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Adjustments to Net Income ¥ 4,910 ¥ 6,437 $ 40,826 Cash Dividends on Preferred Stock 4,910 6,437 40,826 Increased Number of Shares of Common Stock 1,012,931 Thousand shares 1,181,582 Thousand shares / Preferred Stock 994,744 Thousand shares 1,164,941 Thousand shares / Stock Acquisition Rights 18,186 Thousand shares 16,641 Thousand shares / Description of Dilutive Securities which were not included in the Calculation of Diluted Net Income per Share of — — / Common Stock as they have no dilutive effects 225 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4. As indicated in “6. Change in Accounting Policies”, Mizuho Financial Group has applied “Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits” (ASBJ Statement No. 26, May 17, 2012) (hereinafter, the “Accounting Standard”) and “Guidance on Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits” (ASBJ Guidance No. 25, March 26, 2015) (hereinafter, the “Guidance”), in terms of regulations stipulated in the text of the Accounting Standard, Paragraph 35 and the Guidance, Paragraph 67, beginning with the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and the Accounting Standard and the Guidance have been applied in accordance with the transitional treatment stipulated in the Accounting Standard, Paragraph 37. As a result of this, the impact on Net Assets per Share of Common Stock at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, Net Income per Share of Common Stock, and Diluted Net Income per Share of Common Stock for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 is immaterial. 47. Subsequent Events Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. decided to redeem in full preferred securities issued by its group’s overseas special purpose subsidiaries on May 15, 2015, as set forth below. (1) Issuers a. Mizuho Capital Investment (JPY) 4 Limited b. Mizuho Capital Investment (JPY) 5 Limited (2) Type of securities Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities (3) Total redemption amount a. ¥355,000 million b. Series B ¥72,500 million, Series C ¥25,000 million (4) Scheduled redemption date June 30, 2015 (5) Major reasons for the redemption Arrival of optional redemption date 226 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries [Under Japanese GAAP] Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 228 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income 229 Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 230 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income 232 Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 233 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income 235 Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 236 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income 239 227 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Assets Current Assets ¥ 90,636 ¥ 86,866 $ 753,608 Cash and Due from Banks 12,729 17,269 105,837 Other Current Assets 77,907 69,597 647,771 Fixed Assets 6,512,468 6,164,457 54,148,732 Tangible Fixed Assets 166,381 7,655 1,383,398 Intangible Fixed Assets 4,269 4,064 35,497 Investments in Subsidiaries and Affiliates 6,023,428 6,023,433 50,082,551 Other Investments 318,389 129,304 2,647,286 Total Assets ¥ 6,603,104 ¥ 6,251,324 $ 54,902,340 Liabilities and Net Assets Liabilities Current Liabilities ¥ 1,208,717 ¥ 1,070,361 $ 10,050,030 Short-term Borrowings 700,135 561,460 5,821,360 Short-term Bonds 500,000 500,000 4,157,313 Other Current Liabilities 8,582 8,901 71,357 Non-Current Liabilities 298,181 280,546 2,479,267 Total Liabilities 1,506,898 1,350,907 12,529,297 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 5,041,680 4,866,470 41,919,686 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 2,255,404 2,254,972 18,752,845 Capital Surplus 1,195,363 1,194,864 9,938,998 Capital Reserve 1,195,296 1,194,864 9,938,445 Other Capital Surplus 66 ― 553 Retained Earnings 1,593,924 1,419,866 13,252,885 Appropriated Reserve 4,350 4,350 36,169 Other Retained Earnings 1,589,574 1,415,516 13,216,716 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 1,589,574 1,415,516 13,216,716 Treasury Stock (3,011) (3,233) (25,042) Valuation and Translation Adjustments 50,704 30,766 421,593 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities, net of Taxes 50,704 30,766 421,593 Stock Acquisition Rights 3,820 3,179 31,764 Total Net Assets 5,096,205 4,900,417 42,373,043 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 6,603,104 ¥ 6,251,324 $ 54,902,340 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥120.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2015, has been used for translation. 228 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2105 Operating Income ¥ 377,777 ¥ 316,886 $ 3,141,076 Cash Dividends Received from Subsidiaries and Affiliates 344,668 285,129 2,865,786 Fee and Commission Income Received from Subsidiaries and Affiliates 33,109 31,756 275,290 Operating Expenses 26,854 22,591 223,285 General and Administrative Expenses 26,854 22,591 223,285 Operating Profits 350,922 294,294 2,917,791 Non-Operating Income 10,150 12,527 84,397 Non-Operating Expenses 11,630 20,332 96,701 Income before Income Taxes 349,442 286,489 2,905,487 Income Taxes: Current 325 288 2,705 Deferred 116 339 967 Net Income ¥ 349,001 ¥ 285,861 $ 2,901,815 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥120.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2015, has been used for translation. 229 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥ 25,803,781 ¥ 19,218,757 $ 214,548,777 Call Loans 396,839 434,458 3,299,573 Receivables under Resale Agreements 525,653 642,344 4,370,613 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 133,336 388,060 1,108,642 Other Debts Purchased 543,683 480,372 4,520,524 Trading Assets 5,761,693 4,972,189 47,906,320 Money Held in Trust 3,249 2,807 27,015 Securities 41,235,710 42,174,781 342,859,487 Loans and Bills Discounted 70,873,844 66,836,553 589,289,464 Foreign Exchange Assets 1,559,516 1,507,927 12,966,797 Other Assets 6,798,521 4,988,999 56,527,160 Tangible Fixed Assets 828,583 834,166 6,889,364 Buildings 304,662 286,062 2,533,157 Land 423,722 428,307 3,523,096 Lease Assets 16,711 16,575 138,952 Construction in Progress 13,582 34,455 112,931 Other Tangible Fixed Assets 69,904 68,765 581,228 Intangible Fixed Assets 469,546 344,173 3,904,103 Software 245,869 227,409 2,044,311 Lease Assets 7,305 4,245 60,746 Other Intangible Fixed Assets 216,371 112,518 1,799,046 Prepaid Pension Cost 415,694 378,416 3,456,344 Deferred Tax Assets ― 47,591 ― Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees 6,193,731 5,668,241 51,498,555 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (434,828) (510,675) (3,615,435) Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments (1) (15) (10) Total Assets ¥ 161,108,555 ¥ 148,409,149 $ 1,339,557,293 230 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheetー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity Liabilities Deposits ¥ 108,358,400 ¥ 97,903,395 $ 900,959,511 Call Money 3,469,055 6,058,995 28,843,897 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 10,131,327 7,656,634 84,238,197 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 513,983 3,159,574 4,273,579 Trading Liabilities 4,397,160 3,144,085 36,560,745 Borrowed Money 8,315,873 8,968,740 69,143,377 Foreign Exchange Liabilities 625,566 436,106 5,201,347 Short-term Bonds 25,000 25,000 207,866 Bonds and Notes 4,624,117 3,958,105 38,447,805 Other Liabilities 6,647,270 4,989,613 55,269,566 Reserve for Bonus Payments 19,933 19,389 165,743 Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans 13 1,259 110 Reserve for Contingencies 1,544 215 12,845 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 14,772 15,307 122,824 Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures 48,878 54,956 406,407 Deferred Tax Liabilities 337,508 ― 2,806,260 Deferred Tax Liabilities on Revaluation Reserve for Land 72,392 81,060 601,916 Acceptances and Guarantees 6,193,731 5,668,241 51,498,555 Total Liabilities 153,796,531 142,140,682 1,278,760,550 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 5,673,213 5,531,648 47,170,643 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 1,404,065 1,404,065 11,674,275 Capital Surplus 2,286,795 2,286,795 19,013,851 Capital Reserve 655,324 655,324 5,448,779 Other Capital Surplus 1,631,471 1,631,471 13,565,072 Retained Earnings 1,982,352 1,840,787 16,482,517 Appropriated Reserve 121,296 63,545 1,008,538 Other Retained Earnings 1,861,055 1,777,242 15,473,979 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 1,861,055 1,777,242 15,473,979 Valuation and Translation Adjustments 1,638,811 736,818 13,626,100 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities, net of Taxes 1,497,419 597,410 12,450,486 Net Deferred Hedge Gains(Losses), net of Taxes (5,028) (1,337) (41,810) Revaluation Reserve for Land, net of Taxes 146,419 140,745 1,217,424 Total Net Assets 7,312,024 6,268,466 60,796,743 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 161,108,555 ¥ 148,409,149 $ 1,339,557,293 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥120.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2015, has been used for translation. 231 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Income Interest Income ¥ 1,258,141 ¥ 1,096,265 $ 10,460,977 Loans and Bills Discounted 807,368 711,695 6,712,966 Securities 327,025 274,925 2,719,096 Fee and Commission Income 471,563 384,827 3,920,872 Trading Income 48,535 38,994 403,553 Other Operating Income 248,620 142,975 2,067,185 Other Income 211,888 216,915 1,761,772 Total Income 2,238,748 1,879,978 18,614,359 Expenses Interest Expenses 323,247 296,160 2,687,684 Deposits 119,269 99,944 991,682 Fee and Commission Expenses 88,033 72,351 731,966 Trading Expenses ― 556 ― Other Operating Expenses 120,110 95,688 998,677 General and Administrative Expenses 855,795 675,728 7,115,617 Other Expenses 183,516 86,321 1,525,874 Total Expenses 1,570,704 1,226,806 13,059,818 Income before Income Taxes 668,044 653,171 5,554,541 Income Taxes: Current 209,116 71,924 1,738,722 Deferred 35,740 136,019 297,166 Net Income ¥ 423,188 ¥ 445,228 $ 3,518,653 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥120.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2015, has been used for translation. 232 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥ 1,457,944 ¥ 1,028,662 $ 12,122,263 Call Loans 6,852 202,058 56,976 Other Debts Purchased 48,713 57,591 405,034 Trading Assets 67,185 60,918 558,624 Money Held in Trust 3,415 1,513 28,400 Securities 1,887,153 1,837,573 15,690,975 Loans and Bills Discounted 3,068,451 3,137,852 25,513,027 Foreign Exchange Assets 7,088 1,580 58,938 Other Assets 79,017 88,917 657,004 Tangible Fixed Assets 26,561 26,384 220,851 Buildings 10,541 10,560 87,651 Land 11,246 12,762 93,507 Other Tangible Fixed Assets 4,773 3,062 39,693 Intangible Fixed Assets 17,624 14,444 146,543 Software 14,535 14,278 120,855 Other Intangible Fixed Assets 3,089 165 25,688 Prepaid Pension Cost 45,785 42,803 380,686 Deferred Tax Assets ― 6,524 ― Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees 41,828 40,151 347,787 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (6,811) (12,709) (56,632) Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments (1) (11) (11) Total Assets ¥ 6,750,811 ¥ 6,534,256 $ 56,130,465 233 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheetー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity Liabilities Deposits ¥ 3,216,851 ¥ 3,151,242 $ 26,746,917 Call Money 1,072,860 996,045 8,920,430 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 12,022 10,291 99,958 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 436,750 446,947 3,631,415 Trading Liabilities 63,242 61,320 525,838 Borrowed Money 221,967 168,562 1,845,579 Foreign Exchange Liabilities ― 8 ― Bonds and Notes 42,200 61,500 350,877 Due to Trust Accounts 1,008,363 1,084,938 8,384,165 Other Liabilities 43,236 45,542 359,499 Reserve for Bonus Payments 1,909 2,013 15,879 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 1,079 1,144 8,973 Deferred Tax Liabilities 22,342 ― 185,772 Acceptances and Guarantees 41,828 40,151 347,787 Total Liabilities 6,184,654 6,069,708 51,423,089 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 431,810 401,231 3,590,341 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 247,369 247,369 2,056,786 Capital Surplus 15,505 15,505 128,920 Capital Reserve 15,505 15,505 128,920 Retained Earnings 168,935 138,356 1,404,635 Appropriated Reserve 17,471 12,041 145,265 Other Retained Earnings 151,464 126,315 1,259,370 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 151,464 126,315 1,259,370 Valuation and Translation Adjustments 134,345 63,316 1,117,035 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities, net of Taxes 136,022 67,616 1,130,976 Net Deferred Hedge Gains (Losses), net of Taxes (1,676) (4,300) (13,941) Total Net Assets 566,156 464,548 4,707,376 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 6,750,811 ¥ 6,534,256 $ 56,130,465 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥120.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2015, has been used for translation. 234 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Income Fiduciary Income ¥ 51,947 ¥ 51,434 $ 431,922 Interest Income 49,683 52,664 413,102 Loans and Bills Discounted 30,524 33,923 253,803 Securities 17,075 17,339 141,976 Fee and Commission Income 54,678 49,524 454,635 Trading Income 2,494 2,405 20,742 Other Operating Income 18,016 9,086 149,800 Other Income 15,902 27,930 132,222 Total Income 192,723 193,044 1,602,423 Expenses Interest Expenses 10,392 12,618 86,407 Deposits 2,596 2,810 21,592 Fee and Commission Expenses 25,538 25,899 212,343 Trading Expenses ― 116 ― Other Operating Expenses 6,625 3,720 55,092 General and Administrative Expenses 78,460 76,418 652,373 Other Expenses 3,791 6,188 31,525 Total Expenses 124,808 124,962 1,037,740 Income before Income Taxes 67,914 68,082 564,683 Income Taxes: Current 5,643 17,169 46,920 Deferred 5,027 (1,384) 41,802 Net Income ¥ 57,243 ¥ 52,297 $ 475,961 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥120.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2015, has been used for translation. 235 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Assets Current Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥ 320,613 ¥ 153,502 $ 2,665,778 Cash Segregated as Deposits for Customers and Others 151,401 164,937 1,258,847 Trading Assets 4,184,018 5,262,651 34,788,546 Trading Securities and Others 2,494,775 4,174,833 20,743,121 Derivatives 1,689,243 1,087,818 14,045,425 Receivables unsettled Trades 580,287 82,267 4,824,870 Operating Investment Securities 17,516 18,483 145,643 Operating Loans Receivable 3,240 3,598 26,939 Receivables Related to Margin Transactions 74,794 85,274 621,892 Loans Receivable under Margin Transactions 50,849 69,407 422,798 Cash Collateral for Borrowed Securities under Margin Transactions 23,945 15,867 199,094 Collateralized Short-term Financing Agreements-receivable 4,109,246 4,926,123 34,166,848 Deposits Paid for Securities Borrowed 4,060,231 4,789,303 33,759,307 Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell 49,014 136,820 407,541 Advances Paid 189 662 1,573 Short-term Guarantee Deposits 208,013 108,208 1,729,552 Securities: Fail to Deliver 25,582 3,843 212,709 Variation Margin Paid 4,826 1,353 40,127 Short-term Loans Receivable 46,084 59,677 383,172 Advance Payments 600 988 4,996 Prepaid Expenses 2,926 2,703 24,337 Accounts Receivable-other 4,527 1,669 37,648 Accrued income 24,167 20,749 200,948 Deferred Tax Assets 21,160 21,842 175,939 Other Current Assets 6,091 34 50,652 Less: Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (12) (21) (106) Total Current Assets 9,785,276 10,918,552 81,360,910 Noncurrent Assets Tangible Fixed Assets 15,678 17,284 130,360 Intangible Fixed Assets 34,344 30,210 285,560 Investments and Other Assets 297,869 308,211 2,476,671 Investment Securities 241,190 230,933 2,005,411 Long-term Guarantee Deposits 12,670 16,843 105,353 Prepaid Pension Cost 12,746 7,138 105,985 Deferred Tax Assets 8,297 18,986 68,989 Other 28,018 38,929 232,964 Less: Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (5,055) (4,619) (42,031) Total Noncurrent Assets 347,891 355,706 2,892,591 Total Assets ¥ 10,133,168 ¥ 11,274,259 $ 84,253,501 236 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheetー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Liabilities Current Liabilities Trading Liabilities ¥ 3,909,239 ¥ 4,209,557 $ 32,503,863 Trading Securities and Others 2,294,228 3,216,324 19,075,652 Derivatives 1,615,010 993,232 13,428,211 Payables Related to Margin Transactions 33,922 22,643 282,052 Borrowings on Margin Transactions 8,383 6,782 69,703 Cash Collateral for Loaned Securities under Margin Transactions 25,539 15,861 212,349 Collateralized Short-term Financing Agreements-payable 3,052,857 4,251,865 25,383,366 Deposits Received for Securities Loaned 1,417,601 2,630,804 11,786,828 Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase 1,635,255 1,621,061 13,596,538 Deposits Received 160,613 131,547 1,335,438 Guarantee Deposits Received 110,135 70,936 915,732 Securities: Fail to Receive 8,685 5,352 72,220 Short-term Borrowings 626,792 509,698 5,211,546 Commercial Paper 456,500 290,100 3,795,627 Bonds and Notes Due within One year 67,220 48,353 558,913 Lease Obligations 414 432 3,443 Advances Received 1,363 497 11,334 Accounts Payable-other 3,221 2,375 26,783 Accrued Expenses 24,301 22,533 202,054 Income Taxes Payable 2,549 1,112 21,196 Reserve for Bonus Payments 14,757 12,627 122,702 Provision for Bonus point Redemption 783 695 6,512 Other Current Liabilities 1,524 2,752 12,677 Total Current Liabilities 8,474,880 9,583,084 70,465,458 Noncurrent Liabilities Bonds and Notes 496,002 455,877 4,124,073 Long-term Borrowings 524,000 616,900 4,356,864 Lease Obligations 1,351 1,730 11,237 Provision for Retirement Benefits 16,952 16,094 140,958 Other Noncurrent Liabilities 2,431 2,065 20,216 Total Noncurrent Liabilities 1,040,738 1,092,668 8,653,348 Statutory Reserves Reserve for Financial Instrument Transaction Liabilities 1,589 1,254 13,215 Total Statutory Reserves 1,589 1,254 13,215 Total Liabilities ¥ 9,517,208 ¥ 10,677,007 $ 79,132,021 237 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheetー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity Common Stock ¥ 125,167 ¥ 125,167 $ 1,040,719 Capital Surplus Additional Paid in Capital 285,831 285,831 2,376,581 Other Capital Surplus 95,817 95,817 796,691 Total Capital Surpluses 381,649 381,649 3,173,272 Retained Earnings Other Retained Earnings Retained Earnings Brought Forward 112,125 91,516 932,277 Total Retained Earnings 112,125 91,516 932,277 Total Shareholders’ Equity 618,941 598,333 5,146,268 Valuation and Translation Adjustments Net Unrealized Gains on (Operating) Investment Securities, net of Tax 24,524 16,865 203,909 Net Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges, net of Tax (27,505) (17,946) (228,697) Total Valuation and Translation Adjustments (2,981) (1,081) (24,788) Total Net Assets 615,960 597,251 5,121,480 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 10,133,168 ¥ 11,274,259 $ 84,253,501 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥120.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2015, has been used for translation. 238 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2015 2014 2015 Operating Revenues Commissions ¥ 146,782 ¥ 148,149 $ 1,220,443 Brokerage Commissions 33,795 43,105 280,996 Underwriting and Selling Fees, and Commissions from Solicitation to Qualifying Investors 28,626 24,470 238,021 Offering, Selling, and Other Commissions and Fees, and Commissions from Solicitation to Qualifying Investors 34,228 37,131 284,599 Other commissions and Fees 50,131 43,442 416,827 Net Gain on Trading 117,865 95,563 980,011 Net Gain (loss) on Operating Investment Securities 2,680 1,998 22,286 Interest and Dividend Income 34,249 33,373 284,773 Total Operating Revenues 301,578 279,085 2,507,513 Interest Expenses 26,850 26,345 223,254 Net Operating Revenues 274,727 252,739 2,284,259 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 217,631 202,775 1,809,522 Transaction-related Expenses 45,154 41,306 375,446 Personnel Expenses 85,944 82,762 714,599 Real Estate Expenses 25,634 26,959 213,143 Administrative Expenses 38,685 30,046 321,653 Depreciation and Amortization 15,065 15,023 125,260 Taxes and Dues 3,106 2,390 25,831 Provision of Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 431 126 3,585 Other 3,608 4,158 30,005 Operating Income 57,096 49,964 474,737 Non-operating Income 4,720 5,148 39,250 Non-operating Expenses 581 792 4,834 Ordinary Income 61,235 54,320 509,153 Extraordinary gain 588 5,705 4,892 Gain on Sales of Noncurrent Assets 89 ― 743 Gain on Sale of Investment Securities 499 5,705 4,149 Extraordinary loss 2,530 5,983 21,043 Loss on Disposal of Noncurrent Assets 386 421 3,215 Loss on Sale of Investment Securities 69 417 576 Loss on Impairment of Investment Securities ― 19 ― Loss on Impairment of Investments in Subsidiaries and Affiliates ― 489 ― Loss on Impairment of Golf Club Membership 0 7 0 Impairment Losses 858 149 7,142 Merger Expenses ― 2,115 ― Head office transfer cost 881 2,293 7,328 Provision of Reserve for Financial Instruments Transaction Liabilities 334 69 2,782 Income before Income Taxes 59,293 54,042 493,002 Income Taxes current 4,485 2,169 37,293 Income Taxes deferred 10,734 (8,248) 89,255 Total Income Taxes 15,219 (6,078) 126,548 Net Income ¥ 44,073 ¥ 60,121 $ 366,454 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥120.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2015, has been used for translation. 239 240 Status of Capital Adequacy Capital Adequacy Ratio Highlights 242 Status of Mizuho Financial Group's Consolidated 244 Capital Adequacy Scope of Consolidation 244 Composition of Capital 246 Risk-based Capital 262 Credit Risk 265 Methods for Credit Risk Mitigation 281 Counterparty Risk in Derivatives Transactions and Long-settlement Transactions 283 Securitization Exposure 285 Market Risk 307 Operational Risk 307 Equity Exposure in Banking Book 307 Composition of Leverage Ratio 310 Indicators for assessing Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) 311 Compensation of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees 312 241 Status of Capital Adequacy Capital Adequacy Ratio Highlights The Basel Framework, based on the “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: A Revised Framework” issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, requires the disclosure of capital adequacy information to ensure the enhanced effectiveness of market discipline. Our disclosure is made under the “Matters Separately Prescribed by the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency Regarding Capital Adequacy Conditions, etc. pursuant to Article 19-2, Paragraph 1, Item 5, Subitem (d), etc. of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Banking Law (Ministry of Finance Ordinance No. 10 of 1982)” (the FSA Notice No. 7 of 2014, etc.). With respect to the calculation of capital adequacy ratio, we have applied the international standard and adopted (a) the advanced internal ratings-based approach as a method to calculate the amount of credit risk weighted assets and (b) the advanced measurement approach as a method to calculate the amount equivalent to the operational risk. ■ Capital adequacy ratio highlights Mizuho Financial Group (Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Total capital ratio 14.58% 14.36% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 11.50% 11.35% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 9.43% 8.80% Total capital ¥9,508.4 ¥8,655.9 Tier 1 capital 7,500.3 6,844.7 Common equity Tier 1 capital 6,153.1 5,304.4 Risk weighted assets ¥65,191.9 ¥60,274.0 Mizuho Bank (Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Total capital ratio 15.30% 15.48% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 12.13% 12.35% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 10.42% 10.19% Total capital ¥8,753.5 ¥8,180.6 Tier 1 capital 6,943.1 6,525.3 Common equity Tier 1 capital 5,965.7 5,386.5 Risk weighted assets ¥57,201.8 ¥52,823.7 Mizuho Bank (Non-Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Total capital ratio 15.35% 15.58% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 12.01% 12.29% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 10.33% 10.15% Total capital ¥8,597.5 ¥8,071.7 Tier 1 capital 6,727.5 6,369.6 Common equity Tier 1 capital 5,787.3 5,260.2 Risk weighted assets ¥55,981.4 ¥51,803.7 Mizuho Trust & Banking (Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Total capital ratio 19.21% 17.80% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 16.68% 14.76% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 16.67% 14.76% Total capital ¥511.6 ¥456.6 Tier 1 capital 444.4 378.7 Common equity Tier 1 capital 444.1 378.7 Risk weighted assets ¥2,663.4 ¥2,564.6 242 Mizuho Trust & Banking (Non-consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Total capital ratio 19.33% 17.79% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 16.79% 14.76% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 16.79% 14.76% Total capital ¥502.8 ¥451.2 Tier 1 capital 436.7 374.5 Common equity Tier 1 capital 436.7 374.5 Risk weighted assets ¥2,600.9 ¥2,536.1 243 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Scope of consolidation (1) Scope of consolidation for calculating consolidated capital adequacy ratio (a) Difference from the companies included in the scope of consolidation based on consolidation rules for preparation of consolidated financial statements (the “scope of accounting consolidation”) None as of March 31, 2015 and 2014 (b) Number of consolidated subsidiaries As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Consolidated subsidiaries 150 159 Our major consolidated subsidiaries are Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. The following table sets forth information with respect to our principal consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2015 Proportion of Proportion of Country of ownership voting Name organization Main business interest (%) interest (%) Domestic Mizuho Bank, Ltd. ............................................Japan Banking 100.0% 100.0% Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. ....................Japan Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. ..............................Japan Securities 95.8 95.8 Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. ..............Japan Trust and banking 54.0 54.0 Mizuho Asset Management Co., Ltd. ..............Japan Investment 98.7 98.7 management Mizuho Research Institute Ltd. ........................Japan Research and 98.6 98.6 consulting Mizuho Information & Research Institute Inc. ..Japan Information technology 91.5 91.5 Mizuho Financial Strategy Co., Ltd. ................Japan Consulting 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Private Wealth Management Co., Ltd. Japan Consulting 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Credit Guarantee Co., Ltd. .................Japan Credit guarantee 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Factors, Limited ..................................Japan Factoring 100.0 100.0 Shinko Asset Management Co., Ltd. ..............Japan Investment 94.3 94.8 management Mizuho Trust Realty Company Limited ............Japan Real estate agency 86.7 76.9 Defined Contribution Plan Services Co., Ltd. ...Japan Pension plan-related 60.0 60.0 business Mizuho-DL Financial Technology Co., Ltd. .....Japan Application and 60.0 60.0 Sophistication of Financial Technology UC Card Co., Ltd. ...........................................Japan Credit card 51.0 51.0 Mizuho Capital Co., Ltd. ...................................Japan Venture capital 50.0 50.0 244 Proportion of Proportion of Country of ownership voting Name organization Main business interest (%) interest (%) Overseas Mizuho International plc ..................................U.K. Securities and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. ...............................China Banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities Asia Limited ........................China Securities 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank Nederland N.V. ..........................Netherlands Banking and securities 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities USA Inc. .............................U.S.A. Securities 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Trust & Banking (Luxembourg) S.A. Luxembourg Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (USA) ........................................U.S.A. Banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (Switzerland) Ltd .......................Switzerland Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. (USA) .................U.S.A. Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Capital Markets Corporation ...............U.S.A. Derivatives 100.0 100.0 PT. Bank Mizuho Indonesia ............................Indonesia Banking 99.0 99.0 (c) Corporations providing financial services for which Article 9 of the FSA Notice No. 20 is applicable None as of March 31, 2015 and 2014. (d) Companies that are in the bank holding company’s corporate group but not included in the scope of accounting consolidation and companies that are not in the bank holding company’s corporate group but included in the scope of accounting consolidation None as of March 31, 2015 and 2014. (e) Restrictions on transfer of funds or capital within the bank holding company’s corporate group None as of March 31, 2015 and 2014. (f) Names of any other financial institutions, etc., classified as subsidiaries or other members of the bank holding company that are deficient in regulatory capital None as of March 31, 2015 and 2014. 245 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Composition of capital (2) Composition of capital, etc. (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Common equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves (1) Directly issued qualifying common share 1a+2-1ccapital plus related stock surplus and retained ¥5,816,601 ¥/ ¥5,274,735 ¥/ 26 earnings 1a of which: capital and stock surplus 3,152,290 / 3,051,830 / 2 of which: retained earnings 2,768,510 / 2,314,792 / 1c of which: treasury stock (-) 3,616 / 3,874 / of which: national specific regulatory 26 100,584 / 88,012 / adjustments (earnings to be distributed) (-) of which: other than above / / 1b Subscription rights to common shares 3,820 / 3,179 / Accumulated other comprehensive income and 3 811,982 1,217,973 156,219 624,876 other disclosed reserves Common share capital issued by subsidiaries 5 and held by third parties (amount allowed in 12,106 / 10,867 / group CET1) Total of items included in common equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves subject to 49,114 / 61,593 / phase-out arrangements of which: amount allowed in group CET1 capital subject to phase-out arrangements 49,114 / 61,593 / on common share capital issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties Common equity Tier 1 capital: 6 (A) 6,693,624 / 5,506,594 / instruments and reserves Common equity Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments (2) Total intangible assets (net of related tax 8+9 liability, excluding those relating to mortgage 205,759 308,639 85,091 340,365 servicing rights) of which: goodwill (net of related tax 8 42,919 64,378 24,554 98,219 liability, including those equivalent) of which: other intangibles other than 9 goodwill and mortgage servicing rights (net 162,840 244,261 60,536 242,145 of related tax liability) Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from 10 4,559 6,839 5,773 23,092 temporary differences (net of related tax liability) Deferred gains or losses on derivatives under 11 ¥10,654 ¥15,981 ¥(1,335) ¥(5,342) hedge accounting 246 (a) Composition of capital disclosure (Internal standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Shortfall of eligible provisions to expected 12 ¥16,617 ¥24,806 ¥834 ¥3,065 losses 13 Securitization gain on sale 154 231 658 2,632 Gains and losses due to changes in own credit 14 456 685 281 1,125 risk on fair valued liabilities 15 Net defined benefit asset 201,673 302,509 53,235 212,941 Investments in own shares (excluding those 16 1,948 2,923 616 2,466 reported in the net assets section) 17 Reciprocal cross-holdings in common equity Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 18 98,658 147,987 57,027 228,110 eligible short positions, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued share capital (amount above the 10% threshold) 19+20 Amount exceeding the 10% threshold on +21 specified items of which: significant investments in the 19 common stock of financials 20 of which: mortgage servicing rights of which: deferred tax assets arising from 21 temporary differences (net of related tax liability) Amount exceeding the 15% threshold on 22 specified items of which: significant investments in the 23 common stock of financials 24 of which: mortgage servicing rights of which: deferred tax assets arising from 25 temporary differences (net of related tax liability) Regulatory adjustments applied to common 27 equity Tier 1 due to insufficient additional Tier / / 1 and Tier 2 to cover deductions Common equity Tier 1 capital: 28 (B) 540,483 / 202,182 / regulatory adjustments Common equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) Common equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) 29 (C) ¥6,153,141 ¥/ ¥5,304,412 ¥/ ((A)-(B)) 247 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of capital disclosure (Internal standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Additional Tier 1 capital: instruments (3) Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 31 instruments plus related stock surplus of 30 ¥¥/ ¥¥/ a which: classified as equity under applicable accounting standards and the breakdown 31 Subscription rights to additional Tier 1 30 / / b instruments Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock surplus of 30 32 / / which: classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus 30 related stock surplus issued by special / / purpose vehicles and other equivalent entities Additional Tier 1 instruments issued by 34-35 subsidiaries and held by third parties (amount 29,598 / 25,376 / allowed in group AT1) Eligible Tier 1 capital instruments subject to 33+35 phase-out arrangements included in additional 1,458,197 / 1,666,511 / Tier 1 capital: instruments of which: directly issued capital instruments 33 1,458,197 / 1,666,511 / subject to phase out from additional Tier 1 of which: instruments issued by 35 / / subsidiaries subject to phase out Total of items included in additional Tier 1 capital: instruments subject to phase-out (24,272) / (50,810) / arrangements of which: foreign currency translation (24,272) / (50,810) / adjustments 36 Additional Tier 1 capital: instruments (D) 1,463,523 / 1,641,076 / Additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments Investments in own additional Tier 1 37 instruments Reciprocal cross-holdings in additional Tier 1 38 ¥¥¥¥instruments 248 (a) Composition of capital disclosure (Internal standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 39 eligible short positions, where the bank does ¥377 ¥566 ¥327 ¥1,311 not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity (amount above 10% threshold) Significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that 40 50,301 75,451 21,049 84,199 are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation (net of eligible short positions) Total of items included in additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments subject to 65,636 / 79,365 / phase-out arrangements of which: goodwill equivalent 35,170 / 49,791 / of which: intangible fixed assets recognized 17,771 / 25,272 / as a result of a merger of which: capital increase due to 231 / 2,632 / securitization transactions of which: 50% of excess of expected losses relative to eligible reserves by banks 12,462 / 1,668 / adopting internal ratings-based approach Regulatory adjustments applied to additional 42 Tier 1 due to insufficient Tier 2 to cover / / deductions Additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory 43 (E) 116,315 / 100,742 / adjustments Additional Tier 1 capital (AT1) 44 Additional Tier 1 capital ((D)-(E)) (F) 1,347,208 / 1,540,334 / Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) 45 (G) 7,500,349 / 6,844,746 / ((C)+(F)) Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions (4) Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus of which: classified 46 / / as equity under applicable accounting standards and the breakdown 46 Subscription rights to Tier 2 instruments ¥¥/ ¥¥/ 249 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of capital disclosure (Internal standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus of which: classified 46 ¥150,000 ¥/ ¥¥/ as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus 46 issued by special purpose vehicles and other 180,405 / 154,380 / equivalent entities Tier 2 instruments issued by subsidiaries and 48-49 held by third parties (amount allowed in group 9,250 / 8,161 / Tier 2) Eligible Tier 2 capital instruments subject to 47+49 phase-out arrangements included in Tier 2: 1,108,804 / 1,349,648 / instruments and provisions of which: directly issued capital instruments 47 180,405 / 146,480 / subject to phase out from Tier 2 of which: instruments issued by 49 928,399 / 1,203,167 / subsidiaries subject to phase out Total of general allowance for loan losses and 50 4,621 / 7,051 / eligible provisions included in Tier 2 50a of which: general allowance for loan losses 4,621 / 7,051 / 50b of which: eligible provisions / / Total of items included in Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions subject to phase730,789 / 474,042 / out arrangements of which: 45% of unrealized gains on other 671,710 / 394,192 / securities of which: 45% of revaluation reserve for 59,079 / 79,849 / land Tier 2 capital: instruments and 51 (H) 2,183,870 / 1,993,284 / provisions Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments 52 Investments in own Tier 2 instruments 1,680 2,520 4 16 53 Reciprocal cross-holdings in Tier 2 instruments Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 54 eligible short positions, where the bank does ¥54,114 ¥81,171 ¥41,748 ¥166,993 not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity (amount above the 10% threshold) 250 (a) Composition of capital disclosure (Internal standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Significant investments in the capital banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside 55 ¥¥¥¥the scope of regulatory consolidation (net of eligible short positions) Total of items included in Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments subject to phase-out 119,954 / 140,287 / arrangements of which: investments in the capital 107,491 / 138,618 / banking, financial and insurance entities of which: 50% of excess of expected losses relative to eligible reserves by banks 12,462 / 1,668 / adopting internal ratings-based approach 57 Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments (I) 175,748 / 182,040 / Tier 2 capital (T2) 58 Tier 2 capital (T2) ((H)-(I)) (J) 2,008,122 / 1,811,244 / Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) 59 Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) ((G) + (J)) (K) 9,508,471 / 8,655,990 / Risk weighted assets (5) Total of items included in risk weighted assets 858,200 / 979,439 / subject to phase-out arrangements of which: intangible assets (net of related tax liability, excluding those relating to 226,489 / 216,873 / mortgage service rights) of which: deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising 6,839 / 23,092 / from temporary differences (net of related tax liability) of which: net defined benefit asset 302,509 / 212,941 / of which: investments in the capital 322,361 / 526,532 / banking, financial and insurance entities 60 Risk weighted assets (L) ¥65,191,951 ¥/ ¥60,274,087 ¥/ Capital ratio (consolidated) Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 61 9.43% / 8.80% / (consolidated) ((C)/(L)) 251 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of capital disclosure (Internal standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements 62 Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) ((G)/(L)) 11.50% / 11.35% / 63 Total capital ratio (consolidated) ((K)/(L)) 14.58% / 14.36% / Regulatory adjustments (6) Non-significant investments in the capital of 72 other financials that are below the thresholds ¥675,780 ¥/ ¥534,399 ¥/ for deduction (before risk weighting) Significant investments in the common stock of 73 financials that are below the thresholds for 150,800 / 145,996 / deduction (before risk weighting) Mortgage servicing rights that are below the 74 / / thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) Deferred tax assets arising from temporary 75 differences that are below the thresholds for 75,937 / 302,251 / deduction (before risk weighting) Provisions included in Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions (7) 76 Provisions (general allowance for loan losses) 4,621 / 7,051 / Cap on inclusion of provisions (general 77 45,586 / 57,825 / allowance for loan losses) Provisions eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 in respect of exposures subject to internal 78 / / ratings-based approach (prior to application of cap) (if the amount is negative, report as nil ) Cap for inclusion of provisions in Tier 2 under 79 310,879 / 280,561 / internal ratings-based approach Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (8) Current cap on T1 instruments subject to 82 1,458,197 / 1,666,511 / phase-out arrangements Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess 83 over cap after redemptions and maturities) (if 257,085 / 364,873 / the amount is negative, report as nil ) Current cap on T2 instruments subject to 84 1,180,942 / 1,349,648 / phase-out arrangements Amount excluded from T2 due to cap (excess 85 over cap after redemptions and maturities) (if ¥¥/ ¥81,139 ¥/ the amount is negative, report as nil ) 252 Notes: 1. The above figures are calculated based on International standard applied on a consolidated basis under the FSA Notice No. 20. 2. In calculating the consolidated capital adequacy ratio, we underwent an examination following the procedures agreed with Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC, on the basis of “Treatment in implementing examination by agreed-upon procedures for calculating capital adequacy ratio” (Industry Committee Practical Guideline No. 30 of the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants). Note that this is not a part of the accounting audit performed on our consolidated financial statements. This consists of an examination under agreed-upon procedures performed by Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC on a portion of the internal control structure concerning the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio and a report of the results to us. As such, they do not represent an opinion regarding the capital adequacy ratio itself nor the internal controls related to the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio. 253 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (b) Explanation of (a) Composition of capital disclosure Reconciliation between Consolidated balance sheet and items of consolidated balance sheet and “Composition of capital disclosure” (Millions of yen) Reference # of Consolidated balance sheet as in published Cross-reference Basel III template financial statements Items to Appended under the template Composition of As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 capital disclosure (Assets) Cash and due from banks ¥29,096,166 ¥20,610,276 Call loans and bills purchased 444,115 467,758 Receivables under resale 8,582,239 8,349,528 agreements Guarantee deposits paid under 4,059,340 5,010,740 securities borrowing transactions Other debt purchased 3,239,831 3,263,057 Trading assets 10,781,735 11,469,811 6-a Money held in trust 157,728 168,369 Securities 43,278,733 43,997,517 2-b, 6-b Loans and bills discounted 73,415,170 69,301,405 6-c Foreign exchange assets 1,623,736 1,576,167 Derivatives other than for trading 3,544,243 2,820,468 6-d assets Other assets 4,066,424 2,840,720 6-e Tangible fixed assets 1,078,051 925,266 Intangible fixed assets 657,556 531,501 2-a Net defined benefit asset 743,382 413,073 3 Deferred tax assets 36,938 104,909 4-a Customers' liabilities for 5,404,843 4,588,646 acceptances and guarantees Reserves for possible losses on (525,486) (616,307) loans Reserve for possible losses on (2) (27) investments Total assets ¥189,684,749 ¥175,822,885 (Liabilities) Deposits ¥97,757,545 ¥89,055,505 Negotiable certificates of deposit 15,694,906 12,755,776 Call money and bills sold 5,091,198 7,194,432 Payables under repurchase 19,612,120 16,797,803 agreements Guarantee deposits received under 2,245,639 6,085,331 securities lending transactions Commercial paper 538,511 677,459 Trading liabilities 8,743,196 8,183,037 6-f Borrowed money 7,195,869 7,838,357 8-a Foreign exchange liabilities 473,060 323,327 Short-term bonds 816,705 584,568 Bonds and notes 6,013,731 5,245,743 8-b 254 (b) Explanation of (a) Composition of capital disclosure-(Continued) (Millions of yen) Reference # of Consolidated balance sheet as in published Cross-reference Basel III template financial statements Items to Appended under the template Composition of As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 capital disclosure Due to trust accounts 1,780,768 1,300,655 Derivatives other than for trading 3,474,332 3,004,497 6-g liabilities Other liabilities 4,261,955 3,570,902 Reserve for bonus payments 59,869 52,641 Net defined benefit liability 47,518 46,006 Reserve for director and corporate 1,527 1,547 auditor retirement benefits Reserve for possible losses on 13 1,259 sales of loans Reserve for contingencies 7,845 6,309 Reserve for reimbursement of 15,851 16,451 deposits Reserve for reimbursement of 48,878 54,956 debentures Reserves under special laws 1,607 1,273 Deferred tax liabilities 524,321 50,783 4-b Deferred tax liabilities for 72,392 81,060 4-c revaluation reserve for land Acceptances and guarantees 5,404,843 4,588,646 Total liabilities ¥179,884,211 ¥167,518,336 (Net assets) Common stock and preferred stock 2,255,404 2,254,972 1-a Capital surplus 1,110,006 1,109,508 1-b Retained earnings 2,769,371 2,315,608 1-c Treasury stock (3,616) (3,874) 1-d Total shareholders' equity ¥6,131,166 ¥5,676,215 Net unrealized gains (losses) on 1,737,348 733,522 other securities Deferred gains or losses on hedges 26,635 (6,677) 5 Revaluation reserve for land 146,419 140,745 Foreign currency translation (40,454) (63,513) adjustment Remeasurements of defined benefit 160,005 (22,979) plans Total accumulated other ¥2,029,955 ¥781,096 3 comprehensive income Stock acquisition rights 3,820 3,179 1b Minority interests 1,635,595 1,844,057 7 Total net assets ¥9,800,538 ¥8,304,549 Total liabilities and net assets ¥189,684,749 ¥175,822,885 Note: The regulatory scope of consolidation is the same as the accounting scope of consolidation. 255 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Appended template 1. Shareholders' equity (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March 31, Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items 2014 Remarks 31, 2015 Including eligible Tier 1 capital 1-a Common stock and preferred stock ¥2,255,404 ¥2,254,972 instruments subject to phaseout arrangements Including eligible Tier 1 capital 1-b Capital surplus 1,110,006 1,109,508 instruments subject to phaseout arrangements 1-c Retained earnings 2,769,371 2,315,608 1-d Treasury stock (3,616) (3,874) Total shareholders' equity ¥6,131,166 ¥5,676,215 (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March 31, Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2015 2014 Shareholders' equity Directly issued qualifying common attributable to common shares share capital plus related stock surplus ¥5,917,185 ¥5,362,748 (before adjusting national and retained earnings specific regulatory adjustments (earnings to be distributed)) 1a of which: capital and stock surplus 3,152,290 3,051,830 2 of which: retained earnings 2,768,510 2,314,792 1c of which: treasury stock (-) 3,616 3,874 of which: other than above Directly issued qualifying additional Shareholders' equity Tier 1 instruments plus related stock attributable to preferred shares 31a surplus of which: classified as equity with a loss absorbency clause under applicable accounting standards upon entering into effectively and the breakdown bankruptcy 256 2. Intangible fixed assets (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March 31, Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2015 2014 2-a Intangible fixed assets ¥657,556 ¥531,501 2-b Securities 43,278,733 43,997,517 of which: share of goodwill of Share of goodwill of companies companies accounted for using the 48,680 60,535 accounted for using the equity equity method method Income taxes related to above ¥ (191,837) ¥ (166,580) (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March 31, Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2015 2014 Goodwill (net of related tax liability, 8 ¥107,297 ¥122,774 including those equivalent) Other intangibles other than goodwill 9 and mortgage servicing rights (net of 407,101 302,681 Software and other related tax liability) Mortgage servicing rights (net of related tax liability) Amount exceeding the 10% 20 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 24 threshold on specified items Mortgage servicing rights that are 74 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 3. Net defined benefit asset (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March 31, Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2015 2014 3 Net defined benefit asset ¥743,382 ¥413,073 Income taxes related to above ¥ (239,199) ¥ (146,897) (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March 31, Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2015 2014 15 Net defined benefit asset ¥504,183 ¥266,176 257 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy 4. Deferred tax assets (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March 31, Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2015 2014 4-a Deferred tax assets ¥36,938 ¥104,909 4-b Deferred tax liabilities 524,321 50,783 Deferred tax liabilities for revaluation 4-c 72,392 81,060 reserve for land Tax effects on intangible fixed assets ¥191,837 ¥166,580 Tax effects on net defined benefit asset 239,199 146,897 (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March 31, Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2015 2014 This item does not agree with Deferred tax assets that rely on future the amount reported on the profitability excluding those arising from 10 ¥11,399 ¥28,865 consolidated balance sheet temporary differences (net of related due to offsetting of assets and tax liability) liabilities. This item does not agree with Deferred tax assets that rely on future the amount reported on the profitability arising from temporary 75,937 302,251 consolidated balance sheet differences (net of related tax liability) due to offsetting of assets and liabilities. Amount exceeding the 10% 21 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 25 threshold on specified items Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that are 75 75,937 302,251 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 258 5. Deferred gains or losses on derivatives under hedge accounting (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March 31, Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2015 2014 5 Deferred gains or losses on hedges ¥26,635 ¥ (6,677) (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March 31, Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2015 2014 Deferred gains or losses on derivatives 11 ¥26,635 ¥ (6,677) under hedge accounting 6. Items associated with investments in the capital of financial institutions (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March 31, Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2015 2014 Including trading account 6-a Trading assets ¥10,781,735 ¥11,469,811 securities and derivatives for trading assets 6-b Securities 43,278,733 43,997,517 6-c Loans and bills discounted 73,415,170 69,301,405 Including subordinated loans Derivatives other than for trading 6-d 3,544,243 2,820,468 assets 6-e Other assets 4,066,424 2,840,720 Including money invested Including trading account 6-f Trading liabilities 8,743,196 8,183,037 securities sold Derivatives other than for trading 6-g 3,474,332 3,004,497 liabilities 259 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March 31, Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2015 2014 Investments in own capital instruments ¥9,072 ¥3,103 16 Common equity Tier 1 capital 4,872 3,083 37 Additional Tier 1 capital 52 Tier 2 capital 4,200 20 Reciprocal cross-holdings in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities 17 Common equity Tier 1 capital 38 Additional Tier 1 capital 53 Tier 2 capital Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of eligible short 1,058,656 1,029,919 positions, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued share capital (amount above 10% threshold) 18 Common equity Tier 1 capital 246,646 285,138 39 Additional Tier 1 capital 943 1,638 54 Tier 2 capital 135,285 208,742 Non-significant investments in the capital of other financials that are 72 675,780 534,399 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) Significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of 276,553 251,246 regulatory consolidation, net of eligible short positions Amount exceeding the 10% 19 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 23 threshold on specified items 40 Additional Tier 1 capital 125,753 105,249 55 Tier 2 capital Significant investments in the common stock of financials that are 73 150,800 145,996 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 260 7. Minority interests (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March 31, Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2015 2014 7 Minority interests ¥1,635,595 ¥1,844,057 (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March 31, Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2015 2014 Common share capital issued by After reflecting amounts 5 subsidiaries and held by third parties ¥12,106 ¥10,867 eligible for inclusion (minority (amount allowed in group CET1) interest after adjustments) Qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments After reflecting amounts plus related stock surplus issued by 30-31ab-32 eligible for inclusion (minority special purpose vehicles and other interest after adjustments) equivalent entities Additional Tier 1 instruments issued by After reflecting amounts 34-35 subsidiaries and held by third parties 29,598 25,376 eligible for inclusion (minority (amount allowed in group AT1) interest after adjustments) Tier 2 instruments plus related stock After reflecting amounts 46 surplus issued by special purpose 180,405 154,380 eligible for inclusion (minority vehicles and other equivalent entities interest after adjustments) Tier 2 instruments issued by After reflecting amounts 48-49 subsidiaries and held by third parties 9,250 8,161 eligible for inclusion (minority (amount allowed in group Tier 2) interest after adjustments) 8. Other capital instruments (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March 31, Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2015 2014 8-a Borrowed money ¥7,195,869 ¥7,838,357 8-b Bonds and notes 6,013,731 5,245,743 Total ¥13,209,601 ¥13,084,101 261 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March 31, Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2015 2014 Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock 32 ¥¥surplus of which: classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus 46 150,000 of which: classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Note: Amounts in the Composition of capital disclosure are based on those before considering amounts under transitional arrangements and include Amounts excluded under transitional arrangements disclosed in (A) Composition of capital disclosure as well as amounts included as regulatory capital. In addition, items for regulatory purposes under transitional arrangements are excluded from this table. ■Risk-based capital (3) Summary of approach to assessing capital adequacy In order to ensure that risk-based capital is sufficiently maintained in light of the risk held by us, we regularly conduct the following assessment of capital adequacy in addition to adopting a suitable and effective capital adequacy monitoring structure. Maintaining a sufficient BIS capital ratio We confirm our maintenance of a high level of financial soundness by conducting regular evaluations to examine whether our risk-based capital is adequate in qualitative as well as quantitative terms, in light of our business plans and strategic targets to match the increase in risk-weighted assets acquired for growth, in addition to maintaining common equity Tier 1 capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and total capital ratio that exceed the minimum requirements. Balancing risk and capital On the basis of the framework for allocating risk capital, after obtaining the clearest possible grasp of the group’s overall risk exposure, we endeavor to control risk so as to keep it within the range of our business capacity by means of allocating capital that corresponds to the amount of risk to the business groups and units of our banking subsidiaries, etc., within the bounds of our capital, and we conduct regular assessments to ensure that a sufficient level of capital is maintained for our risk profile. When making these assessments, we estimate the impact of the stress on our capital from risk scenarios that are formulated based on external environment, risks inherent to our business portfolio, etc. and from scenarios such as the occurrence of historical stress events. In addition, we examine whether an appropriate return on risk is maintained in the assessments. 262 (4) Required capital by portfolio classification (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 EAD Required capital EAD Required capital Credit risk ¥195,982.4 ¥5,456.6 ¥180,860.3 ¥5,114.7 Internal ratings-based approach 188,787.2 4,926.2 173,716.9 4,530.0 Corporate (except specialized 68,175.7 2,434.9 59,100.4 2,360.0 lending) Corporate (specialized lending) 3,574.5 323.9 2,977.2 258.1 Sovereign 77,681.9 92.8 77,644.8 82.2 Bank 7,239.8 155.8 6,511.3 148.5 Retail 13,346.9 546.0 13,531.9 587.7 Residential mortgage 10,173.4 344.5 10,366.2 380.4 Qualifying revolving loan 499.0 38.1 434.7 35.0 Other retail 2,674.4 163.3 2,730.9 172.2 Equities 5,628.1 695.3 4,299.9 485.9 PD/LGD approach 4,831.4 489.4 1,199.5 131.1 Market-based approach (simple 796.7 205.9 490.7 129.0 risk weight method) Market-based approach (internal models approach) Transitional measure applied / / 2,609.6 225.7 Regarded-method exposure 2,073.3 382.1 1,761.0 344.2 Purchase receivables 5,111.1 140.1 1,935.4 60.0 Securitizations 3,340.6 24.0 3,038.7 46.6 Others 2,614.8 130.9 2,916.0 156.2 Standardized approach 7,195.2 279.0 7,143.4 370.0 Sovereign 2,881.6 7.8 1,505.0 6.0 Bank 1,274.6 25.0 1,527.7 38.9 Corporate 2,447.9 183.7 3,619.6 272.4 Residential mortgage Securitizations 21.9 9.5 20.6 9.9 Others 569.0 52.8 470.4 42.7 CVA risk / 220.4 / 195.8 Central counterparty-related / 31.0 / 18.7 Market risk / 277.9 / 233.5 Standardized approach / 78.8 / 62.8 Interest rate risk / 42.3 / 39.9 Equities risk / 22.9 / 13.5 Foreign exchange risk / 10.3 / 8.4 Commodities risk / 3.1 / 0.9 Option transactions / / Internal models approach / 199.0 / 170.6 Operational risk / 249.2 / 262.9 Advanced measurement approach / 210.4 / 230.9 Basic indicator approach / 38.8 / 31.9 Total required capital (consolidated) ¥/ ¥5,215.3 ¥/ ¥4,821.9 Notes 1. EAD: Exposure at default. 2. PD: Probability of default. 3. LGD: Loss given default. 4. Required capital: For credit risk, the sum of (i) 8% of credit risk-weighted assets and (ii) expected losses. For market risk, the market risk equivalent amount. For operational risk, the operational risk equivalent amount. 5. Total required capital (consolidated): 8% of the denominator of the capital adequacy ratio. 6. The major exposures included in each portfolio classification of internal ratings-based approach are as follows: 263 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Corporate (excluding Credits to corporations and sole proprietors (excluding credits to retail customers) specialized lending) Corporate (specialized Credits which limit interest and principal repayment sources to cash flow derived from specific real estate, chattel, businesses, etc, lending) including real estate non-recourse loan, ship finance and project finance, etc. Sovereign Credits to central governments, central banks and local governmental entities Bank Credits to banks and securities companies, etc. Retail Housing loans (residential mortgage), credit card loans (qualifying revolving retail loan) and other individual consumer loans and loans to business enterprises with total credit amount of less than ¥100 million, etc. (other retail). Equities Capital stock, preferred securities, perpetual subordinated debt, etc. (excluding trading assets) The transitional measure (Article 13 of supplementary provision of the FSA Notice No. 20) applies to those held from September 30, 2004 or earlier in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Either the PD/LGD approach or the market-based approach applies in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 as the transitional period ended. Regarded-method exposure Investment trusts and funds, etc. Purchase receivables Receivables purchased from third parties excluding securities (excluding securitizations) Securitizations Transactions in the form of “non-recourse” and having a “senior/subordinated structure,” etc. (excluding specialized lending). 7. EAD calculated using the standardized approach for credit risk represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs. 264 ■ Credit risk (5) Credit risk management ○ Summary of credit risk management See pages 97 to 100 for a summary of our credit risk management policies and procedures. We apply the advanced internal ratings-based approach to calculate credit risk-weighted assets under Basel Framework. With regard to some business units or asset classes that are deemed to be immaterial for purposes of calculating credit risk-weighted assets, we apply the standardized approach. Meanwhile, we have applied the advanced internal ratings-based approach to Mizuho Bank Nederland N.V. since the end of March 2015. We use our estimates of PD (probability of default) and LGD (loss given default) in calculating credit risk-weighted assets. In accordance with regulations, we estimate PD by using long-term averages of actual defaults, to which conservative adjustments are made, based on internal data, and make adjustments to LGD taking into account recessionary periods. We regularly perform verifications of PD and LGD through back testing and other methods. We also utilize these estimates for measuring credit risks for internal use, allocating risk capital and other purposes. ○ Status of portfolios to which the standardized approach is applied Eligible external credit assessment institutions used for determining the risk weight for portfolios to which the standardized approach is applied are Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) in Japan and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P) overseas. We apply a risk weight of 100% for all of our corporate exposure. ○ Summary of our internal rating system See pages 98 to 99 for a summary of our internal rating system and rating assignment procedures. 265 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (6) Credit risk exposure, etc. We exclude regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure from the amount of credit risk exposure. The outstanding balance is based on exposure at default. No significant difference exists between period-end credit risk position and the average credit risk position during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015. ○ Status of credit risk exposure (a) Breakdown by geographical area (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥69,662.6 ¥28,131.5 ¥1,130.5 ¥25,941.1 ¥124,865.8 Overseas 37,120.2 11,831.1 2,545.7 7,010.2 58,507.3 Asia 9,175.5 2,076.8 319.9 1,764.3 13,336.8 Central and 3,157.2 162.9 141.2 578.4 4,039.9 South America North America 15,445.9 7,256.7 629.6 3,967.6 27,299.9 Eastern Europe 394.9 1.3 15.3 411.6 Western 5,620.9 1,825.4 1,267.6 464.3 9,178.3 Europe Other areas 3,325.5 509.1 185.7 220.0 4,240.6 Total ¥106,782.8 ¥39,962.7 ¥3,676.2 ¥32,951.3 ¥183,373.2 Exempt portion / / / / 7,173.2 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥74,327.0 ¥31,575.7 ¥1,062.4 ¥20,235.8 ¥127,201.0 Overseas 24,724.6 9,530.9 1,996.2 5,464.1 41,716.0 Asia 7,108.6 1,697.0 211.9 1,662.1 10,679.8 Central and 2,460.0 133.0 136.1 633.5 3,362.9 South America North America 8,839.9 5,120.9 503.5 2,648.2 17,112.5 Eastern Europe 33.8 0.3 9.0 43.2 Western Europe 4,004.3 2,244.9 1,015.9 336.4 7,601.6 Other areas 2,277.8 335.0 128.4 174.5 2,915.8 Total ¥99,051.6 ¥41,106.7 ¥3,058.7 ¥25,699.9 ¥168,917.1 Exempt portion / / / / 7,122.7 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 2. Exposure to non-Japanese residents is included in “Overseas.” 3. “Others” include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 266 (b) Breakdown by industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥19,834.1 ¥2,653.2 ¥511.1 ¥672.0 ¥23,670.5 Construction 1,470.3 194.8 14.2 61.6 1,741.0 Real estate 7,799.4 592.5 63.0 14.9 8,469.9 Service industries 4,625.9 459.4 78.9 46.6 5,210.8 Wholesale and retail 9,008.8 745.4 113.9 1,089.7 10,958.1 Finance and insurance 13,070.3 3,578.9 2,007.5 2,042.5 20,699.4 Individuals 11,949.5 0.2 10.6 11,960.3 Other industries 25,245.1 10,133.2 882.7 8,035.2 44,296.3 Japanese Government; 13,779.1 21,605.0 4.3 20,977.8 56,366.4 Bank of Japan Total ¥106,782.8 ¥39,962.7 ¥3,676.2 ¥32,951.3 ¥183,373.2 Exempt portion / / / / 7,173.2 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥15,958.4 ¥2,229.5 ¥299.6 ¥683.3 ¥19,170.9 Construction 1,327.2 163.0 7.8 45.4 1,543.4 Real estate 7,191.9 503.8 56.8 17.4 7,770.1 Service industries 3,841.7 398.9 73.0 45.3 4,358.9 Wholesale and retail 7,838.4 676.6 137.8 1,080.1 9,733.0 Finance and insurance 11,293.9 2,567.1 1859.8 1,857.7 17,578.8 Individuals 12,004.9 0.2 11.3 12,016.5 Other industries 19,534.6 8,647.9 617.4 7,013.7 35,813.7 Japanese Government; 20,060.3 25,919.4 6.0 14,945.4 60,931.3 Bank of Japan Total ¥99,051.6 ¥41,106.7 ¥3,058.7 ¥25,699.9 ¥168,917.1 Exempt portion / / / / 7,122.7 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 2. “Others” include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 267 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (c) Breakdown by residual contractual maturity (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Less than one year ¥30,032.6 ¥6,663.3 ¥723.6 ¥5,310.1 ¥42,729.7 From one year to less 18,221.8 10,934.4 1,645.7 604.0 31,406.1 than three years From three years to 19,111.8 9,387.3 473.1 21.9 28,994.2 less than five years Five years or more 26,942.5 7,529.5 833.7 5.8 35,311.6 Other than above 12,474.0 5,448.0 27,009.4 44,931.4 Total ¥106,782.8 ¥39,962.7 ¥3,676.2 ¥32,951.3 ¥183,373.2 Exempt portion / / / / 7,173.2 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Less than one year ¥29,175.7 ¥8,360.1 ¥455.7 ¥4,813.1 ¥42,804.8 From one year to less 14,691.3 11,291.2 1,448.3 537.8 27,968.7 than three years From three years to 14,945.4 10,846.7 553.2 18.8 26,364.3 less than five years Five years or more 24,670.2 6,308.2 601.3 8.6 31,588.4 Other than above 15,568.8 4,300.3 20,321.4 40,190.7 Total ¥99,051.6 ¥41,106.7 ¥3,058.7 ¥25,699.9 ¥168,917.1 Exempt portion / / / / 7,122.7 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 2. “Others” include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 268 ○ Status of exposure past due three months or more or in default (d) Breakdown by geographical area (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balancesheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥1,124.1 ¥24.2 ¥4.9 ¥24.6 ¥1,178.0 Overseas 349.1 1.9 23.6 6.9 381.6 Asia 44.8 0.0 0.6 1.2 46.7 Central and South 83.9 0.0 10.6 0.0 94.6 America North America 16.2 1.9 0.9 2.0 21.1 Eastern Europe 6.0 0.1 6.1 Western Europe 72.1 0.0 11.4 3.5 87.0 Other areas 125.9 0.0 125.9 Total ¥1,473.3 ¥26.2 ¥28.5 ¥31.5 ¥1,559.6 Exempt portion / / / / 4.4 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 2. Exposure to non-Japanese residents is included in “Overseas.” 3. “Others” include deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥1,017.8 ¥14.1 ¥7.8 ¥33.4 ¥1,073.3 Overseas 296.9 2.0 28.8 10.2 338.1 Asia 36.2 0.0 0.6 41.0 41.0 Central and South 171.6 0.0 19.8 0.1 191.6 America North America 1.2 2.0 2.1 5.3 Eastern Europe 4.3 4.3 Western Europe 66.7 0.0 8.3 3.8 78.9 Other areas 16.6 0.0 16.6 Total ¥1,314.7 ¥16.2 ¥36.7 ¥43.7 ¥1,411.4 Exempt portion / / / / 4.4 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 2. Exposure to non-Japanese residents is included in “Overseas.” 3. “Others” include deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 269 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (e) Breakdown by industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥516.7 ¥15.9 ¥3.5 ¥6.2 ¥542.3 Construction 27.1 0.2 0.6 28.0 Real estate 105.6 3.5 0.0 0.5 109.8 Service industries 99.7 0.7 8.0 3.1 111.7 Wholesale and retail 212.9 3.4 0.7 13.0 230.0 Finance and insurance 73.4 1.5 0.0 3.8 78.8 Individuals 126.1 1.2 127.3 Other industries 311.5 0.7 16.2 2.8 331.4 Total ¥1,473.3 ¥26.2 ¥28.5 ¥31.5 ¥1,559.6 Exempt portion / / / / 4.4 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥271.1 ¥4.8 ¥3.5 ¥10.6 ¥290.1 Construction 40.8 2.7 0.0 0.6 44.3 Real estate 144.1 3.5 0.0 0.9 148.6 Service industries 123.7 1.6 5.5 3.5 134.5 Wholesale and retail 196.9 1.2 2.3 17.3 217.9 Finance and insurance 21.0 1.4 2.9 4.1 29.5 Individuals 174.4 1.1 175.5 Other industries 342.5 0.7 22.3 5.1 370.7 Total ¥1,314.7 ¥16.2 ¥36.7 ¥43.7 ¥1,411.4 Exempt portion / / / / 4.4 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 2. “Others” include deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 270 ○ Status of reserves for possible losses on loans The amounts associated with regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure are excluded. (f) Fiscal year-end balances of reserves for possible losses on loans and changes during the fiscal year (after partial direct write-offs) (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March ended, March 31, 2015 31, 2014 General reserve for possible Beginning balance ¥398.7 ¥503.0 losses on loans Increase during the fiscal year 344.4 398.7 Decrease during the fiscal year 398.7 503.0 Ending balance 344.4 398.7 Specific reserve for possible Beginning balance 216.7 235.7 losses on loans Increase during the fiscal year 180.3 216.7 Decrease during the fiscal year 216.7 235.7 Ending balance 180.3 216.7 Reserve for possible losses Beginning balance 0.7 1.0 on loans to restructuring Increase during the fiscal year 0.6 0.7 countries Decrease during the fiscal year 0.7 1.0 Ending balance 0.6 0.7 Total Beginning balance ¥616.3 ¥739.8 Increase during the fiscal 525.4 616.3 year Decrease during the fiscal 616.3 739.8 year Ending balance 525.4 616.3 note: General reserve for possible losses on loans in the above table represents the amount recorded in our consolidated balance sheet, and the amounts associated with regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure are not excluded. 271 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (g) Specific reserve for possible losses on loans by geographical area and industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 As of March 31, 2013 Change Domestic ¥138.4 ¥171.3 ¥ (32.9) Manufacturing 30.7 35.1 (4.3) Construction 7.5 7.0 0.4 Real estate 11.7 24.9 (13.1) Service industries 12.0 12.3 (0.2) Wholesale and 32.1 38.2 (6.1) retail Finance and 0.0 0.1 (0.1) insurance Individuals 35.9 41.8 (5.8) Other industries 8.1 11.6 (3.5) Overseas 71.1 57.8 13.2 Exempt portion 7.1 6.4 0.7 Total ¥216.7 ¥235.7 ¥ (18.9) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Change Domestic ¥120.0 ¥138.4 ¥ (18.3) Manufacturing 29.5 30.7 (1.2) Construction 5.5 7.5 (2.0) Real estate 5.0 11.7 (6.7) Service industries 11.4 12.0 (0.6) Wholesale and retail 35.0 32.1 2.9 Finance and insurance 0.8 0.0 0.7 Individuals 25.6 35.9 (10.2) Other industries 6.9 8.1 (1.2) Overseas 49.9 71.1 (21.2) Exempt portion 10.4 7.1 3.2 Total ¥180.3 ¥216.7 ¥ (36.4) Note: Exempt portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for purposes of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 272 (h) Write-offs of loans by industry (Billions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 31, 2014 Manufacturing ¥3.6 ¥2.8 Construction 0.3 0.4 Real estate 1.2 0.7 Service industries 1.3 1.6 Wholesale and retail 8.9 6.1 Finance and insurance 0.0 0.1 Individuals 6.2 7.6 Other industries 62.4 2.8 Exempt portion 0.2 0.0 Total ¥84.5 ¥22.4 Notes: 1. The above table represents the breakdown of losses on write-offs of loans recorded in our consolidated statement of income after excluding the amounts associated with regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure. 2. Exempt portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for purposes of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 3. “Other industries” include overseas and non-Japanese resident portions. 273 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ○ Status of exposure to which the standardized approach is applied (i) Exposure by risk weight category after applying credit risk mitigation (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 With external On-balance sheet Off-balance sheet Total rating 0% ¥2,013.6 ¥583.3 ¥2,597.0 ¥76.5 10% 149.2 149.2 20% 468.6 723.0 1,191.7 26.9 35% 50% 85.0 13.1 98.1 45.3 100% 1,974.4 1,098.8 3,073.2 63.3 Risk weight 150% 0.1 0.1 250% 63.6 63.6 350% 625% 0.0 0.0 937.5% 0.0 0.0 1,250% Total ¥4,754.7 ¥2,418.5 ¥7,173.2 ¥212.1 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 With external On-balance sheet Off-balance sheet Total rating 0% ¥623.3 ¥729.4 ¥1,352.8 ¥129.3 10% 81.8 0.0 81.8 20% 482.1 790.3 1,272.4 25.2 35% 50% 63.9 3.8 67.8 36.0 100% 2,835.9 1,455.8 4,291.7 45.8 Risk weight 150% 0.0 0.0 250% 55.9 55.9 350% 625% 0.0 0.0 937.5% 0.0 0.0 1,250% Total ¥4,143.2 ¥2,979.5 ¥7,122.7 ¥236.4 Notes: 1. The amounts in the above table are before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs. 2. Off-balance-sheet exposure shows credit equivalent amount. 274 (j) Amount of exposure to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Amount of exposure to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied ¥6.1 ¥7.5 ○ Status of exposure to which the internal ratings-based approach is applied (k) Specialized lending exposure under supervisory slotting criteria by risk weight category (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 50% ¥0.6 ¥0.0 70% 37.7 23.1 90% 7.1 5.9 95% 94.3 70.6 Risk weight 115% 30.5 15.0 120% 23.6 140% 250% 24.3 90.8 Default 28.3 30.1 Total ¥223.2 ¥259.4 (l) Equity exposure under simple risk weight method of market-based approach by risk weight category (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Risk weight 300% ¥729.5 ¥430.7 400% 67.2 59.9 Total ¥796.7 ¥490.7 Note: Of the equity exposure under the simple risk weight method, a risk weight of 300% is applied for listed equities and 400% for unlisted equities. 275 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (m) Portfolio by asset class and ratings segment (Corporate, etc.) (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2015 EL default Risk Weighted PD LGD (EAD weight average of (EAD (EAD weighted (EAD Amount of credit weighted weighted average) weighted EAD undrawn conversion average) average) (%) average) (Billions On-balance Off-balance commitfactor (%) (%) (%) of yen) sheet sheet ments (%) Corporate 2.04 36.34 / 36.84 ¥76,322.9 ¥54,372.9 ¥21,950.0 ¥21,339.9 74.99 Investment grade 0.09 37.76 / 25.67 53,727.3 35,036.9 18,690.4 18,600.1 74.99 zone Noninvestment 1.45 32.41 / 64.92 21,403.3 18,186.8 3,216.5 2,735.3 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 42.93 40.22 35.88 1,192.2 1,149.1 43.1 4.3 75.00 Sovereign 0.01 38.61 / 1.50 77,968.1 64,807.8 13,160.3 953.3 75.00 Investment grade 0.00 38.61 / 1.42 77,851.4 64,704.3 13,147.1 941.0 75.00 zone Noninvestment 0.85 37.70 / 59.14 116.6 103.4 13.1 12.2 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 57.51 52.76 62.89 0.0 0.0 Bank 0.20 36.25 / 25.61 7,268.8 4,406.6 2,862.2 462.4 75.00 Investment grade 0.09 36.18 / 22.11 6,620.6 3,968.7 2,651.9 375.6 75.00 zone Noninvestment 0.81 36.62 / 61.55 644.5 434.2 210.2 86.7 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 97.29 95.04 29.81 3.6 3.6 Equity exposure under 0.47 90.00 / 126.62 4,831.4 4,691.1 140.2 PD/LGD approach Investment grade 0.06 90.00 / 115.13 4,502.9 4,362.7 140.2 zone Noninvestment 1.06 90.00 / 235.79 311.8 311.8 grade zone Default 100.00 90.00 / 1,192.50 16.6 16.6 Total 0.96 38.96 / 22.40 ¥166,391.4 ¥128,278.5 ¥38,112.9 ¥22,755.6 74.99 Investment grade 0.04 39.80 / 15.10 142,702.5 108,072.6 34,629.8 19,916.9 74.99 zone NonInvestment 1.43 33.35 / 67.17 22,476.3 19,036.3 3,439.9 2,834.3 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 43.74 40.38 51.73 1,212.5 1,169.4 43.1 4.3 75.00 276 (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2014 Risk Weighted PD LGD EL default weight average of (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of credit weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD undrawn conversion average) average) average) average) (Billions On-balance Off-balance commitfactor (%) (%) (%) (%) of yen) sheet sheet ments (%) Corporate 2.45 35.48 / 39.99 ¥63,438.6 ¥47,762.7 ¥15,675.9 ¥13,690.8 75.17 Investment grade 0.10 37.10 / 26.08 42,215.3 29,168.8 13,046.5 11,656.6 75.13 zone Noninvestment 2.45 31.69 / 69.43 20,207.7 17,619.2 2,588.4 2,029.5 75.41 grade zone Default 100.00 43.22 40.77 32.55 1,015.6 974.6 41.0 4.7 75.00 Sovereign 0.01 38.23 / 1.32 77,930.3 61,723.6 16,206.6 500.8 75.55 Investment grade 0.00 38.23 / 1.22 77,845.4 61,642.8 16,202.5 498.8 75.55 zone Noninvestment 1.68 37.00 / 86.14 84.8 80.6 4.1 2.0 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 57.72 53.15 60.49 0.0 0.0 Bank 0.34 35.94 / 26.53 6,540.7 3,811.0 2,729.7 397.8 75.00 Investment grade 0.09 35.88 / 23.06 5,981.1 3,485.2 2,495.9 324.4 75.00 zone Noninvestment 0.93 36.11 / 64.10 547.7 317.0 230.7 73.4 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 59.57 56.39 42.14 11.8 8.7 3.0 Equity exposure under 0.43 90.00 / 136.67 1,199.5 1,199.5 PD/LGD approach Investment grade 0.07 90.00 / 123.09 1,090.3 1,090.3 zone Noninvestment 1.94 90.00 / 252.67 106.8 106.8 grade zone Default 100.00 90.00 / 1,192.50 2.2 2.2 Total 1.06 37.37 / 19.97 ¥149,109.3 ¥114,496.9 ¥34,612.3 ¥14,589.6 75.18 Investment grade 0.04 38.19 / 11.55 127,132.2 95,387.3 31,744.9 12,479.9 75.14 zone Noninvestment 2.40 32.12 / 70.30 20,947.2 18,123.8 2,823.3 2,104.9 75.39 grade zone Default 100.00 43.52 40.95 35.23 1,029.8 985.7 44.0 4.7 75.00 Notes: 1. Investment grade zone includes obligor ratings A1 through B2, non-investment grade zone includes C1 through E2 (excluding E2R), and default includes E2R through H1 (see page 16 for details of obligor ratings). 2. “Corporate” does not include specialized lending exposure under supervisory slotting criteria. 3. Each asset class includes purchased receivables. 4. The commitments that can be terminated at any time without condition or terminated automatically are not included in the amount of undrawn commitments and weighted average of credit conversion factor. 5. Regarding equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach, we recognize the risk-weighted assets by multiplying 1,250% by the expected loss (“EL”). 277 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (n) Portfolio by asset class and ratings segment (Retail) (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2015 Risk PD LGD EL default weight Weighted (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of average of weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD Offundrawn credit average) average) average) average) (Billions of On-balance balance commitconversion (%) (%) (%) (%) yen) sheet sheet ments factor (%) Residential 1.81 41.44 / 32.44 ¥101,734.0 ¥9,990.1 ¥183.3 ¥8.9 75.25 mortgage Non0.77 41.37 / 32.45 10,066.3 9,885.7 180.6 8.9 75.25 default Default 100.00 47.74 45.33 31.87 107.0 104.3 2.6 Qualifying revolving 3.22 77.26 / 64.63 499.0 333.5 165.4 1,562.1 10.59 loan (retail) Non3.03 77.27 / 64.65 498.0 332.7 165.2 1,560.4 10.59 default Default 100.00 73.17 69.25 51.70 0.9 0.7 0.2 1.6 12.81 Other retail 4.60 53.30 / 50.93 2,674.4 2,659.3 15.0 17.5 66.35 Non1.64 53.54 / 51.43 2,594.0 2,582.7 11.3 13.7 58.32 default Default 100.00 45.38 42.73 35.03 80.3 76.6 3.7 3.8 95.01 Total 2.42 45.15 / 37.35 ¥13,346.9 ¥12,983.0 ¥363.8 ¥1,588.7 11.57 Non1.03 45.13 / 37.41 13,158.4 12,801.2 357.2 1,583.1 11.37 default Default 100.00 46.86 44.35 33.32 188.4 181.8 6.5 5.5 70.16 (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2014 Risk PD LGD EL default weight Weighted (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of average of weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD OnOffundrawn credit average) average) average) average) (Billions of balance balance commitconversion (%) (%) (%) (%) yen) sheet sheet ments factor (%) Residential 2.26 42.14 / 33.23 ¥10,366.2 ¥10,153.8 ¥212.3 ¥7.8 75.00 mortgage Non0.79 42.05 / 33.31 10,212.8 10,004.3 208.4 7.8 75.00 default Default 100.00 48.29 46.23 27.42 153.4 149.5 3.9 Qualifying revolving 3.41 78.51 / 67.66 434.7 288.1 146.6 1,507.9 9.72 loan (retail) Non3.17 78.52 / 67.72 433.7 287.3 146.4 1,506.1 9.72 default Default 100.00 74.08 70.63 45.62 1.0 0.8 0.2 1.7 11.76 Other retail 4.95 53.78 / 50.51 2,730.9 2,713.8 17.0 18.4 69.80 Non1.69 54.01 / 51.15 2,640.2 2,626.7 13.5 14.7 63.66 default Default 100.00 47.17 44.77 31.80 90.6 87.0 3.5 3.6 94.41 Total 2.84 45.66 / 37.82 ¥13,531.9 ¥13,155.8 ¥376.1 ¥1,534.2 10.78 Non1.05 45.62 / 37.98 13,286.8 12,918.4 368.4 1,528.7 10.58 default Default 100.00 47.99 45.79 29.12 245.1 237.4 7.6 5.4 67.35 Notes: 1. Each asset class includes purchased receivables. 2. The commitments that can be terminated at any time without condition or terminated automatically are not included in the amount of undrawn commitments and weighted average of credit conversion factor. 278 (o) Actual losses by asset class (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2014 For the period from April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2015 through March 31, 2014 Actual losses Actual losses Corporate ¥128.1 ¥ (41.2) Sovereign 0 (13.5) Bank (1.2) (1.2) Residential mortgage (0.7) (3.2) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 2.2 0.4 Other retail 5.1 1.4 Total ¥133.6 ¥ (57.4) Note: Actual losses are the sum of the net increase (decrease) in the amount of partial direct write-offs, specific reserve for possible losses on loans and general reserve for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as well as tax-qualified direct write-offs, losses from sales of non-performing loans, losses from debt forgiveness and losses from debt-equity swaps during the relevant period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of actual losses. <Analysis> The total amount of actual losses was increased by ¥191.0 billion from the previous period to ¥133.6 billion due to significant increase of losses from corporate exposure. (p) Comparison of estimated and actual losses by asset class (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2014 through March For the period from April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2015 31, 2014 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses As of March 31, 2014) losses as of March 31, 2013) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥596.0 ¥195.5 ¥128.1 ¥785.1 ¥246.9 ¥ (41.2) Sovereign 1.5 1.5 0.0 1.7 (11.9) (13.5) Bank 10.3 5.6 (1.2) 12.5 6.4 (1.2) Residential mortgage 104.8 46.1 (0.7) 123.7 50.5 (3.2) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 11.5 3.8 2.2 11.2 3.9 0.4 Other retail 61.9 23.8 5.1 69.1 26.2 1.4 Total ¥786.3 ¥276.6 ¥133.6 ¥1,003.5 ¥322.3 ¥ (57.4) (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2012 through March For the period from April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2013 31, 2012 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2012) losses as of March 31, 2011) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥828.0 ¥272.6 ¥75.6 ¥989.6 ¥373.2 ¥29.2 Sovereign 3.1 (10.2) 0.2 1.3 (11.7) 0.2 Bank 18.4 6.3 (5.0) 31.9 4.1 (1.4) Residential mortgage 134.8 41.6 (9.2) 150.4 43.2 (2.9) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 10.8 3.7 0.3 12.2 4.2 (0.7) Other retail 73.5 24.2 0.2 74.7 24.1 5.2 Total ¥1,068.8 ¥338.4 ¥62.1 ¥1,260.3 ¥437.2 ¥29.5 279 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2010 through March For the period from April 1, 2009 through March 31, 2011 31, 2010 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2010) losses as of March 31, 2009) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥1,296.9 ¥454.0 ¥22.9 ¥1,313.1 ¥473.3 ¥166.5 Sovereign 1.5 (11.4) 0.2 1.7 (10.8) 0.3 Bank 38.4 8.3 (0.4) 35.5 6.5 1.0 Residential mortgage 122.6 31.1 31.5 95.8 24.8 33.2 Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 10.2 3.5 1.4 10.3 3.8 0.2 Other retail 51.2 15.0 23.1 51.3 15.6 4.3 Total ¥1,521.1 ¥500.6 ¥78.7 ¥1,508.0 ¥513.3 ¥205.8 (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2008 through March For the period from April 1, 2007 through March 31, 2009 31, 2008 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2008) losses as of March 31, 2007) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥1,121.0 ¥350.0 ¥345.3 ¥1,086.0 ¥217.0 ¥74.6 Sovereign 1.3 (11.1) 0.0 5.4 (7.0) 0.0 Bank 2.9 2.5 28.6 6.4 2.6 (2.6) Residential mortgage 86.6 22.7 17.2 78.2 6.8 5.1 Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 7.9 3.2 2.1 7.2 2.3 (0.1) Other retail 51.9 16.4 3.8 52.9 8.8 (2.8) Total ¥1,271.8 ¥383.9 ¥397.3 ¥1,236.5 ¥230.5 ¥74.1 Notes: 1. Estimated losses after deduction of reserve are the amount after deductions of partial direct write-offs, specific reserves for possible losses on loans and general reserves for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as of the beginning of each period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of estimated losses. 2. Actual losses are the sum of the net increase (decrease) in the amount of partial direct write-offs, specific reserves for possible losses on loans and general reserves for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as well as tax-qualified direct write-offs, losses from sales of non-performing loans, losses from debt forgiveness and losses from debt-equity swaps during the relevant period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of actual losses. 280 ■ Methods for credit risk mitigation (7) Risk management regarding credit risk mitigation We obtain collateral and guarantees as a means of securing credit. In obtaining the collateral and guarantees, we evaluate the value of the collateral, guarantee performance capability of guarantor and legal enforceability, and we also conduct periodical subsequent re-evaluations. Furthermore, we monitor the state of concentration of collateral type and concentration of credit risks in individual companies, including indirect credit exposure such as guarantees. When calculating the credit risk weighted assets for capital adequacy ratio regulations, the effect of credit risk mitigation through financial collateral (mainly deposits and securities), other collateral (mainly real estate) and guarantees by “sovereign, banks or corporations above a certain credit rating” is reflected. For derivatives transactions and repurchase transactions, in cases in which a bilateral netting contract is valid in light of the legal system of the relevant jurisdiction, we take its effect into consideration. (8) Credit risk mitigation by portfolio classification The amounts of exposure to which the method of credit risk mitigation through collateral and guarantees is applied are as follows: (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Financial collateral Other collateral Guarantees Credit derivatives Total Internal ratings-based ¥2,103.9 ¥5,157.4 ¥8,183.5 ¥43.7 ¥15,488.7 approach Corporate 1,715.0 4,769.8 6,763.0 43.7 13,291.7 Sovereign 2.5 13.0 672.0 687.5 Bank 359.0 157.2 47.7 564.0 Retail 27.4 217.3 700.6 945.4 Residential 154.7 154.7 mortgage Qualifying revolving 0.2 0.2 loan Other retail 27.4 217.3 545.6 790.4 Others Standardized approach 195.3 / 104.6 300.0 Sovereign 180.0 / 104.6 284.6 Bank 4.6 / 4.6 Corporate 10.7 / 10.7 Residential mortgage / Securitizations / Others / Total ¥2,299.3 ¥5,157.4 ¥8,288.2 ¥43.7 ¥15,788.8 281 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Financial collateral Other collateral Guarantees Credit derivatives Total Internal ratings-based ¥2,463.0 ¥4,917.9 ¥6,963.4 ¥29.0 ¥14,373.5 approach Corporate 2,071.0 4,604.9 5,867.3 29.0 12,572.3 Sovereign 2.5 16.8 282.5 301.9 Bank 363.2 97.5 24.6 485.4 Retail 26.1 198.6 789.0 1,013.8 Residential 181.8 181.8 mortgage Qualifying 0.2 0.2 revolving loan Other retail 26.1 198.6 606.8 831.6 Others Standardized 285.7 / 53.8 339.5 approach Sovereign 250.0 / 53.8 303.8 Bank 6.3 / 6.3 Corporate 29.4 / 29.4 Residential / mortgage Securitizations / Others / Total ¥2,748.8 ¥4,917.9 ¥7,017.2 ¥29.0 ¥14,713.1 282 ■ Counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions (9) Management of counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions In managing the risk pertaining to counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions, we generally allocate risk capital together with loans, etc. As to derivatives transactions with financial institutions, etc., we periodically, where necessary, deliver and receive collateral to and from the counterparty based on the replacement cost to mitigate credit risk (collateralized derivative transactions). In conducting such transactions, there is a risk in which we may be required to provide additional collateral in cases where our credit profile deteriorates. We calculate reserves for derivatives transactions by multiplying the same reserve ratio that we use for loans, etc., against the replacement cost. (10) Status of counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions (a) Status of derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions Derivative transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Gross Gross Credit Gross Gross Credit replacement add-on equivalent replacement add-on equivalent Current exposure method cost amount cost amount Foreign exchange¥2,867.1 ¥2,812.2 ¥5,679.3 ¥1,636.4 ¥2,377.2 ¥4,013.6 related transactions Interest rate-related 4,018.4 1,408.4 5,426.9 4,255.8 1,794.5 6,050.3 transactions Gold-related transactions Equity-related 102.6 78.8 181.5 119.8 84.4 204.2 transactions Transactions related to precious metals 59.8 162.7 222.6 25.7 93.9 119.6 (other than gold) Other commodity1,001.3 1,313.3 2,314.7 382.9 1,279.8 1,662.7 related transactions Credit derivatives 38.0 224.9 262.9 53.6 250.2 303.9 transactions Subtotal (A) 8,087.5 6,000.5 14,088.0 6,474.4 5,880.1 12,354.6 Netting benefits by (B) / / 7,578.6 close-out netting / / 8,533.5 settlement contracts Subtotal (C)=(A)+(B) / / 5,554.4 / / 4,775.9 Effect of credit risk (D) / / 631.9 mitigation by / / 1,100.1 collateral Total (C)+(D) ¥/ ¥/ ¥4,454.3 ¥/ ¥/ ¥4,144.0 Credit Credit equivalent equivalent Standardized method amount amount Total ¥311.6 ¥193.0 Note: The current exposure method and standardized method are used as the method to calculate credit equivalent amounts. 283 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Long-settlement transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Gross Gross Credit Gross Gross Credit replacement add-on equivalent replacement add-on equivalent cost amount cost amount Long-settlement transactions ¥0.9 ¥2.9 ¥3.8 ¥5.0 ¥2.3 ¥7.4 Notes: 1. The current exposure method is used as the method to calculate credit equivalent amounts. 2. Neither the “netting benefits by close-out netting settlement contracts” nor the “effect of credit risk mitigation by collateral” applies to long-settlement transactions. (b) Amounts of credit risk mitigation by type (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Financial collateral ¥8.7 ¥17.3 Other collateral 26.3 29.9 Guarantees, others 23.6 19.3 Total ¥58.7 ¥66.6 (c) Notional amount of credit derivatives subject to credit equivalent amount calculations (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Notional amount Notional amount Credit derivatives type: Credit default swap Protection bought ¥1,957.9 ¥2,169.2 Protection sold 1,983.9 2,018.6 Total return swap Protection bought Protection sold Total Protection ¥2,169.2 ¥1,957.9 bought Protection sold 1,983.9 2,018.6 Note: Credit derivatives used for credit risk mitigation are as follows: (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Credit derivatives used for credit risk mitigation ¥60.9 ¥79.5 284 ■ Securitization exposure We classify transactions as securitization exposure based on two characteristics, “non-recourse” and “senior/subordinated structure,” pursuant to the definitions set forth in the FSA Notice No. 20, etc.; provided that the transactions do not include those which fall within specialized lending exposure. (11) Summary of securitization exposure and its risk management We are associated with securitization transactions from various purposes and positions through our banking book and trading book. Quantitative information related to (a) to (c) below is disclosed in “(13) Quantitative disclosure items for securitization exposure,” in accordance with the definitions set forth in the FSA Notice No. 20. Securitization exposures are separately disclosed for calculation of credit risk-weighted assets and market risk equivalent amounts. ○The role of our securitization transactions (a) Securitization of our assets (“Securitization as originator”) For the purposes of mitigating credit risk and credit concentration risk, controlling economic capital and responding to the needs of our investors, etc., we engage in securitization transactions the underlying assets of which include mortgage loans and loans to our corporate customers. When conducting a securitization as an originator, we consider such transaction from various aspects, including the effects of reduction of economic capital and improvement of return on risk as well as the practical effects of risk transfers, and make a comprehensive judgment on structure and appropriateness of transaction. (b) Securitization program (ABCP/ABL) sponsor As a means of supporting our customers in their securitization of their account receivables and notes receivables, etc., we retain securitization exposure by providing asset-backed loans (ABLs, which are on-balance-sheet transactions), and providing asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) backup lines (off-balance-sheet transactions), as sponsor to special purpose companies (in the form of Cayman Islands Corporations, etc.). In such cases, in addition to gaining firm understanding of the actual risk profile through due diligence from the viewpoint of investors, we assign internal ratings and make evaluations by assessing such transactions and carefully managing the exposure together with other direct loan assets. (c) Investment in alternative credit risk assets (“Securitization transactions as investor”) We hold securitization products, such as ABS, CMBS, RMBS, and CDO, and resecuritization products, the underlying assets of which are mainly RMBS and CDO, etc., for the purpose of investing in alternative credit risk assets that are different from conventional credit risk assets in order to diversify our investment portfolio. The Risk Management Committee, etc. set limits on the amount of investment for securitization transactions as investor, and we maintain a stringent structure for management of such transactions. In addition, we implement stress tests based on scenarios under the market liquidity depletion and sharp price declines. In addition, we undertake various securitization program arrangements such as ABL, ABCP and trust schemes, etc., as a means of financing for our customers. We endeavor to understand the actual risk profile, including the underlying assets, and to disclose appropriately the risks and terms of the program to the customers who invest in the product. Furthermore, we actively act as servicer for securitization transactions, offer settlement account facilities (servicer cash advance) and provide interest rate swaps to securitization conduits. None of our affiliated entities hold securitization products in which we are involved as originators or sponsors. ○ Overview of risk characteristics in securitization and monitoring system In addition to price fluctuation and market liquidity risks, securitization and resecuritization products are exposed to risks related to default, recovery and granularity of underlying asset portfolio. 285 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy The structure of these products also contains risks related to the originators, the administrators, trustees and managers of the underlying assets. To address these risks, we also analyze the structure in terms of the underlying assets and credit events. We monitor the ability, quality and operating performance of originators and managers in charge of controlling the underlying assets as well as covenant information and credit status of the parties related to the program. In addition, for resecuritization products, we pay attention to the underlying assets of the underlying securitization products. We also assign internal ratings to all products and review the rating at least once a year. If there is a change in the credit situations, we will review the internal rating as appropriate. As mentioned above, we have established a system to comprehensively understand the risk characteristics of securitization exposures and manage these exposures. We conduct credit risk measurements on all credit transactions, including securitization transactions. Furthermore, we carry out periodic monitoring on investment amount and performance on securitization transactions and report the situations to our Risk Management Committee, etc. ○Status of response to Basel Framework In calculating credit risk-weighted assets of securitization exposure under the internal ratings-based approach, we apply the ratings-based approach (“RBA”) if the asset has a rating obtained from eligible external credit assessment institutions and apply the supervisory formula approach (“SF”) in other cases pursuant to the FSA Notice No. 20. We apply a risk weight of 1,250% under Basel III when neither RBA nor SF can be applied. In addition, in calculating credit risk-weighted assets of securitization exposure under the standardized approach, we calculate based on risk weight according to ratings by eligible external credit assessment institutions and weighted average risk weight of underlying assets. In terms of securitization exposure in our trading book that is subject to market risk regulations, we adopt the standardized measurement method and calculate market risk equivalent amounts in connection with the specific risks of securitization products based on risk weights according to ratings assigned by eligible external credit assessment institutions pursuant to the FSA Notice No. 20. As for the eligible external credit assessment institutions, we refer to Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR), Moody's Investors Service Inc. (Moody's), Standard & Poor's (S&P) and Fitch Ratings, Ltd. in determining securitization exposure risk weight (We do not separately designate eligible external credit assessment institutions for each type of securitization exposure). (12) Accounting policies for securitization transactions The point at which financial assets and liabilities relating to securitization transactions begin or cease to be recognized, their evaluation and accounting treatment are pursuant to “Accounting Standards Relating to Financial Products” (Business Accounting Standards No. 10), etc., and we applied (a) valuations obtained from brokers and others or (b) reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management as fair value, unless it is deemed to be extremely difficult to determine the fair value. In deriving reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management, we used the discounted cash flow method, and the price decision variables include default rates, recovery rates, pre-payment rates and discount rates. Furthermore, we apply appropriate accounting treatment on compound financial products based on “Report on auditing Securitized Instruments”, announced by the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants on March 26, 2008. 286 (13) Quantitative disclosure items for securitization exposure ○ Securitization exposure as originator (for calculation of credit risk-weighted assets) (a) Information by type of underlying assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Traditional securitizations Amount of underlying assets (a) ¥¥98.3 ¥¥¥¥¥¥98.3 Default exposure 1.1 1.1 Losses during the fiscal year 0.1 0.1 Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Securitization subject to early amortization treatment Synthetic securitizations Amount of underlying assets (b) 173.5 173.5 Default exposure Losses during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Total amount of underlying assets (a)+(b) ¥¥98.3 ¥¥¥173.5 ¥¥¥271.8 287 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2014 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Traditional securitizations Amount of underlying assets ¥¥117.6 ¥¥¥¥¥¥117.6 (a) Default exposure 1.4 1.4 Losses during the fiscal year 0.3 0.3 Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Securitization subject to early amortization treatment Synthetic securitizations Amount of underlying assets 366.3 366.3 (b) Default exposure Losses during the fiscal year Amount of exposures 113.2 113.2 securitized during the fiscal year Total amount of underlying ¥¥117.6 ¥¥¥366.3 ¥¥¥484.0 assets (a)+(b) Notes: 1. Items that refer to “during the fiscal year” show amounts accumulated during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 and 2015. 2. “Amount of underlying assets” and “Losses during the fiscal year” include those related to, in addition to exposure originated by us, exposure to assets originated by other financial institutions if they are contained in the same securitization program. 3. “Default exposure” and “Losses during the fiscal year” with respect to synthetic securitization transactions are based on the definition of default as set forth in the respective transactions. 4. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction 5. “Credit cards” include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 6. The effects of risk mitigation, in the context of calculating capital adequacy ratio, of transfers (hedges) of risk through synthetic securitization transactions are reflected in “Required capital” of “(B) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased.” 7. Of the securitization exposure retained or purchased whose risk has been transferred (hedged) through securitization schemes, we have categorized securitization exposure as investor if the risk transfer (hedge) effects are not reflected in the calculation of capital adequacy ratio, following the definition for classification of securitization exposure set forth in the FSA Notice No. 20, etc. 288 ─Exposure intended to be securitized─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Exposure intended to be ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥securitized (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Exposure intended to be ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥securitized (b) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total On-balance sheet ¥¥32.6 ¥¥¥168.7 ¥¥¥201.4 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 4.8 4.8 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥32.6 ¥¥¥173.5 ¥¥¥206.2 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying 121.5 121.5 assets are overseas assets (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total On-balance sheet ¥¥34.5 ¥¥¥364.2 ¥¥¥398.8 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 2.0 2.0 Exposure on resecuritizations Total 34.5 366.3 400.8 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying 110.9 110.9 assets are overseas assets Notes: 1.Classification based on type of underlying asset is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 2.“Credit cards” include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 3.“Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets” is classified based on the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 4.“Exposure on resecuritizations” as of both March 31, 2014 and 2015 are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). 289 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ─Exposure by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 OffOn-balance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥145.3 ¥¥4.5 ¥¥149.9 ¥Up to 50% 41.4 41.4 Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% 4.0 4.0 weight Up to 650% 3.2 3.2 Less than1,250% 7.3 0.2 7.6 1,250% Total ¥201.4 ¥¥4.8 ¥¥206.2 ¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 OffOn-balance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥320.6 ¥¥1.9 ¥¥322.6 ¥Up to 50% 6.2 6.2 Up to 100% 34.5 34.5 Risk Up to 250% 11.9 11.9 weight Up to 650% 17.4 17.4 Less than1,250% 8.0 0.1 8.1 1,250% Total ¥398.8 ¥¥2.0 ¥¥400.8 ¥─Amount of required capital by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 OffOn-balance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥1.0 ¥¥0.0 ¥¥1.0 ¥Up to 50% 1.3 1.3 Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% 0.3 0.3 weight Up to 650% Less than1,250% 0.7 0.0 0.7 1,250% Total ¥3.4 ¥¥0.0 ¥¥3.5 ¥290 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 OffOn-balance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥1.9 ¥¥0.0 ¥¥2.0 ¥Up to 50% 0.1 0.1 Up to 100% 1.4 1.4 Risk Up to 250% 0.8 0.8 weight Up to 650% 0.8 0.8 Less than1,250% 0.4 0.4 1,250% Total ¥5.7 ¥¥0.0 ¥¥5.7 ¥─Credit risk mitigation against exposure on resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Up to 20% ¥¥Up to 50% Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥¥Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. ─Capital increase due to securitization transactions─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total Capital increase due to securitization ¥¥0.2 ¥¥¥¥¥¥0.2 transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total Capital increase due to securitization ¥¥1.7 ¥¥¥¥¥¥1.7 transactions 291 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ○ Securitization exposure as sponsor of securitization programs (ABCP/ABL) (for calculation of credit riskweighted assets) (c) Information by type of underlying assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total Amount of underlying ¥139.0 ¥¥21.9 ¥50.2 ¥477.0 ¥¥102.6 ¥790.9 assets Default exposure 6.2 6.2 Estimated loss amount related to underlying 2.4 0.8 0.1 8.1 1.3 12.9 assets during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the ¥1,085.7 ¥¥210.8 ¥526.0 ¥2,640.1 ¥¥634.2 ¥5,097.0 fiscal year (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2014 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total Amount of underlying ¥50.3 ¥¥14.3 ¥61.3 ¥464.8 ¥¥71.9 ¥662.7 assets Default exposure 7.1 7.1 Estimated loss amount related to underlying 1.1 0.1 0.0 8.9 0.7 11.0 assets during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the ¥296.4 ¥¥316.4 ¥646.1 ¥3,308.2 ¥¥723.3 ¥5,290.6 fiscal year Notes: 1. Items that refer to “during the fiscal year” show amounts accumulated during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 and 2015. 2. Securitization exposure that is acquired in securitization of customer’s claims other than as sponsor (in the form of asset-backed securities, trust beneficiary rights and other transferable instruments) is categorized as securitization exposure as investor. 3. The amount of default exposure is the amount of the underlying assets recognized as default in the calculation of capital adequacy ratio. 4. Estimated loss amount related to underlying assets is based on the amount of the underlying assets as of the relevant date and the following parameters that are used in the calculation of capital adequacy ratio: ・ parameters used in the calculation of required capital for an underlying asset when applying the supervisory formula (e.g., PD); and ・ with respect to underlying assets classified as securitization exposure, the conservative application of risk weights used in the ratings-based approach. 5. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under “Others.” 6. “Credit cards” include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 292 (d) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥81.9 ¥¥20.7 ¥50.2 ¥542.3 ¥¥106.9 ¥802.1 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 108.5 42.8 145.9 36.6 333.9 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥190.4 ¥¥63.5 ¥50.2 ¥688.2 ¥¥143.6 ¥1,136.0 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 135.3 63.1 8.1 379.7 110.9 697.3 are overseas assets (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥35.8 ¥¥13.0 ¥61.3 ¥471.2 ¥¥70.2 ¥651.6 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 75.4 46.6 111.8 2.2 236.1 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥111.2 ¥¥59.7 ¥61.3 ¥583.0 ¥¥72.4 ¥887.8 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 58.3 56.6 11.7 257.1 60.6 444.4 are overseas assets Notes: 1. Securitization exposure retained or purchased includes unused portions of securitization programs that are subject to allocation of required capital. 2. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under “Others.” 3. Credit cards” include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 293 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy 4. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 5. “Exposure on resecuritizations” as of both March 31, 2014 and 2015 are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). ─Exposure by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥782.9 ¥¥333.9 ¥¥1,116.8 ¥Up to 50% 14.9 14.9 Up to 100% 2.5 2.5 Risk Up to 250% 1.7 1.7 weight Up to 650% Less than1,250% 1,250% Total ¥802.1 ¥¥333.9 ¥¥1,136.0 ¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥631.1 ¥¥236.1 ¥¥867.3 ¥Up to 50% 9.7 9.7 Up to 100% 9.8 9.8 Risk Up to 250% 1.0 1.0 weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥651.6 ¥¥236.1 ¥¥887.8 ¥─Amount of required capital by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥4.5 ¥¥1.9 ¥¥6.4 ¥Up to 50% 0.4 0.4 Up to 100% 0.1 0.1 Risk Up to 250% 0.1 0.1 weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥5.2 ¥¥1.9 ¥¥7.1 ¥294 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥3.9 ¥¥1.4 ¥¥5.3 ¥Up to 50% 0.3 0.3 Up to 100% 0.5 0.5 Risk Up to 250% 0.1 0.1 weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥4.9 ¥¥1.4 ¥¥6.3 ¥─Credit risk mitigation against exposure on resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Up to 20% ¥¥Up to 50% Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥¥Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. ○ Securitization exposure as investor (for calculation of credit risk-weighted assets) (e) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥41.3 ¥948.0 ¥236.8 ¥9.2 ¥241.3 ¥31.2 ¥255.8 ¥1,763.7 Exposure on 9.7 11.9 21.7 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 120.2 89.0 32.9 0.1 14.8 257.2 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥161.5 ¥948.0 ¥325.9 ¥9.2 ¥274.2 ¥31.3 ¥270.6 ¥2,021.0 Exposure on 9.7 11.9 21.7 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 0.0 6.9 6.9 which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 156.5 0.0 288.2 274.2 0.5 216.4 936.1 are overseas assets 295 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥65.3 ¥1,167.9 ¥42.9 ¥48.7 ¥138.4 ¥80.9 ¥73.7 ¥1,618.3 Exposure on 18.8 70.8 89.6 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 22.4 116.2 6.8 2.8 0.3 3.6 152.3 Exposure on 0.3 0.3 resecuritizations Total ¥87.8 ¥1,167.9 ¥159.1 ¥55.6 ¥141.3 ¥81.3 ¥77.3 ¥1,770.6 Exposure on 19.1 70.8 89.9 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 2.2 0.8 1.3 16.1 0.6 21.2 which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 77.0 56.7 107.4 38.0 141.2 23.2 8.1 451.9 are overseas assets Notes: 1. Subordinated contributions for managed collateralized loan obligations (“CLO”), etc., are included in the above table as exposure as investor even when the assets underlying those CLOs, etc., include exposures that were originated by us. Our subordinated contributions for those managed CLOs, etc. (a risk weight of 1,250% was applied for purpose of capital adequacy ratio calculation), were ¥0.8 :billions of March 31, 2014 and none as of March 31, 2015. 2. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under “Others.” 3. “Credit cards” include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 4. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 5. Securitization exposure retained or purchased whose risk transfer (hedge) effects are reflected in the calculation of capital adequacy ratio is categorized as securitization exposure as originator. 6. “Exposure on resecuritizations” as of both March 31, 2014 and 2015 are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). ─Exposure by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥1,700.6 ¥9.7 ¥254.0 ¥¥1,954.7 ¥9.7 Up to 50% 39.4 11.9 39.4 11.9 Up to 100% 8.8 8.8 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 8.0 3.0 11.0 Less than1,250% 1,250% 6.7 0.1 6.9 Total ¥1,763.7 ¥21.7 ¥257.2 ¥¥2,021.0 ¥21.7 296 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥1,417.0 ¥18.8 ¥141.5 ¥0.3 ¥1,558.6 ¥19.1 Up to 50% 153.0 70.8 6.8 159.8 70.8 Up to 100% 10.2 10.2 Risk Up to 250% 4.4 4.4 weight Up to 650% 13.2 2.9 16.2 Less than1,250% 1,250% 20.1 1.0 21.2 Total ¥1,618.3 ¥89.6 ¥152.3 ¥0.3 ¥1,770.6 ¥89.9 ─Amount of required capital by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥10.1 ¥0.1 ¥1.7 ¥¥11.9 ¥0.1 Up to 50% 1.0 0.3 1.0 0.3 Up to 100% 0.7 0.7 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 2.2 0.8 3.0 Less than1,250% 1,250% 6.7 0.1 6.9 Total ¥20.8 ¥0.4 ¥2.7 ¥¥23.6 ¥0.4 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥9.5 ¥0.3 ¥0.8 ¥¥10.4 ¥0.3 Up to 50% 4.3 2.0 0.1 4.4 2.0 Up to 100% 0.7 0.7 Risk Up to 250% 0.9 0.9 weight Up to 650% 5.0 0.8 5.8 Less than1,250% 1,250% 20.9 1.0 22.0 Total ¥41.5 ¥2.4 ¥2.9 ¥¥44.5 ¥2.4 ─Credit risk mitigation against exposure on resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Up to 20% ¥¥Up to 50% 12.5 Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥¥12.5 Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. 297 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ○ Securitization exposure as originator (for calculation of market risk equivalent amounts) (f) Information by type of underlying assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorporReal zation cards loans loans receivables ate estate products Total Traditional securitizations Amount of underlying assets ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥(a) Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Securitization subject to early amortization treatment Synthetic securitizations Amount of underlying assets (b) Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Total amount of underlying ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥assets (a)+(b) (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2014 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorporReal zation cards loans loans receivables ate estate products Total Traditional securitizations Amount of underlying assets ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥(a) Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Securitization subject to early amortization treatment Synthetic securitizations Amount of underlying assets 10.0 10.0 (b) Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Total amount of underlying ¥¥¥¥¥10.0 ¥¥¥10.0 assets (a)+(b) Note: Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 298 ─Exposure intended to be securitized─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiExposure intended to be Credit mortgage Auto payment CorporReal zation securitized cards loans loans receivables ate estate products Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Residential Lease SecuritiExposure intended to be Credit mortgage Auto payment CorporReal zation securitized cards loans loans receivables ate estate products Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥(g) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total On-balance sheet ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total On-balance sheet ¥¥¥¥¥0.0 ¥¥¥0.0 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥¥¥¥0.0 ¥¥¥0.0 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 0.0 0.0 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas 0.0 0.0 assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying asset is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 2. “Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets” is classified based on the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 299 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ─Exposure by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% 0.0 0.0 Total ¥0.0 ¥¥¥¥0.0 ¥─Amount of required capital by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Up to 8% Risk capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥300 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Up to 8% Risk Up to 20% capital Up to 52% charge Less than 100% 100% 0.0 0.0 Total ¥0.0 ¥¥¥¥0.0 ¥─Subject to Comprehensive Risk Measure─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Securitizations Resecuritizations Total amount of securitization exposure ¥¥Total amount of required capital ¥¥─Subject to Comprehensive Risk Measure─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Securitizations Resecuritizations Total amount of securitization exposure ¥¥Total amount of required capital ¥¥─Capital increase due to securitization transactions─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total Capital increase due to securitization transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total Capital increase due to securitization transactions 301 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ○ Securitization exposure as sponsor of securitization programs (ABCP/ABL) (for calculation of market risk equivalent amounts) (h) Information by type of underlying assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total Amount of underlying ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥assets Estimated loss amount related to underlying assets during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥fiscal year (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2014 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total Amount of underlying ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥assets Estimated loss amount related to underlying assets during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥fiscal year (i) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets 302 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets ─Exposure by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥303 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ─Amount of required capital by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥304 Securitization exposure as investor (for calculation of market risk equivalent amounts) (j) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real Cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥0.2 ¥2.5 ¥12.2 ¥¥1.0 ¥3.8 ¥9.3 ¥29.2 Exposure on 2.7 2.7 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥0.2 ¥2.5 ¥12.2 ¥¥1.0 ¥3.8 ¥9.3 ¥29.2 Exposure on 2.7 2.7 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 2.3 0.0 0.2 0.1 2.6 which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 0.2 2.2 12.2 1.0 2.0 9.2 27.1 are overseas assets (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real Cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥17.6 ¥4.8 ¥5.5 ¥¥0.2 ¥3.9 ¥1.8 ¥33.9 Exposure on 0.1 0.1 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥17.6 ¥4.8 ¥5.5 ¥¥0.2 ¥3.9 ¥1.8 ¥33.9 Exposure on 0.1 0.1 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 3.1 0.2 0.4 0.1 4.0 which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 17.6 4.6 5.5 0.0 2.1 0.8 30.7 are overseas assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under “Others.” 2. “Credit cards” include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 3. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 4. “Exposure on resecuritizations” are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). 305 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ─Exposure by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥19.6 ¥¥¥¥19.6 ¥Up to 4% 1.7 0.9 1.7 0.9 Risk Up to 8% 3.7 0.5 3.7 0.5 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% 1.4 1.0 1.4 1.0 Less than 100% 100% 2.6 0.1 2.6 0.1 Total ¥29.2 ¥2.7 ¥¥¥29.2 ¥2.7 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥24.6 ¥¥¥¥24.6 ¥Up to 4% 1.2 1.2 Risk Up to 8% 3.8 3.8 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% 0.1 0.1 Less than 100% 100% 4.0 0.1 4.0 0.1 Total ¥33.9 ¥0.1 ¥¥¥33.9 ¥0.1 ─Amount of required capital by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥0.3 ¥¥¥¥0.3 ¥Up to 4% 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Risk Up to 8% 0.3 0.0 0.3 0.0 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% 0.6 0.5 0.6 0.5 Less than 100% 100% 2.6 0.1 2.6 0.1 Total ¥4.0 ¥0.7 ¥¥¥4.0 ¥0.7 306 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥0.3 ¥¥¥¥0.3 ¥Up to 4% 0.0 0.0 Risk Up to 8% 0.3 0.3 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% 0.0 0.0 Less than 100% 100% 4.0 0.1 4.0 0.1 Total ¥4.8 ¥0.1 ¥¥¥4.8 ¥0.1 ─Subject to Comprehensive Risk Measure─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Securitization Resecuritiation Total amount of securitization exposure ¥¥Total amount of required capital ¥¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2014 Securitization Resecuritiation Total amount of securitization exposure ¥¥Total amount of required capital ¥¥■ Market risk See pages 100 to 104 for information regarding market risk. ■ Operational risk See pages 105 to 108 for information regarding operational risk. ■ Equity exposure in banking book (14) Risk management related to equity exposure in banking book With regard to equities in our banking book, we manage default risk through our credit risk management structure and price fluctuation risk through our market risk management structure. With regard to subsidiaries and related companies in which we invest, we manage their risks on a consolidated basis, and manage them appropriately in accordance with their management classification. In addition, securities, a part of equity exposure, are valued as follows: Japanese stocks with quoted market prices are valued based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date; other securities which have readily determinable fair values are valued at the quoted market price if available, or otherwise based on their reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date (cost of securities sold is calculated primarily by the moving average method); and other securities the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine are stated at acquisition cost or amortized cost and determined by the moving average method. 307 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (15) Status of equity exposure in banking book (a) Amounts stated in consolidated balance sheet (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Consolidated Consolidated balance sheet balance sheet amount Fair value amount Fair value Exposure of listed stock, etc. ¥4,579.9 ¥4,711.1 ¥3,479.2 ¥3,616.0 Other equity exposure 306.1 362.7 Total ¥4,886.1 ¥¥3,841.9 ¥Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. (b) Gains and losses on sales related to equity exposure (Billions of yen) For the Fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 For the Fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 Gains Gains and Gains on Losses on and Gains on Losses on losses on sales sales losses on sales sales sales sales Sale of equity ¥143.7 ¥152.0 ¥8.3 ¥81.5 ¥87.4 ¥5.9 exposure Note: The above figures represent gains and losses on sales of stocks in our consolidated statement of income. (c) Gains and losses from write-offs related to equity exposure (Billions of yen) For the Fiscal year ended For the Fiscal year ended March 31, March 31, 2015 2014 Gains and losses from writeGains and losses from write-offs offs Write-offs of equity exposure ¥ (5.3) ¥ (5.3) Note: The above figures represent gains and losses on devaluation of stocks in our consolidated statement of income. (d) Unrealized gains and losses recognized in the consolidated balance sheet and not recognized in the consolidated statement of income (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Net unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Net unrealized Unrealized Unrealized gains gains losses gains gains losses Equity exposure ¥2,331.7 ¥2,360.4 ¥28.6 ¥1,241.4 ¥1,332.3 ¥90.8 Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. 308 (e) Unrealized gains and losses not recognized in the consolidated balance sheet or in the consolidated statement of income (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Net gains losses Net gains losses Equity exposure ¥131.1 ¥139.1 ¥8.0 ¥136.8 ¥145.2 ¥8.3 Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. (f) Equities exposure by portfolio classification (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 PD/LGD approach ¥4,831.4 ¥1,199.5 Market-based approach (simple risk weight 796.7 490.7 method) Market-based approach (internal models approach) Transitional measure applied / 2,609.6 Total ¥5,628.1 ¥4,299.9 309 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■Composition of Leverage Ratio (Millions of yen) Correspon Correspon ding line # ding line # on Basel on Basel III III Item As of March 31, 2015 disclosure disclosure template template (Table 2) (Table 1) On-balance sheet exposures (1) 1 On-balance sheet exposures before deducting adjustment items ¥161,631,157 1a 1 Total assets reported in the consolidated balance sheet 189,684,749 The amount of assets of subsidiaries that are not included in the 1b 2 scope of the leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (-) The amount of assets of subsidiaries that are included in the scope of 1c 7 the leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (except those included in the total assets reported in the consolidated balance sheet) The amount of assets that are deducted from the total assets reported 1d 3 28,053,591 in the consolidated balance sheet (except adjustment items) (-) 2 7 The amount of adjustment items pertaining to Tier1 capital (-) 645,302 3 Total on-balance sheet exposures (a) ¥160,985,855 Exposures related to derivative transactions (2) 4 Replacement cost associated with derivatives transactions, etc. 2,942,592 5 Add-on amount associated with derivatives transactions, etc. 5,912,591 The amount of receivables arising from providing cash margin in 723,193 relation to derivatives transactions, etc. The amount of receivables arising from providing cash margin, 6 provided where deducted from the consolidated balance sheet 144,073 pursuant to the operative accounting framework The amount of deductions of receivables (out of those arising from 7 providing cash variation margin) (-) The amount of client-cleared trade exposures for which a bank 8 holding company acting as a clearing member is not obliged to make / any indemnification (-) 9 Adjusted effective notional amount of written credit derivatives 2,446,530 The amount of deductions from effective notional amount of written 10 2,163,910 credit derivatives (-) 11 4 Total exposures related to derivative transactions (b) ¥10,005,070 Exposures related to repo transactions (3) 12 The amount of assets related to repo transactions, etc 12,641,579 13 The amount of deductions from the assets above (line 12) (-) 5,486,696 14 The exposures for counterparty credit risk for repo transactions, etc 328,632 15 The exposures for agent repo transactions / 16 5 Total exposures related to repo transactions, etc. (c) ¥7,483,516 Exposures related to off-balance sheet transactions (4) 17 Notional amount of off-balance sheet transactions 46,576,954 The amount of adjustments for conversion in relation to 18 29,687,744 off-balance sheet transactions (-) 19 6 Total exposures related to off-balance sheet transactions (d) ¥16,889,209 Leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (5) 20 The amount of capital (Tier1 capital) (e) 7,500,349 21 8 Total exposures ((a)+(b)+(c)+(d)) (f) ¥195,363,652 22 Leverage ratio on a consolidated basis ((e)/(f)) 3.83% 310 ■ Indicators for assessing Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) (Billions of yen) Item As of March 31, As of March 31, Description No. 2015 2014 1 Total exposures (= a + b + c + d): ¥215,213.7 ¥192,609.0 a. Counterparty exposure of derivatives contracts b. Gross value of securities financing transactions (SFTs) and counterparty exposure of SFTs c. Other assets (other than assets specifically identified above and regulatory adjustments to Tier 1 and CET1 capital under the fully phased-in Basel III framework) d. Notional amount of off-balance sheet items (other than derivatives contracts and SFTs ) 2 Intra-financial system assets (= a + b + c + d): 10,080.9 8,643.1 a. Funds deposited with or lent to other financial institutions and undrawn committed lines extended to other financial institutions b. Holdings of securities issued by other financial institutions (Note 1) c. Net positive current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions d. Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net positive fair value 3 Intra-financial system liabilities (=a + b + c): 21,344.4 12,596.1 a. Deposits due to, and undrawn committed lines obtained from, other financial institutions b. Net negative current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions c. OTC derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net negative fair value 4 Securities outstanding(Note 1) 28,259.0 24,210.5 5 Assets under custody 138,937.1 144,710.9 6 Notional amount of OTC derivatives 1,115,373.0 1,058,347.6 7 Held-for-trading(HFT) securities and available-for-sale(AFS) securities , 10,234.5 9,578.8 excluding HFT and AFS securities that meet the definition of Level 1 assets and Level 2 assets with haircuts (Note 2) 8 Level 3 assets (Note 3) 1,416.7 1,482.2 9 Cross-jurisdictional claims 44,114.4 35,165.0 10 Cross-jurisdictional liabilities 31,864,2 22,889.7 For the fiscal For the fiscal Item Description year ended year ended No. March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 11 Payments (settled through the BOJ-NET, the Japanese Banks' Payment ¥6,782,567.1 ¥6,029,806.1 Clearing Network and other similar settlement systems, excluding intragroup payments) 12 Underwritten transactions in debt and equity markets (Note 4) 9,226.0 7,131.7 Notes: 1. Securities refer to secured debt securities, senior unsecured debt securities, subordinated debt securities, commercial paper, certificate of deposits, and common equities. 2. Level 1 and Level 2 assets with haircuts are defined in the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). 3. The amount is calculated in accordance with the U.S.GAAP. 4. This refers to underwriting of securities defined article 2 paragraph 8 item 6 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. 311 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Compensation of directors, corporate auditors and employees (16) Qualitative disclosure (a) State of the organizational system relating to compensation of “Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees” of Mizuho group 1. Scope of “Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees” “Subject directors, etc.,” and “Subject employees, etc.,” subject to disclosure as provided for in the FSA Notice (collectively, “Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees”) are as follows: (1) Scope of “Subject directors, etc.” “Subject directors, etc.,” are directors, executive officers as defined in the Companies Act and corporate auditors of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (“MHFG”). Outside directors and outside corporate auditors are excluded. (2) Scope of “Subject employees, etc.” “Subject employees, etc.,” who are subject to disclosure are executive officers as defined in our internal regulations and employees of MHFG and directors, corporate auditors and employees of its major consolidated subsidiaries, who are “persons who receive large amounts of compensation” and “materially affect the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group or its major consolidated subsidiaries.” (a) Scope of “Major consolidated subsidiaries” A “Major consolidated subsidiary” is a consolidated subsidiary, etc., (i) whose total assets as a percentage of consolidated total assets exceeds 2% of a bank holding company or bank and (ii) who materially affects the management of our group. Specifically, those are Mizuho Bank, Ltd. (“MHBK”), Mizuho Bank (USA) and other subsidiaries who conduct banking business similar to a branch of MHBK, Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (“MHTB”), Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. (“MHSC”), Mizuho Securities USA Inc. and Mizuho International Plc. (b) Scope of “Persons who receive large amounts of compensation” A “Person who receives large amounts of compensation” refers to a person who receives compensation that exceeds the base amount from MHFG or its major consolidated subsidiaries. The base amount at MHFG has been set at ¥50 million. Such base amount has been set based on the average amounts of the compensation of directors, executive officers as defined in the Companies Act and corporate auditors of MHFG, MHBK and MHTB for the last three fiscal years (excluding persons who resigned or retired during each of such fiscal years), taking into account fluctuations in amounts of compensation over past fiscal years. The preceding base amount has been adopted as the common base in order to unify the selection criteria of persons who receive large amounts of compensation at each of the companies in this paragraph. (c) Scope of “Persons who materially affect the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group” A “Person who materially affects the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group” means a person who exerts significant influence on the operation of the business of MHFG or a major consolidated subsidiary through his or her work in conducting transactions or management, or who materially affects the state of assets by incurring losses on transactions. Specifically, it includes executive officers of MHFG and directors, corporate auditors, executive officers, and market department employees of major consolidated subsidiaries. 2. Decisions on compensation of “Subject directors, corporate auditors, and employees” (1) Decisions on compensation of subject directors, etc. MHFG has transformed into a Company with Three Committees from a Company with Board of Corporate Auditors in June 2014, and has established the Compensation Committee as a statutory committee. Prior to the transformation in June 2014, the Compensation Committee, which advised the board of directors of MHFG, was composed of three outside directors and one in-house director (the President & CEO of MHFG). The committee discussed, among other matters, basic policies to determine the compensation of directors and executive officers, the compensation system, and the amounts of compensation of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC, and the president & CEO of MHFG reported to the board of directors of MHFG and notified each of the above companies of the results of the committee’s discussions. Based on the results of discussions by the Compensation Committee of MHFG, each of the above companies, including MHFG, decided its own policies in determining compensation for directors and executive officers as defined in our internal regulations, compensation systems, and 312 amounts of compensation. After the transformation into a Company with Three Committees, the chairman of the statutory Compensation Committee shall be an outside director, and in principle its members shall be appointed from among the outside directors (or at least non-executive directors) in order to ensure objectivity and transparency in director and executive officer compensation. In 2014, all four members of the Compensation Committee, including the chairman, were outside directors. The Compensation Committee shall determine the basic policy and compensation system for directors and executive officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC, determine the compensation for each individual director and executive officer of MHFG, and exercise approval rights in MHFG for compensation for each individual director of MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC. In addition, the president of each of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC determines the amount of compensation for each executive officer of its own. The compensation of corporate auditors is decided through discussion among corporate auditors within the scope of the total amount of corporate auditors’ compensation decided at our ordinary general meeting of shareholders. (2) Decisions on compensation of “Subject employees, etc.,” Matters relating to executive officers as defined in the internal regulations of MHFG and directors, corporate auditors and executive officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC are as set out in (1) Decisions on compensation of subject directors and corporate auditors. The compensation of subject employees, etc., is decided and paid in accordance with the salary and bonus system established by MHFG and the major consolidated subsidiaries. Such system is designed and put into writing by the human resources departments of MHFG and the major consolidated subsidiaries which are independent of departments furthering business. In terms of the compensation of overseas employees, each overseas office or operation determines its own compensation policy based on local laws and regulations as well as employment relationships. 3. Decisions on compensation of employees in risk management departments, compliance departments and internal audit departments The compensation of employees in risk management departments, compliance departments and internal audit departments is decided in accordance with the salary and bonus system, and specific payment amounts are conclusively determined in accordance with employee performance evaluations made by the relevant department and the human resources department, independent from departments furthering business. Each employee of the risk management departments, the compliance departments and the internal audit departments sets their own items for evaluation in the employee performance evaluations, subject to the approval of their superiors. The degree to which the items are fulfilled is evaluated taking into account the degree of the employee's contribution to risk-management, compliance and internal audit. 4. Total amount of compensation paid to members of the compensation committee and number of meetings held by the Compensation Committee Number of meetings held Number of meetings held (April 2014 – June 2014) (June 2014 – March 2015) Before transition to After transition to Company Company with Three with Three Committees Committees 1 6 Note: The total amount of compensation is not set out above as it is not possible to separately calculate the amounts that are paid as consideration for the execution of duties by the compensation committee. (b) Evaluating the appropriateness of the designed operation of the system relating to compensation of subject directors, corporate auditors, and employees of Mizuho group 1. Policies relating to compensation (1) Policies relating to compensation of subject directors, executive officers and corporate auditors The “Mizuho Financial Group Compensation Policy” sets out the policy concerning the determination of compensation for each individual director, executive officer as defined in the Companies Act and executive officer as defined in the 313 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy internal regulations (“directors, etc.”) of MHFG MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. a. Purpose of the Policy Executive compensation for MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC pursuant to such policy aims to function as incentive and compensation for each officer to exercise the designated function to the fullest with respect to striving to realize management with consideration to value creation for various stakeholders and improve corporate value through continuous and stable corporate growth based on our basic management policies under our Corporate Identity. b. Basic Policy The basic policy with respect to the determination concerning the individual compensation of directors, etc., of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC is set forth below: (i) The executive compensation shall be based on the function and responsibility assigned to and the performance of each of the Directors, etc. (ii) The executive compensation shall give consideration to improving corporate value and creating value for various stakeholders over the medium to long term. (iii) The executive compensation shall reflect the management environment and business performance of our group. (iv) The executive compensation shall enable compensation for securing expert personnel such as professionals with a competitive edge in the market. (v) The compensation system and standards shall be reevaluated based on such factors as the economic and social conditions and survey data with respect to management compensation provided by external specialized organizations. (vi) Regulations and guidelines, etc., concerning executive compensation, both in Japan and overseas, shall be complied with. c. Compensation System I. The compensation system for executive officers (including executive officers who are directors), executive officers as defined in our internal regulations, and directors and executive officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC responsible for business execution (“Officers Responsible for Business Execution”) shall be separate from that for the non-executive directors of MHFG and the directors of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC responsible for management supervision (“NonExecutive Officers Responsible for Management Supervision”). II. The basic compensation system for Officers Responsible for Business Execution shall consist of basic salaries in the form of fixed compensation as well as variable compensation consisting of performance payments and performancebased stock compensation. (i) The basic salaries shall factor in each officer’s function and responsibility in addition to the standard amount for each position. (ii) The performance payments shall be monetary made as officers’ incentive to achieve the annual budget and as compensation for their achievement. The payment thereof shall reflect each officer’s performance in addition to the standard amount for each position. (iii) The variable compensation intended for professional personnel, etc., appointed from outside the group shall be individually designed based on the duties and characteristics of business responsibilities and market values, etc., of each officer, a system which enables certain amount or a portion of deferred payments and non-monetary payments such as stock, as well as a decrease or forfeiture (clawback) of the deferred amount depending on the performance, etc., of the company and such personnel. III. The compensation for Non-Executive Officers Responsible for Management Supervision, in principle, shall be in the form of fixed compensation from the perspective of ensuring the effectiveness of the supervisory function and shall consist of basic salaries and stock compensations. (i) The basic salaries shall factor in each officer’s function and responsibilities in addition to the standard amount for each of the full-time and part-time non-executive officers. (ii) The stock compensation shall be paid to full-time internal directors excluding outside directors in accordance with the standard amount based on each position. However, the payment standards shall not fluctuate depending on each officer’s level of performance. d. Compensation Determination Process I. The Compensation Committee shall determine the determination policy of executive compensation for MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. In addition, the Compensation Committee shall determine the compensation for each individual director and executive officer of MHFG and approve at MHFG the compensation of each individual director of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. 314 II. The President & Executive Officer, pursuant to this policy and regulations and detailed rules, etc., shall determine the compensation for each executive officer, as defined in our internal regulations, of MHFG and approve at MHFG the compensation of each individual executive officer of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. III. All members of the Compensation Committee shall be appointed from among outside directors (or at least nonexecutive directors) and the chairman thereof shall be an outside director. IV. The Compensation Committee, where necessary, may have officers who are not members of the committee (including officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC) such as the President & Executive Officer and external experts, etc., attend its meetings and request their opinion. The compensation of corporate auditors is discussed and decided among the corporate auditors themselves within the scope of the total amount of corporate auditors’ compensation decided at our ordinary general meeting of shareholders. (2) Policies relating to compensation of subject employees, etc. The policies relating to compensation for executive officers as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC are also the same as the policies described in (1) Policies relating to compensation of subject directors and corporate auditors above. Compensation for other employees, etc., is determined in accordance with their duties and responsibilities. Some bonuses that are linked to performance are determined after comprehensively evaluating the employee’s contribution to business, including any qualitative contributions to the organization, in a manner that does not place an excessive emphasis on results. 2. The effect of the overall level of compensation, etc., on equity capital The Compensation Committee of MHFG receives reports on the amount of compensation paid to directors and executive officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC in the previous fiscal year and confirms that there is no material effect on the Mizuho group’s performance or the adequacy of equity capital. (c) Compatibility between system for compensation of subject directors, corporate auditors, and employees of Mizuho group and risk management and matters relating to linking compensation with performance The variable compensation intended for professional personnel, etc., appointed from outside the group shall be individually designed based on the duties and characteristics of business responsibilities and market values, etc., of each officer, a system which enables certain amount or a portion of deferred payments and non-monetary payments such as stock, as well as a decrease or forfeiture (clawback) of the deferred amount depending on the performance, etc., of the company and such personnel. There is no system of performance-linked compensation for corporate audit 315 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (17) Quantitative disclosure items (a) Matters relating to types and total amounts of, and payment method for, compensation of subject directors, corporate auditors, and employees of Mizuho group ─Total amount of the compensation, etc., of subject directors, corporate auditors and employees─ (Millions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 Stock Total amount of compensationNumber of Total amount of fixed Base type stock persons compensation compensation compensation options Others Subject directors and corporate auditors (excluding outside 15 ¥873 ¥854 ¥591 ¥262 ¥1 directors and outside corporate auditors) Subject employees, etc. 234 19,941 9,175 7,910 565 698 Overseas 192 17,106 7,120 6,348 74 697 employees, etc. (Millions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 Total amount of variable Base compensation compensation Bonus Others Retirement benefits Others Subject directors and corporate auditors (excluding outside ¥¥¥¥¥18 ¥directors and outside corporate auditors) Subject employees, etc. 10,291 10,287 3 471 Overseas employees, 9,579 9,575 3 406 etc. Notes: 1. Amounts of compensation of subject directors and corporate auditors include amounts of compensation received for duties performed as a director or corporate auditor of a major consolidated subsidiary. 2. Total amount of fixed compensation includes ¥827 million of deferred compensation that arose during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 (subject directors and corporate auditors: ¥262 million; subject employees, etc. : ¥565 million). The amount of fixed compensation deferred prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 was ¥406 million (subject directors and corporate auditors: ¥227 million; subject employees, etc. : ¥178 million) and the outstanding amount of deferred fixed compensation as of March 31, 2015 was ¥2,050 million (subject directors and corporate auditors: ¥598 million; subject employees, etc. : ¥1,451 million). 3. Total amount of variable compensation includes ¥2,591 million of deferred compensation that arose during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, all of which was for Subject Employees, etc., and could in the future be taken back in the event of poor business results or other detrimental factors. The amount of variable compensation deferred prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 was ¥998 million (subject employees, etc. : ¥998 million) and the outstanding amount of deferred variable compensation as of March 31, 2015 was ¥3,887 million (subject employees, etc. : ¥3,887 million). 4. Total amount of compensation for subject employees, etc., includes ¥170 million of allowance for termination and resignation (number of subject persons: 3), multi-year guarantees of bonus of ¥284 million (number of subject persons: 4) , retirement allowance of ¥10 million (number of subject persons: 1)and signing bonus of ¥244 million (number of subject persons: 16). 5. The exercise periods of the stock compensation-type stock options (stock acquisition rights) are as set out below. Under the stock option agreements, exercise of the options is postponed, even during the exercise period, until the time of retirement of the director or employee. Exercise Period First Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from February 17, 2009 to February 16, 2029 Second Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from September 28, 2009 to September 25, 2029 Third Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from August 27, 2010 to August 26, 2030 Fourth Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from December 9, 2011 to December 8, 2031 Fifth Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from September 3, 2012 to August 31, 2032 Sixth Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from February 18, 2014 to February 17, 2034 Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from December 2, 2014 to December 1, 2034 (b)Other relevant matters relating to our system of compensation for subject directors, corporate auditors and employees of Mizuho group Not applicable, other than those covered in the above. 316 Contact Information Mizuho Financial Group Mizuho Bank Mizuho Trust & Banking 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, 1-2-1, Yaesu, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan Tokyo 100-8176, Japan Tokyo 103-8670, Japan Tel. +81-(0)3-5224-1111 Tel. +81-(0)3-3214-1111 Tel. +81-(0)3-3278-8111 Printed in Japan
