ABOUT CONTENTS FRANSABANK Fransabank is one of the leading financial services firm 04 Message from the Chairmen and one of the largest banking institutions in Lebanon, Our Support to the Business for Peace with operations worldwide in France, Algeria, Syria, Belarus, Iraq, Cyprus, Sudan, Cuba and UAE (Abu Dhabi); 06 Platform by the United Nations Global Compact the Bank has USD 18.942 billion in assets, Our Stakeholder Dialogue USD 15.346 billion in deposits and USD 5.854 billion in loans and advances to customers at year end 2014. 07 and Engagement Activities Fransabank serves 286,015 customers in Lebanon. 10 Our Responsibility in Banking Fransabank remains faithful to its wish to lead and grow, 14 Corporate Governance which is set out, first of all in its vocation to serve its 16 Business Ethics customers. It has leveraged its strategic commitment to a complicit, innovative, and tailored universal banking model, providing each customer with a full range of products, services and channels adapted to their needs. Vision 18 Our Responsibility for the Economy 22 Responsible Lending The Bank structures its value proposition around six Fransabank Group is committed to be a leading 23 Financial Inclusion business segments: retail banking, small and medium financial institution within the local and regional enterprises (SME) banking, corporate banking, private 26 Equity Investments in Start-Ups Central Bank of Lebanon/Circular 331 markets, providing top-notch financial services to 27 Small and Medium Size Enterprises (SME’s) Lending banking, investment banking, regional and international its customers through innovation, cutting-edge banking. Each of these segments tailors its product 29 Supporting Customers benefits and value added banking services and and service offerings through a specific set of financial financial solutions. and non-financial solutions and dedicated teams of professionals. 32 Our Responsibility as an Employer Mission 36 Fostering Diversity Fransabank believes that business has both an 37 Competency Development opportunity and an obligation to make brighter futures. 38 Recognizing Performance The Group is committed to: While we aim to deliver the best financial solutions, we 40 Integrating Employees achieve this best through building strong connections in the communities where we operate. • Consolidate and expand its presence in selective regional and international markets Fransabank is in the process of integrating Corporate • Adopt and implement the highest international 44 Our Responsibility for the Environment Social Responsibility (CSR) into all its business activities banking and finance norms and standards, 48 Investing Responsibly with the belief that success is measured by more corporate governance, and diligent compliance 52 Engaging Employees than financial results; it is also measured by customer practices 53 Limiting and Reducing our Ecological Footprints satisfaction and employee engagement, strong • Exceed its customers’ expectations, and fulfill governance practices and support for the communities their needs and demands the Bank serves. • Strive for distinguished quality service for its 54 Our Responsibility for the Communities existing and potential customers 58 Creating Value Through Partnerships • Promote within the Group professional 59 Art & Culture Enthusiasts development and quality performance, 63 Advocates for Education decision-making process and teamwork 64 Socially Committed • Generate increasing value for its shareholders in a dynamic manner and on solid sustainable grounds 66 Appendices • Align responsible business practices and social 68 Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact 10 Principles investments to create long-term value and 70 Code of Conduct sustainability for the Group and its communities. 71 Information Security 02 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 03 After becoming an active participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2013, we have raised the challenge of communicating, for the second year, our journey towards responsible business. Then again in 2014, we decided to go a step further and sign the Business for Peace Statement of Support as we deem our role to be constructive in fostering development, stability and peace in the communities where we operate. Indeed, all of our actions, from the way we run our business to how we use our resources, align with our purpose. Our priority is to connect our skills to help our customers reach their goals, introduce companies to capital to stimulate economic growth, and bond communities to the tools they need to blossom. We have always wanted to go further and faster on our Corporate Social Responsibility commitments by implementing an overall integrated approach involving all the business lines and cultures of the various entities of our Group. It is not a question of artificially bolting CSR on to our activities, rather integrating it as a core component of the Group so that it permeates all our practices to the very core. Clearly, this requires a strong commitment on the part of the Group’s different entities’ management and employees. Adnan & Adel Kassar Our goal for Fransabank is to be a leader in driving economic development and social prosperity, and we realize there is much to be done. We shall be engaging in meaningful, long-term and MESSAGE FROM sustainable initiatives that are of value to our shareholders, customers, employees and society at large. THE CHAIRMEN We thank our great team of Fransabank executives who help us, every day, serve our values and keep our focus on Corporate Social Responsibility. Their continued commitment and hard work is the cornerstone of our success. Fransabank has been, for quite a while, committed to helping local economies and communities grow and prosper through its Sincerely, responsible work, as we believe that a vibrant banking sector is the main pillar for social development and economic progress. The foundation for Corporate Social Responsibility is in how we manage and conduct our business. It means being responsive to our stakeholders, including supporting and respecting our employees, and being fair and transparent with our customers. It also means operating, with full integrity, in all that we do as well as having a Adel Kassar Adnan Kassar strong corporate governance and a robust control environment. Deputy Chairman Chairman 04 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 05 OUR SUPPORT TO THE BUSINESS FOR OUR STAKEHOLDER PEACE PLATFORM BY THE UNITED DIALOGUE AND NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES Recognizing that business cannot thrive in societies that THE UN GLOBAL Our business works on the basis of trust. Our We have adopted mechanisms for engaging fail, and that peace and stability provide a key foundation COMPACT (UNGC) success as a Bank depends largely on our ability and communicating with our main stakeholders, for economic development, the Business for Peace to build and maintain good relations with our and in 2014, we took a variety of actions to take platform expands and deepens private sector actions A strategic policy initiative for stakeholders. a more strategic approach to engaging with in support of peace in the workplace, marketplace and businesses that are committed to specific stakeholders as such: local communities. Fransabank believes that business can aligning their operations and strategies Fransabank engages with a wide array of be a powerful agent of change that promotes peace and with ten universally accepted principles stakeholders, including our shareholders, development especially in the conflict-affected and high• Dedicated a comprehensive presentation of our in the areas of human rights, labour, employees, customers, suppliers, regulators, CSR strategy and initiatives to the Bank’s Board risk area in which we operate. environment and anti-corruption. non-profit organizations and members of the of Directors, Senior Management and the As social, political and economic communities where we operate. Through the Bank’s voluntary support to this platform, Corporate Governance Committee. These challenges or opportunities affect we are committed to support multi-stakeholder dialogue, sessions included questions and answers business more than ever before, One of the ways we inspire trust in our enhance corporate engagement in priority areas and of from the different members with regards to many companies recognize the need stakeholders is by knowing what they expect course help implementing the UNGC Ten Principles when benchmarking our Key Performance Indicators to collaborate and partner with from us and how their expectations are changing. possible. In this context, Chairman Adnan Kassar, who was (KPI’s) with the sector. The allocated time for the first chairman of a Lebanese Bank to endorse the UN governments, civil society, labour and We, therefore, regularly engage in a dialogue each session was extended, and we came out Global Compact (UNGC) and its principles as an integral part the United Nations. With over 13,000 with our main stakeholders, whereby we gain with encouraging feedback from the Board of the Bank’s strategy, went a step further and signed the corporate participants and other an understanding of their needs and interests members especially with regards to the Business for Peace Statement of Support in June 2014. stakeholders from over 145 countries, through discussions and by conducting surveys case studies that involved the integration of it is the largest voluntary corporate or participating in events, as well as through our employees in the Bank’s Corporate Social To complement the signature of the Business for Peace responsibility initiative in the world. our involvement in initiatives, forums and Responsibility initiatives. initiative, Fransabank attended the Inaugural Business for Endorsed by chief executives, the Global associations. Individual groups of stakeholders Peace (B4P) event held in Istanbul in September 2014. Compact works toward the vision of have different – and sometimes conflicting The main objectives of the event were to assist companies a sustainable and inclusive global – interests and consequently have their own • Carried out a marketing research study in implementing responsible business practices aligned economy which delivers lasting benefits specific expectations of us as a Bank. targeting the Bank’s existing and potential with the United Nations Global Compact ten principles in to people, communities, and markets. customers to better understand the local conflict-affected and high-risk areas and catalyze action to By exchanging our views with these stakeholders, community’s expectations and position to advance peace. we gain a more detailed understanding of our our brand health. The brand equity research responsibilities in our core business of banking, included 700 one–to-one interviews as well as our responsibilities toward our revealing the strength and weakness of employees, society and the environment. At the Fransabank brand in comparison to same time, this dialogue enables us to identify competition, the evaluation of our customer BUSINESS FOR potential issues at an early stage, and help service, among others. PEACE (B4P) develop solutions to current challenges wherever possible. • Engaged selected employees in internal It’s worth noting that in May 2014, Chairman Kassar A business leadership platform that discussions to better integrate the entire staff received the Business for Peace Award in Oslo from the aims to expand and deepen private in our CSR aspirations and plans. Their feedback “Business for Peace Foundation”, which made him the First sector action in support of peace in was of help in planning CSR projects that goes Lebanese Business Leader to receive this highest form of the workplace, marketplace and local recognition due to his ceaseless dedication and endeavors in-line with the Bank’s culture. This approach communities. It assists companies in was most challenging as involving more for promoting the peace process in Lebanon and in the Arab implementing responsible business world. employees and getting them to embrace our practices aligned with the Global full CSR approach is a long-term process which Compact ten principles in conflictwe are still working on. Accordingly, at Fransabank, we hold great importance to affected and high-risk areas and halting corruption, as well as boosting the economy through catalyze action to advance peace. long-term financial performance that contributes to peace and development in high-risk /conflicted affected areas of the world. 06 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 07 Our stakeholders’ engagement specific approaches are described here below: Fransabank Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 includes five main priority areas: corporate governance, customers, • We value the input of customers who use our • Fransabank employees value our dedication to employees, environment and communities. financial solutions, and we hold regular Corporate Social Responsibility. meetings with selected ones. • We conduct periodic in-depth interviews with Governance is the first step in establishing a • We regularly consult with our customers to selected employees to assess their level of strong CSR culture. In the governance chapter, ensure that all our products and services meet engagement in the Bank’s internal CSR we describe the policies and processes that their needs and expectations. initiatives and to brain storm on the new ensure our business practices are always ethical. CSR initiatives to be launched internally in Governance describes the impact of Fransabank’s • We also conduct periodic marketing research values, day-to-day business practices and studies to measure our customer satisfaction accordance with the Bank’s CSR strategy. policies such as managing risk for shareholders, and other feedback from customers. • Employees are able to support our diversity employees, customers, and other stakeholders. • We share market research and insights on and inclusion goals through the growing financial issues and economic indicators participation and engagement in the initiatives Promoting financial inclusion and economic analysis with our customers. targeted for them. progress: we look to provide financial opportunities, access, knowledge and support for underserved communities and individuals worldwide. We strive to treat our customers fairly and support them in times of financial difficulty, as embodied in our commitment to responsible finance. • Fransabank is keen on communicating about its The employer chapter discusses our practices performance, products and services to encourage a corporate culture that embraces in an open, transparent and timely team spirit, career development and merit-based manner. advancement for people, while always striving to ensure their job satisfaction and individual • We work with partner organizations Fransabank’s Compliance maintains a growth. In addition, we included case studies to make a targeted contribution to continuous constructive dialogue and on our internal stakeholder – our employees’ Fransabank’s Corporate Social Responsibility economic and social development in partnership with regulators at all levels engagement in the Bank’s CSR initiatives. Report complements the Bank’s Annual Report the regions in which we operate. and to respond appropriately to new and is a high-level summary of the Bank’s CSR regulatory developments including The environment chapter discourses our major strategy, priorities and activities. The Bank’s web new banking regulations as well as agreements with international organizations as site, fransabank.com, provides an access to the new rules governing transparence, for the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Bank’s Annual Report 2014 and Corporate Social combatting Money Laundering and European Investment Bank (EIB), to finance Responsibility Report 2014. and Terrorist Financing and the energy related technologies and make profitable implementation of FATCA policies and investments in sustainable development; in This Report portrays more about our work at procedures. • We proactively solicit viewpoints from communities and addition to our eco-loans for individuals and the Parent company, Fransabank SAL, excluding NGO’s advocating a variety of issues. Incorporating NGO’s businesses to finance renewable and energy Fransabank Group overseas entities, and the input is pivotal to Fransabank and our approach to CSR. efficient projects. Not to forget, our employees’ progress we have made so far on issues that are • We implement the feedback that is feasible within the efforts to reduce the Bank’s environmental important to our partners at the Bank and in our Bank’s CSR strategy. impact. communities. • We cultivate strategic relations with NGO’s and support charitable projects through financial contributions and The communities’ chapter presents our efforts This Report also meets the Bank’s commitment employees integration within specific NGO’s CSR activities to help communities where our customers and to submit a Communication on Progress (COP) or donation programs. employees live; Fransabank makes a social to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) to impact in its philanthropic giving and the social showcase how the Bank is working towards the investments in communities. implementation of the UNGC 10 principles. Our engagement with all these groups is ongoing, open and transparent. 08 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 09 A solid foundation of good corporate governance, integrity, accountability and strong risk management culture has positioned Fransabank well in the challenging economic environment of the past few years. It has helped to build and maintain strong, enduring relationships with customers and other stakeholders in the communities where we operate. OUR RESPONSIBILTY IN BANKING 12 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 13 OUR RESPONSIBILTY IN BANKING CORPORATE Fransabank Corporate Governance framework promotes safeguard the governance and effectiveness of the the commitment of the Bank to the highest level of Board and to ensure the objective of adding value to all transparency, integrity and accountability and helps in shareholders, investors, clients and community in the GOVERNANCE CHALLENGES disseminating a strong governance culture within the Bank. Fransabank Board of Directors consists in its majority short, medium and long terms. In carrying out its oversight duties, the Board is supported by the Corporate Governance Committee, the Risk Management Committee and the Audit of non-executive members. This composition aims to Committee. Corporate Social Responsibility focuses on • To abide by the Corporate Governance as a tool for incorporating AML/CFT and FATCA Fransabank’s strategy remains to standardize the the social, environmental and ethical practices requirements governance practices across its entities and to into the business decision making process, thus while still protecting strengthen its governance and control culture. benefiting all related stakeholders. Corporate Lebanon’s banking Governance is a set of rules that aim to promote secrecy law. fair and transparent relationship between the Bank’s management, its Board of Directors, • To establish bank its shareholders and other stakeholders. wide Compliance Transparency, disclosure, sustainability and ethical culture. behavior are its main features. • To minimize non Compliance risks related to doing business on a At Fransabank, we are always committed to implement national, regional and sound Corporate Governance practices, which focus international level. on the main guiding principles of transparency, accountability, responsibility and fairness in the • To promote a treatment of all related parties. transparency and cooperation attitude with regulators and correspondent banks. Corporate Governance Framework Fransabank Corporate Governance framework comprises essentially the Corporate Governance Code that was adopted by the Board of Directors in line with the regulatory requirements and international best practices, in addition to a set of governance related policies & charters and a Code of Conduct & Ethics. The Bank’s governance structure includes the General Assembly (shareholders); the Board of Directors; the various committees; the Chairman; the Deputy Chairman; control functions; the external auditors; senior management and the business and support functions. 14 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 15 OUR RESPONSIBILTY IN BANKING BUSINESS ETHICS At Fransabank, we see responsible behavior as a Code of Conduct Protecting the Bank’s Information through precondition for creating long-term value in our Cyber Security business. We have several policies to ensure that The Code of Conduct helps Fransabank we conduct business in accordance with the laws employees make decisions about customers, Fransabank considers information security to be a very and regulations of the countries where we operate suppliers and the authorities. It sets forth important part of its strong governance framework. and that we follow international guidelines and general guidelines on how to behave in a Our security awareness program is mandatory for all recognized principles for ethical behavior. number of areas, including inside information employees since our business is based upon trust. Digital and conflicts of interest. The Bank’s Code of information is valuable and must be protected. Conduct defines the behavior that is expected from all members of the Bank and includes the A full review of the security policies adopted by the Bank following: has been conducted, while mapped to the ISO 27002 new Anti-Corruption, standards. Security systems were deployed to provide Anti-Money Laundering, and Foreign • Respect and protection of confidential more protection for the data, preventing leakage and Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) information, ensuring accessibility and better reactiveness to incidents. • Behavior based on mutual respect, From another perspective, and in order to complete the Fransabank’s anti-money laundering policy • Undertaking a close monitoring on accounts’ • Equal opportunity employer, whole image of security, a drastic enhancement of the includes procedures for customer due diligence, movements and daily executed transactions • Prevention of conflict of interest, physical security systems – camera surveillance, fire reporting, record keeping, internal controls, to ensure their consistency with the • Legal compliance, protection and fighting, electromechanical infrastructure risk management and communications that customers’ net-worth situation and their • Behavior with respect to bribes, monitoring using advanced technological platforms has are intended to prevent illegal activities. It is economic activity reflected in the KYC form. • Gifts and favors, been carried out. Such a leap in physical security will not just the duty of the anti-money laundering • Occupational safety and health, provide the proper security for the IT systems, and ensure department to monitor these activities, but also • Performing a daily screening of the customers’ • Environment, better availability of the banking services. The Bank made part of every manager’s duty as they are obliged names against local watch and sanctions • Corporate Social Responsibility, and a big leap in the PCI DSS compliance project reaching a to take organizational measures to ensure the lists published by the Special Investigation • Fulfillment of obligations. very high level of conformity to the injunctions of the said compliance requirement is respected within their Commission as well as those published by standard. areas of responsibility. international bodies including UN, OFAC, EU, The objective of Fransabank Code of Conduct We have specific policies on dealing with HM Treasury, and Interpol. is to ensure that all employees have the same On the business continuity plan, the design phase of a corruption and preventing money laundering. As high level of knowledge about the rules and new Business Continuity and Disaster site to be built such, we reiterate the obligation of all employees • Applying strict control measures on wire regulations that apply to our business. It is a according to the Tier III availability standard is in the final to strictly comply with Anti-Money Laundering transfers prior to processing them to make mandatory conduct for all employees at the stage. This datacenter is one of the most technologically (AML), Combatting Financing of Terrorism (CFT) sure that the payment is not directly or branches and departments / divisions and at advanced centers in the region using the best proactive and Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) indirectly in relation with sanctioned other Fransabank Group local and overseas monitoring and advanced technologies from the world procedures in force as for: countries, individuals, entities and goods. entities. leaders in this field. The datacenter is fully designed to be maintained and upgraded without any downtime or • Conducting a periodic review of the AML/CFT, • Conducting an Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) All Fransabank employees are obligated by service interruption due to its multiple redundancies. sanctions and FATCA Policies and Procedures on high risk customers, such as: our Code of Conduct to report any suspicion or to ensure compliance with the updated related Politically Exposed Persons (PEP), knowledge of breaches of the Group’s policies In order to safeguard the Bank’s customers’ information, as requirements. Off-Shore companies, or any other unethical or unlawful behavior to well as assess the confidentiality, integrity and availability Non-Profits Organizations, the head of the Compliance. of information, we are continuously focused on the • Making sure that appropriate Know Your Precious stone dealers, development of our human capital, which is composed Customer (KYC) and FATCA due diligence Used car dealers, of a large team of technology specialists, functional and procedures are applied at the onset of the Exchange companies, business analysts and experts, senior developers and relationship with the customer and renewed at High cash income professions, administrators. Moreover, all initiatives and projects are every material change in related data. Nationals of sanctioned countries, running in the direction of compliance to the ISO 20000 Income directly or indirectly related to Standard. sanctioned countries. 16 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 17 Promoting financial inclusion and economic progress is a main pillar in our Bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility by providing financial opportunities, access, knowledge and support for underserved communities and individuals. We strive to treat our customers fairly and support them in times of financial difficulty, as embodied in our commitment to responsible finance. As a Bank, we play a fundamental role in society: to support economic growth and stability and to inspire confidence in the financial system. OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE ECONOMY 20 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 21 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE ECONOMY RESPONSIBLE FINANCIAL LENDING CHALLENGES INCLUSION Lending money to individuals and businesses is a • Continuing to improve One of the most important initiatives to finance fundamental activity for banks. We provide capital opportunities for entrepreneurship is micro-credits. that serves as a catalyst for economic growth small businesses to and social prosperity. To an increasing degree, create jobs in a Fransabank has developed a strategy of Corporate banks are expected to share accountability for difficult economic Social Responsibility based on responsible customers’ use of their products; but also consider environment. actions and economic efficiency, with the willing the purpose for which the products are used and commitment to the socioeconomic development assess possible Environmental, Social and Ethical • Further expanding of the people and the region. Promoting the (ESE) risks associated with it. These factors are microfinance entrepreneurship spirit and individual initiative is central to our Principles for Responsible Lending. opportunities across the best way to bring about economic growth and Lebanon. community development. This is why one of the priorities of Fransabank’s management policies is • Broadening access to support viable entrepreneurial initiatives. to financial services At Fransabank, we acknowledge that the impact of our business on locally and improving the environment and society extends beyond our own activities. understanding of their We, therefore, insist that our customers behave responsibly and appropriate uses. adhere to commonly accepted principles of sustainable business CASE STUDY conduct. We endeavor to prevent credit facilities from being used • Breaking the barriers Access to improved financial in violation of internationally recognized standards in the areas of of the next stage services through microfinance human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. of growth and the We grant loans and credit facilities on the basis of a professional high risk of long-term credit assessment. It is in both the Group’s and the customer’s sustainability. interest that facilities are granted only when the obligations and Fransabank considers microfinance as an risks are understood by the customer and match the customer’s • Continuing to effective means to support the achievement of needs and ability to repay. We, therefore, undertake a thorough support affordable the UN Millennium Development Goals, such assessment of the customer’s needs and financial situation. home ownership as the eradication of poverty and the provision in difficult economic of universal primary education. Investments in microfinance are designed to provide conditions. economically disadvantaged people – especially those in rural areas – with access to financial services in the form of small / micro loans, thus Sustainable Products and Services helping them to build small businesses and establish a basic livelihood. Small businesses In our products and services development in the future of Lebanon, and reduce the effects are an engine of economic opportunity, but process, we take account of today’s social and of climate change. their development often is hindered by lack of environmental concerns. Accordingly, Fransabank access to capital, talent, networks, supply chains launched a first-of-its-kind initiative, signing with The key success and growth factor of Fransabank or facilities. Fransabank, with the partnership the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and is its strategic focus on Corporate Social of Vitas, helps its small business customers in collaboration with the Government of Canada, Responsibility activities that are playing a major address many challenges, but we want to do even two credit lines of USD 40 million, promoting role in the economic growth of the country’s more to support business development while the financing of sustainable energy in Lebanon environment, community well-being and the making sure that applicants’ businesses do not through which businesses can adopt clean development of the infrastructure and utilities contravene with the environmental and social energy and energy efficient technology, save services which are mainly achieved through requirements, such as pollution, and child labor. money, and combat climate change. Through this Sustainable Energy Financing (SEF). long-term partnership, we are giving businesses the chance to embrace renewable energy, invest Additional details on this partnership are discussed in the environment section of this report, page 49. 22 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 23 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE ECONOMY Fransabank does help small businesses acquire the In addition, with the objectives capital, expertise and other resources they need in order to reward our loyal micro-credit to grow. But, for that to happen we assess the business customers and to enrich women viability, the repayment capacity in light of the family empowerment, we have selected expenses, the applicant age, loan purpose/use, and 25 small businesses across guarantor(s) as per the requested amount in addition to Lebanon based on well-studied Key other required documents. Performance Indicators (KPIs) and rewarded each one with a USD 1,000 grant that resulted in a total granted Small businesses are the cornerstone of local amount of USD 25,000. communities, creating jobs and spurring innovation. We have invested USD 19,575,590 in microfinance The Key Performance Indicators for our program and helped over 10,129 micro-entrepreneurs micro-credit beneficiaries of the to grow or improve their enterprises, from 1997 till end USD 25,000 grant were: of year 2014. • Sustainability of their business, minimum five years in the business • Growth and profitability Micro-Credits Highlights for the Year 2014 • Expansion of their business activities • Empowerment of female entrepreneurs, whereby the • The number of beneficiaries increased remarkably selection process of the winners was from 1,257 in 2013 to 1,776 in 2014, constituting a based on having more women than percentage increase of 41.3%. men • Covering all Lebanese regions (North, • 266 jobs were created through our micro South, Mount Lebanon, Bekaa, and lending activities. Chouf). • The outstanding amount of micro-credits reached Based on the above KPI’s, 13 women USD 2,499,695 as end of December 2014, an benefited from the USD 1,000 grant, increase of 18.17% as compared to USD 2,115,328 i.e. 52% were women and 48% were VITAS SAL as end of December 2013. men. The winners spanned sectors ranging from manufacturing and construction to health, wellness, food, Vitas is the first Lebanese microfinance • 1,159 male and 617 female beneficiaries were and hospitality. company to be registered with the Central granted loans, i.e. 65.26% of this year’s beneficiaries Bank of Lebanon as a non-banking financial were men and 34.74% were women. institution. It provides financial products and services that respond to its clients’ needs and • As for the age distribution of beneficiaries in 2014, foster the long-term sustainable development USD 1,060,150 were disbursed to individuals of individuals, their businesses, their families between the ages of 18 and 35, USD 967,585 for and the communities in which they live. Its individuals between the ages of 36 and 50, and aim is to commercialize its operations in USD 421,960 for individuals over 50 years of age. development finance, and to grow through In line with this distribution, 43.28% of beneficiaries socially responsible investment. Vitas has belong to the age bracket of 18 to 35, 39.50% to the been serving the Lebanese market for the past bracket of 36 to 50, and 17.22% are beneficiaries fifteen years with the outmost dedication to over 50. high quality service and transparency towards its clients. This dedication enabled Vitas to serve thousands of clients and expand its • The non-performing loan ratio is 1.81% for the outreach over the years to cover the entire year of 2014. Lebanese territories. 24 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 25 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE ECONOMY EQUITY INVESTMENTS SMALL AND MEDIUM IN START-UPS CENTRAL SIZE ENTERPRISES BANK OF LEBANON / (SME’s) LENDING CIRCULAR 331 Fransabank supports companies of all sizes especially SME’s in Lebanon by operating a fair and reliable lending policy. Despite the evolving The Central Bank of Lebanon launched its market conditions witnessed in recent years, Intermediate Circular 331 specifically designed to offer funding support to young entrepreneurs. our lending practices have remained essentially For the first time in Lebanon, the Central Bank unchanged. We determine risk premiums and allowed, through the Circular 331, Lebanese pricing based on the same set of qualitative banks to make equity investments in startand quantitative criteria, which take account of ups, accelerators, incubators and venture aspects such as the borrower’s business model and capital funds, enabling them to expand their potential for growth, the quality of its management business scope and open up new horizons team, the risks involved for the lender and the for entrepreneurs, innovators and investors. client relationship as a whole. Furthermore, Circular 331 aims to reach Lebanese expatriates as well as foreign entrepreneurs to establish innovative ventures using Lebanon as a launching platform. In view of that, Fransabank was among the Funding SME’s and Start-Ups leading banks to embrace the Central Bank of Lebanon Circular 331 into the Bank’s Supporting Lebanese small and medium-sized Acknowledging the difficulties faced by smaller businesses enterprises (SME’s) actively contribute to the in accessing affordable and continuous finance, Fransabank strategic business activities and has taken a increase of employment opportunities and and the European Investment Bank (EIB) renewed support participation in the Impact Fund by the for SME’s in Lebanon with a credit line of Euro 45 million to the development of the private sector in Middle East Venture Partners (MEVP) Lebanon. For that reason, Fransabank sustained to finance the investment projects of SME’s. The EIB funds Holding SAL. The Impact Fund size currently its efforts in assisting SME’s which are the engine will be earmarked for financing projects in the sectors stands at about USD 63 million and has set of Lebanon’s economy; constituting 97% of the of industry and agro-industry, health, education, high an investment period of four years, and a total formal enterprises, employing more than knowledge and services. This is the EIB’s fifth transaction divestment period of three years. Likewise, 51% of the working population. with Fransabank under its policy of supporting the Fransabank is in the process of finalizing (Source: International Finance Corporation Case Study economic development of small and medium-sized participations in two similar funds, while still on Women and Youth Employment in SME’s, March companies in order to foster economic recovery and job considering potential direct participations in 2013). creation in Lebanon. start-ups. 26 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 27 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE ECONOMY SUPPORTING Designed to be motivating, empowering and interactive, SME’s quality seminars and workshops are formatted in duration and content to suit the individual needs of our customers. The SME’s seminars have tackled Kafalat Loans, Subsidized Loans, Incentive Loans, Energy Loans, and Green Loans. CUSTOMERS The workshops are a success and have always received We focus on quality profits, not quarterly profits. excellent feedback from all attendees. Fransabank will continue to replicate these programs of the Bank, in order to increase its customers’ knowledge of the industry and to Quality to us means good clients; excellent build up sustainable business relationship with them. products; constant innovation; state-of-the-art systems; and dedicated, capable, and wellAt the local scene, Fransabank sponsored Lebanon trained employees who care about the customers Economic Forum that aimed to divulge a conviction of the we serve. It means building consistently, not need for a determined and equitable development of the overreacting to short-term factors, and being national economy based on the principle of promoting trusted and respected by our clients in all the and protecting private initiative. This would be achieved communities where we do business. by the development of work opportunities and to provide safeguards for Lebanese manpower which would help limit its immigration and enable it play a constructive role within the framework of a liberal economy. At Fransabank, we know that continually working to strengthen the ways we serve these stakeholders is essential to maintaining their loyalty and confidence. In 2014, we continued to exert efforts to make our product SME Seminars and Workshops BTA-FRANSABANK disclosures clearer and more transparent, listen and RETAIL INDEX respond to customer complaints, and develop products Fransabank’s core purpose is to be the best at and services that help meet the unique needs of our helping customers become financially better In collaboration with Beirut Traders different customers. off. Achieving this requires more than simply the Association, Fransabank launched the first right products and services, it also means offering retail index in Lebanon in 2012, the “Beirut education, resources and advice and help people Traders Association – Fransabank Retail Index”, make informed financial decisions. providing the Lebanese economy with an index The intense small and medium size loans and that is indicative of the retail trade sector in Lebanon in general, as well as, its constituent Measuring Customer economic development initiatives launched by Fransabank are regularly complemented Beirut traders in particular. Satisfaction by series of SME’s workshops and seminars, providing consultancy services to our existing This retail index is announced on a quarterly We conduct research across all our lines of business, and weakness of the brands in comparison and potential customers and following and basis and is based on scientific research on customers and interaction channels, and key product areas to competition, and the evaluation of our monitoring the financing outcome. the micro and macroeconomics, as well as to help assess overall satisfaction. Various methodologies campaigns and the public feedback on media. social studies, which had been lacking in a are employed, including quantitative surveys via personal The objectives of these seminars are to: comprehensive manner in the market and is interviews and qualitative focus groups. Results are shared Fransabank scored the highest among its practically inexistent in some other sectors. with executives across the Bank, and are combined with competitors in terms of meaningfulness, a • Provide clients with basic information and “Beirut Traders Association – Fransabank the launch of proposed corrective actions, so that they are category which is also the key driver for brand powerful strategies and skills in banking consistent with corporate strategies, better address our power, whereby our customers feel an affinity to Retail Index” objective is to contribute in • Comprehend the market-based pricing for SME improving the traders’ decision-making customer needs, and enhance customer experience. the brand and the Bank’s diverse products and products and services competencies, which can now be based on services met their banking needs and wants. It • Understand how financial products are thorough scientific studies; it would inevitably In 2014, we carried out a Brand Equity research with revealed our strength in banking fundamentals, customized to create financial solutions enhance traders’ competitiveness in the market 700 one–to-one interviews with existing and potential positively endorsing banking essentials such as • Open platform for any consultancy services and add value to the national economy as well customers to evaluate Fransabank brand health and accessibility, advocacy and simplicity of banking • Explore the Bank’s diverse SME’s products and as the consumer. perception in the minds of the consumers in general. The services. Yet, we still have an opportunity services. research focused on the overall brand equity standing of to further enhance our banking essentials Fransabank versus other key competitors, the strength perceptions and deliver more emotions to our customers. 28 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 29 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE ECONOMY Customer Complaints Customer Privacy As part of how Fransabank does business every Keeping personal information private and secure is day, customer service and successful resolution critical to maintaining trust. We work to comply with laws of complaints are tracked. Customer satisfaction governing privacy and security. As we train our employees is critical to the Bank’s success, and customer in the proper handling of personal information, we also loyalty and satisfaction are key performance require from companies, that provide services on our indicators. behalf, to contractually protect the confidentiality of personal information they receive. Fransabank has established a complaints resolution process; they are dealt with by We invest time, energy and resources to maintain high special units, each covering a specific scope of levels of security and continue to follow stringent and responsibility. All complaints are followed-up changing regulatory requirements concerning the security and, as part of a continuous improvement in of our consumers’ personal information and how they can processes, complaints are held in association access it. with the business line managers, where necessary, in quick, timely, clear and transparent information. Supporting Homeownership Responsible Marketing Communication Complaints were categorized into two main For many people, a home is their biggest and most aspects: operational complaints and customer important asset. Homeownership can help build wealth, We seek to fairly represent our products and service complaints. Under the operational enable individual progress and support the development services and to communicate with clients in complaints, we covered the aspects on difficulty of stable, prosperous communities. Fransabank’s a straightforward way that is jargon-free and in accessing the internet banking service, diverse housing loans support consumers in all stages transparent. activating passwords, checking prepaid cards of homeownership. Our range of affordable and flexible balance online, money transfer, among others; housing loans helps families for whom home-ownership whereas under the customer service complaints, might otherwise be out of reach. We assist borrowers at Internet and Social Media we included complaints on the slow service risk of default, providing outreach and advisory services. in some branches, ATMs out of service and Wherever possible, we provide mortgage modifications or The social media revolution has already unavailability of parking space in front of other arrangements to struggling homeowners. happened, transforming not only our customers’ branches, among others. daily behavior but their expectations of us as their financial partner. We have been learning As end of year 2014, we received 88 more about our customers, listening when they complaints, of which 75% were speak, understanding and valuing their evolving operational complaints, versus 25% demands and high expectations especially with customer service complaints. If compared the digitally-savvy young generation. with the year 2013, we had 65% operational complaints as compared to 35% customer As more and more of our people utilize social service complaints for almost the same number media, they are increasingly expecting services of complaints as 2014. and communication via these platforms; this motivated us to gradually increase our interaction with our customers via Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and Hadzup, to stay connected and allow our consumers to contact us by text message from their smartphone. Out of these platforms, we are increasingly interacting with our customers sharing the latest Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives, news, products & services, tips, activities, greetings, among others, concerning the Bank and the financial market in general. 30 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 31 Diversity is both a business imperative and a management priority at Fransabank. Our policies and practices encourage a corporate culture that embraces difference, teamwork and meritocracy. OUR RESPONSIBILTY AS AN EMPLOYER 34 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 35 OUR RESPONSIBILTY AS AN EMPLOYER FOSTERING Engaging Unions It is important to both customers and employees that it operates with due regard to the spirit and intent of DIVERSITY CHALLENGE Fransabank is committed to human rights in its Parent company and overseas entities. Since the workplace is where demonstration of human rights becomes more international human rights treaties and agreements. Fransabank’s Statement on Human Rights supports employee rights to freedom of association and collective tangible, Fransabank respects all applicable human rights bargaining as expressed in the International Labour Diversity is a cornerstone of Fransabank’s culture. To find people with and non-discrimination laws in the jurisdictions in which Organization’s core conventions. Our commitment to diversity is reflected in our the right skills who efforts to actively recruit and hire employees from are qualified for the a broad range of backgrounds and experience, available positions has while also providing them with opportunities to become challenging COMPETENCY develop their skills and advance their careers. due to the brain drain Training programs range from broad leadership Lebanon is currently and management courses to marketing and selling experiencing. skills and information technology. Closely tied to our training and development efforts is our focus on promoting internal mobility. We want to ensure that DEVELOPMENT employees have the opportunity to use the skills they develop to advance their career within Fransabank. Our employee training and development programs ensure The Bank has taken several measures to support the that we can continuously enhance the quality of our professional development of its employees, including a new services and advisory offering and adapt our business to orientation program, whose main objectives, are to increase new market requirements and opportunities. Fransabank is employee effectiveness, boost their self-confidence and job Gender diversity is a major driver of performance, improved management practices and innovation; it helps to make uniquely positioned to identify and develop talent from a satisfaction, improve both personal and professional wellthe Bank more attractive and improves employees’ motivation. Fransabank Group’s gender equality goal is set out tremendous pool of potentials across the Bank. We mainly being, and enhance their commitment towards the Bank, in action plans in the various Fransabank Group entities. These plans aim to guarantee equality in recruitment, use four programs to identify and encourage leaders: in addition to the launch of career committees and career training, promotion and compensation. management interviews. • The Talents Management consists of selecting Women are integral to Fransabank’s success with 46% “High Profile” employees, with Fransabank experience of our workforce being female, including also an equal varying from 0 to 3 years. These employees are selected share of 46% in female managerial positions at our based on a combination of personal skills, educational branches being either Branch Managers or Deputy background, and banking knowledge, to be subsequently Branch Managers. enrolled in a Fast Track program to determine whether they can undergo Vertical or Horizontal Development, or both. During 2014, Fransabank has targeted 119 individuals, compared with 105 individuals in 2013. • The Polyvalence Enhancement is a concept that focuses on the employees’ ability to handle multiple functions. In 2014, 408 employees at branches became polyvalent compared with 330 employees in 2013. • The Potentials Development prepares competent employees for potentially occupying higher positions, thus, a total number of 398 potentials were identified in 2014, compared with 399 potentials in 2013. • The Succession Planning, which initiates employees into future organizational requirements, has contributed to the development of 204 potential successors in 2014, compared with 200 successors in 2013. 36 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 37 OUR RESPONSIBILTY AS AN EMPLOYER RECOGNIZING Internships and Programs for Career Starters PERFORMANCE As much as we give importance to our staff training and career development, we consider that internships are a win-win practice. They young interns assist our employees and provide them with innovative ideas. And so, a total of 196 university students took part in our Summer Internship Program in open many doors for students who would gain 2014. The internship programs were specially designed to Fransabank recognizes that competitive compensation, in return an insider’s view to the professional provide students with the maximum amount of experience regular feedback and promotion prospects help keep our world and more networking opportunities. in the minimum amount of time, for a period lasting from 4 employees engaged and loyal. In addition to being a pipeline for hiring, to 8 weeks on average. Effective performance management is also critical to maintaining industry leadership and maximizing employee potential. We evaluate all employees, including executives, at year’s end, and also hold mid-year development conversations. To promote meritocracy and strong risk management, we assess employees both on results and on the achievement of business goals. Managers provide comprehensive feedback that guides employee expectations, informs pay and promotion decisions and highlights individuals’ strengths and challenges. Our employees’ performance objectives are aligned with the Bank’s strategy. In particular, they are expected to place our clients at the center of all that they do. We measure our employees’ performance based on the nature and scale of their contribution to the achievement of our business goals. The Compliance department, in association with the business lines, has developed training modules dealing with fraud prevention, anti-money laundering and terrorist financing, professional secrecy, conflicts of interest and ethics. Other entities have focused their efforts on knowledge of the customer and his interest, in order to improve customer protection and satisfaction. We expect our employees to remain informed about the continuing changes in regulatory requirements and to act responsibly and in accordance with the applicable laws and rules at all times. To ensure that they are always up to date in this area, we have developed study modules and tests relating to legal and compliance issues that must be completed by specific groups of employees or by Fransabank’s entire workforce. The completion of training modules on topics such as the prevention of money laundering, trading sanctions, records management and IT risks is mandatory for all employees. For example, FATCA training sessions for the year 2014 included 546 employees being regional managers, branch managers, deputy branch managers, commercial controllers and customer service representatives. 38 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 39 OUR RESPONSIBILTY AS AN EMPLOYER INTEGRATING EMPLOYEES The Outcome • 785 Fransabank employees from departments, branches Before engaging the external stakeholders, it is and the Bank’s local subsidiaries participated in this essential to start with the internal stakeholders: Corporate Social Responsibility initiative either by donating books or cash, out of which 738 employees our employees. The employees form the donated cash and 47 employees donated books. cultural essence of the Bank and that’s why their engagement is an integral component of Fransabank’s corporate culture. Through • 76% of Fransabank branches participated in this campaign. the commitment of each individual, Social Responsibility becomes closely interconnected to • 60% of the employees at departments contributed to this campaign. Almost all departments participated in this the Bank’s thoughts and actions. We enable our campaign with a participation rate ranging from 100% for employees, in turn, to help individuals, families all employees per department to a participation rate as and communities make social and economic low as 10%. progress. • 88% of the employees at Fransa Invest Bank (Fransabank’s investment arm), the Lebanese Leasing Company (Fransabank leasing arm) and Sogefon (Fransabank real-estate arm) participated as well in this initiative. CASE STUDY • The total number of books collected is 105 books, Celebrating the Joy of Reading: “Today’s targeted to different age groups and in three languages Readers are Tomorrow’s Elites” Arabic, English and French. • The cash amounts donated per employee ranged from the Fransabank launched an internal reading lowest cash amount of LBP 5,000 or c/v USD 3.5 up to the campaign under the title of “Today’s Readers highest of LBP 150,000 c/v USD 100. are Tomorrow’s Elites,” motivating employees’ individual contribution for greeting the Children • The massive participation of Fransabank employees of the Lebanese Army Martyrs either by donating resulted in the collection of LBP 15,300,000, or c/v a book/story or by donating cash amount. This USD 10,200 exceeding the expected set target. For every initiative reflected the Bank’s Corporate Social Lebanese pounds amount donated, the Bank equally Responsibility, which, in essence, promotes donated the same amount and that resulted in a total of the spirit of individual participation in serving LBP 30,600,000, or c/v USD 20,400, a symbolic gift communities. to 460 children of the Lebanese Army martyrs. • Each child received a book or a story and the extra The Objectives money collected was donated to the martyr’s families on Fransabank prepaid cards. • Donating to the Children of the Lebanese Army Martyrs The individual contribution of each and every one of • Interconnecting Corporate Social Responsibility Fransabank employees has been small in size, but certainly to the employees’ thoughts and actions significant and precious in its contribution, promoting the • Strengthening their pride and loyalty towards concept of “Individual Corporate Responsibility” which is the Bank. what really counts. 40 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 41 OUR RESPONSIBILTY AS AN EMPLOYER Fransabank Amicale Club Activities At Fransabank, we believe that taking breaks is useful, not wasteful. The Amicale Club at Fransabank takes care of providing recreational activities for the Bank’s staff ranging from small gathering, brunches, night outs, or even organizing trips. Through its social and cultural activities, it tries to break the work routine by getting colleagues together in a different context to strengthen Fransabank family spirit. Supporting everyone’s need for vacation from 407 Fransabank Employees Enrolled in time to time, the Amicale Club planned, in the summer of 2014 a trip for Fransabank’s staff “Partner in Life Employee Giving Program” and families to Spain. Prices were well studied with the Children Cancer Center of Lebanon to encourage our employees to take a time (CCCL) off-work and enjoy some quality time with their families and friends while experiencing Partner in Life is the program whereby companies can different cultures and discovering new horizons. reflect that they are caring corporate citizens. Through This annual event proved to have many benefits FRANSABANK the support of the corporate community, CCCL can better on the staff performance as we believe that AMICALE serve the mission of saving young lives. Patients are people who take vacations have lower stress, the children of institution employees, and this is why it The Fransabank Amicale was created less risk of heart disease, a better outlook on 1960’s, to give Fransabank Family is natural to establish a guardian relation between the life, and more motivation to achieve goals. members the opportunity to meet corporate community and the Children’s Cancer Center of outside the office, thus bringing Lebanon. Being Partners in Life, Fransabank addressed its As for the local events, the Amicale Club also them closer together and effectively employees to make voluntary monthly donations through designs weekend lunches and dinners, amongst strengthening the ties between a direct payroll deduction program and that resulted employees, their coworkers, their which was a lunch, to a versatile, sustainable, in the collection of USD 225,528 for 407 Fransabank’s families and their friends. Fransabank green yearlong venue – Tanit, located in Mount employees enrolled in the program as end of December Lebanon. The employees enjoyed with their Amicale counts 360 members as 2014. colleagues and families indoor and outdoor end of December 2014, who often activities and spent a beautiful Sunday. Even meet and enjoy numerous activities then, their commitment to giving back to society together, such as dancing dinners, was translated by their personal initiative to beach outings, trips abroad, hikes, as donate the considerable amount of remaining well as other events. Another main food to Société Saint Vincent de Paul, a local advantage of the Amicale is that the members can obtain benefits and NGO that provides assistance and help to the discounted prices on a series of events poor and supply them with their most urgent needs. once they register to the Alumni. The Fransabank Amicale is managed by a Committee composed of nine members: • The Committee President • The Committee Vice President • The Treasurer • The Committee Secretary • Five Regional Committee Managers 42 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 43 At Fransabank, we believe that we have an opportunity to affect the climate agenda by the investment we make and the credits we grant. We strive to incorporate concern for the climate and environment in our products and seek to conduct our business in a way that minimizes our footprint. OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 46 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 47 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Fransabank leverages its capabilities in investment banking and lending, to assist companies seeking CHALLENGES Consequently, Fransabank concluded with the IFC in November 2013 a Services Agreement Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) to deploy technologies that help them use energy by virtue of which they provided to our Bank more efficiently, reduce greenhouse gas emissions • Navigating frequent Advisory Services to implement the needed Fransabank is in the process of establishing the and generate clean energy. changes in financial know-how and structure for Sustainable Energy Environmental and Social Management System Finance (SEF). In parallel, Fransabank Group (ESMS) action plan consisting of the following: regulations, which (Fransabank SAL and its leasing arm, Lebanese require ongoing Leasing Company LLC) signed with the IFC and • Establishing an Environmental and Social adjustments to with the Government of Canada in May 2014, Management System (ESMS) procedure for the way we do two Sustainable Energy Finance (SEF) credit lines Fransabank’s credit portfolio. business, including for USD 13 million (out of a global envelope for • Providing training for staff members environmental USD 40 million: USD 30 million favor Fransabank responsible for environmental and social risk finance initiatives. SAL and USD 10 million favor LLC). management. • Measuring and • Preparing a standard operating procedure for These lines aim to promote the financing of Life and Fire Safety and Emergence Response. communicating the sustainable energy in Lebanon, thus allowing • Providing ESMS implementation reports. environmental businesses to adopt clean energy and energy impact of our products. efficient technology, save money, and combat The ESMS procedure consists in assigning an climate change. Furthermore, the Government Environmental Risk category to each small and • Monitoring / of Canada’s instrumental contribution to the medium size or corporate project to be financed researching more IFC-Canada Climate Change Program has helped by our Bank. This is to be achieved after an onon our clients and make this financing package viable. In total, site visit to the project and collection of all the suppliers business INVESTING Canada has provided USD 276.6 million to the necessary information/ documents requested environment impact. program to support climate change investments for the credit review and after filling an that generate environmental and economic Environmental and Social Due Diligence checklist • Instilling in our RESPONSIBLY benefits in developing countries. (ESDD) on the project. The ESDD checklist employees and customers’ culture includes among others questions concerning and actions, the the management systems in place, including impact of climate labor, international certificates as ISO, waste According to the International Finance and environmental management, efficiency of resources, among Corporation (IFC), there has never been a better changes. others. time for banks that finance energy related technologies to make profitable investments Through this long-term partnership, we are giving in sustainable development. In the same businesses the chance to embrace renewable perspective, Fransabank believes that access energy, invest in the future of Lebanon, and to energy is central to human well-being and reduce the effects of climate change. In addition, a key factor in poverty reduction. This shared we promote the development of financing for recognition, forged the way for the introduction projects in a manner that is socially responsible of sustainable energy finance into Fransabank and consistent with sound environmental SME, corporate, and leasing activities as the management practices. essence of our “Go Green Strategy”, as it allows the Bank to expand its market share through new business lines, target new market segments, improve the risk profile of its portfolio, and enhance its social and environmental impacts. 48 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 49 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Fransabank also offers its customers whether companies or SMEs, eco-business loans at CASE STUDY The proposed system will generate savings subsidized interest rates, to support and invest Moving Toward Power Saving during the first ten years as summarized below: in renewable energy projects. Fransabank aims through these loans to contribute in reducing energy costs on the economy amounting to The below case study covers the business of a is designed to support the electric power needs, five billion dollars, as well as reducing business Lebanese family owned company, operating in and make savings on diesel consumption and expenses related to power generation through the trade of agricultural products. Subject exploit EDL bill. Due to the fact that the power needs are the use of: solar energy, wind, hydro, waste to agricultural lands owned and rented in different during both day and night and due to shortage in energy, as well as energy-saving projects, and areas of the Bekaa valley, where they have utility grid (EDL), the PV system could not balance those related to decreasing energy consumption: installed a new irrigation system, in addition to all the power needs. However, the system size is replacement of machines or equipment: efficient artesian wells, power stations and warehouses. devised to balance all the day need of energy. In lighting system, insulation of boilers and pipes, the months, where there is no need for irrigation, double glazing, and window replacement. Due to the lack of surface water in the region, the PV system will make savings using net irrigation depends on water pumping from deep metering with utility grid. Besides, Fransabank encourages households as wells and from distanced surface water sources. well to opt for green energy. As a result, the The energy required for the pumping is supplied The power generated from PV will be used on “Eco-Home Loan” product was launched from two Electricité Du Liban (EDL) stations site most of the time, to provide savings except targeting all Lebanese individuals with very and from three generators which are diesel from November to March where the energy solar attractive and competitive conditions. It was consuming. output is bigger than local consumption. Using designed to finance renewable and energy net metering with EDL, extra power generated efficient projects for houses such as lighting The new project describes the improvement of during the winter season will be fed into the grid energy efficient solutions, solar water heaters, the farms with photovoltaic (PV) panels for local to increase savings. double glazing roof and wall insulation, electric power generation. The proposed system biological water treatment systems, among others. Moreover, to boost this initiative, and in the view of supporting the new applicants for housing loans, Fransabank offered an interest free Solar Heater loan as part of its 2014 Summer Housing Loan Campaign. Here below a summary of the proposed system technical and financial parameters: At the local scene, the Bank supported the fifth edition of Beirut Energy Forum, the specialized event in Lebanon that is dedicated to energy CHALLENGES efficiency, renewable energy, and green buildings. Fransabank was actively present, As environmental sustainability financing is whereby a press conference was held in order still a new concept in Lebanon, it is not easy to present the Bank’s latest achievements to point out the efficiency and necessity of and products in the field of energy, which adhering to this new practice. Fransabank have successively proven its commitment and has to direct its customers toward longcontribution in the future energy, environmental term goals and benefits for their company and social fields in Lebanon. to better prosper while still considering surrounding environment. At the outset, the The Bank also sponsored the Green Arab price of acquiring improved technologies that care for the environment may seem costly Economy Forum; bringing together leading when thinking short-term, but the borrower, experts and strategic leaders in the sustainable eventually, gets assured that it would lead energy industry to explore and share ideas on to longstanding values for his business, his sound sustainable business strategies. This operating cost, and obviously the natural funding came in light of the Bank’s efforts to environment. support sustainability as it has emerged as the most important global issue for many, including business, industry, and government. 50 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 51 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT ENGAGING LIMITING AND REDUCING EMPLOYEES OUR ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINTS To achieve continual progress in sustainability, Fransabank is working to minimize the environmental concerns should not only be environmental impacts of its physical operations. implanted into our operations but also in our We strive to manage our corporate offices and corporate culture. branches in an efficient and sustainable manner, and we continue to work on improving our operational resource management, including greenhouse gas emissions, paper, water, and waste as per such: CASE STUDY • Digital banking services have a profound impact One ton of plastic bottle caps on the reduction of paper consumption. We had equal a wheelchair around 35,619 registered users on Fransabank internet banking and 13,550 users in Fransabank mobile banking by end of Within the framework of Fransabank’s Corporate Bank’s management as an equal contribution to the December 2014. Social Responsibility strategy and arcenciel’s staff’s effort. environmental program, the “Bouchons • Numbers of print reduction initiatives, including Roulants” project was launched aiming at The two wheelchairs were donated afterwards to a shared printers and double-sided printing raising public awareness to the importance of direct family member of two Fransabank employees. recycling and the protection of the environment. have been introduced across the Bank’s This project contains a double objective: on This project has resulted in very satisfying results and will departments / divisions and branches as one hand to educate Fransabank’s employees continue for the coming years. well as the local entities to help reduce paper on the importance of sorting and recycling consumption, with a more widespread use of trash from the source in order to preserve the certified paper for the Bank’s publications. environment, and on the other hand, to provide the bestowment of wheelchairs. ARCENCIEL Other Eco-Initiatives • Recycling initiative within the Bank’s Arcenciel is a non-profit, apolitical and nonWith the aim to conserve the biodiversity and Arcenciel sells the plastics collected to a Headquarters and branches is being managed recycling company in order to provide with confessional association that was established preserve the cultural heritage, Fransabank responsibly by its employees. We have that respective value, a wheelchair to a person in 1985, in the midst of Lebanon’s civil war. At collaborates on a yearly basis with local that time, arcenciel decided to work differently made considerable progress in reducing paper with special needs. Every 1 ton of recyclable communities to achieve environmental plastic bottles and caps collected and sold than the status quo of the time by creating a waste, surpassing the 80 tons of recycled papers reached in 2013, and attaining sustainable development. Jabal Moussa endows arcenciel with a wheelchair. structure that serves all without discrimination. Mountain and its villages, once again received For this reason, the name arcenciel (“rainbow” 137 tons in 2014. This accomplishment Fransabank Group support for the protection Fransabank called its employees at the entire in French) was chosen. It represents the whole is a significant indicator of the changes in our Bank’s Headquarters departments and Hamra of this outstanding Biosphere Reserve located color spectrum, and appears equally to all. corporate culture which is leaning towards an in Keserwan-Jbeil area in Lebanon. It was main branch for the collection of plastic caps and arcenciel thus works with and for all people environment friendly workplace. designated in 2009 as the 3rd biosphere reserve bottles. The project started in March 2014 and facing difficulties, without discrimination up to the mid of December 2014, the one ton of in Lebanon as part of the UNESCO Network of based on age, gender, sexual orientation, • Expansion of the replacement of standard Biosphere Reserves under Man & Biosphere recyclable plastics was reached. religion, culture, socio-economic status, race or light bulbs with highly efficient LED bulbs to the (MAB) program. Furthermore, Fransabank took In this aspect, a small gathering with arcenciel nationality. arcenciel’s mission is to participate part of the initiative launched by the National offices, renovated and new branches. representatives and Fransabank’s management in the sustainable development of society Commission for Lebanese Women, which and employees was held on December 22, by supporting vulnerable individuals and consisted of planting 1,000 cedar trees in a 2014 at the Headquarters, whereby two integrating marginalized communities. It is an 30,000 square meters area in the casa of Bsharri, wheelchairs were donated on this occasion; equal opportunities association, based on a North Lebanon, leading to the afforestation of the one wheelchair resulting from Fransabank system which derives its strength from people’s family efforts, and another one from the Bsharri Cedars Reserve. This initiative was dear weaknesses. to us as Cedar forests of Lebanon are the oldest documented forests in history besides being the emblem of the country. 52 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 53 We see through discretionary philanthropy and tactical partnerships a way to foster innovative programs that have the potential to create positive impact on our communities. The funds we invest are used strategically to benefit the widest scope of the society while covering art, culture, communities, health, and education. OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE COMMUNITIES 56 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 57 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE COMMUNITIES CREATING ART & CULTURE VALUE THROUGH CHALLENGES ENTHUSIASTS PARTNERSHIPS • Convey the real meaning of Corporate Our willingness and endeavor to open up opportunities to the various members of the Social Responsibility society remain the same as in the previous years. In 2014, Fransabank contributed USD 1.4 million in (CSR) and shed light The Bank’s cultural initiatives aim to bring art, corporate giving to charitable nonprofits working on the difference music, theater or humanities to all types of public. in community development, art and culture, between CSR Most of these programs were undertaken in the education, health and social services. and philanthropy / different regions of Lebanon from the Bekaa to sponsorship. the Chouf area and from Mount Lebanon to North of Lebanon. • Better reach all segments of the Lebanese communities through our social programs. • Help communities CASE STUDY face the challenges JABAL 2014 rising from the harsh Young Lebanese Artists Exhibition economic situation controlling the region. JABAL (Jeunes Artistes des Beaux Arts du Liban) The Objectives is an annual art exhibition, which hosts and showcases the talent of dozens of artists who JABAL exhibitions aimed at: never previously had the opportunity to display their work to the public. Fransabank patronage • Reflecting the diversity and vitality of the of this annual event is achieved entirely through emerging Lebanese contemporary art creativity. preparing, organizing and supporting these exhibitions. • Promoting new Lebanese contemporary art by young artists from different Lebanese regions. • Hosting and showcasing the talent of dozens of artists who never previously had the opportunity to display their works to the public. • Creating a cultural exchange platform between art professionals, artists and the visitors. Allocation of Community Investments • Boosting the country’s artistic heritage. Since its inception in 1998, JABAL exhibitions launched over 300 young artists from different Lebanese regions. Around 70% of the exhibited artwork was sold and 30% of the participating artists were contacted by galleries. In addition, a significant number of these artists exhibit today in galleries across Lebanon, United Arab Emirates and even in Europe and USA. 58 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 59 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE COMMUNITIES Fransabank acquires, as an encouragement, art pieces and works from these artists which decorate A SUCCESS STORY the walls of the Bank’s Headquarters and branches spread across Lebanon. Ayman Baalbaki is a Lebanese artist, living and working in Beirut. He studied Fine Arts in Beirut and at the École Nationale Supérieure des Arts JABAL 2014, in its 10th edition, received more than a Decoratifs in Paris. Born during the Lebanese hundred thirty portfolios of painters, photographers, civil war in the 1970s, Baalbaki draws most of sculptures and other designers. Among all applicants, 35 his inspiration from this subject matter. In 1998, finalists were selected for JABAL 10th edition. Their artworks Baalbaki was part of the first edition of JABAL represented the artistic tendencies of this new generation which was held in Tripoli, North of Lebanon. This and attracted a large audience. exhibition was followed by many others until he reached the international scene. Most recently, his work was auctioned at Christie’s, Dubai, The Outcome where his marvelous expressionist painting of the Tower of Babel hit records and was sold at the More than 2,800 visitors attended the exhibition to discover second highest auctioned price. Not only that, the work of the artists from well-known Lebanese and another poignant and intriguing painting entitled foreign art collectors, to gallery owners as well as art lovers “Al-Mulatham” was sold at double its estimation and key figures from the business, economy and media price at Sotheby’s Contemporary Art auction, in sectors. Among the 35 artists, more than 20 sold all their Doha. work of art; and nine artists were spotted by gallery owners from Lebanon, UAE, France, England and USA. The success of this 10th edition of JABAL revealed once again Fransabank’s commitment to promote these young talents in Lebanon by offering them a platform to exhibit their works and to contribute to the effervescence of the contemporary creation year after year. JABAL Exhibitions Milestones 60 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 61 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE COMMUNITIES Kobra Building Fransabank played a pioneering role in corporate Al Kobra Building was given its name from the ADVOCATES philanthropy in Lebanon, as early as 1980. It was the pioneer Bank to believe that heritage was a valuable resource for the cultural and economic Arabic language, meaning “large”. It was built three centuries ago and it is one of Ehden’s largest edifices, which makes it, a real artistic, FOR EDUCATION developments of local regions. The Bank cultural and historical values. broadened the concept of heritage to encompass As part of the Bank’s firm commitment to Corporate natural sites, museums and monuments The Bank always believed in its institutional Social Responsibility, its solid belief that the human is renovation, old trades and crafts, rural buildings, role to serve the country and to contribute to the real capital in Lebanon, and that education plays etc. The latest of which was the restoration of heritage revival. And of course, Al Kobra Building a major role in establishing the citizenship spirit, Al Kobra Building in Ehden, North of Lebanon and represents a great legacy in Ehden’s memory as Fransabank has granted 969 educational loans and the official inauguration was held in July 2014. well as the national economy. the total outstanding amount reached around USD 13.80 million as end of December 2014. Furthermore, Fransabank partnered for the fifth consecutive year with L’Ecole Nationale D’Administration (ENA), the French Embassy in Fransabank at the Heart of Summer’s Beirut, and Basil Fuleihan Institute of Finance Festivals for a joint education program, to support Lebanon’s public sector key senior officials Committed to its cultural responsibility, with key leadership and managerial skills, Fransabank is keen on staying close to the under this year’s theme of “Public Leadership communities it serves by supporting its art in Times of Economic and Financial Crisis.” activities. That’s why we dedicate an important part of our social investments to cultural and This initiative contributes to the artistic festivals. We believe that through our continuous support, we expand financial establishment of the citizenship spirit, putting inclusion to different areas and beneficiaries all our efforts for the sake of strengthening across the country. The educational and research programs promote the public institutions performance to academic excellence and equal opportunities through activate the Lebanese Government’s role. In this context, Fransabank was proud to be the their study scholarships for different groups. For the These meetings and workshops seek to keep major partner in Baalbek International Festival second year in a row, the “Adnan Kassar Annual pace with general managers and senior staffs for the third year in a row. Having always been a Scholarship” was awarded to 14 Lebanese in the departments and public institutions, in model of consistency and perseverance, coping students enrolled at the Lebanese American order to exchange experiences, and to set the up with difficult circumstances, the Festival has, University (LAU). This annual scholarship is aligned basics of corporate governance, and improve and for more than fifty years, brought the world with our vision of supporting both outstanding higher overall performance. to Lebanon, by hosting an elite selection of the education institutions as well as needy and deserving most famous artists and stars. students in Lebanon. Furthermore, it is an opportunity Over 20 leaders from the public sector, In addition, we sponsored Beiteddine, Bustan, for us to commend all the Lebanese youth to remain in judges and directors general of various public Batroun, Ehmej Festivals, conveying their their home country and work together to build a solid institutions and ministries, participate in this universal messages as an act of faith in Lebanon’s nation. Through this scholarship, Lebanese students at program in which high caliber professors cultural role, an embodiment of ingenuity, a the LAU School of Business could complete their studies and experts from ENA share their knowledge call for peace and a mirror of the Lebanese at prestigious institution as a prelude to a successful in building the capacity of civil servants, prosperous history. career. The yearly amount granted is USD 60,000. developing their skills and performance. 62 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 63 OUR RESPONSIBILTY FOR THE COMMUNITIES SOCIALLY COMMITTED A special effort was dedicated, in 2014, to women in general, and to our female employees in particular through our collaboration with Yaduna Foundation. We believe that few events in life can be as difficult as having a child with special needs. Yet Fransabank Boosts Support for with proper diagnosis, education, and follow-up, Women’s Cardiovascular Health many children can have their potential unleashed with Yaduna Foundation and grow to become effective members of our society, contributing to the productivity, general Heart disease is the number one killer of women, well-being, and health diversity of our community. and is more deadly than all forms of cancer combined (Ref: Go Red for women). At Fransabank, we believe that when women and girls have the “health” to shape their own As such, Fransabank supported “OpenMinds”, This was not all, as, throughout the year future, they will advance development for all. It is a fund established in Lebanon by concerned 2014, the Bank has supported several within this perspective that we have committed parents, to enable the American University of causes covering a wide scope of non-profit ourselves to promote health and wellness for Beirut Medical Center’s Special Kids Clinic to organizations which are relevant to the local the sake of both our employees and business conduct research, empower the community communities’ welfares. These include Al equipping our employees to better help our through education and awareness, and aid Tanmia, Chronic Care Center, Oum El Nour, customers. needy families. Salim el Hoss Bioethics & Professionalism Program at AUB, Himaya, La France à Beyrouth, Fransabank’s commitment to humanitarian causes had already shown itself in sponsoring Being all concerned with road safety, Beirut Marathon Association, Rotary Club, several health related institutions. One of Fransabank helped “Roads for Life” provide The Neonate Fund, Skoun, Braveheart, Autism them is Yaduna Foundation to which the Bank road victims the optimal support for postAssociation for Social Integration, Tell Chiha established strategic and long-term commitment trauma care, and promote road safety through Hospital, Un Coeur pour Philippe, Ashrafieh in 2014. strategic campaigns to raise awareness and 2020, MUBS, among others. Fransabank empower young people to be safe on roads. It Group’s donations to these NGOs reflect the An internal campaign to raise awareness of resulted with a successful joint initiative that Bank’s contribution in increasing community cardiovascular disease in women was held at the shared responsibility to improve road safety awareness, expanding access to clinical Headquarters through an interactive workshop and reducing eventually the forecast level of services for eligible families to empower with cardiologists from prominent local hospitals, road deaths. Moreover, Fransabank employees them and propel their children to a more American University of Beirut Medical Center and ran for Roads for Life in Banque du Liban promising future. Hotel Dieu de France. Beirut Marathon 2014. As we also encourage adopting responsible The Target Arising from this initiative’s success, and to better reach all of our staff at other branches, a special edition of our business practices in the areas of human internal magazine Zapping was dedicated to women’s heart Women staff, above 40 years old, working at the rights, Fransabank embarked on a strong push Headquarters and the Beirut area branches. health, including recommendations for a healthier heart and to address human rights obligations of private better lifestyle as well as facts and statistics. finance and sponsored “Human Rights Watch” annual dinner, one of the world’s leading The Outcome Participants described the workshop as a practical learning independent organizations dedicated to experience. Among their comments: defending and protecting human rights. • The workshops lasted for two days with interactive Q&A sessions. • A total of 82 women participated in these interactive workshops. 64 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 65 APPENDICES IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES UNGC 10 PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATIONS AT FRANSABANK Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should Fransabank implements sound Corporate Governance practices, focusing Principle 7: Businesses should Fransabank uses clean energy technologies in its operations at all new support and respect the protection on transparency, accountability, responsibility and fairness in the support a precautionary approach premises, while working to limit its ecological footprints in the entire of internationally proclaimed treatment of all related parties. Our business values, code of conduct, and to environmental challenges. organization. Operational resource management, including greenhouse human rights. employment are aligned with international human rights standards. gas emissions, paper, water, and waste are being managed in an efficient Principle 8: undertake initiatives manner encouraging digital banking services, print reduction initiatives, Principle 2: make sure that they No human rights abuses happen at the Bank whether with business to promote greater environmental the use of certified recyclable paper, reducing paper waste, and increase are not complicit in human rights partners or customers, and abide by the international best practices, in responsibility. waste recycling. abuses. addition to a set of governance related policies & charters and a Code of Conduct & Ethics. Principle 9: encourage the Fransabank offers sustainable products and services to its customers to development and diffusion promote the sustainable energy in Lebanon as described in both chapters Fransabank informed the local community, media and public authorities of of environmentally friendly on “Our Responsibility for the Economy” and “Our Responsibility for the its endorsement of the Business for Peace Platform, in addition to being an technologies. Environment”. active participant in the UNGC since 2013. Environmental sustainability is not only implanted into Fransabank operations but also in the corporate culture, promoting individual contribution to the protection of the environment and the launch of Labour periodic internal stakeholders CSR eco-initiatives. Principle 3: Businesses should Fransabank employees are free to join the Bank’s employees’ union. Anti-Corruption uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the All forms of forced labour are prohibited including child employment. right to collective bargaining. Principle 10: Businesses should Fransabank procedures are always updated with new local or international Fransabank keeps its employees dedicated to the organization through work against corruption in all its requirements and regulations to guarantee a full compliance to antiPrinciple 4: the elimination of all competitive compensation, promotions, and regular feedback from all forms, including extortion and corruption laws. It is part of every manager’s duty to ensure compliance forms of forced and compulsory sides and levels of management. Employees follow a yearly performance bribery. with Anti-Money Laundering policies, Combatting Financing of Terrorism labour. evaluation through an objective appraisal review. This in turn, offers and Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act procedures. opportunities for employees to progress within the organization. Principle 5: the effective abolition Fransabank emphasizes on the ethical practices, whereby transparency, of child labour. Recruitments, trainings, promotions, and development programs are disclosure and sustainability are constantly shared with the Bank’s on the run all year long; and new comers are recruited based on merit Management, its Board of Directors, its Shareholders and other Principle 6: the elimination insuring diversity and inclusion, and follows the Bank’s Code of Conduct. Stakeholders. of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We measure our employees’ performance based on the nature and scale Fransabank considers information security to be a very important part of of their contribution to the achievement of our business goals, putting its strong governance framework. All employees conform to the banking aside all forms of discrimination or criteria that seem irrelevant to the secrecy law and digital information is by all means safeguarded. organization’s workflow. We have supported the UN Global Compact since 2013 and have reported on our progress, including a commitment to uphold and protect human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption standards through business practices. Fransabank Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 and Fransabank Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 are uploaded on the UN Global Compact web site. 68 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 69 CODE OF CONDUCT INFORMATION SECURITY The Information Security Unit published the “End User Security Guide”, a set of security policies that addresses risks directly Employee Behavior • General employee conduct related to the users’ work environment. All employees should make sure to read and abide by its content. • Physical appearance and dress code Below is a brief summary of that document. Dress code policy for women Dress code policy for men • Non-smoking policy Non-smoking areas Email Usage Email is a communication tool and is allowed for business purposes Sign requirements only. Everyone is held responsible for his/her email account. Implementation of the non-smoking law • Working hours, attendance, and punctuality Computer Security All computer devices should be properly protected by restricting • Gossips and rumors access to it. Similar devices include sensitive information that • Bank property must be restricted to authorized personnel only. Employees • Social media and bank image using Fransabank computers shall consider the sensitivity of the Personal social media information and use them responsibly. Business social media Clean Desk Fransabank employees should protect paper documents, mass • Incident reporting storage devices, optical media by locking them away while leaving Reporting Illegal or Unethical Behavior • Accounting complaints for prolonged period of time. Removable Media Only Fransabank owned removable media devices are allowed for usage and that to prevent the transfer of any virus to Fransabank network. PROFESSIONAL ETHICS Media Destruction Proper media disposal is necessary to prevent unauthorized use after removal from service. Hard copy materials should be shredded on daily basis while electronic devices should be destructed as per Conflict of Interest • Outside employment Fransabank Electronic Media Destruction Procedure. • Improper personal benefits • Service on boards and committees Software Installation Software installation is the sole responsibility of the Information and Communication Technology Division. Accepting gifts, meals, and entertainment from customers, suppliers, and others doing business Internet Usage Fransabank restricts internet access usage for employees who need with Fransabank (entities and/or persons) it in their daily operations. Non-work related websites are blocked by default. Fraudulent or Illegal Acts Laptop Acceptable Use Portable devices should be properly protected while in use. Those Theft devices should not be left unattended. Customers Relations • Clarity of information User Password Management Policy User ID and password is granted to employees for accessing systems • Confidential information and banking secrecy owned by Fransabank. It is expected to properly protect credentials • Quality of service and keep them away from unauthorized individuals. Complex • Anti-Money Laundering (AML) passwords should be used and changed as per Bank policy. • Politics Relations with other Banks • Exchange of information • Competition • Announcements and advertisements 70 FRANSABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 71 © 2015 All rights reserved. Copying for other than personal or internal reference use without express written permission from Fransabank Group is prohibited.
