Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 Table of Contents Letter From Our CEO. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Communication on Progress. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Progress Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Labor Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Environmental . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Anti-Corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 Letter from our CEO Over the past year, we have pursued a State Representative Carolyn Dykema, programs, including its Business Forward higher level of excellence in every facet State Representative Danielle Gregoire, Females luncheon series, to scholarships, of our work and how we impact the Worcester City Mayor Joe Petty, Ed educational mini grants, and pro bono communities in which we serve. Everything Augustus, Worcester City Manager, Jim marketing consulting and creative services we strived to achieve was about getting Robbins, Westborough Town Planner, support to the organization. to the next level, making improvements Former Lt. Governor Tim Murray (President Our new location afforded our team with across the board, elevating our expertise, of the Worcester Regional Chamber of a creatively inspired workplace. From improving our client service, becoming Commerce), Karen Chapman, President the revitalization of the outdoor patio better in every practice area, and asking of the Corridor Nine Chamber of courtyard, where we placed tables, chairs, tough questions that would help us Commerce, Jeannie Hebert, President and umbrellas for staff lunches, to the determine if and where changes were of the Blackstone Valley Chamber of initiation of a Lunch and Learn Program, to needed to accomplish our objectives of Commerce, Bonnie Biocchi, President of continued special enhancements, we feel becoming a stronger company for the the Metrowest Chamber of Commerce, that significant progress has been made future. As we culminated our 25th year, it and Linda Cavaioli, Executive Director of in elevating our physical operation. We couldn’t have been a better time in terms the YWCA. also hired a Director of Operations during of celebration, reflection, and setting new During this event, PENTA was recognized the COP period in an effort to ensure our goals for an even more exciting journey in with Citations from the United States facilities maintenance, human resources, the years ahead. Congress, Massachusetts Senate and and community and legislative relations This is our second Communication on House of Representatives, a Proclamation has stronger oversight and accountability. Progress as a member of the United from the Town of Westborough, and The past year’s initiatives, as they related Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the our founder received a Key to the City to the Global Compact’s Ten Principles, United States of America. Our objective of Worcester for our impact on creating have enabled us to sharpen and better in this report is to share our progress as a better City and region through our direct our community outreach and it related to the Ten Principles during work with numerous nonprofits, for our corporate investment to specific and the period of April 2014 through March charitable contributions, and for our measurable achievements which have 2015. Over the past twelve months, we success in helping drive a better economy helped us raise the bar in preparation for have further integrated our community, through transportation and green initiative the year ahead. charitable, and employee engagement marcom support. to become even more aligned with Our Commitment to the UNGP’s Our organization was recognized with two the Ten Principles. We completed our industry related awards including the Best 10 Principles historic preservation project, integrated of Business Award for Best Advertising a Lunch and Learn Program, and at the We are delighted to complete our second Agency, and a Best of Business Award for commencement of our 25th Anniversary year as a signatory of the United Nations Best Web Design Firm from the Worcester year, we strived to make a difference Global Compact. Business Journal. by giving back to 25 organizations in At PENTA, we take tremendous pride alignment with the Global Compact’s In addition, PENTA received the coveted in our people, our work, and in our philosophies. Silver Hammer Award from the Worcester commitment to achieving the highest Regional Chamber of Commerce. This PENTA celebrated a special moment in level of excellence in every facet of award is given to one organization in its history with our 25th Anniversary in what we do. It is with integrity, respect, the region that restores, preserves, April. We planned and executed events creativity, collaboration, and dedication and revitalizes a historic property. Our and activities to commemorate our Silver that we accomplish our objectives. Our redevelopment of the former 1790 House Anniversary, and we finished with our new dedication to the values of the United into an office building, utilizing the Building Dedication and Ribbon Cutting Nations Global Compact is one way that highest standards and best practices in in May. This event, which drew hundreds we can do our part to help strengthen historic restoration, design, space reuse/ from all of New England, was a celebration our local community, while joining forces repurposing, and interior design, shined of success, and more importantly, our with organizations throughout the world brightly with this recognition. community legacy. State and local that share common values of making a legislators, officials, and community Our founder was recognized with the difference to positively impact our planet. partners participated in our ceremony. Corridor Nine Chamber of Commerce It is truly and honor and privilege to align Speakers included Deborah Penta, Chairman’s Award for driving membership with the UNGP principles. CEO, a Representative from Governor growth, and for community philanthropy Deval Patrick’s office, Congressman as it related to the numerous ways in Deborah Penta Jim McGovern, Senator Michael Moore, which PENTA gives back to the Chamber Founder & CEO State Representative Matthew Beaton, from financial support to sponsorships of PENTA Communications, Inc. 3 Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 How PENTA Implemented the Ten Global Principles in 2014 Principle Highlights on Progress Human 1. Businesses •• PENTA’s engagement with regional nonprofit organizations that support and respect human Rights should support rights by helping individuals and families work towards economic self-sufficiency through and respect the education and assistance programs continued; protection of •• PENTA leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of community internationally organizations that support the UN Human Rights principle including the Workforce proclaimed human Investment Board, Worcester Community Action Council, and in addition, financially rights; supported numerous organizations that assisted people by providing food, shelter, clothing, and mental health services; 2. And make sure they are not complicit •• In May 2014, as PENTA’s 25th philanthropic gift to the community in celebration of its 25th in human rights Anniversary, it began an initiative to build a new playground for the Westborough YWCA abuses. where nearly 100 families bring their children for necessary childcare. PENTA made a lead donation of $2,500 and championed a two-week fundraising initiative with the result of all funds raised to complete the playground in May of 2015; •• PENTA took a Stand Against Racism in April 2014 in partnership with the YWCA; •• PENTA sponsored a Model UN Program for sixth grade students to inspire knowledge on Global Citizenship; •• In May 2014, PENTA hosted a Flag Raising Ceremony for Veterans in honor of National Military Month and made a philanthropic donation towards the newly proposed Veteran’s building; •• PENTA became a drop-off site for Toys for Tots for less advantaged children; •• PENTA’s CEO participated in a panel that fostered awareness of domestic violence and abuse to women; and •• PENTA sponsored a regional forum on the Ebola virus entitled, “Public Health in the News: Central Massachusetts and the Ebola Crisis.” Labor 3. Business should •• PENTA started a project to partner with local establishments in an effort to provide its Standards uphold the employees with numerous discounts from retailers, restaurants, and service organizations with freedom of the goal of launching this program in the next COP Period; association and •• PENTA created a Lunch and Learn Program for its employees featuring interesting and the effective compelling topics ranging from Human Rights to the enjoyment of specialty craft foods, recognition of the holiday celebrations, and more; right to collective bargaining; •• PENTA continued construction on its new “Team Club House” and completed its staff kitchen, and make progress on the “Game Room” and “Relaxing Room” scheduled for 4. the elimination completion in the next COP period; of all forms of •• PENTA continued celebrating employee anniversaries with gift cards; compulsory labor; •• PENTA continues to reward employees with raises much higher than the current national 5. the effective average pay raise, which is 3%; abolition of child •• In an effort to foster empowerment for women, PENTA awarded a leadership scholarship to labor; a college-bound female promoting equality for women relative to leadership advancement; 6. and the elimination •• PENTA’s CEO shared personal branding strategies with over 100 executive females as part of discrimination of the Business Forward Females Initiative; in respect of •• PENTA sponsored the Business Forward Female’s (BFF) Luncheon Series, enabling women employment and access to education, empowerment, and networking; occupation. •• PENTA sponsored the WBJ Outstanding Women in Business Awards to promote female leadership; •• PENTA CEO was appointed to Governor Charlie Baker’s Transition Team and served on the Jobs and Economy Committee, which focused on how to create more job growth and business expansion opportunities in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; and •• PENTA provided nearly 80 Westborough High School students with an unprecedented mentoring experience which comprised of a facility visit to PENTA, discussion with our CEO, the President of a client company, our Lt. Governor, and a State Representative. The students were provided with complimentary lunch, thanks to our generous client. 5 6 Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 How PENTA Implemented the Ten Global Principles in 2014 Continued Principle Highlights on Progress Environment 7. Businesses •• Project Oak initiatives from the previous year continued with no additional should support projects in this COP year. We have plans to revitalize and set new goals for the a precautionary new COP year ahead. This will be possible with our completed location move; approach to •• PENTA completed the restoration of a property on the National Register of environmental Historic Places and, throughout the historic renovation project, we made every challenges; effort to repurpose the building to its highest and best use, promote energy efficiency through the installation of energy efficient mechanical systems, 8. undertake initiatives windows, and doors. It also preserved every possible artifact including its eight to promote greater hand crafted fireplaces documented in the Smithsonian, and its magnanimous environmental handcrafted millwork throughout the property. This project won the coveted responsibility; Silver Hammer Award from the Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce; 9. and encourage •• The Company continued its recycling efforts for paper, water bottles, and printer the development cartridges; and diffusion of •• PENTA continues to offer its clients a green line of services and makes environmentally recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing friendly strategies within their businesses; technologies. •• PENTA sponsored the Community Harvest Festival. All funds raised help this nonprofit organization provide whole foods directly from their local farms to food banks throughout the region; •• PENTA continues to source the majority of its products and services locally; and •• PENTA planted 50 hydrangeas, approximately 30 trees and shrubs, integrated planters at its entryway, and has a grounds beautification plan in place that will include the installation of a garden in the next COP period. Anti10. Businesses should •• PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations Corruption work against and relationships. The firm seeks vendors that are in alignment of our corruption in all of core values ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of its forms, including transparency in our client relationships and will not tolerate any level of extortion and unethical behavior on any level. bribery. 7 Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 Progress by the Numbers 25 Years PENTA celebrated the completion of 25 years in business in May 2014. 208 The company moved its location to 208 Turnpike Road in Westborough, Massachusetts, USA. 90% Percentage of PENTA suppliers that are local to its region. $25,000 To commemorate it’s 25th Anniversary year, PENTA made 25 philanthropic donations to local and regional charities and organization as an expression of gratitude, and with the hope of making a difference and continuing its legacy as a vested community stakeholder. $100,000 Provided to nonprofit organizations in pro bono services during the COP Period. 9 Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle Highlights on Progress Human Rights 1. Businesses should •• PENTA’s engagement with regional nonprofit organizations that support and support and respect respect human rights by helping individuals and families work towards economic the protection self-sufficiency through education and assistance programs continued; of internationally •• PENTA leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of community proclaimed human organizations that support the UN Human Rights principle including the rights; Workforce Investment Board, Worcester Community Action Council, and in addition, financially supported numerous organizations that assisted people by 2. And make sure they are providing food, shelter, clothing, and mental health services; not complicit in human rights abuses. •• In May 2014, as PENTA’s 25th philanthropic gift to the community in celebration of its 25th Anniversary, it began an initiative to build a new playground for the Westborough YWCA where nearly 100 families bring their children for necessary childcare. PENTA made a lead donation of $2,500 and championed a two-week fundraising initiative with the result of all funds raised to complete the playground in May of 2015; •• PENTA took a Stand Against Racism in April 2014 in partnership with the YWCA; •• PENTA sponsored a Model UN Program for sixth grade students to inspire knowledge on Global Citizenship; •• In May 2014, PENTA hosted a Flag Raising Ceremony for Veterans in honor of National Military Month and made a philanthropic donation towards the newly proposed Veteran’s building; •• PENTA became a drop-off site for Toys for Tots for less advantaged children; •• PENTA’s CEO participated in a panel that fostered awareness of domestic violence and abuse to women; and •• PENTA sponsored a regional forum on the Ebola virus entitled, “Public Health in the News: Central Massachusetts and the Ebola Crisis.” 11 Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standard Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Labor 3. Business should •• PENTA started a project to partner with local establishments in an effort to provide Standards uphold the freedom its employees with numerous discounts from retailers, restaurants, and service of association and the organizations with the goal of launching this program in the next COP Period; effective recognition •• PENTA created a Lunch and Learn Program for its employees featuring interesting of the right to and compelling topics ranging from Human Rights to the enjoyment of specialty collective bargaining; craft foods, holiday celebrations, and more; 4. the elimination of all •• PENTA continued construction on its new “Team Club House” and completed forms of compulsory its staff kitchen, and make progress on the “Game Room” and “Relaxing Room” labor; scheduled for completion in the next COP period; •• PENTA continued celebrating employee anniversaries with gift cards; 5. the effective abolition of child labor; •• PENTA continues to reward employees with raises much higher than the current national average pay raise, which is 3%; 6. and the elimination •• In an effort to foster empowerment for women, PENTA awarded a leadership of discrimination scholarship to a college-bound female promoting equality for women relative to in respect of leadership advancement; employment and occupation. •• PENTA’s CEO shared personal branding strategies with over 100 executive females as part of the Business Forward Females Initiative; •• PENTA sponsored the Business Forward Female’s (BFF) Luncheon Series, enabling women access to education, empowerment, and networking; •• PENTA sponsored the WBJ Outstanding Women in Business Awards to promote female leadership; •• PENTA CEO was appointed to Governor Charlie Baker’s Transition Team and served on the Jobs and Economy Committee, which focused on how to create more job growth and business expansion opportunities in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; and •• PENTA provided nearly 80 Westborough High School students with an unprecedented mentoring experience which comprised of a facility visit to PENTA, discussion with our CEO, the President of a client company, our Lt. Governor, and a State Representative. The students were provided with complimentary lunch, thanks to our generous client. 13 Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 United Nations Global Compact Environmental Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Environment 7. Businesses •• Project Oak initiatives from the previous year continued with no additional should support projects in this COP year. We have plans to revitalize and set new goals for the a precautionary new COP year ahead. This will be possible with our completed location move; approach to •• PENTA completed the restoration of a property on the National Register of environmental Historic Places and, throughout the historic renovation project, we made every challenges; effort to repurpose the building to its highest and best use, promote energy efficiency through the installation of energy efficient mechanical systems, 8. undertake initiatives windows, and doors. It also preserved every possible artifact including its eight to promote greater hand crafted fireplaces documented in the Smithsonian, and its magnanimous environmental handcrafted millwork throughout the property. This project won the coveted Silver responsibility; Hammer Award from the Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce; 9. and encourage •• The Company continued its recycling efforts for paper, water bottles, and printer the development cartridges; and diffusion of •• PENTA continues to offer its clients a green line of services and makes environmentally recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing friendly technologies. strategies within their businesses; •• PENTA sponsored the Community Harvest Festival. All funds raised help this nonprofit organization provide whole foods directly from their local farms to food banks throughout the region; •• PENTA continues to source the majority of its products and services locally; and •• PENTA planted 50 hydrangeas, approximately 30 trees and shrubs, integrated planters at its entryway, and has a grounds beautification plan in place that will include the installation of a garden in the next COP period. 15 “ PENTA Communications, Inc. has been known in New England for its high caliber customer service and for assisting in business development for its clients. It is an example of the innovative and creative energy that makes ” Massachusetts a special place to do business and that drives our economy forward. Deval L. Patrick, Governor of Massachusetts Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principle Highlights on Progress Anti10. Businesses should •• PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations Corruption work against and relationships. The firm seeks vendors that are in alignment of our corruption in all of core values ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of its forms, including transparency in our client relationships and will not tolerate any level of unethical extortion and bribery. behavior on any level. 17 Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 United States of America Dear Mr. Secretary-General: On behalf of PENTA Communications, Inc., I am delighted to reconfirm our company’s continued commitment to support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. In our second year as a Global Compact signatory, we made excellent progress in many areas. It was a pleasure to report on them in this Communication on Progress for the period of 2014 through 2015, and in looking ahead to the next period, we are both energized and excited to bring our involvement to the next level in many areas, including helping the United Nations Global Compact strengthen its awareness throughout the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. It is our hope that, through our evangelism of our work towards the achievement of progress, we will serve as an inspiration to other organizations to join us in this commitment. PENTA intends to make a difference in our region and in the world through its continued acts of kindness, support, and strategic initiatives to foster lasting progress in all areas, and, in particular, relating to the fundamental principles of the Global Compact. It was an exciting year for our organization, and we look forward to presenting our third year Communication on Progress in the spring of 2016. All the best, Deborah Penta Chief Executive Officer PENTA Communications, Inc. The PENTA Building | 208 Turnpike Road 508.616.9900 Westborough, MA 01581 USA www.pentamarketing.com
