Persisting through Turbulent Times with Diverse Market Base Annual Report 2014 PRANDA JEWELRY PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Vision “To be the world’s leading alliance for jewelry industry that enables our valued partners to achieve mutual growth and succes” PRANDA Annual Report 2014 1 The United States is showing a sign of economic recovery The European Union is still in economic downturn Asia is moving towards economic structural reforms Fragility of Global Economy For the past decades, the growth of world economy has depended on the Western economy, consisting of mainly the United States and European Union. When the subprime mortgage crisis hit the United States followed by the European debt crisis, these greatly caused the inevitable decline of the world economy since it has been globally connected in both trading and investing. Although the US economy has clearly shown a sign of recovery, the EU economy remains dull with growth rates lower than expected. Furthermore, Asian countries with large national economy, namely China, Japan, and India, still require rapid economic structural reforms. Besides, the challenges the Company needs to confront including high fluctuation of oil price, unpredictable fluctuation of currency exchange and interest rates, variation of precious metal prices which directly affect the jewelry industry as well as the political conflict between Russia and the EU. All of the problems mentioned evidently demonstrate the fragile recovery of global economy. PRANDA in Crisis During the past four decades, PRANDA has encountered several crises. The political crisis in Thailand during 1973-1976 affected the country’s trade and investment sectors. Thai Baht devaluation from oil price crisis in 1984 damaged the manufacturing sector and the confidence of trading counterparties. The financial institution crisis in 1997 that caused Thai Government’s decision on floating Baht resulted in PRANDA’s first and only loss in 1998. Nevertheless, the global crises mentioned earlier have also affected PRANDA’s performance. PRANDA has tackled and overcome those crises by the proficient and experienced management team. In addition, PRANDA has been highly competitive in the global market and has been fully supported by stakeholders. TIMELINE 1973-1976 The political crisis in Thailand 1984 Thai Baht devaluation from oil price crisis 1997 Thailand financial crisis 2014: Diverse Market Base Supporting the Business In 2014, even though the operating performance was lower than anticipated due to the decreasing orders from Original Design Manufacturing (ODM) customers affected by the slow recovery of EU economy, it was not hugely detrimental since the Company has diversified its risks into various market base including distributor and retail base. The enforced retail business strategy generated leap in growth of the domestic and international retail business sectors. This outcome was considered a positive encouragement to pursue the retail business and make owned brand to be recognized by consumers which then will become a pillar of PRANDA in the future. Sustainable Growth of PRANDA Among the constantly increasing competition and challenging situations in the future including economic conditions, international politics, trade barriers, fluctuation of raw material prices, and changes in consumers’ demand. PRANDA is ready, from production to marketing, to carry out the Growth Strategy at its full capacity. The Original Design Manufacturing (ODM) business will be expanded by utilizing experience and market expertise to create growth opportunities for partners. At the same time, the Own Brand Manufacturing (OBM) business will be expanded by offering differentiated products that suit partners’ target markets. Thus, PRANDA believes that the Growth Strategy mentioned above would help maintain the competitiveness and build long-term sustainability to the business. Pranda Brand Avenue To continue the vision through its more than 41 years of experience and expertise in jewelry manufacturing and distribution, together with its understanding of present jewelry market, PRANDA group has continuously focused on marketing its own brands and licensed brands. The Company and its affiliated companies have jointly developed a portfolio of brands with different identities and positioning to serve the demand to each segment of customers. The everlasting essence of the absolute 24K gold jewelry 99.9% purity in the endless pursuit of unique design and excellent craftsmanship Superior diamond jewelry with a The Art of gold, handcrafted from Established in Paris since 1880 and distinctive statement of luxury through the finest 24K gold 99.9% purity of has ever since been the landmark for unique and highly concentrated superior gold content, created by the finest expression of designed 18K expression for modern working professional artisans to become an gold jewelry with premium quality women extraordinary artwork gemstones 8 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Modern, innovative and sensible 18K International jewelry brand for women Ariva the luxury of sterling silver, captures gold jewelry with diamond and in who love to emphasize feminine touch her style and expresses her attitude distinctive design, highlighting class and are glamorous conscious and taste for casual and today’s lifestyle Timeless collection of marcasite jewelry Exclusive high-end luxury menswear International trend-oriented collection finely handcrafted for today’s women, and men’s accessories brand, for in 925 sterling silver for sophisticated inspired by well-known design period modern smart achievers who are full women who prefer non-standard, from Victorian through Art Deco with passion for individuality and great extravagant jewellery, high-class design attention to details (Licensed Brand) far from mainstream fashion PRANDA Annual Report 2014 9 GROUP STRUCTURE Pranda Group’s core businesses are production, distribution and retail of fine jewelry products. The Company has become one of Thailand’s leading jewelry exporters with customer base spanning in key regions of the world from North America to Europe and Asia. PRODUCTION DISTRIBUTION RETAIL Sales Contribution Gross Margin Sales Contribution Gross Margin Sales Contribution Gross Margin 38% 20% 37% 25% 25% 54% Production capacity approximately Own distribution bases in 5 countries Retail locations in Asia and Middle East 10 million pieces per year and worldwide partners By taking advantage of the economies of scale PRANDA has its own distribution companies and In order to access the jewelry consumers directly, production, PRANDA is able to produce quality agents both in Thailand and overseas. To diversify PRANDA has set up subsidiaries, which are proficient products at a reasonable price. The company also market risk as well as expanding its market, PRANDA in retail management, to manage its own retail diversified its production risk to cover almost every distributors are located in key regions worldwide outlets and franchise business throughout Asia product range. PRANDA operates factories based including US, UK, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, and Middle East. These subsidiaries, today, are in 3 countries including Thailand, Vietnam and Japan, and India. Currently, PRANDA has set up located in Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam Indonesia with production capacity approximately 5 subsidiaries of distribution base in 5 countries 10 million pieces of jewelry per year. including US, UK, France, Germany and India TIMELINE 1973 1991 1992 2002 2003 2014 Pranda Design Co., Ltd. Pranda North America, Inc. Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG Pranda Jewelry PCL H. Gringoire s.a.r.l. Pranda Jewelry Pvt. Ltd. Crystaline Co., Ltd. Prima gold Internation Co., Ltd. Pranda Trading (Shenzhen) Limited Pranda UK Limited PDU (UK) Co., Ltd. Pranda Lodging Co., Ltd. PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia Pranda Singapore Pte. Limited Pranda Vietnam Co., Ltd. P.T. Pranda SCL Indonesia KZ PRANDA Co., Ltd. Financial Perspective Operating (Million/Bath) Profit Net Income (Million/Bath) Financial Risks Rate of Return 470 472 456 450 18.09% 16.97% 408 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 9.06% 11.6% 9.9% 11.3% 243 11.1% 10.8% 15.3 13.7 13.4 13.4% 12.6% 25 165 146 10.2% 1.48% (0.24%) 6.0% 4.5% 4.4% 0.7% (7) 1.96 (3.0) 6.09% 5.42% (0.2%) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Operating Profit Net Income D/E (Times) ROE % of Sales Revenues % of Sales Revenues TIE (Times) ROCE Shareholder Perspective Average Average Average Average Total EPS Price Earnings Total DPS Price Dividend ฿15.77 ฿6.45 Yield 19.44% ฿7.98 ฿6.45 Yield 9.32% per year per year 0.6 0.3 19.0% 0.65 0.65 14.3% 13.6% 1.4 1.4 21.6% 23.1% 0.65 1.1 1.3 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.1 1.0 19.6% 19.1% 17.1% 0.55 0.55 0.50 0.60 0.60 9.7% 9.4% 0.8 16.9% 14.9% 14.2% 0.53 8.3%9.3% 8.4% 13.5% 0.40 7.3% 0.5 0.4 10.0% 5.9% 5.3% 5.3% 0.200.15 2.2% 2.23% 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Earnings Per Share (EPS) Earnings Yields Dividend Per Share (DPS) Dividend Yields Annual Dividend Annual Extra Dividend Yield Extra Dividend Extra Dividend Yield Note : Average Price and Earning Yield for 14 year period 10 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 12 Financial Highlights 16 Message from Chairman 18 Board of Directors and Advisors/ Board of Group Executive Committee 20 Managing Directors 22 Executives 23 Group Organization Chart 24 Policy and Business Overview 28 Pranda’s Direction 29 Corporate Social Responsibilities 43 Brief History and Honorary Rewards of Pranda Group 49 Our Business 56 Risk Factors 60 General Information and Other Important Informatio Table of Contents 65 Shareholders 67 Dividend Policy 69 Management Structure 79 Corporate Governance 112 Internal Control and Risk Management 114 Report of Audit Committee 116 Related Party Transactions 118 Management Discussion and Analysis 128 Report of the board of Directors’ Responsibilities to Financial Report 129 Independent Auditor’s Report 130 Financial Statements 188 Director and Management Biography 196 Details of directors and executives PRANDA Annual Report 2014 11 Financial Highlights Consolidated Financial Statements 2014 2013 2012 2011/9 2010/9 (Restated) FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Sales Revenues (Million Baht) 3,295 3,649 4,177 4,122 4,056 Gross Profit (Million Baht) 1,001 1,038 1,417 1,379 1,337 Gross Profit Margin 30.39% 28.44% 33.93% 33.46% 32.96% EBITDA/1 (Million Baht) 74 106 551 491 544 EBITDA Margin 2.24% 2.90% 13.18% 11.92% 13.40% Operating Profit/2 (Million Baht) (7) 25 472 408 470 Operating Profit Margin/3 (0.22%) 0.68% 11.29% 9.91% 11.59% Profit to Equity (Million Baht) 146 165 450 456 243 Profit Margin to Equity 4.42% 4.51% 10.77% 11.07% 6.00% FINANCIAL POSITION (Million Baht) Current Assets 2,834 3,133 3,318 3,218 3,008 Total Assets 4,598 4,534 4,548 4,320 4,022 Current Liabilities 1,430 1,367 1,308 1,527 1,398 Total Liabilities 1,877 1,889 1,785 1,779 1,517 Equity Attributable to Owners of the Company 2,721 2,654 2,763 2,540 2,505 RATE OF RETURN ROA/4 3.19% 3.62% 10.15% 10.94% 5.87% ROCE (0.24%) 1.48% 12.56% 10.21% 13.39% ROE/5 5.42% 6.09% 16.97% 18.09% 9.06% RISKS Current Ratio (Times) 1.98 2.29 2.54 2.11 2.15 Quick Ratio/6 (Times) 0.64 0.77 1.03 0.86 0.95 Times Interest Earned/7(Times) 1.96 (3.03) 13.40 13.72 15.34 Debt to Equity Ratio (Times) 0.69 0.71 0.65 0.70 0.61 DATA PER SHARE Book Value Per Share 6.97 6.68 7.02 6.39 6.25 Earnings Per Share to Equity 0.36 0.40 1.11 1.14 0.61 Dividend Per Share/8 0.15 0.20 0.60 0.60 0.50 Extra Dividend Per Share 0.60 Paid-up Shares (Million Shares) 409.53 409.14 406.28 403.33 400.67 Note : /1 EBITDA : Operating Profit Includes with Depreciation and Amortization. /2 Operating Profit : Calculated as sales less cost of sales, selling and administrative expenses. /3 Operating Margin = Operating Profit/Net Sales /4 Return on Assets = Net Profit/Total Assets /5 Return on Equity = Net Profit/Equity /6 Quick Ratio = (Cash and Cash at Bank + Marketable Security + Account Receivable and Notes Receivable)/Current Liability /7 Interest Coverage = (Operating Cash Flow + Operating Interest + Tax)/Operating and Investing Interests /8 For operation result of year 2013, the Company’s Board of Directors had a resolution to approve the dividend payment in the rate of Baht 0.15 per share if the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting had a resolution to approve on April 21st, 2015. /9 Year 2009-2011, the accounting standard of TAS 12 : Income Taxes was not effective to implement. 12 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED : ROCE RETURN ON EQUITY : ROE % % 16.0% 20.0% 14.0% 13.4% 17.8% 12.0% 12.6% 16.0% 15.8% 10.0% 8.0% 12.0% 6.0% 10.2% 4.0% 8.0% 9.8% 2.0% 1.5% 6.1% 0.0% 4.0% 5.42% (0.2%) (0.24%) (0.4%) 0.0% 2553 2554 2555 2556 2557 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CURRENT RATIO QUICK RATIO TIMES TIMES 3.0 1.2 2.54 1.03 2.15 2.11 2.29 1.0 0.95 2.0 1.98 0.8 0.86 0.77 0.6 0.64 1.0 0.4 0.2 0.0 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 TIMES INTEREST EARNED : TIE DEBT TO EQUITY RATIO : D/E TIMES TIMES 18.0 0.8 16.0 15.3 0.70 0.71 0.69 14.0 13.7 13.4 0.61 0.65 12.0 10.0 0.5 8.0 6.0 4.0 2.0 1.96 0.3 0.0 2.0 4.0 (3.03) 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 PRANDA 13 Annual Report 2014 Message from Chairman Mr. Prida Tiasuwan Chairman 14 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Dear Shareholders, Since the emergence of the Subprime Mortgage Crisis in the United States of America in 2008, the worldwide economy had extremely declined in the subsequent year followed by the European debt crisis. The economy of the USA for the year 2014 has clearly demonstrated a sign of recovery inferring from the cancellation of Quantitative Easing (QE) of the US central bank and the GDP growth of 2.3%. The unemployment rate also gradually dropped from 9.6% to 6.4%. On the other hand, the European economy has hardly recovered considering from the minimal GDP growth of 0.8%, unemployment rate at 11.9%, and the high public debt-to-GDP ratio of 90.9%. The situation was further aggravated by the geopolitical conflict prompting the EU’s sanctions against Russia. The problems mentioned above have resulted in the high fluctuation of gold and silver prices, being 21.3% and 40.4% respectively. The cancellation of QE has also lowered the gold and silver prices by 10.3% and 19.6% respectively. This has inevitably affected the fine jewelry industry. Pranda Jewelry Public Co., Ltd., which has the major markets in both the US and the EU, has undoubtedly been influenced by the sluggish economy growth in the Western world for many years. Nonetheless, the company believes that our organization structure which comprises of 3 business operations; the Mass Craftsmanship, the Global Distribution base covering important markets around the world, and the Retail Base in the emerging market, together with over 4-decade-long expertise will push us through this difficult time successfully. Although the company was facing with undesirable performance, our retail operation sector gains an increase in both revenue and profit, especially the domestic retail company, Prima Gold International Co., Ltd., has 22.9% growth in sales turnover, compared to the same period of previous year (excluding discontinued business of Century Gold brand). despite the political turmoil in Thailand causing the dull economy in the country last year. This success demonstrates that the business growth during the tough period is achievable with an appropriate brand management. Additionally, we also see the growth in sales turnover from our retail business in the Asian Economic Community (AEC), namely 32.7% growth in Indonesia and 64.5% growth in Vietnam. In 2014, the company’s performance had a Baht 354 million decrease in sales, equivalent to 9.70%, mainly due to our production operation having a decline of purchase orders from European market. Furthermore, the drop of gold and silver prices, averaged out at 14.9%, led to the net profit 145 million baht which was our lowest profit in 15 years since the financial institution crisis in Thailand. Nonetheless, the financial position of the company remains strong considered from the Debt to Equity ratio of 0.69 times. The liquidity of the company also stays sufficient judging from the Current Ratio of 1.98 times. In addition, the financial institutions continually support the company’s business fairly well. PRANDA 15 Annual Report 2014 For our short-term strategies to regain our operating performance, the following measures shall be applied: Focusing on improving our own brands in domestic and international markets Expanding the existing market base as well as seeking for an emerging market with high potential Increasing our competitiveness through online business Committing in design and development of products and manufacturing technologies Improving the manufacturing process with innovative technologies for higher productivity Managing the production cost for competitive advantage If the company is able to execute the aforementioned strategies, which are in accordance with our Core Strategy of emphasizing the sales growth of own brands along with maintaining the important customer base for sustainable business alliance together with increasing the production efficiency, this should result in comparable sales between the Own Brand Manufacturing (OBM) and Original Design Manufecturing business (ODM) in the future, and equal distribution of sales and profits among the business operations. For 2015, the global economy is expected to recover more than the previous year since the US and the EU have estimated to display further growth this year. The Asian market, on the other hand, is believed to maintain the same growth as last year. With the recovering global economy and our short-term strategies mentioned above, the company is anticipating a satisfactory operation this year. Lastly, as a representative of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board, I would like to express my appreciation to our shareholders, employees, and all stakeholders who involve in our business for always giving your trust and support to us. The Board of Directors and the Executive Board continue to abide by the UN Global Compact whereby the 4 major policies, normally human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. We also implement the sufficiency economy principles, including moderation, reasonableness, and having a self-immunity, as given by His Majesty the King, to our management standards. We additionally follow the Principles of Corporate Governance concerning transparency, accountability, business ethics, as well as corporate social responsibility. We considerably hope to receive your support as always. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan Chairman 16 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 17 Board of Directors and Advisors / Board of Group Executive Committee 7 6 5 1 2 3 4 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan 5. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert Board Chairman Director / Managing Director (Marketing) / Finance & Risk Management Director / Nomination and Remuneration 2. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul Director Vice Chairman / Finance& Risk Management Director / Nomination and Remuneration Director 6. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan Director / Nomination and Remuneration Director 3. Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan Director / Chair of Group Executive Committee / 7. Ms. Pittaya Tiasuwan Chair of & Risk Management Finance Committee / Director / Executive Director / Finance & Risk Management Nomination and Remuneration Director Director 4. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan Director / Managing Director (Manufacturing) / Chair of Core Values & CSR Committee / Finance & Risk Management Director / Nomination and Remuneration Director 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 8. Mr. Verachai Tantikul 12. Mrs. Sarita Bunnag Independent Director / Chair of the Audit Committee / Advisor to the Company’s Board of Directors Chair of Nomination and Remuneration Director Committee 13. Mr. Decha Nuntanajaroenkul 9. Mrs. Rawittha Pongnuchit Executive Director / Finance & Risk Management Director Independent Director / Audit Committee 14. Mr. Chartchai Teekaveerakit 10. Mr. Chamnon Watanagase Executive Director / Core Values & CSR Director Independent Director / Audit Committee 15. Mr. Chanat Sorakraikitikul 11. Lt. Jg Anan Panananda R.T.N. Executive Director / Finance & Risk Management Director Advisor to the Company’s Board of Directors Managing Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1. Mr. Promote Tiasuwan 5. Mrs. Maureen Kellry Managing Director (Manufacturing) Pranda Jewelry Pcl. Managing Director Pranda North America, Inc. 2. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert 6. Mr. Gregor Kroll Managing Director (Marketing) Pranda Jewelry Pcl. Managing Director Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG 3. Mr. Chartchai Teekaveerakit 7. Mr. Yvan Le Dour Managing Directo Crystaline Co., Ltd. Managing Director H.GRINGOIRE s.a.r.l 4. Mr. Santiparp Riyai 8. Mr. Malcolm Pink Managing Director Pranda Vietnam Co., Ltd. Managing Director Pranda UK Limited 20 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 9. Mr. Vinod Tejwani 13. Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan Managing Director Pranda Jewelry Private Limited Managing Director Pranda Singapore Pte. Limited 10. Mr. Kenny Salmon 14. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan Managing Director PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia Managing Director Pranda Lodging Co., Ltd. 11. Ms. Rungnapa Ngowngamratana 15. Mr. Heechan Song Managing Director Primagold Internation Co., Ltd. Managing Director KZ-Pranda Co., Ltd 12. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan (Acting) Managing Director Pranda Trading (Shenzhen) Limited PRANDA Annual Report 2014 21 Executives 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan 5. Mr.Chanat Sorakraikitikul 9. Mrs. Chawee Jarukornvasin Managing Director Assistant Managing Director Assistant Managing Director (Manufacturing) (Marketing) (Manufacturing) 2. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert 6. Mrs. Nirarat Tanalekhapat 10. Mr. Somsak Srirueangmon Managing Director Assistant Managing Director Assistant Managing Director (Marketing) (Marketing) (Manufacturing) 3. Ms. Pittaya Tiasuwan 7. Ms. Sasisopa Wattakeecharoen 11. Mr. Thanes Panjakrid Deputy Managing Director Assistant Managing Director Accounting and Finance (Manufacturing) (Marketing) Department Manager 4. Mr. Decha Nuntanjaroenkul 8. Ms. Suporn Rungpitayatorn 12. Mr. Dusit Chongsutthanamanee Deputy Managing Director Assistant Managing Director Corporate Secretary (Marketing) (Manufacturing) 22 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Group Organization Chart Shareholders Pranda Jewelry PCL.L. Board of Directors Audit Committee/Nomination and Remuneration Committee Chair Chair Prida Tiasuwan Verachai Tantikul Core Values & CSR Committee Group Executive Committee Finance & Risk Managment Committee Chair Chair Chair Pramote Tiasuwan Sunanta Tiasuwan Sunanta Tiasuwan Pranda Jewelry Crystaline Pranda Vietnam PT Pranda Pranda Trading Pranda Pranda Lodging Marketing (Shenzhen) Singapore Indonesia Thailand Thailand Vietnam Indonesai China Singapore Thailand Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director (Manufacturing) Chartchai Santiparp Riyai Kenny Salmon Prida Tiasuwan Sunanta Tiasuwan Panidda Tiasuwan Pramote Tiasuwan Teekaveerakit (Acting) Managing Director (Marketing) Pranee Khunprasert Pranda North Pranda UK H. Gringoire Primagold Int. Pranda & Kroll Pranda India KZ-Pranda America USA UK France Thailand Germany India Thailand Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Maureen Kelley Malcolm Pink Yvan Le Dour Rungnapa Gregor Kroll Vinod Tejwani Heechan Song Ngowngamratana PRANDA Annual Report 2014 23 Policy and Business Overview Pranda Group’s core businesses are production, distribution and retailing of jewelry products. The Company distributes its products to customers in major continents, such as North America, Europe and Asia. Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited currently is the leading fine jewelry exporter in Thailand. On 23 February 2015, the Board of Directors had a resolution to review the mission and strategies of the company as follows: 1.) Vision, Mission, Strategies and Core Values of Pranda Group Vision “To be the world’s leading alliance for jewelry industry that enables our valued partners to achieve mutual growth and succes” Mission 1. Operate business of craftsmanship jewelry by utilizing proficiency to create mass quantity of products with consistent quality 2. Consciously care for all needs and business opportunities of partners to mutually achieve sustainable success 3. Provide opportunities, enhance competencies and uplift the quality of life for employees 4. Act as a representative and a supporter for Thai jewelry industry to thrive on global stage 5. Be fully committed to stakeholder focus, morality and responsibilities for environment and society at large 24 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Strategies • Growth Strategy 1. Emphasize on expanding Original Design Manufacturing (ODM) business by utilizing experience and market expertise to create growth opportunities for partners 2. Grow Original Brand Manufacturing (OBM) business by offering differentiated products that suit partners’ target markets • Mass Craftsmanship Strategy 1. Create culture of working with care, paying attention to every detail by means of mutually held core values 2. Continuously enhance skill and competencies of personnel to become a part of professional team specializing in each particular field 3. Increase employees’ happiness by enhancing overall quality of life, which is a key factor that would reflect through the quality of craftsmanship jewelry 4. Prepare personnel for future business expansion by arranging “Bilateral Education Program” to continuously and systematically develop a great number of skilled craftsmen • Retail Business Strategy 1. Develop trustworthy retail brands in ASEAN market, known for high quality and unique products 2. Expand market reach to end consumers through a network of owned retail stores and franchises • Sustainability Strategy 1. Allocate resources and services to reach the balance of ODM and OBM sales volume ratio of 50% 2. Develop efficient financial managment system, rigorously comply whit strict financial discipline, and improve risk management system within the group 3. Apply the management principles with respect to social responsibility covering economy, society and environment in participative manners 4. Strictly adhere to the principles of corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and te UN Global Compact 5. Be a learning organization for continuous improvement Corporate Core Values Teamwork We devote our hearts to working as a team like we are the same family. Continuous Improvement We are proficient, continuously seeking new knowledge and experience to develop ourselves and to come up with new innovations. Stakeholder Focus We see the importance of our stakeholders. Therefore, we do care and are responsible for customers, suppliers, colleagues, shareholders, the environment and society at large. 2.) Significant Developments and Events On 31 Decenber 2014, The company had no changes in the shareholding structure, management and business. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 25 3. Corporate Structure The company has policy to operate a balance organization structure that comprises of production base, distribution and retail subsidiaries and affiliates, as shown in the corporate structure chart. Production Distribution Domestic Overseas Overseas 96% 100% 100% Crystaline Co.,Ltd. PRANDA NORTH AMERICA,INC. (Thailand) Pranda Singapore Pte.Ltd. (USA) Production and distribution of (Singapore) Distribution of fine jewelry and codtume jewelry Investment company in Indonesia costume jewelry in the USA and Canada 100% 100% Pranda Vietnam Co., Ltd. PRANDA U.K LTD. (Vietnam) (United Kingdom) Production and distribution Distribution of fine jewelry and of fine jewelry costume jewelry in the United Kingdom and Europe 19% 100% P.T.Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam H. GRINGOIRE S.A.R.L. (Indonesia) (France) Production and distribution Distribution of fine jewelry in of fine jewelry France and Europe 51% Pranda Jewelry PVT.LTD. (India) Distribution of fine jewelry in India 75% Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) Production and distribution of fine jewelry in German and Europe 26 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Pranda Jewelry PCL (Thailand) Production and Distribution of Fine Jewelry Retail Domestic Overseas 100% 100% Primagold International Co.,Ltd. Pranda Trading (Thailand) (Shenzhen) Limited Distribution of fine jewelry in (China) Thailand Retail distribution of jewelry in China 55% PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia PDU (UK) Limited (Indonesia) (United Kingdom) Retail distribution of jewelry in Retail distribution of jewelry Indonesia through E-Commerce (100% held Pranda UK Ltd.) 100% KSV Brand GmbH (Germany) Distribution of fine jewelry in Germany PRANDA Annual Report 2014 27 PRANDA’s Direction Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited, which has been operating jewelry business for over 4 decades, has classified its business into 2 categories including Original Design Manufacturing (ODM) and Own Brand Manufacturing (OBM) The future direction of Original Design Manufacturing (ODM) will emphasize on utilizing experience and market expertise to create growth opportunities for partners. For Own Brand Manufacturing (OBM), the business expansion will move towards offering differentiated products that suit partners’ target markets. The long-term objective of Own Brand Manufacturing (OBM) business will continuously become more significant towards revenue and operating income. In terms of production, the Company focuses on mass craftsmanship production, producing mass quantity of high quality products by skilled craftsmen working with care and paying attention to every detail, to serve overall customer needs. For distribution, the management of distribution bases located in US, UK, France and Germany will focus on main objective towards being the efficient distributors providing services to increase more value added to the company. For retail business, the Company aims to develop trustworthy retail brands, known for high quality and uniqueness, in ASEAN market and expand market reach to end consumers through a network of owned retail stores and franchises. As a result, the retail business will become the main sector which significantly influences the business in long run. 28 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Corporate Social Responsibilities The Pranda Group is considered the first company in Thailand to sign the principles of the UN Global Compact since 2002 B.E. onwards that deals with human rights, the practice of labor standards, environmental protection and combatting corruption in every form. This has been the company’s practice to date, including the issuance of policies regarding social and environmental responsibilities included in the “Guide to Corporate Governance” edition 3/2013 for adherence to in their working practices. The Pranda Group is considered the first company in Thailand to sign the principles of the UN Global Compact since 2002 onwards. The principles engage in the compliance of Human Rights, the practice of Labor Standards, Environmental Awareness and Anti-Corruption in every form. This has been the company’s practice to date, including the issuance of policies regarding social and environmental responsibilities included in the “Corporate Governance Manual” revised version 3/2013 for compliance and practice. Overall Business Policies of the Company and Its Subsidiaries Regarding Social & Environmental Responsibility and the Stakeholders Group Pranda Jewelry Public Co., Ltd. (PCL) and its subsidiaries have a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy: With awareness of the importance of supporting both social activity and the surrounding community, including continuing to care for the environment, and a commitment to working with those who are involved, with the intent of creating and building good relationships resulting from acceptance and mutual trust all the while taking into account the impact to stakeholders such as shareholders, employees, and communities with which the company is doing business, customers, partners and government agencies, all the way to the surrounding society and nation, and at the same time creating an attitude and company culture so that employees will recognize their responsibility to the society in which we live together,the Company’s conduct is as follows: Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited including its subsidiaries (Pranda Group) has a policy to operate business with full awareness on corporate social responsibility: CSR and pay continuous attention to social responsibility activities and the surrounding environment. Pranda thrives to collaborate with all stakeholders with an aim to cultivate and maintain a strong relationship based upon recognition and trust, be aware of any impact on the stakeholders i.e. shareholders, employees, locals whereby the Company has operating sites, customers, vendors, and government agencies as well as the society and nation. In addition, Pranda cultivates mindset and corporate culture for the staff to be aware of social responsibility in which they live by setting up a policy on social and environmental responsibility in which, the Company’s conduct is as follows: 1) Operate according to principles of good governance and social responsibility. 2) Respect the rights ofand show fairness to all stakeholder groups. 3) Support activities for public benefit, and for the good of society and the environment, including the promotion ofgovernmental or private organizations whose mission is beneficial to society and the environment. 4) Encourage employees at all levels to see the importance of and engage in the performance of the company’s activities with regard to social responsibility, also encouraging its employees to engage volunteer work with the community at large throughactivities that benefit the public. 5) The Company does not support the activities that are contrary to morality or cause a negative impact on the confidence and trust of stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, communities which the company is in business with, clients-partners and government agencies, as well as the surrounding society and nation. Strategy and Framework of Social Responsibility. Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited including its subsidiaries (Pranda Group) show awareness in all business activities of the social responsibility guidelines, taking into account all stakeholder groups. Therefore, we have a framework for corporate social responsibility that covers the economic, societal and environmental impact whose ultimate goal is the sustainability of our business. And so that the corporate social responsibility aspect is enacted throughout the organization in a systematic way, the Company has set up a joint committee to promote these values together with social responsibility, in order to drive the work forward in cross-functional form from the year 2007 B.E. onwards: PRANDA Annual Report 2014 29 • Pranda Academy • Quality of Life Project People-Consciousness • Pre-school childcare centers • Food Inspection Project • Innovation Project Economic Sustainability • Debt Reduction Project • Savings Cooperatives • Bilateral Education Project • Promotion of careers for the disabled • Project 7S’s Friendliness towards the • Energy Conservation Project Environment & Community • Waste Bank Project • Project 1 to 9 • Sharing and connecting benefits to society and community For the stakeholder policy, the company has set up a code of conduct towards stakeholders, written, announced and made known since the year 2000 B.E. onwards: The stakeholders are grouped as follows: Responsibilities of the Management for Shareholders. 1) Discharge duties and responsibilities honestly. Make decisions in good faith and with transparency, and for the mutual benefits of the company and shareholder. 2) Conduct business in such a way that strives to create progress, stability and bring the best possible return for shareholders. 3) Perform in the fullest capacity in exercising the expertises in achieving the best possible benefits of the company and the shareholders. 4) Preserve the company’s property in preventing damage or loss and irregular depletion of all assets. 5) Present the accurate performance report to the company board of directors and shareholder’s meeting. 6) Refrain from exploiting, abusing, or taking advantage of the authoritative power to gain personal interests and benefits. 7 Do not disclose the company confidential information for the benefits of personal interests or the interests of the others without approval of company authority. 8) Do not do any act in any way that may cause conflict of interests without informing the company. Responsibilities of the Management for Customers. 1) Offer only top quality products and services to customers and consumers. 2) Ensure that customers receive complete and accurate information about the products and services. 3) Provide product quality assurance and guarantee of services to customers in accordance with the company regulations. 4) Ensure that customers receive only best quality products and best services. No delivery of items that are known to have been defects, damage or may cause harm to customers. 5) Set up customers services mechanism whereby customers find most convenience to make complaints, if any ; and guarantee to them that correction will be made immediately. 6) Strive to reduce costs while keeping high quality of the products and services. 7) Continuously explore new ways to enhance the benefits of customers. 8) In case of inability to meet any customers’ requirement, notify them at earliest convenience, ideally in advance; and assist them in finding the best solution. 30 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Responsibilities of the Management for Employees. 1) Ensure that each and every employee receives appropriate remuneration according to ability, responsibility and his/her performance. 2) Promote, support and enhance employee knowledge for their advancement and enhancement of their career stability. 3) Encourage employee involvement in problem solving and in achieving the organization goal. 4) Create a safe, secure and healthy environment in the workplace. 5) Employee rewards and punishments must be issued on the basis of accuracy and fairness and all action must be taken with integrity. 5) Provide rewards and take disciplinary action on the principle of righteousness, fairness and being in good faith. 6) Comply with the Labor Low and related regulations to the welfare of the employees. 7) Avoid any improper or unjust conduct against employees that may deter their promotion or advancements. 8) Respect the humanity of all employees and their human rights. Responsibilities of The Management for Business Partners and Creditors. 1) Strictly adhere to the agreements with the business partners and creditors / lenders. In case of inability to meet the terms and conditions, notify the parties concerned immediately in order to settle the matters and best mutual solution that should prevent possible damage, loss and conflicts. 2) Provide complete and accurate financial information. 3) Never receive or demand from the business partners and creditors lenders, any benefits in cash or in kind that would not occur otherwise in the honest course of doing business. Should this seen happening in any circumstances, notify the parties concerned immediately to settle the matters for the best solution. Responsibilities of the Management for Adherence to the Rules of Competition. 1) Compete under the rules of fair competition. 2) Never, by illegal and improper means, seek for an inside competitor’s information. 3) Never conduct with the intention to destroy good image of competitor by any unfair practices such as using false information against them. Responsibilities of the Management for the Society. 1) Support social activities that are of benefits to the communities and society as a whole. 2) Never involve in any conduct that will jeopardize good image of the country, and cause irreparable harm to the natural resources and environment. 3) Never, directly or indirectly, cooperate or support any individual who is committed in illegal conducts that do harm to the society and the national security. 4) Regularly and continuously instill in the employees at all levels a sense of responsibility for the society as a whole. 5) Assure that all employees adhere to and comply with the laws related to business operations. Responsibilies of the Employees for the Company. 1) Discharge duties with responsibility, honesty and loyalty in achieving prosperity and security of the company and employees. 2) Embrace the common policy to create and maintain unity among employees and to create an efficient teamwork in coordinating and problem solving. 3) Devote all efforts and endeavors to conduct duties with attentiveness and perseverance with a view to build a quality company,and to maximize the company’s profits and drive it to being the world class jewelry company. 4) Make the best use of the company property with care and economy, and never use for personal benefits, and to prevent damage or loss, and irregular depletion of all assets. 5) keep the company information confidential at all time and never disclose all or part of it without approval. 6) Be cooperative with peer employees and the management in all possible ways that make benefits to the company, meanwhile, respect the rights and privileges entitled to one another. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 31 7) Be attentive and cooperate on doing everything possible that provides safe and healthy working environment. 8) Hold responsibility for sharing knowledge and working experiences with one another when opportunities provide for the benefits and accomplishment of the goal of the company. 9) Never involve in creating or disseminating false information about the company, management and peer employees. 10) Be responsible for notifying an appropriate authority when knowing of misconduct in the organization 11) Never take advantage of the authoritative power to gain personal benefits. Social Responsibility in Business Processes (CSR-in-Process) 1. Business Operation with Fairness All business competition must be performed fairly and levelly: The company adheres to ethical principles and laws to conduct business honestly under the framework of free competition by encouraging employees to recognize the importance of adhering to policies of fair business competition, avoiding monopolies or the wrongful use of superior market position. Respect the intellectual property rights of others: The company adheres to guidelines not to involve itself in any activities that involve the violation of others’ property, including violations of intellectual property. Promoting responsibility toward the supply chain: The companyhas established relationships with partners in the supply chain through fair operation andthe establishment of appropriate terms and conditions with the appropriate parties which promote participation and elevate the importance of the social responsibility of the partners. 2. Anti-Corruption The company adheres to the principles of good corporate governance according to accepted anti-corruption standards that combat corruption in all forms, designating as a practice that neither the management nor employees should demand or offer properties or other dishonest benefits to any parties involved so as to create wrongful gain, and disseminating the Company’s anti-corruption policy to the executives and employees at every level in such a way that they know and understand it. 3. Respect for Human Rights The Company places great importance on human rights the rights and freedoms of individuals, conducting itself toward all employees with fairness and equality, under the labor laws which strictly protect human rights, including non-selective employment, not discriminating by race, nationality, skin color, religion, gender or disability. There will be no unfairness in the employee selection process, also allowing employees to make recommendations, give opinions or make a complaint against the Company in the channels provided, also protecting employees who report honestly about wrongdoing that has occurred in the workplace. 4. Equitable Treatment of Labor The company aims to thoroughly develop all employees in order to improve their work skills: developing their knowledge and skills in order to help them make appropriate progress in their position, equally for both female and male employees, as well as to enhance their knowledge about the dynamics and changes in economics, society, technology and other subjects that will benefit and help improve the quality of life for the employees, supporting also those people with disabilities who are able to come in to work, and providing ready opportunities for career advancement, protecting the rights of the disabled as well as providing the appropriate facilities to improve the quality of life and well-being for all employees. Avoidance of forced labor or child labor: The Company will avoid all instances of forced labor or child labor which is strictly illegal. Employees are free to resign from their position independently by giving advance notice to the Company according to the designated time period. 32 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Social protection: The Company has adopted management policies of fair compensation, appropriate to the potential [of each employee], by equally considering the various compensations provided by companies in the same field, appropriate to the work position, experience, financial results of the Company, current economic and social state, as well as emphasizing safe work practices for both the physical and mental health [of employees], adhering to the principles of social responsibility and labor, coupled with driving forward the business, arranging the workplace and providing safety equipment and accident prevention according to international standards, as well as supporting the specific requirements of clients with respect to safety, environment, social responsibility and labor. 5. Responsibilities for Consumers The Company adheres to fair and ethical marketing and sales policy, protecting the clients’ confidential information with regard to sales, without using the information for its own benefit or that of other related parties wrongfully, in order to produce a safe and quality product that meets the needs of our customers and is not harmful to the health of consumers.It aims to increase the level of customer satisfaction through an efficient management system which undergoes a process of continual improvement and comprehensive evaluation. 6. Environmental Management The company adheres to standard working procedures to prevent pollution or impact to the environment and community according to the standards, using efficient management technology to cover the use of electricity and energy with regard to water quality, air quality and waste management, and providing a ready channel for the lodging of any complaints from employees or the community which may arise from the operations of the Company, including participation in social and community development by operating as a good citizen of society, and supporting multiple activities that benefit the community and society as a whole. 7. Involvement of the Company on Community and Society Development The Company adheres to principles of integrity and encourages people within the organization to have a philanthropic spirit in helping to contribute to the community, both those that surround the plant, and other locations which may be involved with our business, using the concept of building community engagement with the Company, creating knowledge, skills and abilities and providing income in return, with the goal of enhancing and enriching the quality of society and economic self-reliance in the long run. 8. The Creation of Innovation The Company is aware of the importance of exploring and developing innovation in the various facets of work within the organization in order to create new things, whether at the individual level or at the organizational level, increasing the value of various processes and creating a good change in the returns for stakeholders, with regard to the economy, society and the environment which will lead to achieving success and sustainability throughout the business. Implementation and Report Preparation 1) Report Preparation Procedures The Pranda Group prepares and publishes a report on the implementation of the concept of social responsibility in the annual report and on our website annually, for the benefit of all stakeholders, both internal and external, including shareholders, customers, creditors, suppliers, business partners, employees, society and the community, so that all are well aware of our determination and guidelines in driving forward the business, as well as the correlating results in the field of social responsibility. Linking stakeholders In the business of Pranda Jewelry Public Co., Ltd. (PCL) and its subsidiaries, it is not only to customers that our business must relate, but we must link with a number of other groups as well, including government regulators, and most importantly, customers, partners, employees, shareholders and the communities around the plant. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 33 Therefore linking with stakeholders is an essential practice which helps the company to understand those stakeholders further than relating to them only as manufacturers and customers, but also taking into account our impact and dependency and contributing to the support of business processes linked to both short and long-term sustainability, with each group having different expectations and playing different roles in driving business growth; the Company has segmented the role of stakeholders as follows: Stakeholder Connections Processes Used/ Stakeholder Needs Guidelines Communication Channels Customers • On time delivery of quality • Small group discussions Support customer awareness of responsibility products and services that • Providence of study opportunities in safety and quality of products & services, meet the standards • Dissemination of knowledge by specialists including responding to their level of • Transference of knowledge in the field and by the Company’s team satisfaction. & technology through the • Creation of a information journal to products of the Company disseminate information • Customer visits • Readiness to hear the feedback and recommendations or complaints Shareholders • Returns and continual growth • Reports of work progress trimesterly Treatment of shareholders in accordance & Investors of the company and annually with the principles of good governance • Management of the work • Annual general meeting of shareholders. and establishing requirements for transparent according to sound managerial • Meetings with the company executives and reliable disclosure of information to principles • Visits to observe the business them. • Complete, accurate and • Communication of information through timely reports of the company’s various channels such as websites information and status • Establishment of a corporate secretary and investor relations office to be a communication channel for providing various information about the Company’s business Employees & • Fair compensation and other • The establishment of Pranda Group To treat employees fairly, establishing and their families benefits as required by the law Learning Academy developing appropriate labor welfare • Progress and stability • Opening communication channels for which is attune to the needs of employees, • To develop their skills and the employees to share their opinions with regard for human rights; developing work professionally and suggestions their potential and continually retaining • A good working environment • Employee surveys good and talented staff, and promoting ethics for employees 34 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Processes Used/ Stakeholder Needs Guidelines Communication Channels Partners and • Appropriate value for price, • Small group discussions Operating with all partners and creditors Creditors and also monitoring of the • Group meetings with equality and justice, adhering to the market price • Visiting suppliers and being ready to terms of the contract and business ethics, • Settling debts & financial listen to their feedback including communication so that partners matters in a timely manner • Listening to their opinions and suggestions know and understand the rules of as prescribed or requests purchasing/procurement and procedures • Fair and equitable hiring for the selection and evaluation by and work procurement monitoring and reporting the results of the • The exchange of knowledge operations to relevant parties. and experiences Competition • Conducting business with • Receiving information from the media Assigning rules and ethics for business integrity, transparency and and the public arena processes and providing a system of internal ethically control to avoid any action to obtain • Competing fairly and according information or trade secrets of competitors to the law by way of illegality. Society as a • Creating jobs and supporting • Survey/assess needs and satisfaction Announcing the policies and safety whole the overall well-being of society • Regular visits to the area practices for occupational and • Good management of the • Meetings to receive comments and environmental health for employees to be environment suggestions aware of and strictly comply with, coupled • Joining to develop the • Collaborate with the community to with regular monitoring and evaluation, as community and society and arrange projects and activities that well as making a public relations plan for preserving natural resources enhance the quality of life the year which emphasizes involvement and the environment • Provide signs and banners to communicate between the company, the employees • Taking into account the impact various information and announcements and the community. Giving information, on the community and the • Holding events to observe and study news and a knowledge base on a factual environment the work processes [of the company] basis which benefits the sectors, including • Being an organization that and promoting involvement in the the economic, social and environmental shows responsibility toward development of society and economy dimensions, and communicating regularly the locals and the country all the way to environmental development with them via individuals, activities and and promotion and preservation • Hearing of comments, complaints and media advertising. of local culture suggestions • Disclosure of operations on a • Reports of information, news, activities factual basis • Tracking information and reports from the media For the prior year 2014 B.E., onwards, the Company’s Board of Directors has appointed a joint committee, to promote shared values and social responsibility, with the committee consisting of 1 chairperson and 8 officials, altogether 9 people in total, to replace the old committee whose term has already expired. In addition, the joint committee to promote shared values and social responsibility has appointed a subcommittee to carry out various projects according to the company policy. The progress of the operation is as follows: PRANDA Annual Report 2014 35 Performance of Each Major Project in 2014 onwards. • PRANDA Group Institute of Learning To enhance the skills and knowledge of the management and staff to function effectively and to have a long-term vision, in order to keep up with the pace of the changing world, the company has arranged training for all levels of employees of all positions with various courses and curricula, for example, management development courses, knowledge of economics, English in business, communication techniques and teaching job skills effectively, knowledge of gemology, the manufacturing process of gems, the making of gem molds, and jewelry samples. These are just starting examples; the program includes many other courses, both internal and external courses, in total more than 120 courses, so that the personnel can be thoroughly trained, with training budgets exceeding 1 million Thai baht per year, and including a library facility which opens its services to employees and their children, for the loaning & returning of books employees are able to search for information through the company’s intranet, which includes over 3,000 copies of new books and journals. • Quality of life Development Project The Company has focused on improving the quality of life of employees from all sides with the preparation of various projects and activities, enhancing the quality of life of employees for the better since the year 2557 B.E., for example: (1) Holding aerobic exercise activities: In order to create a healthy body and mind. (2) An internal co-op market for employees: So that employees can sell used possessions for extra income. (3) Providence of a shuttle vehicle for employees: To provide an economical and safe means of travel for employees. (4) The production of Father’s Day and Mother’s Day cards: And the holding of a slogan contest to allow employees to realize their love for their parents and to help create remembrance of gratitude to their fathers and mothers. (5) Sign-language training courses: To encourage effective communication between hearing-impaired employees and other individuals. (6) Promoting knowledge on how to improve the quality of life: To present general knowledge to employees regarding health, nutrition and other useful knowledge. 36 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 • Child Development Center The center has operated continuously for 26 years to help lighten the load of employees in caring for their children during work hours, and not only that but to support each child’s development, in aspects of physical development, intelligence and behavior, and each year having no less than 50 children under its care. The company has provided child nurses who are full-time staff who have undergone specialized training in the area of childcare, so that the children will be ready to start school. The children in the center will be provided with the following aspects of care: (1) Health services, such as health check-ups, physical examinations to check their growth development, and instructions on how to care for children given to [the parents]. (2) Providence of nutritional services arranging nutritious and well-balanced meals for the children in the right quantities, and teaching them to practice good health habits and table manners. (3) Helping to promote the children’s development, such as muscle development, linguistic development, creativity, mental, emotional and social development so that they can learn to coexist with others, as well as to create preliminary good habits and discipline in their young lives. • Monitoring Food Quality The project is related to the health and hygiene of employees at every level, with the Company issuing a policy that restaurants and food providers within the organization can focus on improving not only the food taste but should also take into account and consider the selection of quality raw ingredients, clean, safe and free of contaminants, flavoring the dishes according to the principles of nutrition and ensuring that the food has nutritional value, in order for employees to obtain good health by good and nutritional eating. The action plan includes: 1. Providing low-fat food on the menus in all stores 2. Conducting trainings on cooking with herbs 3. Holding a “Health Food Promotion Week” event 4. Systematic removal of all oil residue in the cooking utensils & system, to prevent a hotbed of germs 5. Holding the 5S’s and 7S’s campaigns in conjunction with food stores • The Innovation Project The company supports and encourages all employees to initiate creativity within the workplace, allowing them to modify the equipment, tools and processes in order to increase efficiency, improve results and reduce production costs, and to create a knowledge base within the organization for use in the production process. In the past, there were a total of more than 100 innovation projects submitted to the company. All in all, the Company has taken these results and built upon them, expanding and implementing them to all branches and subsidiaries, both to affiliates within the country and abroad, affectingvarious aspects of product development as well. • Debt Reduction and Legal Counsel The project has been carried out continuously until today, to help employees solve their debt issues, as well as giving legal advice on proper debt management. This project has helped 450 employees to resolve their debts, and accomplished a total amount of 110 million baht in debt resolution, supported by loans from various financial institutions. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 37 • Savings and Credit Cooperatives The Company has instigated saving cooperatives for employees in the Pranda Jewelry Group in order to create savings habits among the staff. It is also a source of funds at low interest rates, in cases where employees have financial need. It currently has 2,300 members, with the funds of more than 100 million baht as ofthe past year 2557 B.E. The savings cooperative has received an “excellent” rating according to the standards of cooperatives by the Department for the Promotion of Cooperatives & the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. The cooperative has also regularly contributed funding to support the education of children of employees who have good academic results every year. This helps to lower the burden of [educational] costsfor employees who are members of the cooperative. • The Dual Education System This project has continuously been pursued since 2000 onwards in collaboration with The Jubilee Royal Goldsmith College and the Bangkok College of Arts and Crafts’ Department of Vocational Education, which accepts studentsat the vocational level, for a diploma in the Faculty of Jewelry.The committee will select students from welfare schools, Rajprachanukroh School, and other opportunity-providing schools all over the country, especially building on the silverware program from welfare schools in 5 locations which are Chiang Rai, Loey, Nan, Tak and Petchaboon provinces which participate in HRH Princess MahaChakriSirindhorn’s silverware program for their studies, drawing these schools in to participate. Our program has operated continuously until today, with already 14 generations of students who have participated in the bilateral education program, a total of over 1000 students in all, and expanding to provide educational opportunities for the children and relatives of employees. Also the mentorship program assigns younger students to senior students so that they will have the opportunity to enter and study in the field of jewelry and also promotes education for employees by setting up training areas within the organization to hold study courses with credits transferable into the educational system in the field of jewelry making. • Professional Encouragement for the Disable The Company recognizes the importance of the opportunity to create jobs and careers for the hearing impaired and hopes to see the disabled taking pride in themselves and being able to demonstrate the abilities that they have, coexisting with ordinary individuals and not becoming a burden to their families or society; currently the Company has a total of 33 employees who are disabled individuals working with the company, a 60:1 ratio which is well above the legal standards of 100:1. Not only does the company provide opportunity without obstacle for generally available, ready employment of disabled people, but the company also foresees the creation of opportunity for deaf students, in order to start developing their skills from an early age at the schooling level, for which in the year 2014 B.E. onwards the Company signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to provide schooling assistance at the vocational level for disabled individuals in the field of jewelry and gems at the School for the Deaf in Kanchanaburi province and at the School for the Deaf in Nakhon Pathom province in order to transfer the knowledge and experiences of jewelry crafting and workmanshipand the making of various accessories to disabled individuals, also providing equipment and tools complete for the cutting of stones and other craftsmen’s tools and accessories at every stage of production for use in teaching and learning in the two schools. 38 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Aside from that the company has also offered support by pioneering a competition of jewelry craftsmanship skills, and provided the funding awarded to students in order to create another channel of motivation for disabled students. • Project 7S’s The purpose of this project is to provide a cost effective use of everything from resources to energy and to foster safety in the workplace, as well as providing protection from environmental issues, which also promotes cleanliness and tidiness in the workplace. The operations of the Company in this arena are rooted in 7 “s” standards [words in Thai beginning with “s”] which are Clear-up Cleanliness Convenience Hygiene Habit Environment & Beauty, and two levels of standard guidelines have been issued: a central standard and a regional standard to be distributed to affiliates, with an area assessment carried out every 3 months, which is an activity that creates a catalyst to examine and diagnose and adapt all the locations to be clean and tidy and to help prevent and reduce losses that may occur in the workplace. • Energy-Saving Projects Even though the jewelry manufacturing industry is considered a lightweightindustry which hardly affects the environment, the company has not been negligent in these matters, placing importance on and paying attention to the environmental impact of all issues. In the management of wastewater: Thecompany has issued a policy to protect the pipelines used to convey the water runoff from the manufacturing process. In the event that a pipe is damaged, the left over water must not be allowed to create ground leakage or contaminate natural sources of water. The protection is also in order to ensure that the water runoff from the entire manufacturing process is monitored and checked, and only after it is treated according to defined standards will it be discharged into natural bodies of water. On the Reduction of Greenhouse Gas: There has been a project to replace all the air conditioners in order to avoid using those that contain refrigerant CFC-containing substances that damage the ozone layer in the atmosphere. It also provides an analysis on the energy-efficiency of the air conditioning machines to reduce power consumption and lead to reduction of carbon dioxide released in the power generation process. This project also modifies the air-conditioning system within the buildings to use the Chiller air conditioning system which is more efficient. Also the refrigerant used in the Chiller system is a non-CFC, which will reduce damage to the ozone layer of the atmosphere and lessen the occurrence of climate variability and global warming. • Waste Bank The company has set up a waste bank for recyclables to help reduce global warming A manual on waste and recyclable materials has been published and broadcast to all employees to that they can thoroughly contribute. Each year,recyclable deposits are ccepted and stored into the bank, with over 50,000 kilograms being resold each year a value of more than 500,000 baht annually. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 39 • 1 to 9 Project The company has joined hands with Office for National Education Standards and Quality Assessment (ONESQA), a public organization, with the aim of developing and improving the quality and standards of educational institutions to be even better than before, including the development of a quality assurance system for educational quality by joining hands to advance the quality of education using the “1 to 9” method, with 1 agency assisting 9 educational institutions, with the [government] agency or private agency selecting at least 9 schools to develop within the network, committing to promote, support and follow up with a performance assessment to evaluate the results effected within the schools within the development network. Business Practices That Affect Social Responsibility In the year 2014 B.E., onwards, the Pranda Group has not committed any operations that violate the law with regard to the 8 principles [of Buddhism] and has not been accused of causing any negative impact on the public thru its business processesin any way that could affect the business reputation or credibility of the Pranda Group. Activities to Contribute to Society and the Environment (After Process) • Sharing and Implementing the Benefits to Society Pranda Jewelry Public Co., Ltd. (PCL) and its subsidiaries are committed to conducting business according to the core principles of being a good corporate citizen on the basis of a consciousness and awareness of its own duties and responsibilities to the community and the nation, including placing great importance and focus on preserving theenvironment. Throughout the year 2014 B.E., onwards, the company has implemented projects to share and implement the benefits to society thru many activities, with an emphasis on the company staff being involved as volunteers in the various activities, and also donating money to other organizations that conduct activities that are beneficial to the public, whenever appropriate. For example: (1) Joining to sponsor a Children’s Day festival with government agencies, schools and communities around the plant, and providing computer equipment to various government agencies. (2) Blood donation to help fellow humans in conjunction with the Thai Red Cross every 3 months, according to the “Unite in Love & Loyalty to Donate Blood to the Father and Mother of Our Land” campaign, dedicated to the glory of His Majesty the King. (3) Planting trees around the street dividers: To landscape the area as a public green space and to provide a better environment. 40 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 (4) The promotion of organic farming: By supporting the “Farmer’s Friend Rice” campaign from the Thai Organic Trade Association cooperative of Yasothon province and the Earth Net Foundation, part of an incentive to promote the selling of organic products to replace the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides and create a larger market for organic products. (5) The promotion of religious traditions: By uniting with the surrounding communities to make an off-season offering of robes and other needs to monks, organizing events to dedicate large lent candles to the temple, and other offerings dedicated to Buddhist monks on the occasion of important religious festivals throughout the years. (6) Support for the green market campaign: The Company supports Green Market Network by setting up space for farmers, retail manufacturers and entrepreneur to sell goods and processed products, organic products, healthy food, hydroponic products on the first Thursdays of the month. This project has been pursued since 2011 onwards to up until the present time. (7) Visits and study tours: The company has allowed education institutions and other organizations to visit and learn of company’s business operation from past to present. (8) The Company promotes social and environmental business network: Pranda Group and founder members of Social Venture Network Thailand : SVN which are the combination of businessmen aiming to exchange business perspectives as well as related to social and environmental responsibility. Such collaboration has a mission to support business awareness that leads to respect in society and environment, in human rights as well as equitable treatment with all related parties. Results of operations that benefit various stakeholder groups Products No. Task / Project / Activity Employees Partners Society Environment and Clients 1. Pranda Academy Center 2. Quality of Life Development Project 3. Child Development Center 4. Inspection of Food Quality 5. Innovation Project 6. Debt reduction and legal counsel PRANDA Annual Report 2014 41 Products No. Task / Project / Activity Employees Partners Society Environment and Clients 7. Savings and Credit Cooperatives 8. Bilateral Education 9. Promoting Disability Employment 10. 7S’s Project 11. Energy Conservation Project 12. Waste Bank 13. 1 to 9 Project 14. Sharing of social benefits to society Activities by Affiliates After the CSR Process Pranda Jewelry Public Co., Ltd. (PCL) factory in NakhonRatchasima has been continuously involved with the community and the communityaround the plant, performing the following in the past year 2014 B.E. onwards, • Merit-making activities to forge the preservation of the Buddhist religion according to the way of the Buddhists, and merit-making donations to support activities with industries in the NakhonRatchasima province, facilities and protection for laborers in NakhornRatchasima, and the PutornMareung police station. • Support of education and learning in various organizations, by… Support of rewards for students such as stationery, food and snacks on the occasion of National Children’s Day and the annual merit-making day of the Company to various schools in the area around the plant. Welcoming the committees from various organizations to come in to observe and study the work & processes of the Company Opening an opportunity to various educational institutions in NakhornRatchasima province to send their students for job training to develop their knowledge and skills Training to develop the personnel, both those of the Company and government agencies such as the Bureau of Labor Protection and Welfare, the Social Security, the Office Against Drugs and the local police stations nearby, etc. Prima Gold International Company Ltd., which operates wholesale retailing of various jewelry brandswithin the country, has a continual policy to join in developing the education of individuals all the way from childhood to womanhood, with the following activities being carried out in the past year 2014 B.E onwards. 1. Support in the area of education, which has been an ongoing project for the Nong Pau temple school in Dan Chang district, SuphanBuri province, previously constructing and renovating the library to improve learning, procurement of books and various learning media into the library, and for the year 2014 B.E., onwards, finishing the renovation of the said school’s cafeteria. 2. Scholarships to the students in Nong Pau temple school who have good academic results but are impoverished 3. Supporting of social activism through the Preusapa Prachatham Foundation. 4. To support the campaign to fight to end violence against women and children of ZONTA INTERNATIONAL, Area 6 District 17. 42 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Brief History and Honorary Rewards of Pranda Group 2014 • The Company and Prima Gold International Co., Ltd. was • The Company received the CSR Recognition 2014 award awarded the “Thailand Tourism Standard” emblem from the from The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) praising and encour Ministry of Tourism and Sports in recognition of our commitment aging for being a SET listed company which has a strong to improve our companies to meet the standards. Consequently confidence in long-term growth among 45 candidates in the our companies have been given support in promoting to interviewing round. This achievement has illustrated our strong the Thai and international tourists. This has created an business vision on social responsibility. We have also set up an opportunity to expand our market, and eventually led to the internal organization whose role is to significantly implement our advancement in tourism standard in Thailand. social responsibility vision into our own management administration. • The Company received a commemorative certificate from Nakhon Pathom School for the Deaf for supporting the Occupational Development Project for the Disabled and Underprivileged Children. The Company also signed the cooperative establishment in educational management and job opportunity for the deaf students. • The Company was granted an approval certificatefor fulfilling the “Standards in Prevention and Resolution to Drug Problems in an Establishment 2014” from the Group of Labor Protection • The Company received the Authorized Economic Operator and Welfare Area 8, Ministry of Labor. (AEO) certification, which is an international safety standards • The Company was evaluated “Excellent” for the quality for workplaces and premises, employees, business partners, assessment of the 2014 Annual General Meeting (AGM) products, vehicles, corporate’s information, auditing system, and of the shareholders from the Office of the Securities and countermeasure policy, from Thailand Customs Department. Exchange Commission (SEC), in cooperation with the Thai This certification warrants our deliveries and both domestic and Listed Companies Association and the Thai Investors international customs services to meet our customers’ satisfaction. Association. • The Company received “Very Good” recognition (four stars) for the Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies 2014 from the Thai Institute of Directors (IOD). 2013 • The Company received honorary award called “Sustainability Initiative of the Year”, JNA Award 2013 for the second time from the committee consisting of international knowledgeable persons as the Company has adhered to the organization • The Company received the Excellent Labor Relation and development on a sustainable basis with good morals Welfare Award 2014 from the Department of Labor an d ethics. Protection and Welfare, the Ministry of Labor. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 43 • The Company has additionally invested in Pranda & Krill • Korat plant of Pranda Jewelry Plc. received the trophy for the GmbH & Co. KG in the amount of 9.6 million Euro or equivalent Excellent Academy and Establishment with Dual Vocational to about 409 million Baht, making the Company to have Training (5 stars) from Mr. Jaturon Chaisaeng, Minister of Education. the registered and paid-up capital in the amount of 13 million • Prima Gold International Co., Ltd. received Consumer Protection Euro. This investment increases the shareholding percentage Guarantee on Thai Consumer Rights Day 2013 under the category of the Company from 51 percent to 75 percent. of producer of gold jewelry with 96.5% purity and distributor of • The Company purchased 2,000,000 ordinary shares of P.T. gold jewelry with the product label in compliance with the law Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam, having a par value of 1,000 from Mr. Warathep Rattanakorn, Minister Attached to the Indonesian Rupee, representing 50 percent of the issued Prime Minister’s Office. and paid-up capital of P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam at the 2012 book value amounting to 1.4 Singapore dollars or around • The Company has invested in establishing a new subsidiary 35 million Baht. The Company also divested its investment in China, “Pranda Trading (Shenzhen) Limited”, a registered in P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam by selling 1,240,000 ordinary capital is USD 2 million or about Baht 61 million for retail shares, representing 31 percent of the issued and paid-up jewelry business in China. capital of P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam to shareholders of • Pranda UK Limited, the Company’s subsidiary has invested in P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam in the value of 0.7 million USD or PDU (UK) Co., Ltd, which operates retail jewelry business around 22 mil ion Baht, decreasing the shareholding pecentage through E-Commerce. It is 100% owned by Pranda UK Limited. of the Company in such company from 50 percent to 19 percent. • The Company has received “Manufacturer of The Year” award • The Company approved to dissolve Guangzhou Pangda Zhubao from Jewelry News Asia (JNA). The JNA Awards is an industry-wide Shoushi Youxian Gongsi, a subsidiary, on 27 September 2013. event that honours and recognises excellence and achievement • Prima Gold International Co., Ltd. has the power to control the in the jewelry and gemstone trade in Asia. determination of financial and operating policy including the • The Company received the Excellent Labor Relation and voting right and interest at 55 percent in PT Pranda Marketing Welfare Award 2012 from the Department of Labor Protection Indonesia. and Welfare, the Ministry of Labor for headquarters (Bangkok) • The Company received a recognition of being “Excellent” and Nakhon Ratchasima branch. in 2013 valuation in the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the • The Company received a recognition of being “Excellent” from shareholders from the Office of the Securities and Exchang the Securities and Exchange Commission, in cooperation with Commission (SEC), in cooperation with the Thai Listed the Thai Listed Companies Association, and the Thai Investors Companies Association and the Thai Investors Association. Association which held an Annual General Meeting (AGM) • The Company received “Excellent” recognition (five stars) checklist to assess the AGM held in 2012. of Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies • The Company received “very good” recognition (four stars) of 2013 from the Thai Institute of Directors (IOD). Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies 2012 • Nakorn Ratchasima plant of Pranda Jewelry Plc. received from the Thai Institute of Directors (IOD). the Certificate of the Standard on Prevention and Solution • The Company received an honor certificate from Thai Red Cross to Drug Problems in an Establishment for the year 2013 and Society, for being a cooperative organization to provide blood the White Plant Certificate pursuant to the Action plan to donors to National Blood Centre more than 14 years. defeat the drug on a sustainable basis for the year 2013. • The Company received an honor certificate, for being a good • The Company received the Excellent Labor Relation and model to support educational work of the Ministry of Education Welfare Award 2013 from the Department of Labor Protection on an anniversary of 120 years of Ministry of Education Day. and Welfare, the Ministry of Labor. • The Company received “Tara Award” from Sathien Dhamma • The Company received the certificate and the trophy for Sathan, for the organization which making merit and goodness the Excellent Labor Relation and Welfare Award 2013 from for society. the Director of Office of Labour Protection and Welfare Area 8. 44 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 2011 2010 • The Company received a recognition of being “Excellent • The Company received a recognition of being “Excellent” from the and being a good example” from the Securities and Exchange Securities and Exchange Commission, in cooperation with the Thai Commission, in cooperation with the Thai Listed Companies Listed Companies Association, and the Thai Investors Association Association, and the Thai Investors Association which held which held an AGM checklist to assess the AGM held in 2010. an Annual General Meeting (AGM) checklist to assess the • The Company received “very good” recognition (four stars) of AGM held in 2011. Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies 2010 • The Company received “very good” recognition (four stars) from the Thai Institute of Directors. of Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies • The Company received the logo of The Buy with Confidence 2011 from the Thai Institute of Directors (IOD). project from the Gem and Jewelry Business Development • The Company received an honor trophy of the business sector Committee of Thailand, the Ministry of Commerce which which provided career support to the disabled from the Office emphasized the standard and confidence of Thailand’s of Welfare Promotion, Protection and Empowerment of Vulnerable gems and jewelry business toward local and foreign buyers. Groups, the National Office for Empowerment for Persons with Disability, in cooperation with the Council of Persons with 2009 Disabilities of Thailand Association. Today, PRANDA has • The Company received a shield of honor at International Day of supported all persons with all kinds of disabilities, totaling Persons with Disabilities for the private ventures which support 31 persons, accounting for 60 to 1 which is higher than the occupational opportunities for the disabled from Prime Minister regulated law of 100 to 1. Abhisit Vejjajiva who has also presided over the event. • The Company had signed an (MOU) of “The gems and jewelry • Scoring “Excellent” rating for AGM Assessment Program for personnel development project” with the Golden Jubilee two years in a row in 2008 and 2009. The assessment program Royal Goldsmith College, King Mongkut’s University of Technology has been held by the office of Securities and Exchange North Bangkok to support project operation with the fund of Commission (SEC), Thai Investors Association, and Thai Listed Baht 54 million for 7 years from 2011-2017 in order to provide Companies Association. The AGM is one of many components an opportunity for poor students to pursue the Bachelor of reflecting listed companies’ awareness of good corporate Fine Art program in Royal Goldsmith, majoring in gems and governance implementation. jewelry design. • Scoring “Very Good” (four stars) rating in the Corporate • The Company received the CREATIVE AWARD 2011 from the Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies 2009 prepared contest of “The Extreme colors of Ploi” which was organized by by the Thai Institute of Directors Association (IOD), which evaluates the Department of Export Promotion, the Ministry of Commerce the good corporate governance practices of the listed companies. and the Thai Gem and Jewelry Traders Association. • Having been nominated among one of the four listed companies • PRIMA GOLD received the PM’s Creative Award’s Function in the Stock Exchange of Thailand with market capitalization Creations as it produced products from creativity and variety of of not over 10,000 mil ion baht (Group 2) in contest for Corporate components which include culture and innovation to increase Social Responsibility Awards 2009. product value and services, leading to economic growth • Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG the Company’s subsidiary has development with sustainability. entered into a license agreement with Baldessarini GmbH, • The Company’s Nakorn Raschasrima plant received the Excellent the leader in men’s jewelry and accessories from Germany Labor Relation and Welfare Award 2011. It was the second under Baldessarini brand. time that the Company received such an honorable award. • Saving cooperative of the employees of PRANDA received recognition of “A” in terms of administration standard following 7 standard indices from Cooperative Promotion Department. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 45 2008 • The Company won Thai Labor Standard award (TLS 8001-2003), • Received a trophy from Deputy Prime Minister Sanan Completion Level from the Department of Labor Protection Kachornprasart on occasion that the Company has been and Welfare, the Ministry of Labor. acclaimed by the Department of Labor Protection and Welfare • The Company increased its investment in Primagold International as the establishment which complies with the government’s Company Limited by 100 million baht, raising Primagold policy in promoting labor welfare by establishing standardized International registered and paid-up capital to 200 mil ion baht. child care centre at the enterprise on continuous basis. The trophy Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited controls 100% in Primagold given aims to set a good example to other corporations. International. • Received certificates and a shield of honor at “68 years of Thai • The Company raised the investment in Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. vocational education going forward to the future” event from KG Limited by Euro 2.4 million or about Baht 116 million , raising Deputy Education Minister Narisara Chawaltanpipat on occasion Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG’s registered and paid-up capital that the Company has been chosen as the establishment which to Euro 5.34 mil ion. Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited holds offers good cooperation with authorities from the Office of 51% in the venture. Vocational Education Commission in preparing educational • Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG has taken over KSV Brand GmbH, and occupational training. which operates the distribution of jewelry products under • The annual general meeting of shareholders had approved the Christ, Cai, Merii, and Michael Schumacher brands. issuance of Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP) in amount of • The Company has formed a joint venture with Gunjan Jewels 14,251,410 units which would be contributed for free to Directors Pvt. Ltd., to set up Pranda Jewelry Pvt. Ltd. in India to distribute and employees of the Company and/or subsidiaries. The warrants the gold and silver jewelry under its own brand in India. Pranda carry five year terms from the issue date with the exercise ratio Jewelry Public Company Ltd. holds 51% of the shares. equivalent to 1 warrant to 1 common share. The exercise price • Primagold International Company Limited, the distributor of pure is three baht per share. gold jewelry products under PRIMA GOLD brand won the Hot • The Company has set up the savings co-operatives for employees 2007 Award at the 38th Bangkok Gems & Jewelry Fair. in Pranda group as a way to provide various financial services and promote savings among employees. 2006 • Crystaline Co., Ltd. has obtained the copyright of V&A jewelry • The Company has been acclaimed by the Stock Exchange of brand from England-based Victoria & Albert Museum (V&A), Thailand as the company with the best operating results in the world’s largest museum of decorative arts, design and 2005 under the title “Congratulate PRANDA as a Nominee jewelry products. for Best Performance-Consumer Products” • The Company has raised investment in Guangzhou Pangda • Primagold International Company Limited, the distributor of Zhubao Shoushi Yiuxian Gongsi for USD1.5 million, increasing pure gold jewelry products under PRIMA GOLD brand won the China subsidiary registered capital to USD2.35 million, the Hot 2007 Award at the 38th Bangkok Gems & Jewelry Fair. representing 100% ownership • Primagold International launched Siam Pannarai designer Collections and received The Hot Design Award at the 37th 2007 Bangkok Gems & Jewelry Fair. • The Company was awarded the first runner-up award from • Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG launched a new brand participating in the work performance competition under the “Cai”, at the Inhorgenta Fair, Munich, Germany. Philosophy of Sufficiency Economy for large-scale enterprises • Pranda Jewelry Plc. has been selected as one of the four Thai which run their business according to the Sufficiency Economy Companies meeting the Sufficiency Economy standards in Philosophy which has been organized by the Office of the Royal running business in compliance with the Sufficiency Economy Development Projects Board under the Prime Minister’s Office. Philosophy of His Majesty the King held by the Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board. 46 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 • PRANDA SCL (Indonesia) expanded capacity in response to • Increased investment in Primagold International Co., Ltd. By increased overseas demand from 450 workers to 700 workers. Baht 50 million raising the registered capital to Baht 100 million in which the company holds 100% stake. 2005 • Received a shield of honor as outstanding establishment on 2002 labor welfare from the Department of Labor Protection and • Received a certificate of approval and emblem from the Welfare, the Ministry of Labor. Office of Consumer Protection Board as the establishment • Raised its investment in Crystaline Co., Ltd. Bangkok by Baht which “protects the consumers’ rights on labels, advertisements, 50 million to Baht 100 million. The company holds 96% stake and contracts.” in Crystaline Co., Ltd. • Chosen as the workplace which is “clean, safe, pollution-free • Primagold International Co., Ltd. signed a joint venture deal and dynamic” and received testimonial from the Health with Tomei Gold & Jewelry Holding to distribute PRIMA GOLD Department of Bangkok Metropolitan Administration. products in Malaysia. • Selected to become a member of Bangna canalside community • Primagold International Co., Ltd. operates 48 retail outlets in under “We love canal” project from Bangna district office. Thailand and 35 outlets in international markets. In total the The Company also received certificate for attending the company operates 83 distribution outlets. training program on food sanitation for restaurant operators • The Company signed a joint venture agreement with Gregor after the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration has issued Kroll of Kroll GmbH in a ratio of 51:49 to set up Pranda & Kroll regulations on “place where meals are sole and place where GmbH & Co. KG in Germany to distribute gold and silver foodstuff is stored 2007” jewelry products in Germany and Europe. • The company offered 200,000,000 units of the five-year warrants (2 May, 2002 to 2007) to existing shareholders. 2004 • Received special Export Honorary Recognition award from 2001 the Department of Export Promotion, Commerce Ministry as • The Company’s employees received bronze medal on jewelry the Thai exporter with the most robust growth for 10 consecutive designer from 36th World Skills Completion held at Seoul, years and as the Thai company which was used to win Best South Korea. Exporter award before. • The Company received “white factory” (anti-drug entrepreneur • Received standard certificate for 96.5% gold jewelry under project) certificate from Department of Labor Protection “Century Gold” brand from the Office of the Customer and Welfare, the Ministry of Labor Protection Board. • The Company’s showroom received ISO 9001:2000 quality • Primagold International Co., Ltd. launched gold jewelry with management standard certification for jewelry distribution 96.5% purity under “Century Gold” brand with the first retail and services from BM TRADA Certification, a leading outlet opened at the Mall Department Store, Bangkhae and multi-sector certification body accredited by UKAS (United expanded to seven branches within the same year. Kingdom Accreditation Service). The Company’s Nakhon Ratchasima branch also received ISO 9001:2000 quality 2003 management standard certification for jewelry production • Received a shield of honor from the Department of Labor in part of factory from an independent certification body Protection and Welfare, the Ministry of Labor as the private BVQI. establishment which implements activities which support and benefit female workers. 2000 • Established a new production base in China under Pranda • The Company received the Gold Card exporter award from Guangzhou the Customs Department, Ministry of Finance which offers fast track benefits on imported raw materials. The award represents the company’s creditability and financial stability. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 47 • The Company’s employees won the gold and silver medal • Expanded the international market for Prima Gold on jewelry designer from the 18th national skills competition International Co., Ltd. and co-invested in LG Pranda (now held by Department Of Skill Development under Ministry of operated under the name of KZ Pranda) to import and Labour and Social Welfare. distribute silver and gold products. • Crystaline Co., Ltd., received Prime Minister’s Export Award for the Best Own Design Exporter held by the Export Promotion 1995 Department. • Received Prime Minister’s Export Award or P.M. Award which • The Company was awarded “clean place to dine” as the is presented every year by the Thai government to exporters establishment which meets sanitary standards for food out lets who have outstanding performance as Best Exporter. (physical facet) held by food sanitation division, environmental • Established foreign production bases through Pranda Vietnam sanitation division under Bangkok Metropolitan Administration. Co., Ltd. and P.T. Pranda SCL Indonesia • The Company was awarded the Gold Card exporter from • Set up Pranda Singapore Pte. Limited to invest in Malaysia the Customs Department, Ministry of Finance with “track” and Indonesia benefits on imported raw materials. • Invested in establishing Pranda Lodging Co., Ltd., to provide accommodation services to the employees. 1999 • The Company and two subsidiaries, Prima Gold Co., Ltd. 1994 and Crystaline Co., Ltd., have been endorsed by the Export • Established a new production base in Nakhon Ratchasima Promotion Department, Ministry of Commerce, to use (Korat) and established a new international distribution base Thailand’s Brand, as standard product manufacturer and in the United Kingdom under Pranda UK Limited. exporter. • Received certificate from the Ministry of Labour and Social 1993 Welfare as the export establishment which complies with • Established product and brand development center under female and child labor protection standards using proactive PRIMA GOLD and launched domestic distribution. approach. • The Company’s employees won bronze medal from 35th 1992 World Skills Competition held at Montreal in Canada on jewelry • Expanded business by establishing its own distribution bases designer. in overseas markets under Pranda North America, Inc., Crystaline North America, Inc. and H. Gringoire s.a.r.l. 1998 • Received the Best Marketing of New Gold Product and Best 1990 Gold Visual Merchandising awards from World Gold Council • Pranda registered and traded on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) under trading symbol Pranda 1996 • Invested in setting up production base under Crystaline Co., Ltd. • Prima Gold Co., Ltd., the Company’s subsidiary, received Prime Minister’s Export Award for the Best Own Design Exporter 1984 from the Thai government and won the contest for “Golden • Expanded business by establishing production base and Design Award” at Vicenza Oro Fair held by World Gold changed company name to “Pranda Jewelry” Council, while “Prima Gold” designs from Indonesia won two awards the Best International Award of Indonesia and 1973 “The Best Outstanding International Award” from five countries • Commenced export trading operations under Pranda Design. in the Far East Asia. 48 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Our Business Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited (PRANDA) was founded in 1973 known as Pranda Design Company Limited which later renamed to Pranda Jewelry Limited on April 27, 1984. The Company has listed its common stocks on the Stock Exchange of Thailand on July 6, 1990 and converted into Public Company Limited on June 3, 1994. Today, the company has total registered capital of Baht 410 million with Baht 409.529 million was issued and paid up. Its head quarter is located at 28 Soi Bangna-Trad 28, Bangna District, Bangkok 10260. PRANDA’s core operations are production, distribution and retail of fine jewelry products. Today, the Company has become the leader in Thai jewelry exports with its customer base covering key regions from North America to Europe and Asia. The company has established a balanced management structure as follows: GERMANY UK USA CHINA FRANCE INDIA VIETNAM THAILAND INDONESIA Production Distribution Retail Production Distribution Retail By taking advantage of the economies PRANDA has its own distribution In order to access the jewelry consumers of scale production, PRANDA is able companies and agents both in Thailand directly, PRANDA has set up subsidiaries, to produce quality products at a and overseas. To diversify market risk as which are proficient in retail management, reasonable price. The company also well as expanding its market, PRANDA to manage its own retail outlets and diversified its production risk to cover distributors are located in key regions franchise business throughout Asia and almost every product range. PRANDA worldwide including US, UK, Germany, Middle East. These subsidiaries, today, operates factories based in 3 countries France, Italy, Spain, Japan, and India. are located in Thailand, Indonesia and including Thailand, Vietnam and Currently, PRANDA has set up 5 Vietnam Indonesia with production capacity subsidiaries of distribution base in 5 approximately 10 million pieces of countries including US, UK, France, jewelry per year. Germany and India. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 49 Revenue Structure of Pranda Jewelry PCL and its subsidiaries, excluding related party transactions. ( Group by Business Unit) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Company % Holding Million % Million % Million % Million % Million % Baht Baht Baht Baht Baht Production Pranda Jewelry Pcl. 1,027 30.74 1,399 37.04 1,914 45.24 1,799 42.90 1,545 37.78 Crystaline Co., Ltd. 96 134 4.01 159 4.21 173 4.09 167 3.98 153 3.74 Pranda Vietnam Co., Ltd. (Production) 100 11 0.34 26 0.68 6 0.14 38 0.91 46 1.12 Guangzhou Pangda Zhubao Shoushi 100 4 0.09 18 0.43 14 0.34 Youxian Gongsi Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG 75 65 1.94 69 1.83 77 1.82 70 1.67 87 2.13 Total revenue from Production 1,237 37.03 1,653 43.76 2,174 51.38 2,087 49.77 1,806 44.17 Distribution H.Gringoire s.a.r.l. 100 124 3.72 120 3.18 150 3.55 156 3.72 144 3.52 Pranda UK Limited 100 67 2.01 71 1.88 101 2.39 147 3.51 184 4.50 Pranda North America, Inc. 100 864 25.87 828 21.92 756 17.87 705 16.81 1,009 24.68 Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG 75 87 2.59 84 2.22 114 2.69 150 3.57 155 3.79 Pranda Jewelry Private Ltd. 51 83 2.49 113 2.99 142 3.36 169 4.03 113 2.76 Total revenue from Distribution 1,225 36.68 1,216 32.19 1,263 29.85 1,329 31.70 1,644 40.21 Retail Primagold International Co., Ltd. 100 695 20.79 671 17.77 689 16.28 683 16.29 587 14.36 Pranda UK Limited 100 17 0.51 14 0.37 18 0.43 Guangzhou Pangda Zhubao Shoushi 100 9 0.24 18 0.43 20 0.48 16 0.39 Youxian Gongsi Pranda Trading (Shenzhen) Limited 100 1 0.03 3 0.08 Pranda Vietnam Co., Ltd. 100 51 1.53 31 0.82 15 0.35 3 0.07 3 0.07 PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia 55 69 2.07 52 1.38 Total revenue from Retail 833 24.93 780 20.66 740 17.49 706 16.84 606 14.82 Sales revenue 3,295 98.63 3,649 96.61 4,177 98.72 4,122 98.31 4,056 99.19 Pranda Lodging Co., Ltd. 83 8 0.23 8 0.21 10 0.24 10 0.24 14 0.34 Other revenues 38 1.13 120 3.18 44 1.04 61 1.45 19 0.46 Total other revenues 46 1.37 128 3.39 54 1.28 71 1.69 33 0.81 Total revenues 3,341 100.00 3,777 100 4,231 100.00 4,193 100.00 4,089 100.00 50 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 1) Nature of Product PRANDA’s products are categorized into 2 groups as follows: 1.1 OWN BRAND MANUFACTURING (OBM) Currently, the Company has positioned its own brand to capture different groups of medium to high jewelry consumers in various regions. The Company’s brands are classified based on needs of customer groups including Consumer Brand and Trade Brand. Consumer Brand is a brand which Company developed to meet the needs of end-consumers with full marketing communication which are as follows: • Prima Gold: 99.9% pure gold jewelry, primarily for market in Asia and Middle East • Prima Diamond: Superior diamond jewelry, primarily for Thai market • Prima Art: Handcrafted art from 99.9% pure gold, primarily for market in Asia • Julia: Diamond with 18K white gold jewelry, primarily for Indonesian market • Merii: Fashion Jewelry with Cubic Zirconia, primarily for Thai market • Ariva: Silver fashion jewelry, primarily for US market • Cai: Silver fashion jewelry, primarily for European market • Baldessarini: Luxury menswear and men’s accessories, primarily for European market Trade Brand is a brand which Company developed to satisfy the needs of business clients (B2B) to arrange jewelry into collection, which are as follows: • HGG: 18K gold jewelry with premium gemstones, primarily for European market • Esse: Handcrafted Marcasite jewelry, primarily for market in Europe Majority of OBM brands are distributed by Company’s retail business and others are channeled through distribution business or regional distributors and retailers. 1.2 ORIGINAL DESIGN MANUFACTURING (ODM) The Company has experienced and specialized teams in product design and development towards developing the products with customers (Original Design Manufacturing: ODM) including Gold Jewelry, Silver Jewelry, Brass and Fashion Costume Jewelry mounted with precious stones or other materials to meet customers’ requirements. The key customers are high and medium jewelry brands and jewelry stores located in different countries which are US, Germany, UK, France, Spain, Australia, Russia and Japan. The Company distributes its products through various channels including television shopping channels, department stores, chain stores, catalogs and websites. 2) Market and Competition 2.1 Key Marketing Policies in 2014 Company has categorized products into 2 main groups and has set up the policy as well as marketing strategy for the competitiveness as follows: 2.1.1 Own Brand Manufacturing (OBM) PRANDA Group intends to expand PRANDA retail network for its own brands to support a long-term sustainability. The retail markets which Company operates its own stores are located in Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam. The key milestones in 2014 were as follows: PRANDA Annual Report 2014 51 In Thailand, due to the severe fluctuation in gold and silver market price, Company had emphasized on executing marketing activities to promote sales, strengthened its customer relationship management strategy and developed new products to expand customer base. Accordingly, Primagold International, one of PRANDA’s subsidiaries, has operated its retail businesses for Prima Gold, Prima Diamond, Prima Art and fashion jewelry under Merii brand. In 2014, there was a sales growth of 23 percent year over year (excluding discontinued business of Century Gold brand). In Vietnam, Pranda Vietnam has continuously expanded its retail business, Prima Gold, in Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi and named Ms. Nyugen Thi Giang My, a well-known celebrity and businessperson in Vietnam, as the Brand Ambassador to increase brand awareness as well as boost up sales performance. In 2014, the growth rate was at 65 percent year over year. In Indonesia, Pranda Marketing Indonesia mainly focused on expanding Julia brand, 18K gold with diamond jewelry, by focusing on developing the products at higher price range to increase sales from existing customers as well as towards product category of wedding rings to target a group of couples. For Prima Gold brand, there had been an opening of 2 new branches located in Surabaya and Grand Indonesia Jakarta. In 2014, sales in Indonesia was totally increased by 33 percent year over year. For market expansion to other regions, the distribution channels are mainly via authorized retailers. The result of growth rate from this channel has been satisfactory especially in the countries located in the Middle East which are UAE and Oman. The distribution channel of Prima Gold product is also expanded into duty free stop in Dubai International Airport. 2.1.2 Original Design Manufacturing: ODM In 2014, the Company still maintained the positive relationships with key existing customers both in US and Europe. However, regarding the slow recovery of economy in US and continuous economic downturn in Europe, the Company’s revenue has been consequently affected. Nonetheless, PRANDA has continuously developed the competence in product design and product manufacturing to control the production cost to be as competitive as possible as well as focused on creating relationships with new potential customers as to diversify its risks and retain long-term sustainability to business. Revenue Structure: Domestic and Overseas 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Million % Million % Million % Million % Million % Baht Baht Baht Baht Baht Revenue from Overseas Markets 2,477 75.17 2,825 74.42 3,043 72.85 3,286 79.72 3,376 83.23 Revenue from Domestic Markets 818 24.83 824 22.58 1,134 27.15 836 20.28 680 16.77 Total 3,295 100 3,649 100 4,177 100 4,122 100 4,056 100 2.2 Industry Competitiveness Gems and jewelry industry in Thailand depended mainly on export sector. It was ranked No.4 among Thai exports with the value of 10,080 US dollar or Baht 326,384 million. This reflected the excellent competitiveness of this industry in the global market. Considering only real jewelry, Thailand was still a major producer for real jewelry. According to the net exporter data, Thailand exported real jewelry in an amount of Baht 124,773 million in 2014. 95% of real jewelry was imported in form of raw material to produce value added products for exporting. This underlined that Thailand jewelry industry could still sustain its competitive advantage in the global market. 52 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 The major competitors are China and India. The production in these two countries was labor intensive which was similar to Thailand. However, quality of Thai gems is far better than those in China and India. To avoid the competition, which may become more intense in the future, the jewelry industry has to transform from OEM to ODM due to the fact that ODM allowed for sustainability of customer base. ODM also changed the form of competition from price base to quality base. Industry Trend and Competition Gems and jewelry exporters mostly are small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with market share of nearly 80%. Considering only real jewelry exporters, there are more than 900 companies. The real jewelry export is ranked No. 4 among all exporters. PRANDA still holds a high level of competitive advantage due to its various production operations for manufacturing of gold and silver jewelry, as well as, its flexibility to handle various types of customers’ orders. In addition, PRANDA also owns a Design & Product Development Center, which enables the Company to shorten the production time and efficiently respond to the customers’ need. PRANDA’s overseas Distribution Operation in US, Europe and Asia allows PRANDA to continuously access new market. Its Retail Operation under its own brand allows the Company to diversify its market risk as well as explore for a potential market. Since there are many jewelry business operators, the competition in this industry tends to be more intense in terms of price and quality. Thus, producer has to increase productivity, look for new market, as well as, develop its retail business to diversify risks. 3) Product Procurement 3.1 Procurement of products The Company utilizes a mass production for silver product. For High & Medium “Gold Handicraft”, PRANDA employs skilled artisan with using of modern technology machinery. The Company has developed technology which enhances jewelry’s beauty and durability. Meanwhile, its production process incurred with a very low loss rate. PRANDA’s production and sales were seasonal. It depended on customer’ demands which were highest during Christmas and New Year. This seasonal demand did not have any adverse impact to the Company’s operation as its production is well planned. The Company and its subsidiaries’ quarterly sales during 2012 2014 were as follows: 2014 2013 2012 Quarter Million % Million % Million % Baht Baht Baht 1 866 26 971 27 966 23 2 736 22 760 21 876 21 3 789 24 988 27 1,106 26 4 904 28 930 25 1,229 30 Total 3,295 100 3,649 100 4,177 100 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 53 Production Capacity and Actual Production (For the last 5 years) Production Base Capacity Million Pieces 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 In Thailand Bangna Plant, Bangkok 2.40 2.40 2.40 2.40 2.40 Plant in Suranaree Industrial 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50 2.00 Crystaline Plant 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 Overseas Pranda Plant in Vietnam 0.50 0.50 0.37 0.67 0.67 Pranda Plant in Guangzhou, China 0.00 0.00 0.14 0.13 0.15 Pranda & Kroll Plant in Germany 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 Total 9.43 9.44 9.45 9.74 7.22 Raw Materials and Suppliers Unit: Million Baht Rew Material 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Overseas :Gold 225 498 639 517 551 Silver 2 6 Alloy 3 Components 43 41 31 34 36 Gems 82 74 56 47 47 Others 58 50 58 64 71 Total 410 663 790 662 708 Domestic :Gold 224 242 260 283 181 Silver 242 377 410 605 499 Alloy 2 2 3 3 2 Components 2 5 11 12 5 Gems 305 295 309 297 326 Other 64 101 94 77 113 Total 839 1,022 1,087 1,277 1,126 Overalls 1,249 1,685 1,877 1,939 1,834 54 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Raw Material Usages 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Overseas Raw Material (%) 33 39 42 34 39 Domestic Raw Material (%) 67 61 58 66 61 Total 100 100 100 100 100 The procurement of raw material will be conducted through various suppliers. The Company will purchase not more than 30% of raw material from each supplier. This allows the Company to have a good relationship with its suppliers as well as lower the risk in case there is a change or loss of any particular suppliers. 3.2 Environmental Impacts from production processes or waste disposal The Company has no record of environmental abuse. Jewelry industry normally does not cause any environmental impact as the companies reuse the raw material and waste from production process. In addition, PRANDA was chosen to be the workplace with good hygiene, safety and pollution-free. The Company was certified by Department of Health, Bangkok, to be a nice workplace to be in on Monday, June 17, 2002 at the Conference room, 2nd floor, Bangkok Youth Center (Thai-Japan), Din Dang. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 55 Risk Factors 1. Risks in Business Operations 1.1 Strategic Risk According to the strategy of Market Diversification into the U.S., European Community and Asia, the sales revenue of the Company may be weaker than target. As a result, the profit estimation may also be varied from the set budget due to the unstable world economy as mentioned above. However, the Company has organized the annual executive seminar called “World Strategic Meeting” in order to review the existing business strategies to ensure that strategies correspond with the world’s economic situation and with the market environment in each country. At the meeting, all companies within Pranda Group have to propose the Strategic Action Plan for next year and the next five years. The Strategic Action Plan shall cover the Business Objectives, Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), as well as marketing, financial, investment and action plans. The Company also arranges the Finance Committee Meeting to report the operating performance of Pranda Group at least every quarter. This is an attempt to improve the business plan to be corresponding with the ever-changing global market and to monitor and ensure that the Company’s business plan shall meet the target. In addition, the Company also implements the annual budget. The Executives of each company within Pranda Group have to recognize the current economic environment which may pose both opportunities and threats to the Company, and prepare for the risk management strategies for the case that the operating performance does not reach the target. The annual budget shall be approved by the Finance Committee. 1.2 Risks from Being Dependent on Major Customers The Company still mainly relies on sales revenue from foreign major customers. If these customers encounter the decrease in sales volume due to their own countries’ economic downturn, it would also affect company’s sales revenue. Although the Company has established a long and good relationship with these major customers for more than 20 years, the Company planned to reduce our dependency on these customers by distributing more goods to the other existing customers who have potential growth and searching for new customers both in existing and new markets. The Company also focuses on selling more of own brand products. 1.3 Risks in the Retail Market The Company continues to expand our retail business in Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam. The retail business can be at risk from the lower-than-expected operating performance due to the ever-changing consumers’ needs. However, the Company has formulated the risk management strategies on investment as follows: 1. Market Risk The Company has conducted a study on consumers’ purchasing behaviors towards jewelry, existing and new competitors, economic situation, legal issues, politics and other relevant factors in order to estimate the business feasibility and to select the appropriate products for specific markets before establishing a retail business. 56 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 2. Shop Location Risk The Company usually opens a retail shop in leading department stores where the feasibility of location and consumer behavior have already been surveyed. Prior to opening a retail shop, marketing and sales managers are assigned to survey the location and evaluate the potential customers and competitors. The decision is based on the survey results, the estimated revenue, expenses, budgets for products and shop decoration in order to analyze the break-even point and payback period. If the assessment on shop location is still uncertain, the Company will open a retail shop for a short period of 1-3 months for market testing. Until the number of customers is proven to be strong enough, the Company will then decide to open a retail shop in a longer term. 3. Operational Risk The Company has conducted the business plan and the annual budget as well as monthly business review on sales, marketing, finance, inventory and obsolete goods management, personnel management and operational control. In addition, the Company has set up the indicators and operating targets for each individual, and performed continuous evaluation to ensure that their operations shall be in compliance with the Company’s mutual plans and policies. 4. Property Safety Risk Because the price of our jewelry products is very high, the Company has established the safety policy. The sales staff will be trained on theft prevention, preparation for emergency situations, product inspection upon customers’ return or exchange, inspection during day shift swap, etc. In addition, the Company continuously inspects the inventory from each branch by our internal inspectors whose authorities are clearly defined. There are also CCTV, alarm systems and security staff in place at high-risk locations. Moreover, the Company also has insurance for products both at shop locations and those transported items to prevent the damage and loss prevention in case of any incidents. 5. Price-Setting and Discount Risk In retail business, price setting and discount are considered to be very important to the customers and business turnover. The Company has determined a clear price setting on every product brand by setting the initial profit margin. As for discounts, the marketing team of each brand will design a promotional plan to meet the customers’ requirements. The sales promotion may include discounts, free gifts and offer on monthly installments. The expenses on promotional plan shall not affect the expected profit. In addition, the Company invest in inventory by using gold lease. Thus, the cost of our gold-based inventory will depend on the world’s gold market. This will enable the Company to set the product price based on gold price at a certain period. 1.4 Risk from Outdated Goods Jewelry is the fashionable goods and its trends are changing all the time, perhaps resulting in the drop of sales volume and revenue for outdated products. Hence, the Company is necessary to set aside the allowance for outdated goods, thus decreasing our cash flow. However, most of our inventory is precious metals which are not expired or deteriorated, the inventory can be further melted and processed to be raw materials for manufacturing new products. In addition, the Company has the policy not to maintain the finished goods for too long. When a certain product is being outdated, there will be a promotional plan to manage such product by opening a special showroom. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 57 2. Production Risk 2.1 Risk of Personnel Shortage The Company focuses on expanding our licensed brand market and retail business in Europe and Asia, whereas each country is different in terms of preferences on jewelry designs. The Company is encountering shortages in personnel with experiences on marketing, designs, production and innovation. However, the Company has established risk management strategies on personnel shortages as follows; • The Company supports the bilateral education program by collaborating with the Office of the Vocational Education Commission, Kanchanapisek Royal Goldsmith College and Bangkok Arts & Crafts College, to organize the program of “School in Factory”. About 100 students will be taken into this program to study the jewelry craftsmanship in vocational level. After completing the program, the students will be employed by the company. This program has been continuing for 14 years. • In order to motivate the employees to work with us in a long term, the Company has determined the welfare and benefits scheme for employees as follows: Financial Assistance such as savings cooperatives to encourage the employees on their savings, loan facilities to help alleviate employees’ debt burden, provident fund, home loan. In cooperation with Government Housing Bank, the Company offers the long term home loan with lower interest rates than the other commercial banks. Knowledge Development Facilities such as libraries, internet rooms and training programs both internal and outside the company. Health benefit such as aerobic classes Benefits for quality life such as company apartments, free three meals and child care center for employees. Other Financial Support such as at the employees’ wedding, childbirth, ordination, death of parents, in-patient hospitalization apart from the social security, group life insurance, annual health check-up, etc. Other benefits to boost the morale such as rewards on hard work, annual office party, celebration and rewards for company staff with long years of services, sports day, etc. • To establish personnel development, the Company has implemented the Proactive Personnel Development Plan by using the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and Competency Development. These systems help improve the selection, training and evaluation processes. • To encourage Good Corporate Culture and to build a cooperative environment among the employees, the Company has created the organization’s core values named “Pranda’s Core Values” which comprises of three key values: Teamwork, Continuous Improvement and Stakeholders Focus. Every employee will be taught and trained on these values so that they are able to recognize these values to perform their operations. The Company believes that this is fundamental to our business in a long term. • To be in compliance with the international labor standard and to be recognized among the foreign customers, the Company has adopted Thai workers’ standards, for example, workplace safety, hygiene, human rights protection and equitable treatments. • The Company has implemented ISO9001: 2008 for an efficient operating system to build the confidence among the local and international customers. At present, the Company has been certified by The Bureau Veritas Thailand. We also receive the certificate from the UKAS, England, which is effective for three years from 3 September 2013-2 September 2016. 58 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 2.2 Risks From Fluctuation of Raw Material Prices Although the world economy seems to recover, it is still unstable, thus resulting in the fluctuation of gold and silver prices, which is our major production cost. The Company has performed the risk management strategies on the fluctuation of raw material price as follows: • With regard to changing price of raw materials, the Company passes through the price of raw material to the customers, thus preventing us from being affected by profit or loss from price change. • For future price of raw material, the Company books forward rate with the financial institutions. 3. Financial Risk The Company’s revenue is mostly in foreign currencies such as U.S. dollars and euros. The fluctuation of exchange rates can affect our revenue and profit. The Company also has the risk from the credit term given to the customers. Moreover, there are additional risks from changing interest rates according to market condition, and from the removal of credit facility from commercial banks. The Company has established the financial risk management as follows: • The Company hedges foreign exchange risk by using forward contract, and maintains foreign transaction in the same currency (Natural Hedge). • The Company monitors the credit status of both existing and new customers, and a detailed study on the customer’s operating performance and financial status shall be conducted in order to give the credit term to a customer. The Company has performed the strict debt collection process and reviewed the credit term of the customers on regular basis. Furthermore, some customers may be requested to place upfront deposits when making the orders with the Company. • Although the company has acquired the loans from financial institutions with floating interest rates, the Management has closely monitored the movement of interest rate, and considered that the risk of changing interest rate is not significant to our business. • The Company diversifies the use of revolving loan facility to several commercial banks in order to be safeguarded from any termination of credit line. The Company shall maintain the debt to equity ratio at not exceeding one time to reduce the burden of interest and volatility that may arise in the future. 4. Risks to the Rights or Investment of the Shareholders The Company has the major shareholders who hold more than 25% of total shares of the Company. The Company’s major shareholder is the family who founded the Company. They ,altogether holding 133,583.180 shares, or 32.62% of total paid up shares, shall have the rights to oppose or disapprove the resolution of the general shareholders’ meeting on a certain issue that requires, by law or regulations, no less than three-fourths voting of total shareholders attending the meeting and having the voting right to pass the approval resolution. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 59 General Information and Other Important Information 1. Other Information Head Office and Branch Office Company Name Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited Symbol PRANDA Core Business Production and distribution of retail of fine jewelry Head office 28 Soi Bangna-Trad 28, Bangna, Bangna,Bangkok 10260 Thailand Registration 0107537001986 Telephone +66 2769 9999 Fax +66 2769 9998 Registered Capital 410,000,000 THB Paid Capital 409,529,000 THB Home Page www.pramda.com Responsible Person Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan Email : Sunanta@pranda.co.th Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan Email : pramote@pranda.co.th Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert Email : pranee@pranda.co.th Branch Office 332-333 Suranaree Industrial Zone, Muang Nakhonratchasima, 30000 Thailand. Core Business Production of fine jewelry Telephone +66 044 212 593-4 Fax +66 044 334 718 Responsible Person Mr. Somsak Sriruengmon Email Somsak_s@pranda.co.th 60 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 2. The Company’s Shareholding Exceeded 10% of Paid Capital. (December 31, 2014) Company Name / Address Business % of % of CoRegistered Paid-up Holding shareholder Capital Capital Crystaline Co., Ltd. No. 22 Soi Bangna-Trad 28, Bangna Sub-district, Bangna Production and distribution 96 THB 100 THB 100 District, Bangkok 10260 of costume jewelry. Million Million Telephone +66 2746 9580-5 Fax +66 2399 4878 Home Page: www.crystaline.com Responsible Person: Mr. Chartchai Teekaveerakit Email: chartchai@crystaline.com Pranda Vietnam Co., Ltd. No.16 Road 2A, Bien Hoa Industrial Zone II, Dong Nai Production, distribution and 100 USD 1.50 USD 1.50 Province, Vietnam retail of fine jewelry. Million Million Telephone +84 613 836 627, +84 613 836 739 Fax +84 613 991 798 Responsible Person: Mr. Santiparp Riyai Emai: santiparp@pranda.com.vn Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG Ebereschenweg 3 75180 Pforzheim Germany Production and distribution 75 EUR 14.96 EUR 14.96 Telephone +49 7231 154 47 0 of fine jewelry. Million Million Fax +49 7231 154 47 25 Home Page: www.kroll-schmuck.de www.cai-jewels.com Responsible Person: Mr. Gregor Kroll Email: gregor.kroll@pranda-kroll.de Co-shareholder : Mr. Gregor Kroll 25 Primagold International Co., Ltd. No.1093/64 12th Floor, Central City Bangna Tower, Bangna-Trad Jewelry retail in Thailand. 100 THB 200 THB 200 Rd., Bangna Sub-district, Bangna District, Bangkok 10260 Million Million Telephone +66 2745 6111 Fax +66 2745 6117 Home Page: www.primagold.co.th Responsible Person: Ms. Rungnapa Ngowngamratana Email: rungnapa@primagold.co.th PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia (has power of control and own more than half of voting Jewelry retail in Indonesia Assigned control power by Primagold International Co., Ltd.) over the financial and operating JL.I Gusti Ngurah Rai No.1, Jakarta 13420,Indonesia policies of PT Telephone +62 21 819 9280-2 Pranda Marketing Fax +62 21 819 9223 Indonesia to Prima Responsible Person: Mr. Kenny Salmon gold International Co., Ltd., including Email: Kenny_salmon@yahoo.com voting power and Co-shareholder : 1) Mr.Johnny Salmon granting an equity 55 2) Mr. Kenny Salmon interest of 55 percent 25 3) Mrs. Yuen Wan Ha in this company 20 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 61 Company Name / Address Business % of % of CoRegistered Paid-up Holding shareholder Capital Capital Pranda North America, Inc. No.1 Wholesale Way, Cranston, Rhode Island, 02920 USA Distribution of fine jewelry 100 USD 2,000 USD 2,000 Telephone +1 401 946 2104 and costume jewelry in the Fax +1 401 946 2109 USA and Canada. Responsible Person: Ms. Maureen Kelley Email: maureen@prandana.com H.GRINGOIRE s.a.r.l No.79 Rue De Turbigo F-75003, Paris, France Distribution of fine jewelry in 100 EUR EUR 5 Telephone +33 1 5301 9533 France and Europe. 5 Million Million Fax +33 1 5301 9540 Home Page: www.h-gringoire.fr Responsible Person: Mr. Yvan Le Dour Email: y.ledour@h.gringoire.fr Pranda UK Limited Signal House West 1 Armfield Close West Molesey Distribution of fine jewelry, 100 GBP 0.5 GBP 0.5 Surrey KT8 2RT, United Kingdom and costume jewelry in UK Million Million Telephone +44 1 0208 783 2024 and Europe. Fax +44 1 0208 783 2010 Home Page: www.prandaonline.co.uk Responsible Person: Mr. Malcolm Pink Email: malcolmpink@pranda.co.uk PDU (UK) Limited (Holding by Pranda UK Limited) Jewelry retail through E-Commerce 100 1 GBP 1 GBP Signal House West 1 Armfield Close West Molesey Surrey KT8 2RT, United Kingdom Telephone +44 0208 783 2024 Fax +44 0208 783 2010 Responsible Person: Mr. Malcolm Pink Email: malcolmpink@pranda.co.uk Pranda Trading (Shenzhen) Limited Room 1508, Commercial Office Building Jewelry retail in China 100 USD 2.0 USD 0.55 (International Business Tower), Xilong Bay Garden Million Million (Region N23) Intersection of Jiaan Road and Haixiu Road, Xinan Street, Baoan District, Shenzhen 518000 Telephone +86 0755 2553 3378 Fax +86 0755 2553 3378 Responsible Person: Mr. Prida Tiasuwan (Acting) Email: prida@pranda.co.th 62 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Company Name / Address Business % of % of CoRegistered Paid-up Holding shareholder Capital Capital Pranda Singapore Pte. Limited No.163 Penang Road # 02-03 Winsland HouseII, Investment in Indonesia. 100 SGD 3.0 SGD 3.0 Singapore 238463 Million Million Telephone +65 6533 2611 Fax +65 6532 5092 Responsible Person: Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan Email: sunanta@pranda.co.th KSV Brand GmbH (Holding by Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG) Distribution of fine jewelry in Holding by EUR 25,000 EUR 25,000 Ebereschenweg 3-75180 Germany Pranda & Pforzheim Germany Kroll GmbH Telephone +49 7231 56615 0 & Co. KG Fax +49 7231 56615 25 75% Home Page: www.ksv-brand.de Responsible Person: Mr. Gregor Kroll Email: gregor.kroll@pranda-kroll.de Co-shareholder : Mr. Gregor Kroll 25 Pranda Jewelry Private Limited Pranda House, Rewa State 512, Rewa Estate, Distribution of fine jewelry in 51 INR 1 INR 1 M.G. Road, Mulund (West) 400080 India India. Million Million Telephone +91 22 2568 2121, +91 22 2569 2121 Fax +91 22 2592 2121 Responsible Person: Mr. Vinod Tejwani Email: vinod@pranda.co.in Co-shareholder : Mr. Gunjan Jewelry Private Limited 49 P.T.Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam (Formerly known as P.T. Pranda SCL Indonesia) JL.I Gusti Ngurah Rai No.1, Jakarta 13420, Production and distribution 19 IDR 4,000 IDR 4,000 Indonesia of fine jewelry. Million Million Telephone +62 21 819 9280-2 Fax +62 21 819 9223 Responsible Person: Mr. Johnny Salmon Email: Johnny@prandascl.com Co-shareholder : 1) Mr. Johnny Salmon 21 2) Mr. Kenny Salmon 20 3) Ms. Virsosa Salmon 20 4) Mrs. Yuen Wan Ha 10 KZ – PRANDA Co., Ltd. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 63 Company Name / Address Business % of % of CoRegistered Paid-up Holding shareholder Capital Capital KZ PRANDA Co., Ltd. No. 75/51 Ocean Tower 2 Condominium Building 24th Import and distribution of silver 40 THB 30 THB 9 Floor, Soi Sukhumvit 19, Sukhumvit Road, Khongtoey and pure gold fine and bars. Million Million Sub-district, Wattana District, Bangkok 10110 Telephone + 66 2204 1441-3 Fax + 66 2204 1444 Responsible Person: Mr. Heechan Song Email: hcsong@koreazinc.co.kr Co-shareholder : 1) Korea Zinc Co., LTD. 34.50 2) LG International Corporation 14.50 (Singapore) PTE Co., LTD. 3) Ms. Thitima Sorakraikitikul 11.00 Pranda Lodging Co., Ltd. 28 Soi Bangna-Trad 28, Bangna Sub-district Bangna Property rental / Properties. 83 THB 50 THB 50 District, Bangkok 10260 Thailand. Million Million Telephone +66 2361 3311, +66 2393 8779 Fax +66 2361 3088, +66 2398 2143 Responsible Person: Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan Email: panidda@pranda.co.th Co-shareholder : 1) Pranda Holding Co.,LTD. 7 2) Forward Freeland Co.,LTD. 7 3) ARTICO CRAFTS Co.,LTD. 3 3 Other Reference Persons Securities Depository Thailand Securities Depository Co., Ltd. 62 The Stock Exchange of Thailand Building, Rachadapisek Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110, Thailand Telephone +66 2229 2800 Fax +66 2654 5427 TSD Call Center : +66 2 229 2888 Email: TSDCallCenter@set.or.th www.tsd.co.th Auditor EY Office Limited (Formerly known as Ernst & Young Office Limited) 33rd Floor, Lake Rajada Office Complex 193/136-137 Rajadapisek Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 Telephone +66 2264 0777 Fax +66 2264 0789-90 www.ey.com Legal Advisor Weerawong, Chinnavat & Peangpanor Ltd. 540 Mercury Tower, 22nd Floor, Ploenchit Road, Lumpini, Bangkok 10330, Thailand Telephone +66 2264 8000 Fax +66 2657 2222 www.weerawongcp.com Other Important Information -None64 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Shareholders 1) List of Major Shareholders (a) Top ten major shareholders as of the closure date of the register book on 30 December 2014 are as follows: List of Major Shareholders Shareholding No. of Shares Percentage 1. Founding family 133,583,180 32.62% Mr. Prida Tiasuwan 21,996,420 5.37% Ms. Pittaya Tiasuwan 17,930,960 4.38% Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan 16,692,060 4.08% Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert 9,896,860 2.42% Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan 9,280,560 2.27% Mrs. Ratchara Pornrungroj 9,042,360 2.21% Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul 7,482,460 1.83% Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan 2,700,500 0.66% Relatives of founders 23,908,100 5.84% Pranda Holding Co., Ltd./1 14,652,900 3.58% 2. CITIBANK NOMINEES SINGAPORE PTE LTD-UBS AG LDN BRANCH A/C CLIENT NRBS 18,309,200 4.47% 3. STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 12,613,800 3.08% 4. GOLDMAN SACHS & CO 11,644,700 2.84% 5. THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 10,288,300 2.51% 6. Bualuang Siriphol Corporate Governance 9,435,800 2.30% 7. Bualuang Siriphol Corporate Governance RMF 7,809,700 1.91% 8. NORBAX INC., 108 5,009,745 1.22% 9. Mr. Pitak Pisetsit 4,020,000 0.98% 10. CITIBANK NOMINEES SINGAPORE PTE LTD-HOST-PLUS PTY LTD-HOPTPLUS 3,746,100 0.91% POOLED SUPERANNUATION TST-PARADICE GLO SMALL Total 216,460,525 52.84% Investor can find the name list of the shareholders on the closing date of the share registration book for Annual General Meeting at the Company’s website (www.pranda.com category Investor Relations : Shareholding Structure) before commencement of Annual General Meeting of shareholders 2014. Note: /1 Pranda Holding Co., Ltd.’s shareholders are as follows: PRANDA Annual Report 2014 65 List of Major Shareholders No. of Shares Shareholding Percentage 1. Ms. Juranee Tiasuwan 200,000 20% 2. Mr. Pitipong Tiasuwan 170,000 17% 3. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert 120,000 12% 4. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul 110,000 11% 5. Mr. Pramote Taisuwan 110,000 11% 6. Mrs. Panidda Taisuwan 100,000 10% 7. Ms. Pittaya Taisuwan 100,000 10% 8. Mr. Chaisak Saktanaset 50,000 5% 9. Mr. Manat Barameechai 20,000 2% 10. Mr. Christopher Tratansaero 20,000 2% Total 1,000,000 100% (b) There is no major shareholder who has a power to determine significant management or operating policy of the Company. 2. The Company is not engaged as a holding company. 3. The Company has no agreement with its major shareholder on the matter having an impact on the offering for sales of securities and the management of the Company. 4. The issuance of other securities includes warrants. On 18 April 2008, the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of the Company resolved to approve the issuance and offering for sales of the warrants to purchase ordinary shares of the Company in registered form and non-transferable to be allotted to directors and employees of the Company and/or subsidiaries under ESOP Project, in the number of 14,251,410 units. The warrants will be issued free of charge and the exercise price is 3 Baht per 1 unit at the exercise ratio of 1 unit of warrants for 1 ordinary share. The term of warrants shall be 5 years from the issuance date and the exercise period is every 6 months. On 11 February 2009, the Company’s Board of Directors’ meeting no. 2/2552 resolved to allocate the warrants and determine the issuance date of the warrants to be on 27 February 2009, and the first exercise date on 28 August 2009 and the last exercise date on 27 February 2014. As of 31 December 2014, the remaining number of warrants to purchase ordinary shares was as follows: (No. of Unit) Balance as of 1 January 2014 384,200 Number of exercised warrants during 2014 (384,200) Balance as of 31 December 2014 66 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Dividend Policy The Company has a policy to pay a dividend at the rate of not more than 60% of the annual net profit from separate financial statements. The dividend payment would be based primarily on the company‘s operating profit, working capital and investment capital in tangible assets, financial conditions, and legal reserves as stated by laws both for present and the future. The Company‘s subsidiaries have also policy to pay net profit available from operating performance after legal reserves set aside. The Board of Directors will take into account the dividend payment from the Company’s operating performance, financial conditions, and capital requirement before submitting for the shareholders’ endorsement. Dividend payment record between 2001 and 2014 as follows; Yeas Net profit % of dividend Dividend payout Number Dividend per (million baht) payment (million baht) (million shares) share (baht) 2001 364.72 13.71 50.00 20.00 2.50/1 2002 370.42 27.80 105.36 210.73 0.50 Extra dividend from retained earnings, a net profit 66.28 200.96 0.30 of year 2002 2003 312.06 46.05 143.70 261.27 0.55 2004 361.76 57.35 207.46 319.18 0.65 2005 356.59 59.63 212.65 327.15 0.65 Extra dividend from retained earnings, a net profit 111.84 372.79 0.30 of year 2005 2006 432.27 58.36 252.28 388.13 0.65 2007/2 396.49 54.90 217.66 395.75 0.55 2008 300.07 52.75 158.29 395.75 0.40 Interim dividend from operating result of six month 169.00 11.12 39.81 398.16 0.10 period ended June 30, 2009 2009 357.90 47.85 171.25 398.25 0.43 Extra dividend from retained earnings, a net profit 119.48 398.25 0.30 of year 2008 Extra dividend from retained earnings, a net profit 120.20 400.67 0.30 of year 2007 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 67 Years Net profit % of dividend Dividend payout Number Dividend per (million baht) payment (million baht) (million shares) share (baht) 2010 343.79 58.33 200.54 401.09 0.50 Interim dividend from the profit for period at the 408.03 9.88 40.33 403.33 0.10 nine-month period ended 30 September 2011 2011 441.14 45.76 201.86 403.71 0.50 Interim dividend from the profit for period at the 337.40 12.04 40.63 406.28 0.10 nine-month period ended 30 September 2012 2012 414.27 49.08 203.33 406.66 0.50 2013 219.73 37.28 81.9 409.52 0.20 2014/3 146.62 41.89 61.43 409.52 0.15 Remark : /1 Par value equivalent to 10 baht and after 2001 onwards the par value is equivalent to one baht. /2 The 14/2007 Board of Director’s meeting on June 18, 2007 had resolved about the dividend policy to the shareholders in a rate of not more than 60% of net profit from the Separate Financial Statements. Since 2007, the Company has changed the way in recording investment accounts in sub sidiaries and affiliated companies in separate financial statement from “cost method’’ to ‘’equity method’’. The net profit of the Company in the consolidated and separate financial statements is thus not identical. /3 For operation result of year 2014, the Company’s Board of Directors had a resolution to approve the dividend payment in the rate of Baht 0.15 per share, will pay to shareholders after the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting had a resolution to approve on April 21st , 2015. The graphic displays of dividend payment in comparison to net profit over the last fourteen years. 140% 128.47% 120% 100% 89.72% 80% Extra Dividend 60% 45.29% 57.34% 59.63% 54.90% 58.97% 54.90%58.89% 52.75% 46.04% 41.89% Annual Dividend 40% 37.28% 20% 13.71% 0% 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Pranda’s maximum Annual Dividend Payment 59.63% of the net profit from separate Financial Statements 68 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Management Structure 1. The Board of Directors The Board of Directors of the Company as of December 31, 2014 is composed of ten Directors including Independent Directors, Executive Directors, and Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are knowledgeable, competent, and well experienced in finance, accounting, management, and the other areas as deemed beneficial to the Company. The existing members of the Board of Directors of the Company are as follow: 1. Four Executive Directors 2. Six Non-Exeutive Directors, three of whom are Independent Directors Name Position Date of Holding Directorship/1 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan Chairman of the Board 22 April, 2013 2. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul Vice Chairman 22 April, 2013 3. Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan Director / Chairman of Group Executive Committee / 21 April, 2014/2 Chairman of Finance & Risk Management Committee 4. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert Director 21 April, 2014/2 5. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan Director / Chairman of Core Value and CSR Committee 20 April, 2012 6. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan Director 21 April, 2014/2 7. Mrs. Pittaya Tiasuwan Director 22 April, 2013 8. Mr. Verachai Tantikul Independent Director / Chairman of Audit Committee / 20 April, 2012 Chairman of Nomination and Remuneration Committee 9. Mrs. Rawittha Pongnuchit Independent Director / Member of Audit Committee 14 August, 2012 10. Mr. Chamnong Watanagase Independent Director / Member of Audit Committee 25 March, 2014/3 Note: /1 Date of Holding Directorship is the date of holding Director Position by the whole panel of Directors according the office term as stipulated in the regulation of the Company /2 The 2013 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, held on April 21, 2014 has resolved to re-appoint the following Directors for another term; namely Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan, Mrs. Panida Tiasuwan, and Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert /3 The Board of Directors’ meeting dated on March 25, 2014 has resolved to appoint new Director. The advisors to the Board of Directors of the Company are 1) Lt. Jg. Anan Panananda R.T.N., 2) Mrs. Sarita Bunnag Authorized Directors Authorized Directors of the Company, who have authority to sign on behalf of the Company, consist of Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan or Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul or Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan to jointly sign with Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan or Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert or Ms. Pittaya Tiasuwan, thus being two persons and affixed with the Company’s seals. Composition of the Board of Directors of the Company 1. The Directors of the Company are not mandatory to be the shareholders of the Company. 2. The Board of Directors comprises no less than five members, but no more than twenty members, and no less than one-half of total members shall reside within the Kingdom of Thailand. 3. The Board of Directors comprises the Independent Directors of at least one-third of total memebers, but no less than 3 members. 4. The Board of Directors comprises at least three Members of Audit Committee. 5. The Chairman of the Board of Directors must not be the same person as Managing Director of the Company. 6. The appointment of the Directors shall be in compliance with the regulations of the Company and the relevant laws, and shall be done with transparency and clearness. The nomination of Directors shall be proposed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee by taking into account of his/her educational background and professional experiences, together with the adequate details to be used for consideration of the Board of Directors and the shareholders. 7. The Directors of the Company shall have the office term as stipulated in the regulation of the Company. The retiring Director is eligible to be re-elected. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 69 Qualifications of the Board of Directors of the Company 1. The Directors must be qualified with knowledge, competency, integrity, and ethics, and have enough time to be able to dedicate his/her knowledge and competency to perform duties for the Company. 2. The Directors must have the qualifications, and not have prohibitive qualifications as stipulated by the Public Company Act, and they shall have no characteristic which may exhibit inappropriate qualifications to be untrustable to hold management position in the company which is hold its share by public as required by the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission [SEC]. 3. The Directors shall not carry on any business of the same nature as or in competition with the Company, nor shall be a partner in any limited partnership or a director of private company carrying on business of the same nature and competitive to the business of the Company, whether for its own benefit or others, unless such action has been informed to the shareholders’ meeting prior to making the resolution of appointment. 4. Independent Directors must have the qualifications in compliance with the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Scope of Duties and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors To perform their duties with responsibility, scrutiny, integrity, and compliance with the relevant laws, objectives and regulations of the Company, as well as the resolutions of shareholders’ meeting as follows: 1. To determine the vision, mission, strategy, and policy of the Company, and to supervise business operations of the Company. 2. To appoint and change the Authorized Directors to have binding authority of the Company, or to determine any conditions as deemed necessary to protect benefit of the Company, but having no violation to the relevant laws. 3. To approve the appointment of top-level Executives. 4. To consider and monitor the following operations, 4.1 To follow up the progress of business strategy and action plans which may affect the achievement of the strategy of the Group or may cause significant change to the strategy of the Group. 4.2 To follow up the actual operation versus the business target, and review business projection at least once a quarter, as well as to determine the corrective plan when missing the projected target. The business target should cover both short term and long term target including the key performance index and the operating performance in comparison with the other competitors. 5. To perform human resource management as following: 5.1 To cooperate with the Management of the Company to establish the vision and strategy pertaining to human resource development of the Company. 5.2 To cooperate with the Management of the Company to consider and approve the remuneration strategies of the Group, and to determine the other incentive plans as per individual performance to motivate and retain high qualified and potential employees. 5.3 To supervise the procedure to be transparent, appropriate, and beneficial to the nomination, removal, or dismissal of the Executive Directors, top-level Executives as well as the Board of Directors of the Company to ensure that the Company shall have the knowledgeable, competent, and experienced Management Team to be able to perform business operation of the Group in an effective and efficient manner. 5.4 To ensure the effective procedure to evaluate the performance of top-level Executives in comparison with mutually predetermined operating target on quarterly and annually basis. 6. To ensure the completeness of following operations: 6.1 To review and approve the vision, mission, strategies, policies, objectives, business plans, and budgeting plan, as well as to establish the effective communication channel to the employees at all levels of the Company. 6.2 To report the accurate and correct annual financial statement to establish the confidence of the shareholders upon the financial information of the Company. 6.3 To monitor the operating performance of the Group on regular basis to ensure that the Executive Directors and the Management of the Company have performed their opearations in compliance with the laws and the determined policies. 70 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 6.4 To formulate the effective internal audit in every key business function of the Company. 6.5 To establish the effective risk management of the Company. 6.6 To ensure the transparent and complete information disclosure of the connected transactions with related parties, and to supervise those connected transactions to be reported to the Board of Directors on regular basis. 6.7 To conduct the effcient control system to provide the accurate, complete, and trustable information, in compliance with the policy, regulations, laws, and the other regulations pertaining to the protection of assets, and the effective use of resource for best benefits of the Company. 6.8 To establish the check and balance practice between the Management and the major shareholders as deemed appropriate by focusing on the composition of Independent Directors in the Board of Directors. 6.9 To ensure that the Management has provided the adequate information to the Board of Directors to be able to perform their duties and responsibilities in an effective manner. 6.10 To ascertain the completeness of meeting documents to be distributed prior to the meeting of the Board, to produce the complete minutes of the meeting, and to protect any amendment to the certified minutes. 6.11 To monitor the conflicts of interest which may arise. 6.12 To provide the adequate and efficient communication channels to all stakeholders of the Company and with the public, and follow up the succeeding operations as deemed appropriate. 6.13 To protect and promote the reputation of the Company. 7. To set up and determine the scope of duties and responsibilities of Sub-committees as follows: 7.1 To appoint the Sub-committees as deemed appropriate or necessary so as to support the operation of the Board of Directors; namely the Group Executive Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Finance & Risk Management Committee, and the Corporate Values Committee. 7.2 To consider and approve the roles and responsibilities of the Sub-committees, as well as to endorse on the changes of their composition including any other significant changes which may affect the performance of the appointed Sub-committees. 8. To evaluate the performance of the Board of Directors as follows: 8.1 To formulate the criteria and procedure to evaluate the performance of the Board of Directors, and to review the evaluation on regular basis. 8.2 To perform the self-assessment of the Board every year, and disclose the report of Corporate Governance of the Company in the annual report. 9. To empower the Chairman of the Board of Directors to supervise the Board to perform their duties and responsibilities as mentioned above in an effective and efficient manner. 10. To appoint the Corporate Secretary to help proceed the business activities of the Company and of the Board of Directors, such as the holding of shareholders’ meeting, and to provide the advice to the Directors or the Company pertaining to complance with the relevant laws and regulations. The Corporate Secretary is also responsible to ensure the accuracy, completeness, and transparency of the information disclosure of the Company’s Directors and the Company as stipulated in the good corporate governance practices. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 71 Authority of the Board of Directors 1. Appoint, remove, and empower to the advisor of the Board of Directors, Sub-committees, and Managing Director to perform duties. 2. Appoint the Executive Committee, or assign one or more Directors to perform duties on behalf of the Board, provided that such authorized person shall not have the authority to appove the transaction upon which he/she or his/her related person is deemed to have related interest or conflict of interest or any forms of possible conflict of interest with the Company or Subsidiaries (“Person who may hold conflict of interest” is defined as per the Notification of the Securities and Exchange Commission), unless such action has been allowed by the laws or the regulation of the Company, or entering into such transactions has been approved by the shareholders’ meeting pursuant to the notifications of the Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission. However the said Directors or persons with possible related interest or conflict of interest with the Company or Subsidiaries shall not have the voting right on such transaction. 3. Advise the specialists or advisors (if any) or hire external specialists or advisors as necessary with the expenditure of the Company. 4. Approve to accept or cancel the credit line at the amount exceeding the approval limit of the Executive Committee. 5. Approve the loan given to the related party who is also the shareholder of the Company or the trading partners, or to the other companies at the amount exceeding the approval limit of the Executive Committee. 6. Approve to enter into the guarantee agreement upon credit facility for the related party who is also the shareholder of the Company or the trading partners, or for the other companies at the amount exceeding the approval limit of the Executive Committee. 7. Approve the founding, merger, or closing the Subsidiaries of the Company. 8. Approve the investment in or selling of stock and/or debt instrument at the amount exceeding the approval limit of the Executive Committee. 9. Approve to acquire or invest in fixed asset at the amount exceeding the approval limit of the Executive Committee. 10. Approve to renovate, eliminate, or liquidate fixed asset or intangible asset which is deemed to be damaged, lost, obsolete, or unusable at the book value exceeding the approval limit of the Executive Committee. 11. Approve the purchase of fixed asset with the value over Baht 20 million and being set in the budget plan, and with the value over Baht 5 million if not being set in the budget plan. 12. Aprove the compromising agreement on dispute resolution as proposed by the Arbitrator or any claims or prosecutions on behalf of the Company whether for the case relevant or not relevant to normal business operation of the Company at the value exceeding the approval limit of the Executive Committee. 13. Approve to enter into the transaction which is not normal business practice of the Company at the amount exceeding the approval limit of the Executive Committee. 14. Approve to increase or decrease the capital of the Company, change the par value of the share of the Company, or amend the Memorandum of Association or the regulation and/or the objective of the Company. 15. Empower to the advisor of the Board, Sub-committees, Managing Director, Executives, or the other person to perform duties on behalf of the Board under the scope of authority of the Board of Directors. 16. Invite the advisor of the Board, Sub-committees, Managing Director, the relevant employee to give information or opinion, join meeting, or submit documents as deemed necessary. 17. Appoint and remove the Corporate Secretary of the Company. 18. The above authority of the Board pertaining to the acquisition and disposal of asset, and to the connected transactions shall be in complaiance with the notification of the Capital Market Supervisory Board. 72 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Authority of the Chairman of Board of Directors 1. Perform as the leader of business strategy of the Company. 2. The Chairman of the board or the assigned person is responsible to call for the meeting of the Board of Directors, and shall send the invitation notice to the Directors not less than seven days prior to the meeting date so as to provide the adequate time for the Directors to study and consider the detail of meeting ageda in advance. 3. Act as the chairperson in the Board of Directors’ meeting, and make the final vote in case of having a tie vote. 4. Determine the meeting agenda in cooperation with the Chairman of the Executive Committee. 5. Direct the Board of Directors’ meeting to be performed in an effective manner, provide adequate time for the Executive Directors to present supporting information, and facilitate any inquries or opinions to be raised in the meeting independently, as well as to control the topic to be discussed, and summarize the resolution of the meeting. 6. Play important role to encourage the Directors of the Company to comply with the corporate governance principles, such as to declare intention to abstain from voting and exit the meeting room during the consideration of the agenda which he/she may have the conflict of interest. 7. Comunicate complete information to all Directors. 8. Encourage the Directors to attend the shareholders’ meeting, control the meeting to be performed in an effective manner, and answer the question from the shareholders. 9. Make the final vote in the shareholders’ meeting when having a tie vote and the majority vote from the shareholders’ meeting is required to pass the resolution. 10. Encourage the Directors of the Company to perform their duties and responsibilities in compliance with the relevant laws and the principle of good corporate governance. Meeting participation of the Board of Directors and Sub-committees is summarized as follows: Meeting attendance / Total meetings [times] The Board of Group Executive Audit Nomination and Finance & Risk Core Values and Name Directors Committee Committee Remuneration Managment CSR Committee Total: 20 Total: 9 Total: 5 Committee Total: Committee Total: Total: meetings meetings meetings 2 meetings 4 meetings 4 meetings 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan 10/20 2. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul 18/20 9/9 2/2 4/4 3. Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan 18/20 9/9 2/2 4/4 4. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan 19/20 9/9 2/2 3/4 4/4 5. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert 20/20 9/9 2/2 4/4 6. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan 20/20 2/2 7. Mr. Verachai Tantikul 20/20 5/5 2/2 8. Mrs. Rawittha Pongnuchit 19/20 3/5 9. Mr. Chamnong Watanagase 14/14 4/4 10. Mrs. Pittaya Tiasuwan 9/9 4/4 11. Mr. Decha Nunthanacharoenkul 9/9 4/4 12. Mr. Chartchai Theekaveerakit 9/9 2/4 13. Mr. Chanat Sorakraikitikul 9/9 4/4 14. Mr. Dusit Chongsuthanamanee 4/4 15. Mr. Somsak Srireungmont 4/4 16. Mrs. Niraratana Thanalekhapattana 4/4 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 73 Meeting attendance / Total meetings [times] The Board of Group Executive Audit Nomination and Finance & Risk Core Values and Name Directors Committee Committee Remuneration Managment CSR Committee Total: 20 Total: 9 Total: 5 Committee Total: Committee Total: Total: 4 meetings meetings meetings meetings 2 meetings 4 meetings 17. Mrs.Chavee Jarukornvasin 3/4 18. Ms. Sasisopa Wattakeecharoen 3/4 19. Ms. Suphorn Rungpittayathorn 3/4 20. Mr. Kanching Devahasdin Na Ayudhaya 4/4 21. Mr. Pitipong Tiasuwan 3/4 Remark: 1. No. 1-9 are nine Members of the Board of Directors 2. No. 2-5 and No. 10-13 are eight Members of the Group Executive Committee 3. No. 7-9 are three Members of the Audit Committee 4. No. 2-7 are six Members of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 5. No. 2-5, No. 10 11, and No. 13-14 are eight Members of the Finance & Risk Management Committee 6. No. 4, 12, and No. 15-21 are nine Members of the Core Values and CSR Committee 7. Figures in the table mean the number of meeting participation / number of total meetings to be hold when the Directors are in the position 2. Executives of the Company The Executives of the Company/1 as of December 31, 2014 according to definition of the Securities and Exchange Commission are as follows: Name Position 1. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan Managing Director (Manufacturing) 2. Mrs.Pranee Khunprasert Managing Director (Marketing) 3. Mrs.Pittaya Tiasuwan Deputy Managing Director (Manufacturing) 4. Mr. Decha Nunthanacharoenkul Deputy Managing Director (Marketing) 5. Mr. Chanat Sorakraikitikul Assistant Managing Director (Marketing) 6. Ms. Sasisopa Wattakeecharoen Assistant Managing Director (Marketing) 7. Mrs.Niraratana Thanalekhapattana Assistant Managing Director (Marketing) 8. Mrs.Chavee Jarukornvasin Assistant Managing Director (Manufacturing) 9. Mr. Somsak Srireungmont Assistant Managing Director (Manufacturing) 10. Ms. Suphorn Rungpittayathorn Assistant Managing Director (Manufacturing) 11. Mr. Thanes Panjakrid Accounting and Finance Manager Note: The Executives/1 mean the Managing Directors, or the Executives who hold the first four positions lower than the Manager of the Company (the top management position of the Company), the Exesutives who hold the position equivalent to the first four executive postions including those who hold management positions in the Accounting or Finance Division from the level of Division Managers or equivalent onwards. 74 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Internal Management Structure of Pranda Jewelry Pcl. Audit Committee /Nomination Board of Directors and Advisor and Remuneration Committee Core Values & CSR Committee Group Executive Committee Finance & Risk Management Committee 1 Managing Director (Manufacturing) Production Engineering Consultant 1 Managing Director (Marketing) Production Production Production Warehouse & Human General Information Sales & Sales & Gemstone Resources Account & Mould & Product Management Management Management Costing Administration & Technology Marketing Marketing Korat Plant Management Management & Services Financial ODM Sample Development Factory 1 Factory 1 OBM Deputy Managing 3 Deputy Managing 2 Director Director 7 8 9 Asst.Managing Asst.Managing Asst.Managing Asst.ManagAsst.Managing Asst.Managing 4 Director 5 Director Director 6 ing Director Director Director (Manufacturing) (Manufacturing) (Manufacturing) (Marketing) (Marketing) (Marketing) 10 Production Production Production Human General Information Account & Sales & Sales & Mole & Product Manager Manager Manager Cost & Price Gemstone Resources Administration & TechnolFinancial Marketing Marketing Manager Manager 1 & Services ODM ManSample Development Factory 1 Factory 2 Korat Plant Manager Manager ogy Manager Manager ager U.S.A. OBM Manager Manager Manager 1 Production Sales & Product Warehouse Gemstone Marketing Engineering Manager ODM Manager Development Manager Manager 2 EUROPE Manager 2 Sales & Marketing ODM ManTransport ager Silver & Customs PRANDA Formality Annual Report 2014 Manager Production 75 Data Administration Manager 3. The Corporate Secretary: Mr. Dusit Chongsutthanamanee The Board of Directors has resolved to appoint Mr. Dusit Chongsutthanamanee as the Corporate Secretary of the Company on December 19, 2008. The Corporate Secretary is appointed to help proceed the business activities of the Company and of the Board of Directors, such as the holding of shareholders’ meeting, and to provide the advice to the Directors or the Company pertaining to complance with the relevant laws and regulations. The Corporate Secretary is also responsible to ensure the accuracy, completeness, and transparency of the information disclosure of the Company’s Directors and the Company as stipulated in the good corporate governance practices. Qualifications and Experience 1. Having basic knowledge of the laws and regulations governed by the governmental supervisory unit with regard to the Public Company Act and the relevant securities and exchange laws. 2. Having knowledge and understanding in the principles of good corporate governance and best practices for corporate governance. 3. Having knowledge in the business nature of Company, and having strong communication skill. Roles and responsibilities of Corporate Secretary 1. To prepare and keep the important documents of the Company as follows: [A] The registration of Director. [B] Invitation notice to attend the Board of Directors’ meeting, Minutes of the Board of Directors’ meeting, and the Annual Report of the Company. [C] Invitation notice to attend the shareholders’ meeting, and Minutes of the shareholders’ meeting. 2. To collect the report of related interest submitted by the Directors and the Executives. 3. To carry out the other tasks as stipulated by the Capital Market Supervisory Board. 4. To provide the basic advice pertaining to the laws, regulations of the Company to the Directors, and follow up the operation to ensure the compliance with the said rules and regulations on regular basis, as well as to report any significant changes to the Board of Directors. 5. To provide the advice to the Directors of the Company to prepare the report of related interest of the Directors, and to submit the said report to the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 6. To prepare the report of important information of the Company and/or summarize the resolutions of the Board of Directors’ meeting so as to later report to the Stock Exchange of Thailand both in Thai and English version. 7. To prepare the draft of administrative policies, such as the Corporate Governance Policy, and so on. 8. To inform the resolutions and policies determined by the meeting of the Board of Directors and of shareholders to the related Executives, as well as monitor the succeeding operations to be in compliance with the said resolutions and policies. 9. To coordinate with the governmental supervisory units, such as the Stock Exchange of Thailand, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Ministry of Commerce. 10. To communicate with the shareholders in an appropriate manner to enable them to acknowledge the rights of the shareholders, and to receive the information of the Company. 11. To ensure that the Company and the Board of Directors shall perform business operations in compliance with the laws and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Stock Exchange of Thailand, and the other relevant laws. 12. To organize the Secretary Office to be the center of corporate records of the Company, such as the register of juristic person, the memorandum and articles of association, the register of shareholder, and the other business licenses. 13. To facilitate the business acitities of the Board of Directors. 76 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 4. Remuneration of the Directors and the Executives of the Company 1. Financial remuneration during January 1, 2014 and December 31, 2014. [A] Remuneration for Director Position/1 comprises salary, bonus, and position allowance (Unit : Million Baht) Meeting attendance / Total meetings [times] Name The Board of The Audit Position Directors (Salary Committee Total and Bonus) (Position Allowance) 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan Chairman of the Board 5.506 5.506 2. Mr. Verachai Tantikul Independent Director / Chairman of Audit 0.779 0.779 Committee/ Chairman of Nomination and 0.519 0.519 remuneration Committee 3. Mrs. Rawittha Pongnuchit Independent Director / Member of Audit Committee 0.360 0.360 4. Mr. Chamnong Watanagase Independent Director / Member of Audit Committee 5. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan Director / Member of Nomination and 1.416 1.416 remuneration Committee 6. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul Director / Member of Finance & Risk Management 1.717 1.717 Committee / Member of Nomination and remuneration Committee Mrs. Sarita Bunnag /2 0.165 0.165 Total Remuneration 8.639 1.823 10.462 Note: /1 The remaining 4 Directors do not receive the remuneration in the list [A], but receive the remuneration in the list [B] /2 Has resigned from the director position of the Company since March 23, 2014 [B] Total remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Executives of the Company Type of Remuneration No. [person] Amount [Million Baht] Executive Directors and Salary, Bonus, Compensatation Benefit for 12 33.016 Executives Retirement, and Special Income Note: 1. Four Directors are entitled to receive remuneration for Executive Director Position. 2. The above remuneration is not included the remuneration for the Accounting and Finance Manager. 2. Other remunerations 2.1 Provident Fund The Company has contributed the additional provident fund for the Directors, Executive Directors, and the other Executives in 2014 as per following details, [A] Directors Position Name Amount (million Baht) 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan 0.187 2. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan 0.048 3. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul 0.058 Total 0.293 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 77 [B] Executive Directors and Executive Position No. [person] Amount (million Baht) Executive Directors and Executives 12 0.955 2.2 Employee Stock Option Plan [ESOP] to be allotted for the Directors and/or employees of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries. The Annual Shareholders Meeting held on April 18, 2008 resolved to issue 14,251,410 units of ESOP Warrant with specific name of warrant holder and non-transferable to be alloted for the Directors and employees of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries. The issued ESOP Warrant determines no price of warrant to exercise the right to purchase the ordinary shares of the Company, and specify the exercise price at 3 Baht per share, and the exercise ratio at 1 warrant to 1 common share. The warrant will be expired in 5 years since the issue date, and allow the warrant holders to excecise their right every 6 months. As a result, the Board of Directors’ meeting No. 2/2009 dated on February 11, 2009 has resolved to approve the allocation and determined the issue date of the said warrant on February 27, 2009, and the first exercise period on August 28, 2009 and expiry on February 27, 2014 [A] Directors Position Name Warrant % of issued warrants totaling [million units] to 14,251,410 units 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan 0.70 4.91 2. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan 0.70 4.91 3. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul 0.70 4.91 Total 2.10 14.73 [B] Executive Directors and Executives Position No. [person] Warrant % of issued warrants totaling [million units] to 14,251,410 units Executive Directors and 6 3.36 23.58 Executives 5. Human Resource The Company and Subsidiaries has total of 3,696 employees in 2014. The Company has paid the remuneration for the employees totaling to Baht 984 million, including salary, overtime expense, bonus, contribution for social security insurance, provedent fund, and so on. Number of employees and remuneration 2014 Production Distribution Retail Others Total Employees in operation / Service Unit (persons) 2,587 5 230 4 2,826 Employees in office (persons) 624 149 94 3 870 Total (persons) 3,211 154 324 7 3,696 78 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance The Company is determined to conduct business on the Good Corporate Governance principle. The Company has educated and encouraged employees to comply with ethical conducts. The Company has conducted business with responsibility to the shareholders and all stakeholders on fair practice, thus stipulating Good Corporate Governance Policy in writing since 2000. This policy is the framework for the Board of Directors, management and all staff to be committed at all level of businesses on regular basis to encourage the common good corporate culture within the organization. These practices include equitable treatment to the stakeholders, and working with full effort, honesty, and transparency for the best interest of the Company. This practice will ensure confidence for the shareholders, investors and other stakeholders. The Board of Directors shall direct the Company to perform business in compliance with Good Corporate Governance Principle of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and the regulations stipulated by the Office of Securities and Exchange Commission and Capital Market Supervisory Board to ensure international standard of corporate governance and to support efficient management for sustainable business growth. In 2014, the Company received the recognition of being “Very Good” or “4 Stars” from the Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Company in 2014 which was commonly evaluated by the Stock Exchange of Thaiand, the Securities and Exchange Commission and Thai Institute of Directors. Pranda Jewelry PCL. was one of 108 listed companies which were scored as “Very Good” from the total of 550 companies under assessment. In addition, the Company Very Good CG Scoring was one of 29 companies form 123 Top Quantile listed companies which had the market value of Baht 3,0009,999 million. The Meeting of Corporate Governance Report Steering Committee No. 1/2014 has resolved to revise the scorecard criteria for the corporate governance survey in 2014 to be in line with the guideline of ASEAN Corporate Governence Sorecard Company, thus resulting in only 29 listed companies were scored as “Excellent”, compared with 87 companies in 2013 evaluation. 1. Corporate Governance Policy The Board of Directors of the Company established a written Good Corporate Governance policy in “the Corporate Governance Manual” since 2000. The CG Manual has been reviewed from time to time to be in line with the business strategy and corporate governance guideline for listed company issued by the Stock Exchange of Thailand in 2012, and to be ensured to cover all important aspects of good corporate gevernance practices. The Board of Directors approved “CG Manual (3rd edition)” on Feb 25, 2013 to be the operational framework for the Board of Directors, management and all staff. The Company has distributed the handbook to every employee of the Company together with the user’s manual for strict compliance. In addition, the CG Manual corporate also includes the follow-up prodedure, whistle-blowing measures, and whistle-blower protection mechanism. The manual is divided into 3 key parts; namely, 1) Corporate Governance Principles, 2) Business Ethics, and 3) Important Policies and other Regulations relevant to the Corporate Governance principles. The Corporate Governance Principles of the Company complies with the sufficiency philosophy of His Majesty the King together with the royal remark for sustainable development. The philosophy focuses on the balance and readiness to quick changes and emphasizes the use of knowledge with carefulness and morality, thus reflecting on 8 fundamental principles of the Company as follows; PRANDA Annual Report 2014 79 1. Accountability to be responsible for our own decision and action, and able to explain the decision making 2. Responsibility to perform duty with sufficient capability and efficiency 3. Integrity 4. Equitable Treatment to the stakeholders 5. Transparency to be examined, and to disclose information to all related parties 6. Business Ethics 7. Vision to Create Long Term Value to the Company 8. Corporate Social Responsibility 2. Sub-Committees The Board of Directors shall appoint Sub-Committees as deemed appropriate to oversee any particular matters of business operation of the Company so as to support efficient directive performance. Sub-Committee of the Company consists of Group Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Finance and Risk Management Committee, and Core Value and CSR Committee. The Board of Directors has reviewed the roles and responsibilities of each Sub-Committee on Feb 23, 2015 as per following details; 2.1 Group Executive Committee Group Executive Committee of the Company comprises of seven members, four of whom are from the Board of Directors and the remaining three members are selected from knowledgeable and specialized persons in specific business areas. The existing members of Group Executive Committee are as follows: Advisors to the Group Executive Committee 1. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul 2. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan 3. Mr. Chainarong Jitmetta Name Position 1. Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan Chairman of Sub-Committee 2. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan Managing Director (Manufacturing) 3. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert Managing Director (Marketing) 4. Ms. Pittaya Tiasuwan Deputy Managing Director (Manufacturing) 5. Mr. Decha Nuntanajaroenkul Deputy Managing Director (Marketing) Executive Director / 6. Mr. Chanat Sorakraikitikul Assistant Managing Director (Marketing) 7. Mr. Chartchai Teekaveerakit Executive Director Authority of the Group Executive Committee 1. Appoint, remove, transfer, evaluate employees, and determine remuneration and welfare for employment condition 2. Appoint and remove the Committee as necessary to support operation of the Company 3. Advise specialists or advisors(if any) or hire external specialists or advisors as necessary with the expenditure of the Company 4. Issue the notification on working operation, and delegate Executive Director or Executive to be authorized to disburse the asset of the Company 5. Approve to accept or cancel the credit line within the limit of not exceeding Baht 50 million 6. Approve the loan given to the related party who is also the shareholder of the Company within the limit of not exceeding Baht 50 million / entity / year 80 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 7. Approve to enter into the guarantee agreement upon credit facility for the related party who is also the shareholder of the Company, or the trading partners, or the other companies within the limit of not exceeding Baht 50 million / entity 8. Approve to sell or purchase common stock and/or debt instrument within the limit of not exceeding Baht 10 million / year 9. Approve to invest in fixed asset within the limit of not exceeding Baht 20 million / year 10. Approve to renovate, eliminate, or liquidate fixed asset or intangible asset which is deemed to be damaged, lost, obsolete, or unusable within the total book value of not exceeding Baht 5 million 11. Approve for the expenditure of the Company which is over Baht 500,000 12. Approve for the goods, raw material, consumables within the value of not exceeding Baht 5 million 13. Approve to reprice or eliminate raw material and/or inventory which is deemed to be damaged or obsolete, upon which the book value of the Company may be deducted more than its actual value 14. Approve to compromise on dispute resolution proposed by the Arbitrator on behalf of the Company resulting from claim or prosecution within the limit of not exceeding Baht 2 million / year when the case is not relevant to normal business matter of the Company, and within the limit of not exceeding Baht 20 million / year when the case is relevant to normal business matter of the Company 15. Approve to send the staff for overseas training within the expenditure of not exceeding Baht 1 million each time 16. Approve to enter in the transaction which is not normal business practice of the Company within the limit of not exceeding Baht 10 million each time 17. Delegate any Executive staff to be authorized person of the Committee 18. Invite the relevant Executive or staff to give information or opinion, join meeting, or submit documents as deemed necessary 19. Issue the rules and regulations as deemed appropriate Scope of Duties and Responsibilities of the Group Executive Committee 1. To determine the Company’s goal and business strategy, to supervise the Company’s operation to comply with the Company’s vision, mission, strategy, and policies of the Board of Directors, laws, conditions, rules and regulations of the Company 2. To establish the guideline for the Company’s business operation, development and expansion to comply with vision, mission, strategy, policies, and resolutions of the Board of Directors 3. To appoint the Company’s Executives of all positions to perform their duties except the appointment of Top-level Executives who need prior approval from the Board of Directors, and to empower any persons to perform duties and responsibilities on behalf of the Committee as deemed appropriate 4. To determine rules and regulation on working operation of the Company’s employees with no violation of or running against any relevant laws and regulations 5. To approve the position structure, salary structure, and the benefit scheme of the Company’s employees, and to endorse the management structure from the Division level downward. 6. To review the Company’s quarterly and yearly performance as well as budget and asset management prior to submission to the Board of Directors for approval 7. To approve the annual budget, as well as supervise, monitor, and appraise the operating performance to be in compliance with the policy, target, and budget as approved, and to approve bonuses and other rewards to the employees and any other benefits to motivate Company’s employees 8. To ensure adequate and effective internal control system of the Company by cooperation with the Audit Committee 9. To empower Chairman of the Board of Directors to supervise the Committee to perform their duties and responsibilities as mentioned above in an effective and efficient manner. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 81 Managing Director Scope of Duties and Responsibilities 1. To manage business operation of the Company to be in compliance with policy, laws, objectives, articles of assosiation, resolution of the Board of Directors, and any other rules and regulations. 2. To order or act any opearation as appropriate to accomplish the duty as aforementioned in No.1, and to inform and report important matter to the Board of Directors and/or Group Executive Committee. 3. To determine rules and regulation on working operation for Company’s employees with no violation of or running against any policy, rules and regulations, or any other resolutions of the Board of Directos or Group Executive Committee. 4. To empower or assign any persons to perform duty on behalf of Managing Director. 5. To encourage and develop business operation of the Company to be in compliance with laws, code of conduct, business ethics, and good corporate governance principles. 6. To perform any duties as assigned by the Board of Directos or Group Executive Committee. 7. Managing Director has no authority to perfrom action upon which he/she is deemed to have related interest or conflict of interest. 8. To hire, appoint, punish staff or employee and terminate employment, promote salary or benefits to employee, excluding the staff or employee who must be hired, appointed, punished, terminated by the Board of Directors as predetermined by the Company’s regulation or the Board’s resolution. On this regard, Managing Director may assign Deputy Director or the other person to perform duty on his/her behalf. 9. To determine employment condition for staff or employee, and to establish administrative procedure with no violation of or running against rules and regulations, or any other resolutions of the Board of Directos or Group Executive Committee. 10. To perform any tasks as assigned by the Company’s regulation or by the Board of Directos or Group Executive Committee’s resolution, and to determine the scope of duties and responsibilities of employees at all level for benefit of the Company. 2.2 Audit Committee The Board of Directors has recognized the importance of good corporate governance, thus considering to appoint the Audit Committee since January 29, 1999 as the key instrument of the Board of Directors to supervise and control the Company’s administration to ensure that the Company has widely accepted standards of accuracy, transparency, effective internal control system, as well as trustable and useful reporting systems both to investors and related parties. The Audit Committee shall fully perform their duties independently, and directly report to the Board of Directors as stipulated by the criteria and requirements of the Stock Exchange of Thailand. The composition and qualifications of the Audit Committee is determined to comply with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, while the scope of their duties and responsibilities is determined in compliance with the requirements of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and is clearly stated in the Charter of the Company. In addition, the internal auditors of the Company shall be responsible to review the adequacy of the Company’s internal audit and internal control system, and submit the auditing results directly to the Audit Committee. Presently, the Audit Committee comprises of three members, all of whom are the Independent Directors and have office terms of one year. The Company’s Board of Directors has appointed the Audit Committees and assigned the Internal Audit Department’s manager to serve as the secretary of the Audit Committee. The existing members of Audit Committee are as follows: Name Position 1. Mr. Verachai Tantikul Chairman 2. Mrs. Rawittha Pongnuchit Director 3. Mr. Chamnong Watanagase Director Note: No. 3 Mamber is the accounting and financial specialist 82 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Qualifications 1. To be appointed by the Board of Directors or shareholders. 2. All Members shall be Independent Directors of the Company and fully qualified with the qualification as prescribed by the notification of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Member must not be the Directors, who is assigned or authorized by the Board of Directors to be able to make operational decision for the Company, Parent Company, Subsidiaries, Affiliates, or juristic persons which may have conflict of interest. In addition, the Member must not be the Directors of Parent Company, Subsidiaries, and Affiliates of any other listed companies. 3. All Member shall have adequate knowledge and experience to perform duty as the Audit Committee which is required to have at least one Director to have enough auditing knowledge, understanding or experience to ensure correct and proper financial statements of the Company. Authority of the Audit Committee 1. Invite the relevant Executive or staff to give information or opinion, join meeting, or submit documents as deemed neccessary, and able to access information at all level of the Company. 2. Advise specialists or advisors of the Company, or hire external specialists or advisors as necessary with the expenditure of the Company. Scope of Duties and Responsibilities of the Audit Committee 1. To ensure correct and adequate financial statements of the Company, and that the Company has performed appropriate information disclosure by cooperation with the external auditors and with the Executive who is responsible to prepare financial statement of the Company. 2. To ensure that the Company has appropriate and effective internal control, and internal audit system, and to review the independence of the Internal Audit Unit as well as to provide recommendation to appoint, remove, and transfer the Head of Internal Audit Unit or any other Units which may be in charge of internal audit matter. 3. To ensure that the Company complies with the laws regarding the securities and the Stock Exchange, and with the regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and/or the other laws relevant to the Company s businesses. 4. To select and nominate independent persons to act as the External Auditor of the Company, and to determine the remuneration of such persons. The Audit Committee shall hold meeting with the External Auditor with no presence of Management Staff of the Company at least once a year. 5. To review the related transactions or the other transactions which may cause conflict of interest to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand, and to ensure that such transactions are made on reasonable basis for best benefits to the Company. 6. To prepare the Report of the Audit Committees to be disclosed the Company’s annual report. Such report shall be signed by the Chairman of Audit Committee, and contain at least following details: A. Opinions on the accuracy, completeness, and reliability of financial statements of the Company. B. Opinions on the adequacy of internal control system of the Company. C. Opinions on compliance with the laws pertaining to the securities and Stock Exchange, and with the regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and any other laws relating to the Company’s business. D. Opinions on the appropriateness of the External Auditors. E. Opinions on transactions which may cause any conflict of interest. F. Total number of Audit Committee meeting and participation of each Member. G. Opinions or remarks which the Audit Committee obtains during their operation as prescribed in the Charter of the Company H. The other matter as deemed necessary to be informed to the shareholders and the general investors under the scope of duties and responsibilities as assigned by the Board of Directors. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 83 7. To review and ensure adequate and appropriate Charter of Audit Committee of the Company. The Audit Committee shall review the Charter upto changing situation, and propose to the Board of Directors for approval. 8. To perform the other tasks as assigned by the Board of Directors upon the endorsement of the Audit Committee. 2.3 Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Board of Directors has approved to appoint the Nomination and Remuneration Committee since May 12, 2004. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprises of six members, one of whom is the Independent Director shall act as the Chairman of the Committee. The existing members of Nomination and Remuneration Committee are as follows: Name Position 1. Mr. Veerachai Tantikul Chairman 2. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul Director 3. Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan Director 4. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan Director 5. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert Director 6. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan Director Advisors to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan 2. Ms. Pittaya Tiasuwan Authority of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 1. Advise specialists or advisors(if any) or hire external specialists or advisors as necessary with the expenditure of the Company. 2. Invite the relevant Executive or staff to give information or opinion, join meeting, or submit documents as deemed necessary. Scope of Duties and Responsibilities of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 1. To propose the suitable criteria and methodology to select the Directors, Group Executive Directors, Group Finance & Risk Management Committee Directors, Core Values & CSR Directors, Independent Directors and Top-level Executives and propose criteria and policy to consider their remunerations. 2. To nominate and propose the qualified persons to be selected as the Top-level Executive of the Company to the Board of Directors for approval of appointment and his/her remuneration. 3. To propose the suitable criteria, methodology, and procedures to evaluate the performance of Top-level Executives to the Board of Directors. 4. To evaluate the performance of the Directors, Executive Directors, Finance Committee Directors, Core Value Directors and Top-level Executives of the Company as assigned by the Board of Directors. 5. To review the remuneration policy of the Company to be suitable with present labour market environment. 6. To empower Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee to supervise the Committee to perform their duties and responsibilities as mentioned above in an effective and efficient manner. 2.4 Finance and Risk Management Committee The Board of Directors has approved to appoint the Group Finance Committee on May 12, 2004. The Group Finance Committee has been revised by the Board’s resolution on December 9, 2008. In addition, the Board of Directors has assigned risk management responsibility to the Group Finance Committee, thus changing name to be the Finance and Risk Management Committee on February 23, 2015. The existing members of Finance and Risk Management Committee are as follows: 84 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Name Position 1. Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan Chairman 2. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul Director 3. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan Director 4. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert Director 5. Ms. Pittays Tiasuwan Director 6. Mr. Decha Nuntanajaroenkul Director 7. Mr. Chanat Sorakraikitikul Director 8. Mr. Dusit Chongsutthanamenee Director Advisors to the Finance and Risk Management Committee is Mr. Prida Tiasuwan Authority of the Finance and Risk Management Committee 1. Advise specialists or advisors(if any) or hire external specialists or advisors as necessary with the expenditure of the Company. 2. Invite the relevant Executive or staff to give information or opinion, join meeting, or submit documents as deemed necessary. 3. Appoint the Sub-committee and/or add or replace any persons into the Risk Management Sub-committee and/or into the other Unit or Panel related to risk mamagement matter as deemed appropriate, and determine their roles and responsibilities to meet operational objectives. Scope of Duties and Responsibilities of the Finance and Risk Management Committee 1. To acquire funding according to resolutions of the Board of Directors to be used in the Group’s business operation. 2. To conduct feasibility and profitability study of the investment projects to be proposed to the Board of Directors for approval. 3. To oversee and analyze operating performance of Subsidiaries and the other investment projects to propose to the Board of Directors for approval on improvement. 4. To provide opinion on the policy, risk management framework to be proposed to the Board of Directors for approval. 5. To formulate the acceptable Risk Appetite to be proposed to the Board of Directors for acknowledgement. 6. To monitor the development and operation of the Company to be in compliance with the risk management policy and framework on continuous basis to ensure effective and continuous risk management throughout the whole organization. 7. To review the report of risk management so as to follow up significant risk event, and to ensure that the Company performs adequate and proper risk management. 8. To cooperate with the Audit Committee on significant potential risks and with the Internal Audit Department to ensure that the Company performs appropriate internal control to be able to handle with and risk events and that Company adopts risk management system for the whole organization. 9. To report risk status and significant risk mitigation measures to the Board of Directors on regular basis. 10. To provide advice or suggestion to the Sub Risk-Management Committee(SRM) and/or the other Unit or Panel related to risk mamagement matter, and to establish the suitable procedure to utilize information for the development of risk management system. 11. To empower the Chairman of Finance and Risk Management Committee to supervise the Committee to perform their duties and responsibilities as mentioned above in an effective and efficient manner. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 85 2.5 Core Values and CSR Committee The resolution of the Board of Directors’ meeting No. 10/2014 on May 30, 2014 approved to amend the name to the Core Values Committee to be Core Values and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee. The Committee comprises of nine members with the office terms of 2 years to promote and support the core values within the Group. To achieve this goal, the Committee needs to promote the sense of participation of the employees throughout the whole organization, formalize systematic participation of the employee in an ongoing basis, as well as to seamlessly apply such activities into working environment and routine operation of the employees so to to emphasize the Group’s corporate value. The existing members of Core Values and CSR Committee are as follows: Name Position 1. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan Chairman 2. Mr. Somsak Srirueangmon Director 3. Mr. Chartchai Teekaveerakit Director 4. Ms. Nirarat Tanalekhapat Director 5. Mrs. Chawee Jarukornvasin Director 6. Ms. Sasisopa Wattakeecharoen Director 7. Ms. Suporn Rungpitayatom Director 8. Mr. Kanching Devahastin Na Ayudhaya Director 9. Mr. Pitipong Tiasuwan Director Advisors to the Core Values and CSR Committee are; 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan 2. Ms. Pittaya Tiasuwan 3. Ms. Rungnapa Ngowngamratana Authority of the Core Values and CSR Committee 1. Perform operation under the Corporate Value and CSR Policy of the Company. 2. To establish action / project / activity so as to represent the Company’s Vision in the tangible and appropriate manner within the expenditure limit of not exceeding Baht 500,000. 3. To encourage the acknowledgement of the Corporate Value and CSR throughout the whole organization. 4. To systemize, administer, appraise and develop any actions or projects to promote the Corporate Values in a systematic manner as well as to support the appropricate application. 5. To promote communication and cooperation within the organization as a way to develop the cooperation among the employees to ensure all action to be in the common direction whereby promoting better understanding in the Corporate Policy and encourage them to share the common vision so as to achieve the Company’s goals. 6. To prepare the operating report in an acceptable manner. 86 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Scope of Duties and Responsibilities of the Core Values and CSR Committee 1. To establish the policy of Core Value and CSR of the Company. 2. To integrate the organization’s vision into operational practices under the framework of Core Values and CSR in a tangible and appropriate manner. 3. To encourage the acknowledgement of Core Values and CSR throughout the whole organization. 4. To systemize, administer, appraise and develop any actions or projects to promote the Core Values and CSR in a systematic manner as well as to support the appropriate application. 5. To promote communication and cooperation within the organization as a way to develop the cooperation among the employees to ensure all action to be in the common direction whereby promoting better understanding in the Corporate Policy and encourage them to share the common vision so as to achieve the Company’s goals. 6. To appoint Working Panel and Secretary of the Committee to support the duty and responsibility of the Core Values and CSR Committee as deemed appropriate. 3. Selection and Appointment of Directors and Top-level Executives 3.1 Qualifications of Independent Directors [A] Hold shares not exceeding 1% of total shares with voting right of the Company, Subsidiaries, Associates, major shareholders, or controlling parties of the Company, provided that the shares held by any related persons of the said Independent Director shall be included. [B] Is not or has never been an executive director, employee, staff, advisor receiving regular salary from, or controlling person of the Company, Parent Company, Subsidiaries, Associates, same-level Subsidiaries, major shareholders, or controlling parties of the Company, unless the foregoing status has ended for not less than 2 years prior to the date of submitting the application to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), provided that such prohibition shall not include the case that such independ ent director has ever been an official or advisor of the government unit which is the major shareholder or controlling party of the Company. [C] Is not the person who has relationship by blood or legal registration under the status of father, mother, spouse, brothers and sisters, and children. The prohibitive persons also include spouses of daughters and sons of management, major shareholders, controlling person or the person who is in the process of nomination to be the management or controlling person of the Company or Subsidiaries. [D] Does not have nor used to have a business relationship with the Company, Parent Company, Subsidiaries, Associates, major shareholders, or controlling parties of the Company which may interfere independent judgement of such Independent Director, including not being nor never been a significant shareholder, or controlling person of any parties having business relationship with the Company, Parent Company, Subsidiaries, Associates, major shareholders, or controlling parties of the Company unless the foregoing status has ended for not less than 2 years prior to the date of submitting the application to the SEC. The term of “business relationship” in foregoing paragraph shall include normal business transactions of rental or lease of immovable property, transaction related to assets or services, or giving or receiving financial assistance through loans, guarantees, providing assets as collateral, and any similar actions which results in the Company or the counterparty becoming indebted to the other party in the amount equal to or more than 3% of the net tangible assets of the Company or equal to or more than Baht 20 million, whichever is lower. In this regard, the calculation of such indebtedness shall be in accordance with the calculation method of the value of connected transaction under the Notification of Capital Market Supervisory Board governing the conditions of connected transaction mutatis mutandis, provided that all indebtedness incurred during the period of 1 year prior to the date of having business relationship with the above party shall also be included in the calculation. [E] Is not or has never been the auditor of the Compapy, Parent Company, Subsidiaries, Associates, major shareholders, or controlling parties of the Company, and is not a significant shareholder, controlling person, or partner of the auditing firm employing the external auditor of the Company, Parent Company, Subsidiaries, Associates, major shareholders, or controlling parties of the Company, unless the foregoing status has ended for not less than 2 years prior to the date of submitting the application to the SEC. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 87 [F] Is not or has never been the professional service provider including but not limited to legal service or financial advisor and receiving service fee exceeding Baht 2 million per year from the Company, Parent Company, Subsidiaries, Associates, major shareholders, or controlling parties, and is not a significant shareholder, controlling person, or partner of the firm providing such professional service firms, unless the foregoing status has ended for not less than 2 years prior to the date of submitting the application to the SEC. [G] Is not a director appointed to be the representative of Directors of the Company, major shareholders, or any other shareholders related to the major shareholders. [H] Does not operate the same and competitive business with the business of the Company or Subsidiaries, or is not a significant partner of the partnership, or is not an executive director, employee, staff, advisor receiving regular salary, nor holds shares in the amount exceeding 1% of the total shares with voting right of any other companies which operate the same and competitive business with the business of the Company or Subsidiaries. [I] Does not have any other characteristics which may impact the ability to express independent opinion regarding business operation of the Company. After being appointed as the Independent Director in accordance with the conditions under the article[A] [H], such Independent Director may be assigned by the Board of Directors to make decision in respect of collective decision on business operation of the Company, Parent Company, Subsidiaries, Associates, same-level Subsidiaries, major shareholders, or controlling parties of the Company. 3.2 Selection of Directors and Top-level Executives 3.2.1 Selection of Directors: The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall consider and select qualified persons to be selected as the Director and propose to the Board of Directors to further propose to the shareholder’s meeting for approval. When a director is retired by term, the Company opens for the shareholders to nominate qualified person who has qualifications as required by the laws pertaining to the securities and the Stock Exchange and as prescribed by the qualification of Directors of Company upon which the Company has submitted to the investors’ information system of the Stock Exchange of Thailand to be selected as the Director of the Company. In this regard, the shareholder can submit the qualified person in the website of the Company, and send his/her profile to E-mail: board@pranda.co.th. The nominated person shall send the letter of acknowledgement to be nominated as the Director of the Company to the Company within Dec 31 each year. When all required document are in place, the Company will propose such nomination to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Company. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall consider his/her qualifications to be in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations as well as his/her experience, knowledge, capability for best benefit of the Company to propose the qualified to the Board of Director for approval. Then, the Board of Director will further propose to the shareholder’s meeting to select the Director of the Company. The voting result in the general shareholders’ meeting shall be considered on the majority vote from the shareholders with voting right and attending the meeting. After being approved by the general shareholders’ meeting or by the resolution of the Board’s meeting (in case of replacement Director for the resigning Director), the Company shall hold orientation for newly appointed Director. 3.2.2 Selection of Independent Directors: The selection of Independent Directors shall be in compliance with the composition of the Board of Directors and the qualification of Independent Director of the Company, and with the qualifications as prescribed in the Notification of the Securities and Exchange Commission before proposing to Board of Directors and/or to the general shareholders’ meeting for approval. 3.2.3 Selection of Top-level Executive: The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall be responsible to select appropriate and qualified by considering his/her ability to support and strengthen business operation and competitiveness of the Company. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee will propose the nomination of of Top-level Executives to the Board of Directors for approval. Note: Top-level Executives include the Company’s president, senior vice president, assistant president and any other positions as determined by the Board of Directors. 88 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 4. Managing Operations of Subsidiaries and Affiliates 4.1 Managing, Supervising, and Taking responsibilities of Subsidiaries and Affiliates The regulation of the Company stipulates that the nomination and the voting to appoint the Directors of Subsidiaries and Affiliates must be approved by the Board of Director, whereby the nomination shall be proposed by the Group Executive Committee. The appointed person to be the Director of Subsidiaries or Affiliates has obligation to act for best benefits of respective Subsidiary or Affiliate. Such Director is required to obtain prior approval from the Board of Directors of the Company to be able to vote on the significant decision that, should it happen at the Company level, will also require Board of Directors’ approval. On this regard, the sending of Company’s representative to represent the Company in any particular Subsidiary or Affiliate shall be performed in accordance with the Company’s shareholding in such company. In addition, the appointed Director of Subsidiary shall further supervise the Subsidiary to strictly comply with the regulations of information disclosure and connected transaction with regard to obtaining or disposal of assets, and ensure that the record on important transactions is complete and correct on the similar standard applicable to the Company. Such representative must keep complete record and book-keeping of Subsidiary to facilitate accounting verification and to be ready to prepare consolidated financial statement of the Company in timely basis. The Company has established PRANDA Group Financial Policy so as to manage the Company’s Subsidiaries and Affiliates as follow: 1. Subsidiaries and Affiliates are required to submit Annual Business Plan to the Company 2. Subsidiaries and Affiliates are required to submit Annual Manpower Plan to the Company 3. Subsidiaries and Affiliates are required submit Annual Capital Expenditure Plan to the Company 4. Subsidiaries and Affiliates are required submit Annual Budget Plan to the Company The aforesaid business plans must be submitted to the Board of Directors for approval before the deadline by October of every year. Then, the proposed business plans of Subsidiaries and Affiliates will be reviewed and evaluated by April of the following year. In addition, the Company’s Subsidiaries and Affiliates must clarify the action plans in writing, should the outcome different from the plan. Moreover, in the case that the Subsidiaries or Affiliates request to ask for the loan from any financial institutions, or guarantee agreement, or to enter in legally-binding obligation including the appointment of the external auditor, such Subsidiary or Affiliate must obtain prior approval from the Executive Committee of the Company. 4.2 Agreement made between the Company and the other shareholders to manage Subsidiaries and Affiliates There is no special agreement in managing Subsidiaries and Affiliates, and the shared benefits shall be performed in accordance with the proportion of shareholding. 5. Inside Information Control The Company has established the principles of the best practice and responsibilities for Executives and the use of inside information by the Company’s employees in writing that can be summarized as follows: They must not abuse of power and responsibilities for the sake of their own or any others’ benefits. They must not disclose confidential information of the Company to any persons for their own or any others’ benefits without the prior consent of the Company. They must not perform any actions that may cause conflict of interests with the Company without prior informing to the Company. They must not use any inside information of the Company which has not been disclosed to the public to purchase/sell the shares of the Company for their own or any others’ benefits. The Company has imposed punishment measures for the violation upon the use of inside information in irregular manner. The violators shall be subject to disciplinary punishment and/or lawsuits as deemed appropriate. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 89 Regarding the report of security trading of the Board of Directors and Executives of the Company, the Company has already sent an offcial letter to explain their obligation to report their securities’ holding to the Securities and Exchange Commission according to Article 59 of the Securities and Exchange Act B.E. 1992. The Company has also informed the Board of Directors every time when there is any acquisition, disposal, transfer or receipt of the Company’s securities. In 2014, the Board of Directors of the Company has reported their shareholding together with the comparison of any increase [decrease] during December 27, 2013 to December 27, 2014 as follows: No. No. of Shares (Shares) No. of Shares (Shares) No. of shares increase (decrease) Dec 27, 2014 Dec 27, 2013 during the period (Shares) 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan 21,996,420 21,996,420 0 2. Mrs. Pittaya Tiasuwan 17,930,960 17,930,960 0 3. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan 16,692,060 16,288,560 403,500 4. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert 9,896,860 10,176,860 (280,000) 5. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan 9,280,560 9,280,560 0 6. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul 7,482,460 9,876,860 (2,394,400) 7. Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan 2,700,500 2,700,500 0 8. Mr. Chanat Sorakraikitikul 440,000 390,000 50,000 9. Mrs. Nirarat Tanalekhapat 160,000 160,000 0 10. Ms. Suporn Rungpiayatorn 136,000 136,000 0 11. Mrs. Chawee Jarukornvasin 42,000 42,000 0 12. Ms. Sasisopa Wattakeecharoen 42,000 80,000 (38,000) 13. Mr. Thanes Panjakrid 42,000 50,000 (8,000) 14. Mr. Decha Nuntanajaroenkul 0 10,000 (10,000) 15. Mr. Somsak Srirueangmon 0 32,000 (32,000) Remark: 1) An increase in the number of shares arising from a purchase of securities and an exercise of warrants to buy ordinary shares (PRANDA-WA) allocated under ESOP Warrant scheme. 2) A decrease in the number of shares arising from the selling and transfer of securities. 6. Auditors’ Remuneration The External Auditors of Pranda Jewelry PCL. are Mr. Narong Puntawong, Certified Public Accountant No. 3315 and/or Mrs. Chonlaros Suntiasvaraporn, Certified Public Accountant No. 4523, and/or Mr. Supachai Phanyawattano, Certified Public Accountant No. 3930 from Ernst & Young Office Limited. The Company and Subsidiaries has paid the auditing fee to Ernst & Young Office Limited for the year 2014 as following: (Unit: Baht) The Company Subsidiaries 1. Auditing fee 2,460,000 1,145,000 2. Fee for examine investment promotion certificatcate 120,000 90 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 7. Compliance with Good Corporate Government Principles in the Other Areas Section 1: Rights of Shareholders The Company realizes the importance of Good Corporate Governance principles, and recognizes the rights of the shareholders with respect of being the investors in the securities and the owners of the Company. The Company supports the shareholders to be able to execute their legitimate rights, such as sharing of Company’s profit, trading or transferring stock, attending the Shareholders’ Meeting and voting to appoint or remove the Directors and determine the remuneration of the Directors, and to appoint the external auditors and determine the remuneration of the external auditors, and to approve on the other significant matters which may affect the Company. Apart from the above basic rights, the Company encourages the additional rights of shareholders beyond their legitimate rights; e.g. providing important and updated information via the Company’s website. The Board of Directors places an emphasis on organizing the Annual General Shareholders Meeting to open the opportunity for the shareholders who are the business owners to acknowledge the Company’s operating results, to participate in decision making on important matters of the Company, and to monitor the operation of the Board of Directors and Management of the Company. Therefore, the Company shall hold the Shareholders Meeting in compliance with the relevant laws and the guidelines as prescribed in the AGM Checklist Manual which is jointly prepared by Thai Investors Association, Thai Listed Companies Association, and the Office of Securities and Exchange Commission. In 2014, the Company held one shareholders’ meeting, namely “the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting for the year 2013” on Monday April 21, 2014 at 14.00 hrs. The Meeting was held at Suan Luang Room, Novotel Hotel, Bangna, Bangkok. The Company also provided the shuttle buses to pick up and drop the attending shareholders during 12.00-13.30 hrs. at the meeting point of Phuti-Anant Sport Stadium, which was about 20 meters away from Bangna BTS station. In addition, the Company provided an appropriate welcome to the attending shareholders as well as the facilities to accommodate Shareholders’ Meeting, such as computerized meeting registration platform and elctronic voting ballot. After the Meeting, the participating shareholders were invited to join on-site Company Visit. Prior to the Meeting Date After the Board of Directors had resolved to fix the date of Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting for the year 2013, the Company provided the adequate information to be used for decision making of the shareholders at the reasonable time before the meeting date as per following procedures: • The Company assigned Thailand Securities Depository Co., Ltd. on behalf of the registrar of the Company to send the invitation letter to the Geheral Shareholders’ Meeting for the year 2013 together with the meeting agenda to the shareholders on April 4, 2013, or 17 days prior to the meeting date, which was more than 7 days prior to the meeting date as required by the laws, so as to allow the shareholders to have sufficient time to study information in advance before attending the meeting. • The Company had also posted the aforementioned invitation letter, meeting agenda, and meeting documents on the Company’s website since March 26, 2014, or 27 days prior to the meeting date. The invitation letter and attached meeting documents comprised: Facts, rationales, and the opinions of the Board of Directors The copy of the previous Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting to be certified The Annual Report of the Company together with the important information concerning the Company and the operating results in the past year The details of information to be used for consideration of every agenda. For example, the agenda to appoint the Directors to replace the Directors who retired by rotation was attached with the short profile of the Director including age, educational background, past and present positions, the holding of Company’s shares, number of terms of his/her position in the Company, positions in the other listed companies and other businesses which may cause conflict of interest with the Company, and the other legal disputes. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 91 Explanation of proxy appointment, meeting registration, verification document to be presented to attend the meeting, and voting procedures. The profiles of Independent Directors who may be appointed to be the shareholders’s proxies to attend the meeting. Meeting attending procedures The Company’s regulations related to the shareholders’ meeting Map to the meeting place Three proxy forms as stipulated by the Department of the Business Development, Ministry of Commerce; namely Form A to be used for general proxy appointment which was not complicated, Form B to be used for proxy appointment for specific agenda, and Form C to be used for foreign shareholders who appointed custodians in Thailand to be their securities keepers. Reply envelop to return the proxy form to the Company [in case that the shareholders appointed the Independent Director to be proxy holder] • The Company had advertised the meeting invitation in the newspapers on April 17-19, 2013, before the meeting date as required by the Company’s regulations and the Public Limited Company Act B.E. 2535 • The Company had established the guideline to be performed in every year meeting to open for the shareholders to be able to propose the meeting agendas to be discussed in the General Shareholders’ Meeting, to nominate qualified to be selected as the Director of the Company, to send inquiries in advance to be answered in the Shareholders’ Meeting. The shareholders were invited to unofficially submit the aforementioned subjects in advance via the Company’s website at www.pranda.co.th or www.pranda.com during October to December until the written documents from the shareholders would be received. Then, the Company would disclose the reasons of the Board of Directors to include or not include the proposed subject by the shareholders in the Shareholders’ Meeting through the information platform of the Stock Exchange of Thailand for equal public acknowledgement. For the Annual General Shareholders’Meeting in 2013, there was no shareholder to propose the additional meeting agenda, nor nominated person to be the Directors, nor any advanced questions in the Shareholders’ Meeting. In addition, the Board of Directors of the Company had included the agenda on the other matter [if any] for the shareholders to propose subjects to be considered in the Meeting to be in compliance with Section 105 of the Public Limited Company Act B.E. 2535, stipulating that the shareholders having shares in total of no less than one-thirds of the total issued shares may ask the meeting to consider the other matters apart from matters indicated in the meeting invitation. It appeared that there was no matter to be proposed for consideration in the Meeting. There were only some suggestions and inquiries which were recorded in the meeting agenda. On The Meeting Date The Company had facilitated participating shareholders and conducted the shareholders’ meeing with transparency and accountability. The Company also opened for shareholders to make any inquiries and suggestions for each agenda. On this regard, the Company held the meeting as per following details; • The Company offered the equitbable convenience for every shareholder no matter for major, retail, or institutional shareholder by providing reception staff to verify document to attend the meeting and facilitate meeting registration. • The Company organized the shuttle bus to pick up and drop attending shareholders. • The Company prepared the barcode registration and voting system. The meeting registration was opened for the shareholders at least 2 hour ahead of the meeting time, and was allowed for the shareholders arriving after the meeting began to be eligible to attend the remaining meeting. The Company carried on the meeting registration until the meeting was declaired to be closed. In addition, the Company gave the appropriate souvenir and hospitality to the attending shareholders. • All ten members of the Board of Directors had attended the Shareholders’ Meeting, accouting for 100% participation. Furthermore, Senior Executives and the external auditor also joined the meeting to clarify any questions and receive suggestions from the shareholders. • Before starting the meeting, Chairman of the meeting assigned Managing Director of the Company to explain the meeting and voting procedures, and opened for the shareholders to raise any questions on meeting procedures. 92 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 • The meeting agendas were proceeded in accordance with the predetermined order as informed in the invitation notice. • The Company already informed the stakeholding of individual Director of the Company in the invitation notice. • The Company provided the voting ballot to facilitate vote counting on the agendas requiring shareholders’ approval. For the agenda. to select the Director, the voting was done separately for each individual Director to ensure transparency and accountability. • The shareholders arriving after the meeting began shall be eligible to vote on the agenda which was in consideration but the resolution was still not finalized. • The Company prepared the meeting minute and completely recorded voting result of each agenda. • After the meeting was declaired to be closed, the Company had invited the shareholders to join on-site Company Visit. Total of 250 shareholders attended the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting for the year 2013, altogether holding the total shares of 201,746,132 shares, accounting for 49.26% of the total paid-up shares of 409,529,000 shares. The Company did not facilitate the witness of vote counting in the General Shareholders’ Meeting for the year 2013, but the Company will allow for the voluntary shareholder to be the witness of vote counting in next sharegolders’ meeting. After the Meeting Date The Company informed the resolution of the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting for the year 2013, indicating voting results on each agenda by separating into the number of voting for “Agree”, “Disagree”, and “Abstain”. The meeting resolution was prepared in writing to submit to the Stock Exchange of Thailand as we l as in the form of the online documents to submit via the SET Community Portal [SCP] on next business day after the completion of the meeting. There was no request to change the order of the meeting agendas, and no request to consider other matter which was not informed in advance in the General Shareholders’ Meeting for the year 2013. The minute of the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting in 2013 was prepared in writing which completely included the significant information of each meeting agenda, the inquiries from the shareholders and explanation from the Board of Directors, as well as the suggestions and additional opinions raised by the meeting. The Corporate Secretary shall prepare the said minute to summarize the resolution of the meeting together with the detail of voting result by separating into the number of voting for each particular type and propose to be signed by the Chairman of the meeting and the Company’s authorized Directors. The minute of the meeting would be submitted to the Stock Exchange of Thailand, the Office of Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Department of Business Development for examination and reference within 14 days after the meeting date as stipulated by regulation of SET. In addition, the Company also posted the meeting minute on the Company’s website at www.pranda.com on May 7, 2014. With the aforementioned procedures, the Company was scored as 100 from the full score of 100 on the recognition of being “Excellent” from the quality evaluation of Holding Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting [AGM], jointly appraised by Thai Investors Association, Thai Listed Companies Association, and the Office of the SEC. Section 2 : Equitable Treatment to the Shareholders The Board of Directors and the Management of the Company have committed to treat the shareholders in compliance with the rules and regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand [SET] to maintain the status of the listed company, thus encouraging every shareholder to have the basic protection to be able to receive equitable news and information of the Company. Apart from the compliance with the regulation of the information disclosure of the SET and the SEC, the Company has established the additional channel to access the Company’s information through the Company’s website which is continuously developed and provides updated information both in Thai and in English, including Press Release, Analysis Meeting, Opportunity Day event which is held by the SET, and the equitable treatment to the shareholders as follows: PRANDA Annual Report 2014 93 1. The Company opens for the shareholders to propose meeting agenda, to nominate qualified person to be the Director of the Company, and to submit the questions to be discussed in the shareholders’ meeting in advance prior to the meeting date during October to December every year. On this regard, the proposal of additional meeting agenda and the nomination of Director shall be in compliance with the relevant law and the rules and regulations of the Company, whereas the Company shall disclose the stipulated details on the Company’s website at www.pranda.com. 2. The Company prepares the proxy form for the shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting and assign the voting guideline to the others and/or the Independent Directors of the Company as the proxy holder to attend the meeting. The Company shall provide the detail of name, profiles, working experiences of every Independent Director for individual consideration to be appointed as the proxy in place of the shareholders. The proxy form will be attached with the invitation letter to the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting. 3. The Company shall not add new meeting agenda or change any important information without prior notice to the shareholders. 4. On the meeting date, the Company provides the voting ballot to be used in every agenda, including the agenda to appoint the individual Director for transparency and accountability. 5. Every shareholder is eligible to have one vote for one share. 6. The connected transaction is required to be approved by the shareholders’ meeting as prescribed by the regulations of the SET. Furthermore, the Company shall disclose the detail of related transactions and the rationale to do such transactions to the shareholders before entering into the transactions. 7. The Compamy informs the details of the transactions with related parties to ensure that those transactions shall be conducted at fair and market price, and represent normal business undertaking. 8. The Company establishes the businesss ethics to govern the use of inside information and the security trading of Company’s employee so as to prevent the Directors, Executives, and employees from abusing the inside information for their own or the others’ benefits. The Company has distributed the code of conduct to every employee in the organization to be performed and followed up on regular basis. On this regard, there is no case of security trading of Directors/Executives from the use of inside information in the year 2014. 9. The Board of Directors and Executives are obliged to report their shareholding and the change of shareholding in accordance with the Section 59 of the Securities and Exchange Act B.E. 2551 as prescribed in the regulations of the SEC. In addition, the Directors and Executives have to report their every security trading to the Board of Directors. Section 3 : Roles of the Stakeholders The Company respects the rights of all stakeholders, thus implementing the policy to provide the full rights for each particular group of stakeholders, namely the internal stakeholders such as employees and Executives of the Company and Subsidiaries, and the external stakeholders such as shareholders, customers, trading partners and creditors, competitors as well as the public society. The Company has stipulated the “Code of Conduct for the Stakeholders” in the Business Ethics section, included in the Good Corporate Governance Manual (3rd edition) dated on February 25, 2013 which can be downloaded via www.pranda.com In 2014, the treatment to the stakeholders of the Company can be summarized as follows: 94 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 1) Respect the Rights of the Stakeholders 1.1 Shareholders The Company is determined to be a good representative for the shareholders by conducting business with transparency and the objective to maximize satisfaction to the shareholders, thus focusing on long-term growth of the Company with satisfying and continuous return. The Company recognizes to not perform any actions which may violate or deprive the right of the shareholders. The Company realizes to not being complained on disrespect manner against the basic rights of the shareholders or wrongdoing manner of the Directors or the Executive pertaining to the use of inside information. In addition, the Company regularly pays dividend to the shareholders every year in compliance with our dividend policy, stipulating that the Company shall pay dividend of no more than 60% of net profit of the Company. In past 5 years, the Company had paid the dividend at 54.90% 58.97% of net profit as shown in the separate financial statement of the Company. Furthermore, the Company provided special dividend payment for the shareholders in 2002, 2006, and 2010, thus raising our rate of return. In particular, the dividend payout ratio of the Company in 2010 was as high as 128% of net profit, resulting from excessive free cash flow of the Company. 1.2 Employees The Company recognizes the value of employees, and believes that human resource shall be the most important factor of the business operation. Therefore, the Company assigns Core Values and CSR Committee to be responsible to support our employees to receive continuous training and development. In doing so, the Company promotes 14 development projects as per details in the Section of “Corporate Social Responsibility” Apart from 14 development projects as disclosed in the Section of “Corporate Social Responsibility”, the Company commits to provide fair and equitable treatment to every employee with no discrimination of his/her birthplace, nationality, religion, gender, marital status, language, or working position. The Company disagrees with child or human abuse, and opposes to any forms of corruption. In addition, the Company has determined reasonable remuneration for the employees, including temporary income, such as minimum wage for unskilled employee at 300 Baht/day. The Company reviews the employees’ benefit according to their working performance on annual basis. Thus, the average wage in 2014 stood at 450 Baht/day. In addition, the Company offers the other fringe benefit for the employee, including overtime, bonus, hardworking allowance, honorable ring for the staff working at the Company for 3, 10, and 20 years, free lunch, food voucher, yearly health check up, new year celebration, dormitory, etc. When including any other welfare, the average income of daily employee is at 560 Baht/day, whereas the wage base and welfare for each individual may be different from person to person. At present, the Company has set up long term benefits for the employee, such as Provident Fund, Saving Cooperative for staff in PRANDA Group. With those programs, the Company can reduce the turnover rate of employee. In this year, the turnover rate of skilled employees is below 2%. The Company strictly complies with the Thai Labor-Standard practice, and does not support the violation of human rights, and child or human abuse. The Company has maintained the working environment to be in pleasant and safe conditions in compliance with the professional health principle. The Company has no discrimination practice, and respects to the principles of Human Equality. 1.3 Customers The Company equally treats all customers by providing high quality and reliable products, and services, thus implementing the quality management system of “ISO 9001: 2008”. The Company is determined to manufacture international standard gems and jewelry by professionals with the strict quality control process and on time delivery so as to serve the best customers satisfaction. With our continuous improvement, the Company has passed the quality evaluation from Bureau Veritas [Thailand] and has been certified by UKAS from United Kingdom, effective for 3 years since Sep 3, 2013 Sep 2, 2016. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 95 1.4 Trading Partners and Creditors The Company commits to the agreement with the trading partners and creditors with fairness and equality, without asking for any unlawful benefits from the trading partners. The Company strongly complies with the terms and condiftion as agreed in the trading contract, and performs any obligation to the creditors as stipulated in the loan contract. Additionally, the Company has provided correct and complete financial status of the Company, and has established the procurement policy to conduct business with the trading partners in an appropriate, fair, and efficient manner. 1.5 Competitors The Company performs business with fair competition, and does not seek for confidential information of the competitors in a dishonest or illegal manner, such as paying bribe to the staff of competitors, etc. The Company has never damaged the reputation of the competitors by means of false and unfair accusation or treatments. 1.6 Society The Company conducts business together with the recognition of community, society, and environment, thus promoting the awareness of social responsibility and environment at all level of employees. The Company realizes the social responsibility as the crucial role of the Company and has established the Code of Business Ethics, stipulating that the Executives of the Company shall support the activity to be beneficial to the society, and the Company shall not conduct any action which may damage the reputation, natural resources, and environment of the country. The Company is prohibitive to cooperate or support any person to conduct illegal business or threaten the natural security. The Company also aims to promote the awareness of social responsibility and community service within the Company and all levels of the employees. The Management has supervised the Company to be in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. In this regard, the Company received no complaints from the stakeholders in 2014. 2) Respect of law and international human rights principles The Company believes that the respect of law and the international human rights principles is the foundation of the business operation and personnel development, thus being important to support the value added and improved productivity. Apart from signing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the UN Global Compact, the Company has stipulated in the Code of Ethics concerning the respect of law and human rights principles which are included in the Corporate Governance Manual [3rd edition], dated on February 25, 2013. 3) Good labor practice and respect the rights of employees The Company has determined a good labor practice and respected for the rights of the employees to be consistent with the international labor standard. The Company has passed the evaluation in compliance with BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative). In addition, the Company received the reward of being “Outstanding Workplace on labor relations and employees’ benefits for the year 2014” from the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare. The Company initiates to appoint the position of “Female Employee Advisor” in the workplace in compliance with the policy of Department of Labour Protection and Welfare. The Company provides female employee advisor with the training on the laws pertaining to the quality life development at the workplace and on personal business, as well as on the knowledge of health and safety workplace, family welfare, and economic, social, and cultural value. The said advisor shall be able to assist painful staff, and provide them with helpful suggestion or advice. 96 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 4) Enhancing quality of life in the workplace The Company has stipulated the labor policy to enhance quality of life in the workplace which is included in the Corporate Governance Manual [3rd Edition]. Apart from 9 major projects as aforementioned, the Company organizes the additional activity and projects so as to improve the quality of working life as follows; 4.1 Activities for employee knowledge development 1. Library To encourage and open for all employees to be able to obtain knowledge and education by themselves, the Company organizes the library to serve its staff and their family. The Company’s library opens daily, serves more than 3,000 books and magazines, orders new books on weekly basis, offers free internet facility with more than 10 computer stations. The average partipating staff is now more than 400 visits/month. Furthermore, the employees can search for interesting books in advance from the Company’s Intranet System, and are allowed to borrow 5 books per week. 2. Support credit transfer educational system The Company also encourages the education for the employees by holding in-house learning course in the subject of management and marketing which can be applied for credit transfer to receive Technical Vocation Certificate, and the subject of human resource management which can be applied for credit transfer to receive Higher Vocational Certificate. There have been 5 classes with more than 100 graduates so far. 3. Scholarship The Company supports Saving Cooperative of PRANDA Jewelry Group to offer the scholarships for the children of employee who are studying in the primary, secondary, vocational school, and university. The Company granted 78 scholarships in 2014, and giving financial support to 8 students in the amount of more than Baht 110,000. 4.2 Activities for employees’ financial support 1. Housing Loans The Company cooperates with Government Housing Bank to promote special housing loan package for the employee to utilize their salary account for paying installment and receiving special low interest rate. This package can considerably save financial burden for the employees. 2. Other financial supports The Company also provides the other financial assistance to the employees, such as provident fund, selling discount products, funeral financial support for father and mother or spouse, wedding financial support, maternity financial support, ordination financial support, hospitalization support, etc. 4.3 Activities to promote family institution 1. Nursery Center The Company has operated Nursery Center for the last 25 years to decrease the burden of child care taking of Company’s employees. As of today, there are children under the care of the center, taken care of by full-time trained babysitters. According to the Company’s policy, the babysitters are not just taking care of the children but they must help the children with physical and mental development prior to attending school. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 97 1. Staff dormitory The Company builds the dormitory for the employees, consisting of 3 buildings with 100 rooms each. The dormitory is divided into male, female, and family dormitories, currently serving for around 1,000 employees. 2. Children Day’s activity The Company organizes Children Day’s Activity every year. The Company invites employees and their family to join the entertaining activities and gifts for children. 4.4 Activities for health 1. Provide exercise activities, such as the Aerobics, yoga in every week 2. Prepare exercise and sporting facility, such as Fitness room, basketball and soccer playground 3. Annual Health check up for staff 4. First Aid room with a nurse and a doctor in every week 5. Fitness room in the Company 6. Organize Safety Week event 7. Holding Sport Day 4.5 Activities for ethical support 1. The Company fosters the religion and culture as following practices; 2. Inviting monk to reveive donation on every last Friday of the month 3. Pouring water on the hands of revered elders and ask for blessing in Songkran Festival 4. Celebrating the King’s Birthday 5. Food donation on Religious Day 5) Environmental training for staff The Company has realized the importance of staff and has established the policy to provide them with environmental training. Because the employees are deemed to be the valuable resources, all of them from every profession and level shall receive sufficient and continuous development on environmental preservation by giving knowledge and training on operational and environmental management. Furthermore, the Executives shall be responsible for participating in the environmental program and shall behave to be the role models to develop and maintain the environmental training system for the employees, thus responsible to support sufficient resources for every staff to participate in the follow up of the policy as well as to thoroughly communicate with the relevant party on the result of the environmental training. 6) Responsibility to the society and environment The Company complies with the UN Global Compact regarding to 4 principle areas of human rights, labour standard, environmental preservation, and anti-corruption. In addition, the Company also regularly and intentionally educates all levels of staff with the awareness of social and environmental responsibility. Our staff shall have personal responsibility to the society, and not perform any actions which may destroy the country’s reputation, natural resources and the environment. The employee of the Company must not support or cooperate with any persons who conduct illegal action or may cause any harm on or threaten the national security. The Company has stipulated the policy of social and environmental responsibility in the “Corporate Governance Manual (3rd edition)” dated on February 25, 2013 to be performed to represent the intention of sharing and returning benefits to the society. The details of the social activities in 2014 are summarized in the section of “Corporate Social Responsibility”. 98 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 7) Anti-Corruption The Company has established the policy and guideline with regard to anti-corruption measure, such as the business ethics on conflict of interest, the use of inside information, the security trading of employee, the code of conduct on giving or receiving any forms of gift, asset, or benefit which may be the motivators to perform or not perform own duty in an illegal manner, the prohibition to perform action for own, family, someone’s interest, and the business ethics governing the Executives and all employees of the Company to be commited to the principles of corporate govenance and the appropriate treatment to the stakeholders. Pranda Jewelry Public Company declared the commitment to be a member of Collective Action Coalition to support anti-corruption in private sector on Nov 9, 2010. The said project, jointly arranged by Thai Institute of Directors (IOD), Thai Chamber of Commerce, Listed Company Association, and Thai Bankers’ Association, represents the national concern and receive official support from the Government and Office of the National Anti-Corruption Commission. The Company has established the Anti-corruption policy of Pranda Group on Oct 9, 2012 to govern the Directors, Management, employees by notification on internal Email platform and internal magazine. In addition, the Company includes the Anti-corruption policy in the Corporate Governence Manual, distributes the policy to the employees to be signed for acknowledgement, and discloses information on the Company’s website. The anti-corruption policy is summarized as following; Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and Affiliated Companies expresss strong intention to conduct business with transparency in compliance with corporate governance principles, and not support any forms of direct or indirect corruption. The Company prohibits the Directors, Executives, staff, and third parties having relation with the Company to perform any actions with the sign of corruption no matter by offering, promising, soliciting, demanding, giving or accepting bribes. The Company shall not tolerate any kinds of corruption in every business and every transaction occuring in every country and with related organization. In order to comply with the policy, the Company shall review the operating procedures on regular basis to ensure compliance with any changes in the law, business, and maintain the Company’s reputation. The Policy Guideline 1. This policy is governed by the Corporate Governance Manual, Business Ethics, and relevent regulations of the Company 2. The Directors, Executives, and employees shall be aware of the risk associated with corruption when performing the following matters; 2.1 Being neutral in politics and political contribution. The Company has the policy to be neutral in politics, thus not supporting nor concentrating on any political patry whether directly or indirectly, and not sharing the resource of the Company in the activity which may lead to political bias and/or cause damange from the participation of such activity. 2.2 Charitable contribution and sponsorship. The Company shall oversee any charitable donations or financial supports which may be capable of being corrupted by establishing effective and prudent procedures and control to examine or verify relevant documents. 2.3 Gifts, Hospitality, and Expenses. The Company stipulates that giving or receiving gifts or offering hospitality shall be done in an appropriate manner according to cultural practice, but should not have too much value or have intention to convince the receiver to perform or not perform his/her duty. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 99 Anti-corruption Measures 1. The Directors, Executives, and employees shall commit to the anti-corruption policy, corporate governance practice, and business ethics not to associate with any forms of corruption whether directly or indirectly. 2. The employee should not neglect to any suspicious circumstances associated with corruption by reporting to the supervisors or related persons via the provided communication channel, and giving factual information for investigation. 3. The Company has to use justice, and protect the staff who refuses the charge of corruption, or who inform the incident of corruption from being relegated or penalized. The Company shall perform the measures to protect the complainant or informant from being in trouble as stipulated in the regulations on personal practice and the whistleblowing policy of the Company. 4. The wrongdoer of corruption is deemed to be the offence of Business Ethics of the Company, thus shall be disciplinary penalized and submitted to the prosecution in case of illegal action. 5. The Company communicates the anti-corruption policy and measures, and informs the communication channel for sending the complaints or suggestions of wrongful actions within the organization in several manners, such as Director and employee’s orientation, internal communication channel platform, Company’s news letter, etc., to develop a better understanding in the implementation of such policy. 6. The Company discloses the anti-corruption policy and measures, and prepares the communication channel for sending the complaints or suggestions of wrongful actions to the stakeholders and public in several manners, such as the Company’s website, annual report, etc. 7. The Company sets up the procedures to handle the corruption risk, including risk evaluation, prioritization, determination of proper measures, review of the past measues. On this regard, the Company appoints the Finance and Risk Management in cooperation with the Audit Committee to monitor the important risk of the Company, which includes the corruption risk, thus assigning the Internal Audit Department to be the auditor. 8. The Company organizes the personal management to represent our commitment to the anti-corrupton policy and measures, including the selection of candidate, training, evaluation of performance, determination of remuneration, promotion of staff, organization structure to separate responsibility to ensure appropriate checking and balance, and preparation of human resource to ensure proper skill to be able to perform the policy. 9. The Company shall determine the Corporate Authorization Procedure to be clear, precise, efficient, transparent, and accountable. 10. The Company establishes the adequate internal control covering the area of financial, accounting, information collection, and the other internal processes related to the anti-corruption measures and the report of internal control result for the relevant party. 11. The Company shall review the internal control system to cover important operations, such as commercial action, and procurement, to ensure the achievement of expected target. The internal control of the Company has to monitor the working operation to be in compliance with the relevant procedures and regulations, and provide improvement recommendation as deemed appropriate. The Company establishes the whistleblowing and whistleblower protection measures, as well as communicates the anti-corruption policy and measures of the Company in several manners, such as orientation of new employee, internal electronic news letter, Company’s magazine, mails to the trading counterparties and customers, Company’s website. 100 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Compliance with Policy The Company determines the duty and responsibility of the Directors, Executives, and employees to acknowledge, and perform the policy as prescribed in the Corporate Governance Manual, as well as to encourage the subordinating employees to understand and strictly commit to Corporate Governance Manual. The Company shall not perform illegal actions, or not violate the corporate governance policy. The Directors, Executives, or employees associating with wrongful actions shall be disciplinary penalized and submitted to the prosecution for the violation of laws, governmental rules and regulations. When in doubt on the aspects not mentioned in the Business Conducts of the Company, the employee should raise the following questions; 1) Whether such action is illegal 2) Whether such actions violate the policy or business ethics or damage the reputation of the Company 3) Whether such actions causes substantial negative impact to the stakeholders The employee at all levels can submit the complaint, opinion, suggestion, or any concern on illegal actions and/or a breach of Business Conducts according to the good corporate governance practices. In addition, wrongful conducts by employee of the Company’s employees or by any stakeholders can be informed in the provided communication channel (as per details in no.8 Whistleblowing Policy and Protection of Whistleblower. 8) Whistleblowing and Whistleblower Protection The Company has stipulated that Management at all levels of the Company shall be responsible for supervising the subordinating employees to strictly acknowledge, understand and commit to Corporate Governance Manual of the Company. Wrongdoer against the stipulated ethics shall receive disciplinary punishment. So as to to provide the equitable treatments to the stakeholders with fairness as prescribed in the principles of Good Corporate Governance, the Company has established the communication channels to receive the clues, complaints, opinions or suggestions of any wrongful actions which may impact or be the risk of being impacted to the stakeholders to be damaged from business operation of the Company, or the actions of employees of the Company related to illegal action or unethical action, including any actions associated with corruption, unfair treatment, or careless action. These information can be directly informed or mailed to: Chairman of the Company / Chairman of the Audit Committee Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited 28, Soi Bangna-Trad 28, Bangna Sub-District, Bangna District Bangkok 10260 Or via the provided channels: The Company’s website: www.pranda.com, Or at the following E-mail: E-mail Telephone Board of Directors board@pranda.co.th 0-2769-9923, 0-2769-9405 Corporate Secretary Office cs@pranda.co.th 0-2769-9431, 0-2769-9403 Investor Relations ir@pranda.co.th 0-2769-9431, 0-2769-9436 Public Relations pr@pranda.co.th 0-2769-9494 , 0-2769-9432 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 101 The Corporate Secretary is responsible to collect the documents from the above communication channels to summarize, and propose to the Board of Directors for acknowledgement on quarterly basis. In addition, the mail, directly addressing to the Audit Committee, will be passed to the Audit Committee to examine and record the investigation result in written form without disclosing the name of informant. The said information will be kept as confidential to protect the informant from being in any troubles. In this regard, the Company received no complaints on the violation of Business Ethics, or the corporate governance principles in 2014. Section 4 : Information Disclosure and Transparency 1) Channels of Information Disclosure The Company realizes the importance of the disclosure of important information of the Company with accuracy, completeness, sufficiency, timely, transparency, and compliance with the regulations of the Securities Exchange Commissions and the Stock Exchange of Thailand, thus supporting the shareholders and the stakeholders to equally receive the news and information of the Company. The Company has disclosed the information via the following communication channels: 1. The SET Community Portal [SCP] to disseminate the periodic reports; such as Financial Statements, Annual Registration Statements [Form 56-1], Annual Report [Form 56-2], etc., and the non-periodic reports; such as the acquisition/disposal of the assets, connected transactions, dividend payment, etc. 2. The other public media; such as newspapers, magazines, and the Company’s press release. 3. The Company’s website: www.pranda.com which is shown in both Thai and English. 4. Information for the analysts and the investors upon the Company Visit. In 2014, the Company has regularly provided information and held activities according to the communication plan in compliance with the Company’s business strategy and direction. So as to ensure the quality of information disclosure, the Company disclosed information through the following Departments: Corporate Communication Department has the duty to publicize and disseminate news, information, activities of the Company; such as 7 special management interviews on TV programs, 118 interviews with several news agencies, and 109 press releases on the activity of the organization. The Company also uploaded quarterly Pranda Group Newsletter both in Thai and English on the Company’s website. Corporate Secretary Office has the duty to disseminate information as stipulated by the regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand [SET] and the Office of Securities Exchange Commission [SEC] with accuracy, completeness, and transparency upon the proper protocol. The Company issued 27 reports to the SET in 2014. The Company recognizes the relationship with the investors Relations, thus performing duty with responsibility, integrity, determination, accuracy, sufficiency, reliability, and timely in order to support the investors, analysts, and related party with to receive adequate, correct, complete, transparent, and equitable information. The Company assigns the Investors Relations Department to centralize the offensive investor relations activities according to the general practice of international leading organization. Investors Relations Department has the duty to communicate and to provide information of the Company which is benefcial to the investors in order to strengthen the relationship between the Company and shareholders, institution investors, general investors, analysts, and related government sectors in a equitable and fair manner. In addition, the Investor Relations Department is responsible to prepare the annual investor relations plan which is regularly attended by the Company’s top-level Executives. Managing Directors and the relevant Executive shall have the opportunity to present the Company’s operating result, as well as provide additional information and answer the questions to be raised in the meeting with the analyst, investors, and the mass media. The investor can access the Company’s information provided by the Investor Relation Department via 4 following channels: 102 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Mr. Dusit Chongsutthanamanee Investor Relations Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited 28 Soi Bangna-Trad 28, Bangna, Bangna, Bangkok 10260 ir@prande.co.th Telephone: 02769-9431, 0-2769-9436 (Direct line) or 0-2769-9999, 0-2361-3311 Ext. 431, 436 Fax: 0-2398-2141 The Company arranged or participated in several important activities in 2014. For instance, joining the Opportunity Day, to be held by the Stock Exchange of Thailand on March 13, 2014 and on Sep 3, 2014 to allow the listed companies to meet the investors, analysts, and the media so as to provide information, movement, business operation, and future plan. The Company organized 9 events of Company Visits attended by 21 investors. The Company hosted 8 conference calls with 15 investors. The Company also reported the earning releases through following media: 1. The Company’s Website under the Investor Relations 2. Facebook of Pranda Group, and Facebook of the other leading value investors 3. Website of ShareInvestor and the online network of Shareinvestor, such as Thai Investors Association, Manager Online, Thailistedcompany.com, and the Wall Street Journal. 4. Webboard of the Thai Value Investor Association in Pranda ChatRoom; such as at www.thaivi.org. 5. E-mail distribution list of about 1,000 shareholders and fund managers. 2) Financial Report The Board of Directors of the Company is responsible for producing correct, complete, and transparent financial statements to ensure the prevention of assets of the Company from being lost or used by the other persons with no authority, protection of corruption or unusual conducts, and compliance with the general accepted accounting standard and the applicable laws or notifications, thus leading to the stakeholders’ confidence in our trustable financial report. The Board of Directors assigns the Audit Committee to review the Company’s financial statement to be in compliance with the proper accounting policy, which shall be consistently performed as prescribed in the related laws and announcement. In addition, the Committee has to review the accuracy and adequacy of the financial statement. In doing so, the Audit Committee has held at least 4 meetings every year with the external auditors without the presence of the Management in order to ask for the opinion from the auditors in various matters. The Company appointed the auditors from Ernst & Young Office Limited to be the external auditors, with proven knowledge and auditing skill and without conflicts of interest which may interfere independent or fair auditing performance. The said external auditors had complete qualification as necessary to help the Directors and the shareholders to ensure that the financial statement of the Company reflected the accurate and reliable financial position and represented the correct operating results of the Company in all aspects. The Company also proposed the quarterly Management Discussion and Analysis [MD&A] to provide analysis explanation of the financial status, operating results, and significant changes on the SET’s electronics portal together with the financial statements. In this regard, the Company has never been ordered to amend the incorrect financial statements by the SEC, and regularly discloses the annual report and quarterly report to the shareholders and investors prior to the due date. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 103 3) Disclosure of the Information on the Website The Company provides the corporate website for the shareholders and interested persons to be able to access public information of the Company. The important information on the website are as follows: 1. “About Us” consists of Message from Chairman, Core Values, History, the Board of Directors, PRANDA Social Responsibility, Awards & Recognition, and Organization Chart of Pranda Group 2. “PRANDA Group” consists of Design and Product Development Base, Manufacturing Base, Distribution Base, and Retail Base 3. “Products” consists of Gold Jewelry, Silver Jewelry, Costume Jewelry, and Commemorative Products 4. “Brands” consists of Precious Product and Lifestyle Product. 5. “News & Events” consists of Press Release, Events, Newsletter, and Subscribe E-Newsletter. 6. “Investors Relations” consists of Corporate Information, Financial Information, Stock Information, Publications, Corporate Governance, News Room, Shareholder Information, Analyst Coverage, Events & Presentations, and Information Request. The Company invites interested persons to visit the Company’s website at www.pranda.com. 4) Disclosure of the Remuneration of the Directors and Executives The Company discloses the remuneration of the Company’s Directors and Executives in the Annual Report as prescribed by the information disclosure requirement of the Office of SEC and the SET. The Company shall disclose the remuneration both in the form of money and the other benefits. The remunerations of Non-Executive Directors will be classified by type, whereas the remuneration of Executive Directors will be reported as the whole amount altogether with the remuneration for the Executives. The remuneration of the Company’s Directors, Executive Directors, and Management shall be determined with transparency at the appropriate amount to be comparable with the same industry, and suitable with their duties and responsibility, and with the operating performance of the Company. In addition, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and provide recommendation on the remuneration of the Directors to the Board of Directors to later propose to the shareholders’ meeting for approval. The remuneration of the Executive Directors and top-level Executives of the Company complies with the principles and policy stipulated by the Board of Directors to be related to the Company’s operating results. In this regard, the Company shall evaluate the Key Performance Indicator [KPI] every year to consider the Remuneration in the form of salary. The remuneration of the Directors, and Executives in 2014 is shown in the section of “Management Structure”. 5) Disclosure of Roles and Duties of the Board of Directors and the Sub-Committees The Company disclosed the names, roles, and duties of the Board of Directors and the Sub-Committees in the section of “Management Structure” in the Annual Report, including the total number of meetings and participations of each individual Member for the year 2014. 6) Disclosure of Changes in Shareholding of the Directors and Top-Level Executives The Company establishes the Code of Conduct for confidential information, the use of inside information, and the security trading of employee. Thus the Company shall inform changes in shareholding of the Directors of the Company. The top-level Executives of the Company are required to declare the number of shareholding at end of previous year, together with the number of shares increasing or decreasing in the current year. The detail of the use of inside information is reported in the section of “Corporate Governance”. The Directors and Executives is responsible for disclosing the shareholding by submitting the report of their shareholding and their trading of the Company’s share to the Corporate Secretary Office to later propose to the SEC and SET within the period as prescribed by the relevent laws and regulations every time when having changes in shareholding. The Corporate Secretary Office shall report every change in shareholding of Directors and Executives to the Board of Directors. 104 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 7) Disclosure of stakeholding of the Directors The Company determines the policy to disclose the transactions connected with the Directors. Therefore, the Directors and Executives have to inform the Company to acknowledge the stakeholding of their own and their related persons to be in compliance with the Article 89/1 of the Security and Exchange Act, by submitting the report of their connected transactions with the Company to the Corporate Secretary Office, in order to later propose to the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of Audit Committee within 7 days after the Company has received such report. Section 5 : Responsibility of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors, on behalf of the representative of the shareholders, is responsible to supervise the management and administration of the Company to comply with the laws, and objective and regulations of the Company. Meanwhile, the Board shall perform business operation in compliance with the philosophy of economic sufficiency, thus stipulating the vision, mission, strategy, policy, objective, and business plan to be in line with the principles of “Sufficiency of Growth”, “Rationality in Business Operation”, and “Good Protection for Business”, all of which shall be done upon the expertise and business ethics. The Company establishes the framework to oversee the responsibilities of the Board of Directors as followings: 1) Structure of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors has considered the structure of present Board of Directors to be appropriate with their duties, and in compliance with the Company’s regulations and Code of Conduct pertaining to the Board of Directors as predetermind by the Board of Directors. The composition, qualifications, and scopes of duties of the Board of Directors are disclosed in the section of “Management Structure”. 1.1 Composition of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors comprises the Independent Directors of at least one-thirds of total members of the Board of Directors, but no less than 3 members. At present, there are 3 existing Independent Directors out of the total of 10 members of the Board of Directors. The total of Board of Directors comprises of 4 Executive Directors and 6 Non-Executive Directors, 3 of whom are the Independent Directors. 1.2 Qualifications of Independent Directors The Independent Directors of the Company shall have the complete qualifications as stipulated by the Capital Market Supervisory Board, as per details in No.3 the Selection and Appointment of the Director and Executive. 1.3 Selection and Office Term At every annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting one-third (1/3) of the Directors or, if the number of Directors cannot be divided exactly into three parts, the number of Directors nearest to one-third (1/3) shall retire. The retiring Directors in the first and the second year after the Company’s registration shall be selected by drawing. The retiring Directors in the subsequent years will be the Directors who holds longest period in office. The Directors retiring by rotation may be eligible for re-election. The Directors of the Company, excluding Independent Directors, shall retire at the age of 72 years. 1.4 Directorship in the other companies For the efficient performance as the Board of Directors, the Company has stipulated that a Director shall have the position in the other listed companies of no more than 3 companies. When necessary, the Director, who holds the position of the Directors in more than 3 listed companies, has to inform the shareholders for the rationale to have those Director positions and the names of those companies. The Company also discloses the said information in the section of “Profiles of the Directors and Executives” in the Annual Report. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 105 1.5 Directorship of Managing Director in the other companies The Company has determined the policy of holding Director position of Managing Director in the other companies that Managing Director of the Company shall hold the position of Managing Director in only one listed company in order to have sufficient time for managing business operation of the Company, and shall not have the partnership with or have the Director position in the other juristic persons which perform the same business as the Company or being the competitor of the Company no matter for the benefit of oneself or others, unless such action is informed to the shareholders’ meeting for acknowledgement prior to the appointment of such position. 1.6 Separation of the duty of the Chairman and Managing Director The Company has separated the position of the Chairman of the Board and the Managing Director, and prohibited such 2 positions from being the same person in order to encourage the system of check and balance, and to prevent any overlapping of power. The roles, duties and responsibilities are clearly separated as follows: The Chairman of the Board performs the strategic and supportive leader to encourage all members of the Board of Directors to cooperate in the meetings, supervise and support the management’s operation through the Managing Director with no interference to the routine or daily business operation under the responsibility of the Managing Directors. The Managing Director performs the main duty to supervise the management of the Company to be in compliance with the vision, mission, strategy, and policy as specified by the Board of Directors. 1.7 Corporate Secretary The Board of Director has appointed Mr. Dusit Chongsutthanamanee as the Corporate Secretary on December 19, 2008 to help proceed the activities of the Board of Directors and the Company, namely, arranging meetings of the Board of Directors and the shareholders, providing suggestion to the Directors and the Company to comply with the relevent law and other regulations on regular basis. In addition, the Corporate Secretary has to ensure the accuracy, completeness, and transparency of the information disclosure of the Company’s Directors and the Company as stipulated in the good corporate governance practices. The details of composition and qualifications, including the duty and responsibility of the Corporate Secretary are shown in the section of “Management Structure”. 2) Appointment of Sub-Committees on specific matters The Board of Directors has appointed Sub-Committees which include knowledgeable experts to preliminarily screen the assigned matters for initial accuracy, clearness, and completeness prior to proposing to the Board of Directors for consideration or approval, as the case may be, so as to support the management of the Board of Directors. The Company currently has 5 Sub-Committees, namely: 2.1 Group Executive Committee The Group Executive Committee comprises of seven members, four of whom are from the Board of Directors and the remaining three members are Non-Director Members. The Group Executive Committee has the duties and responsibility to make decision on and supervise the Company’s business operation within the scope of authority as assigned by the Board of Directors, including screening the business matters prior to proposing to the Board of Directors for consideration. 106 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 2.2 Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises of three Independent Directors, one of whom, as appointed by the Board of Directors, has good knowledge of financial and accounting and has complete qualifications as stipulated by the Stock Exchange of Thailand. The Audit Committee has to review the financial statement, formulate the internal control system, supervise the Company’s operation to be in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Act, the regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand, and the other relevant laws governing the Company’s business. In addition, the Audit Committee shall consider on the appointment of external auditors, and review the connected transactions and the transaction that may cause conflicts of interest of the Company. The Audit Committee has to provide the report of the corporate governance to be signed by the Chairman of the Audit Committee so as to disclose in Annual Report of the Company. 2.3 Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprises of six Directors, whereas one Independent Director shall perform as the Chairman of the Committee. Though the remaining five Directors are not Independent Directors, the process and procedures to nominate the Directors and top-level Executives shall comply with the principles of Best Practices, thus being performed in a clear and transparent manner comparable to the other listed companies in the same industry, and for long-term benefit of the Company and all stakeholders. 2.4 Finance and Risk Management Committee The Finance and Risk Manageent Committee comprises of four Directors from the Board of Directors, and the remaining four members are selected from the experts with knowledge and specialization in capital management, investment analysis, and risk management to protect any impact to business operation of the Company. 2.5 Core Values and CSR Committee The Core Values and CSR Committee comprise of one Director from the Board of Directors, and the remaining eight members are selected from the Executives of the Company and our associated companies. The Core Values and CSR Committee is responsible to promote and represent the Company’s vision to the organization behavior of the whole Group to be in the same direction together with the scope of the Core Value in an appropriate and tangible manner. 3) Roles, Duties and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors 3.1 The Board of Directors is responsible for consideration and approval of important matters concerning the Company’s business operation, such as vision and mission, strategy, financial objective, risk, business planning and budgeting. The Board of Directors shall supervise the Management to perform their duties efficiently and effectively in compliance with the stipulated plan and policy. The authorities, duties, and responsibilities of the Board of Directors are shown in the section of “Management Structure”. 3.2 The Board of Directors has established the Good Corporate Governance Policy of the Company in writing since 2000. 3.3 The Board of Directors formulates the Code of Business Ethics in writing to be the guideline and the best practice for the Directors, Executives, and all employees to understand the ethical standard to be used in the business operation of the Company. The follow-up of the said practice shall be strictly performed. The Company included the Business Ethics in the Corporate Governance Manual (3rd Edition), which is distributed to the Directors and all employees of the Company to be signed for acknowledgement, and strictly performed. 3.4 The Board of Directors stipulates the Business Ethics on the conflict of interest to govern the practice of employees at all levels and the Board of Directors to perform their operations with carefulness when having the transactions with conflict of interest. The Company sets up the policy and procedures to approve the connected transactions, and shall disclose the complete information. In addition, the Company has determined the supervisory policy and procedures to prevent the Executives and related persons from using inside information of the Company as follows: PRANDA Annual Report 2014 107 • The connected transactions or the transaction with related party, which seemed to have any conflicts of interest, will be submitted to the Audit Committee to review and give opinion as prescribed by the regulations of the SET and the SEC prior to proposing to the Board of Directors for approval. • The Company has stipulated that when any Directors, Executives, or related persons may have benefits from the trans action with the Company, the Company shall disclose the said conflicts of interest arising from the transaction. In addition, the related Directors or Executives are not permitted to attend the meeting to make decision on such transactions. • The information disclosure of the transaction with possible conflict of interest, the connected transaction, or the transaction with related party shall comply with the regulation stipulated by the governmental unit. • The information disclosure of business connection or the other business which may have benefits related to the Directors or top-level Executives shall be reported every 3 months to be monitoring information and to be the source of information with regard to the connected transactions to be disclosed in the Note to Financial Statements of the Company. 3.5 The Board of Directors establishes the Code of Business Ethics concerning connected transactions to be performed by the Company and Subsidiaries. The connected transaction of the Company shall represent normal business operation and be conducted for the best benefit of the Company. The Audit Committee and the external auditors of the Company have to verify the appropriateness of price and rationale of such transactions. The Board of Directors shall perform operation in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Act, the other notifications or regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand, as well as the other relevant regulations regarding to information disclosure of connected trans actions, and the acquisition and disposal of assets of the Company as prescribed by the accounting standard governed by the Federation of Accounting Professions For the transactions according to the section 89/12 of the Securities and Exchange Act [No. 4] B.E. 2551 to be engaged by the Company or Subsidiaries with the Directors, Executives, or related persons, the Board of Directors authorizes the Management to be able to approve those transactions only when those connected transactions are conducted in the same conditions when the other reasonable person shall perform the similar transaction. The terms of trade to be agreed in such transactions must be absent of the interference from the related Directors, Executives or other related persons. This said measure shall be applicable every time when the Company may enter into the transaction with the size of over 1% of the Company’s total income as of the end of previous accounting period. These transactions must be reported to the Board of Directors as deemed appropriate. 3.6 The Board of Directors has established the policy of the internal control system by focusing on the efficiency of the internal control system at both the management and the operational levels. The Company shall stipulate the scopes of duties and authority of the Executives in writing, supervise the assets utilization of the Company for best benefit, and review the budgeting system and feasibility study prior to making investment decision. Additionally, the Company sepa rates the duties of the operator and the evaluator to encourage the principle of check and balance. On February 23, 2015, the Board of Directors prepared the evaluation form for the sufficiency of the internal control system of the Company and Subsidiaries. The details of such evaluation covered 5 areas; namely, 1) Internal Control within the organization, 2) Risks Assessment, 3) Operational Control, 4) Information and Communication System, 5) Monitoring System. The summary of the evaluation result is shown in the section of “Internal Control and Risk Management”. 108 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 3.7 The Board of Directors stipulates the risk management policy by focusing on the risks management, thus assigning the Finance and Risk Management Committee to formulate the scopes and policy of the risk management. The Finance and Risk Management Committee shall hold the meetings every 6 months with the Executive Committee to evaluate the potential risks both from internal and external factors of the whole organization. The Company shall prepare the report of risks assessment of each units of the Company to establish the prevention and risk-mitigation policy, including the framework to control the risks at the acceptable level. The Company determines the risks which may impact the Company’s operation, including the risk to business operation, the risks on production process, and financial risks. The detail of risk factors of the Company is explained in the section of “Risks Factors”. 4) Meeting of the Board of Directors 4.1 The meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company is normally scheduled in advance throughout the year. 4.2 The Board of Directors holds the meeting on quarterly basis to allow the Directors to have adequate preparation time to attend every meeting so as to to encourage best benefit for the Company. However the special meetings for specific matter can be held as deemed appropriate. 4.3 The notice of the Board of Directors’ meeting together with the details of meeting agenda and the other meeting documents shall be sent to all Directors at least 7 days prior to the meeting, so as to allow every Director to have adequate time to study the meeting agendas. 4.4 Each meeting of the Board of Directors will take around 2-3 hours. 5) Self-Assessment of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors has performed the Self Assessment of the Board at least once a year in order to review the sufficiency and evaluate management performance. The result of such assessment will be used by the Management of the Company to improve or develop more efficient management. The self-assessment of the Board uses the self-assessment form of the Stock Exchange of Thailand as the guideline to determine the scope to evaluate the performance of the Board of Directors. In this regard, at every year-end, the Company shall hold the assessment of the performance of the Chairman of the Executive Committee conducted by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, then later proposing to the Board of Directors for opinion. The self-assessment in 2014 was divided into 3 important parts; namely, 1) Corporate KPI, 2) Leadership Competency, and 3) Budget and Project Management. The result of the aforementioned assessment will be used to determine the remuneration of the Chairman of the Group Executive Committee prior to proposing to the Board of Directors for approval. 6) Remuneration The Company appropriately determines the remuneration of the Directors and Executive Directors, and Executives to motivate and maintain quality Directors, Executive Directors, and Executives. The remuneration of the Company shall be comparable with the other companies of the same industry, and suitable with the contribution from each individual Director, and related to overall operating results of the Company. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is responsible for formulating the procedure to consider the remuneration, the remuneration payment, and propose the result of determination to the Board of Directors for consideration so as to later propose to the Shareholders’ Meeting for approval. The remuneration of the Senior Executives of higher than Department Manager level shall comply with the principles and policy as stipulated by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee in connection with the Company’s operating results, as well as with their annaul Key Performance Indicator [KPI] in order to determine their salary. The remuneration of the two Committees and the Executives of the Company in 2014 is shown in the section of “Management Structure”. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 109 7) Development of Directors and Executives 7.1 The Board of Directors has encouraged and supported trainings to the Management, such as Directors, Audit Committee members, Executives, Corporate Secretary, etc. to continuously improve their operation. The Company organizes the program of “Sustainable Business Management” to help the Executives to be able to perform strategic planning, analytical thinking, and problem solving, thus leading to sustainable success of the Company. 7.2 The Board of Directors has the orientation policy to prepare newly-appointed Directors to have a brief information of business, structure of the Group, the business operation of the Group, rules and regualtions, policies, and business ethics and the Code of Business Conduct for the Directors as prescribed by the regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand the Securities [SET] and the Office of Securities Exchange Commission [SEC] to ensure their complete capability to perform duty as the Director of listed company. In addition, the Company also provides the presentations on the overview of jewelry industry, operating results, and present and future business project of the Company. 7.3 The Board of Directors has encouraged the Directors to receive knowledge for continuous development to increase their understanding of roles, duties and responsibilities, and to strengthen their management skill as the Director of listed company. The Directors and Executives of the Company has participated in the several traning arranged by the related organizations; such as the training by the Institute of Directors [IOD] as follows; Training Participation by the Board of Directors Programarranged by IOD (Class) Directors DCP DAP FN CDC Program arranged by the other Insitution 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan 37/2548 2. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul 17/2545 3. Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan 22/2545 Top Executive Program, Capital Market Academy (Class 11) 4. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert 26/2547 5. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan 46/2547 16/2547 12/2547 6. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan 25/2547 7. Mrs. Pittaya Tiasuwan 26/2547 8. Mr. Verachai Tantikul 37/2546 9. Mrs.Rawitha Pongnuchit 59/2548 1. Top Executive Program in Justice Management (Class 3) 2. Top Executive Program in Commerce and Trade (Class 1) 3. Top Executive Program, Capital Market Academy (Class 3) 4. Public Administration and Public Law Program, King Prajadhipok s Institute (Class 3) 5. National Defense Course of Joint State-Private Sector (Class 15), by Thailand National Defense College 110 AnnualPRANDA Report 2014 Programarranged by IOD (Class) Directors DCP DAP FN CDC Program arranged by the other Insitution 10. Mr. Chamnong Watanagaset 5/2544 1/2550 1. Top Executive Program, Capital Market Academy (Class 6) 2. Tactical Training in Hostage Rescues, US Marshal Service, Department of Justice, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, USA, 1990 (B.E. 2533) (1-month) 3. Marketing Coaching, Tack Training International, London, UK, 1991 (B.E. 2534) (5-week) DCP = Director Certification Program / DAP = Director Accreditation Program / ACP = Audit Committee Program / FN = Finance for Non-Finance Program / CDC = Chartered Director Class. 7.4 The Board of Directors stipulates the Executives and the relevant staff to receive the training in the course for Corporate Secretary, course pertaining to Good Corporate Governance, course for Internal Audit, and the other related courses arranged by organizations and institutions to enhance their knowledge and understanding of duties and responsibility, as well as to be able to fully support the operation of the Board of Directors and the Sub-Committees. 7.5 The Board of Director has established the succession planning for the position of the Chairman of Executive Committee and Top-level Executives of the position higher than Department Managers level to ascertain the confidence of the stakeholders, whether the shareholders, customers, and employees, that the business operation of the Company shall be carried on with the suatainable growth policy in compliance with the Code of Business Ethics. The Board of Directors has organized the projects of knowledge development to improve management skills for the Executives to be suitable with their duties and the other assignment. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 111 Internal Control and Risk Management In the Board of Directors’ meeting no. 1/2015 held on 23 February 2015, the Board of Director evaluated the internal control system from the assessment report of the Audit Committee and summarized that according to the evaluation of the Company’s internal controls which has been divided into 5 major components, i.e. Environmental and Corporate Control, Risk Assessment, Control Activities, Information System and Communication , and Monitoring System, the Board of Director opined that the Company had adequate and appropriate internal control system. The Audit Committee performed the duties and responsibilities specified in the Audit Committee Charter approved by the Board of Directors of the Company with the knowledge, capability, carefulness and adequate independency for benefits of all stakeholders on an equal basis. The Audit Committee opined that the internal control system of the Company is sufficient and appropriate, and effective and efficient to the operation, the financial report is accurate, credible and in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards, and the operation is in accordance with the good corporate governance system and in compliance with the laws, regulations and obligations relevant to the business operation of the Company. The internal control system follows the scope of the internal control which is in accordance with the international standard COSO (The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission). The Board of Directors of the Company had the same opinion with the Audit Committee on the internal control system which can be summarized as follows: 1. Environmental and Corporate Control The Company supported good work environment, appropriate corporate structure, clear chain of command and relationship between internal functions, work specification of each position, and appropriate power and responsibility assignment of each position in order to achieve the determined goal. The Company also supported compliance to the good corporate governance policy through the establishment of the Code of Conducts; stipulation of policy and operation plan based on the fairness toward the employees, clients, trading partners, including the responsibility toward the shareholders taking into account the importance and preservation of the benefit of the investors and stakeholders with equality; and disclosure of information with accuracy, complete, transparency, and timely manner. In addition, the Company gives an importance upon personnel which receives the support from the Core Values and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee to promote mutual value creation to the group of companies by creating complete staff participation, and accordingly applying activities with the way of operation following mutual values, as well as consistently providing training and development, knowledge, skill, and ability for appropriate assigned work in order to promote the potentiality of the Company’s staff to reach the excellence and standard on a continuous basis. The Company signed the declaration of intent to join the “Thai Private Sector Collective Action Coalition against Corruption”, organized by the Thai Institute of Directors (IOD), an institution accepted domestically and internationally for its leading role in corporate governance. 2. Risk Assessment The Company has stipulated clear objectives and corporate operating targets which can be evaluated. The Company is systematic with indication procedure and evaluation of internal and external risks of the Company. The Company has established risk analysis and evaluation as risk prevention and management. Also, the risk management follow-up procedure is set to ensure the utmost efficiency and effectiveness of the risk management. 112 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 3. Control Activities The Company has clearly set up the scope of duty and authorized financial amount of each level of the management in written form, in which the important responsibilities are separated, such as approving, transaction recording, information processing, and asset maintenance, to mutually cross check the transaction. However, for the transaction with related business or persons, the Company follows the guidelines of the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) to prevent any conflict of interest taking into consideration the utmost benefit of the Company and its shareholders. 4. Information System and Communication The Company places an importance upon accuracy, credibility, and timely manner of the information and communication system and continuous development of the information system which includes financial and operation information system, policy, and regulations to promote accurate and quick decision making. The Company also established systematic information processing procedure and information system controlling in terms of the access of the information and usage of the information. In addition, the Company provides internal and external information system and channel of communication system with efficiency and effectiveness. Also, there is a communication channel for communication with the stakeholders in an efficient and timely manner. The information is published on www.pranda.com 5. Monitoring System In 2014, the Company had organized 20 meetings of the Board of Directors in order to consider and review the performance of the management to ensure its following of the goal. The Company has ongoing procedures of follow-up and operation supervision of each level with appropriateness. This is to ensure that the measurement and the internal control system are constantly effective to response to any change with appropriateness in due time. The Company’s examination of the compliance of the internal control system is performed consistently. The office of internal audit works independently to assess the operating performance. In 2014, there were 5 meetings of the Audit Committee to review the internal control system and follow the operation as well as to report the summary to the Board of Directors within appropriate period. Chief Internal Auditor The audit committee has appointed Mr. Yutthasart Sangpongsanont to be the internal audit manager in the internal audit division starting from Oct 13, 2014 for his experience in the internal audit for more than 20 years. He also received the ‘Certified Professional Internal Auditor (CPIA)’ certificate from the Institute of Internal Auditors of Thailand. He also used to be a special instructor for the Master of Business Administration program, in particular ‘the internal audit and control process’ course, at the Southeast Asia University. Mr. Yutthasart Sangpongsanont, therefore, appears eligible to be accountable for the evaluation of efficiency and effectiveness as well as sufficiency of the internal controlsystem. His role also includesthe inspection of the overall performance of the organization. He is entitled to be the Chief Internal Auditor. Chief Compliance Officer The company has entrusted Mr. Dusit Chongsutthanamanee to be the head of the Compliance department responsible for overseeing the company in accordance with the official standards. He is entitled to be the Chief Compliance Officer. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 113 Report of Audit Committee Dear Shareholders of Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited, The Audit Committee of Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited consists of 3 members, namely, Mr. Verachai Tantikul as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Mrs. Rawittha Pongnuchit and Mr. Chamnong Watanagase as Audit Committees. Such persons have full qualifications in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Stock Exchange of Thailand and the Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission and also have knowledge, abilities, experiences and visions beneficial to the operation of the Audit Committee of the Company. The Audit Committee performed the duties in accordance with the Audit Committee Charter approved by the Board of Directors of the Company and the regulations of the Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The operation of the Audit Committee aims to maintain the good corporate governance system of the Company and to encourage the operating efficiency and value to the Company which lead to effectiveness of the business operation objective and target of the Company. In 2014, the Audit Committee had organized 5 meetings and all of which were attended by all members of the Committee and the external and internal auditors to consider and review financial statements and connected transactions of the Company and its subsidiaries, listen to explanation, and provide suggestion which is beneficial to accuracy, completeness, and credibility of financial statements, including efficiency improvement of the corporate internal control. There was no management of the Company attended the meetings. The results of each meeting had been summarized and proposed to the Board of Directors of the Company for acknowledgement and proceeding of improvement. The performance and operation of the Audit Committee can be significantly summarized as follows: 1. Accuracy, completeness and credibility of the financial reports: The Audit Committee had jointly considered and reviewed the quarterly and annual financial reports for the year 2014 with the Auditor to ensure that the financial reports of the Company and its subsidiaries were prepared fairly in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, in all material respect, there was the disclosure of sufficient, complete and credible information, and the Committee provided remarks and acknowledged problem solving guidelines which created benefit to the Company. The Committee has also encouraged the application and implementation of International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in accordance with the guidelines of Federation of Accounting Professions and the Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 2. Sufficiency of internal control and internal audit systems: The Committee had supervised the internal auditing to ensure its compliance with the accounting professional standards with the implementation of risk evaluation and internal control system following the international standard of COSO and the principles of Risk-Based Management, as well as considered annual auditing plan, reported the results of the Internal Auditing Office, followed up the problem resolution continuously, and provided suggestion to the Internal Auditing Office and the Management for operation improvement. The Committee also considered and supported man power and development of personnel of the Internal Auditing Office on a continuous basis. The Audit Committee opined that the internal control system and the internal auditing were sufficient. The opinion was performed toward the annual auditing plan, the auditing report of the Internal Auditing Office, and the performance review report of procedures and systems, and proposed to the Management for further improvement as indicated by the findings of the internal auditors. 3. Risk management: During the previous year, the Audit Committee had placed an importance upon corporate risks by considering and reviewing risks which might have an impact on the Company’s operation and target. 114 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 4. Compliance with relevant regulations and laws: The Audit Committee constantly reviews to ensure the Company’s compliance with the laws governing securities and exchange, the regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and the laws related to the business operation of the Company. The Committee opined that the compliance list contains sufficient information and the Company has duly complied with the laws governing securities and exchange, the regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and the laws related to the business operation of the Company. 5. Connected transaction or transaction with potential conflicts of interest: The Audit Committee had considered and reviewed the connected transactions of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies, including the transactions with potential conflicts of interest, to ensure their actual transactions performed under normal business operation as well as to ensure the Company’s compliance with the business agreements and the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Stock Exchange of Thailand. 6. Consideration of the selection and appointment of the Auditor: The Audit Committee considered selection, appointment and remuneration of the Company’s auditor in 2014 to propose to the Board of Directors of the Company to further propose to the shareholders’ Annual General Meeting 2013 to be held on 21 April 2014 for approval. The Committee would consider performance, independency, and appropriateness of the remuneration. The list of candidates would be proposed to the shareholders’ Annual General Meeting for approval. The Audit Committee had considered and opined that the Company’s implementation and disclosure of financial reports were accurate, appropriate, and credible. Its internal control system, internal auditing, and risk management were appropriate and efficient. Moreover, the Company was in compliance with laws, regulations, and agreements. Connected transactions were carefully considered with strictness and the practices sufficiently followed the good corporate governance with transparency and credibility. Also, the quality of the operation system had been continuously developed and was suitable with the business environment. Mr. Verachai Tantikul Chairman of the Audit Committee PRANDA Annual Report 2014 115 Related Party Transactions The Company and its subsidiaries have an agreement of the connected transaction. The connected transaction is the normal business transaction of the Company and its subsidiaries which follows general trading condition and complies with the Securities and Exchange Act (issue 4) B.E. 2551 Section 89/12 (1). On August 13, 2008, the Board of Directors had principally approved the authorization of the Executive Director to enter connected transaction under the general trading condition. The Executive Director is able to enter such aforementioned transaction when the transaction is done under the same trading agreement as reasonable persons should conduct with general party to a contract under the same situation with trading negotiation power regardless of being an influential person in the position of Director, Executive, or related person. Together with setting out the business ethics of connected transaction by the Board of Director should comply with rule and regulation of the Securities of Exchange Commission and the Securities. The audit committee should consider the new connected transaction in various aspects of the reasonable price, suitable transaction and the size of transaction in order to propose to the Board of Director s’ approval. For the accounting period ended December 31, 2014, the Company had no the connected transactions which were complied with the Notification of the Stock Exchange of Thailand Re: Principles, Conditions, Methods of Connected Transactions of the Listed Companies. Related persons/ Juristic persons Transaction Value Necessity and Reasonability A-List Corporate Ltd. and Supree The subsidiary (Pranda Lodging Co. Interest rate of 7% The Board of Directors approve the Holding Co., Ltd. with Pranda Lodging Ltd.) provided financial help of Baht which are paid on subsidiary’s entering connected Co. Ltd., a subsidiary which PRANDA 13,000,000 to related juristic persons the monthly basis transaction since the transaction is Jewelry holds 83% of share of A-List Corporate Ltd. and Baht and wil be repaid reasonable with higher interest rate 3,000,000 to Supre Holding Co., Ltd. upon request. than the bank’s deposit which is with the total of Baht 16,000,000 in beneficial to the subsidiary’s efficien the form of P/Ns cash flow management A-List Corporate Ltd. with Crystaline The subsidiary (Crystaline Co. Ltd.) Interest rate of 8% The Board of Directors approve the Co. Ltd., a subsidiary which PRANDA provided financial help of Baht which principal subsidiary’s entering connected Jewelry holds 96% of share. 7,000,000 to related juristic persons and interest transaction since the transaction is of A-List Corporate Ltd. in the form payment are paid reasonable with higher interest rate of P/N within 30 day or than the bank’s deposit which is upon request beneficial to the subsidiary’s efficient cash flow management For the normal general trading transaction between the Company and its subsidiaries, affiliated companies, and related companies which share mutual Executives and Directors following normal trading characteristics (Please refer to financial remark No. 7). Necessity and Reasonability of the Transaction The transactions between the Company, its subsidiaries, and its affiliated companies were normal business operation and had been approved by the Board of Directors or the Executive Board of the Company which followed the appropriate approval procedures in accordance with all of regulations of the Company. 116 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Policy and Future Connected Transactions The connected transaction of the Company in the future will be normal business operation transaction. There will be no special transaction, benefit transfer of the Company or its subsidiaries to other persons with conflict of interest. The price determination policy between the Company and related companies or persons shall follow normal price determination which is in the same way of the price determination provided to non-related persons or companies. The products or material bought from the Company or related persons shall follow the agreed contract or shall be referred to the market price of such material. However, the Audit Committee, or the Company’s auditor, or independent expertise shall consider examining and provide opinion of the suitability of the price and reasonability of the transaction, as well as to disclose the value of the transaction with transaction reasons to the shareholders’ meeting in the Annual Report. In addition, the Board of Directors shall comply to the Securities and Exchange law and regulations, notifications, orders, or requirement of the Stock Exchange of Thailand, as well as the notification of the disclosure of transaction and the acquisition or disposal of important assets of the Company or its subsidiaries, following the accounting standard stipulated by the Institute of Certified Accountants and Auditors of Thailand. In addition, the Audit Committee shall provide opinion to consider the necessity and appropriateness of future transactions when the transactions of the Company or its subsidiaries are performed with the person whom may have conflict of interest in the future. When the Audit Committee has no skill to consider the possible connected transaction, an independent expertise or the Company’s auditor shall provide opinion toward the connected transaction of which shall be taken forth to the Board of Directors or the shareholders for consideration, depending on circumstances. Therefore, the company should disclose the connected transaction in notes to financial statements which audited by independent auditor. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 117 Management Discussion and Analysis 1) Overview of Business Operations and Significant Changes Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries (henceforth referred to as “The Company”) operates as a manufacturer distributor and retailer primarily for jewelry business. Currently, the Company is a leading exporter of Thai gems and jewelry, with a broad customer base that covers key regions of the world including North America, Europe and Asia; the company has a balanced management structure comprises of the following:• Production Base By taking advantage of the economies of scale production, PRANDA is able to produce quality products at a reasonable price. The Company also diversified its production risk to cover almost every product range. PRANDA operates factories based in 3 countries including Thailand, Vietnam and Indonesia with production capacity approximately 10 million pieces of jewelry per year. The Company has also established the center of product design and development in order to serve the needs of customers. • Distribution Base The Company has its own distribution companies and agents both in Thailand and overseas. To diversify market risk as well as expanding its market, the Company distributors are located in key regions worldwide including US, UK, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Japan, and India. Currently, the Company has set up 5 subsidiaries of distribution base in 5 countries including US, UK, France, Germany and India. • Retail Base In order to access the jewelry consumers directly, The Company has set up subsidiaries, which are proficient in retail management, to manage its own retail outlets and franchise business throughout Asia and Middle East. These subsidiaries, today, are located in Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam From the results of operations for the year 2014, the Group’s results are reduced to the minimum in 14 years due to the crisis of NPLs (Subprime Mortgage Crisis) in the United States since 2008, resulting in a several global economic recession in the following years, and followed by Europe’s debt crisis in the past year 2014. The United States’ economy has shown signs of recovery which can be seen clearly by the abolition of its quantitative easing (QE) standards by the Central Bank of the United States and the rate of GDP growth GDP at 2.3%, including the unemployment rate which fell steadily from 9.6% to only 6.4%. Anyway, the Eurozone economy continues to recover very fragilely as seen from the economic growth rate of just 0.8%, and a high unemployment rate at 11.9% and the public debt to GDP rate which is as high as 90.9%, aggravated by the geopolitical conflicts between Russia and the EU which has led to trade sanctions. The economic conditions of the EU and the aforementioned political problems have resulted in sharp fluctuations in the prices of gold and silver bullion, seen from the price changes of up to 21.3% and 40.4%, respectively. Also, the cancellation of quantitative easing has affected the price of gold and silver bullion falling to 10.3% and 19.6%, respectively, for which effects on the jewelry industry are inevitable, and including the Baht’s appreciation against foreign currencies which has resulted in a loss of foreign exchange in 2014. Gold price (USD) / Ounce 360 days Silver price (USD) / Ounce 360 days 35 1,700 1,600 1,500 2013 30 2013 Gold price 2013 Gold 2013 Silver price 2013 Silver 2013 1,400 Gold price 2014 Gold 2014 25 Silver price 2014 Silver 2014 1,300 20 1,200 1,100 2014 15 2014 118 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 In aspects of marketing and competition the Company has divided its products into two main groups as follows:Original Design Manufacturing (ODM), representing 75% of the sales proceeds of the year 2014; the Company continues to maintain its relationships with existing customers who have the potential for growth in both in markets, the United States and Europe. Slowly recovering economic conditions in the United States and those of Europe that continue to stagnate do impact the income of the Group. However, the Group has steadily developed its design and manufacturing capabilities in order to control production costs to be competitive. It has also focused on building relationships with new customers in order to diversify risk and maintain stability in the long-term growth of the company. Own Brand Manufacturing (OBM) accounted for 25% of revenue from the sales of the year 2014, while in 2013 the ratio was 22%, an increase of 2% due to the expansion of the network of original brand retail jewelry in order to increase the stability of the Company business in the long run. The markets in which the company operates its own retail stores are Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam. All in all, for the sustainability of the Company’s business, the Company aims to manage its resources efficiently with a policy to create balance of sales in 50% Original Design Manufacturing (ODM) and 50% Own Brand Manufacturing (OBM). The gems and jewelry industry of Thailand depends mainly on exports determined from the value of USD 10,080 million or the equivalent to Baht 326,384 million, which is considered as Thailand’s fourth largest export section. This could reflect the industry’s ability to competitively and continuously compete in global market. Considered only fine jewelry, Thailand is still one of the world’s important jewelry manufacturing bases, based on 2014’s exporter of the year whose annual export value was as high as Baht 124,774 million, which underlines the ability of fine jewelry industry to maintain a competitive advantage in the global market. The industrial trend is expected to be more competitive both in terms of price and quality as there are a lot of players in this industry. Therefore, manufacturers need to enhance their productivity and find new markets to reduce the risk of relying on key customers as well as develop the retail market for their owned brand in order to diversify risk. 2) Operating Results and Profitability • Total Revenues The Company had total revenues in 2014 and 2013 of to Baht 3,341 million and Baht 3,777 million respectively, a decrease of Baht 436 million, or 11.54% was due to the decrease in sales of Baht 354 million, detailed below: Consolidated 2012 2013 2014 Increase / (Decrease) Million Baht % Million Baht % Million Baht % Million Baht % Sales Revenue 4,177 98.72 3,649 96.61 3,295 98.62 (354) (9.70) Production 2,174 51.38 1,653 43.76 1,237 37.02 (416) (25.17) Distribution 1,263 29.85 1,216 32.19 1,225 36.67 9 0.74 Retail 740 17.49 780 20.65 833 24.93 53 6.79 Other Revenues 54 1.28 128 3.39 46 1.38 (82) (64.06) Total Revenues 4,231 100.00 3,777 100.00 3,341 100.00 (436) (11.54) PRANDA Annual Report 2014 119 • Sales Revenue The Company sales revenue consists of a production revenue of Baht 1,237 mil ion, representing 37.02%, a distribution revenue of Baht 1,225 million, representing 36.67% and a revenue from retail sales of Baht 833 million, representing 24.93% due to the increase (decrease) of such income as follows: 2,300 2,174 2,100 1,900 1,700 1,653 1,500 1,300 1,237 1,100 900 700 Y 2012 Y 2013 Y 2014 Production Income Income from production decreased from Baht 1,653 million to Baht 1,237 million, due to decreased orders for original design manufacturing (ODM). 1,500 1,300 1,263 1,216 1,225 1,100 900 700 Y 2012 Y 2013 Y 2014 Distribution Income Distribution income increased from Baht 1,216 million to Baht 1,225 million, with no significant change. 850 833 800 780 750 740 700 Y 2012 Y 2013 Y 2014 Retail sales revenue Revenue from retail sales rose from Baht 780 million to Baht 833 million, an increase of Baht 53 million due to the expanding the market in Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam. 120 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 • Other income The Company has other forms of income consisting of interest income from bank deposits, interest income from loans to subsidiaries and affiliates, amounting to Baht 8 million, and other income from the lease of assets belonging to domestic subsidiaries, as well as revenues from other services totaling Baht 37 million a sum total of Baht 46 million; this is down from the previous year’s figure of Baht 82 million, representing a decrease of 64.06% since profits of Baht 93 million were incurred from foreign exchange rates the previous year but for the year 2014 losses of Baht 74 million were incurred due to appreciation of the Baht against foreign currencies when compared to the prior year. • Cost of Sales and Selling and Administrative Expenses Cost of sales 2014 2013 Increase / (Decrease) Million Baht % Million Baht % Million Baht % Sales revenue 3,295 100.00% 3,649 100.00% (354) (9.70%) Cost of sales 2,294 69.62% 2,611 71.55% (317) (12.14%) Total Selling & Administrative Expenses 1,008 30.59% 1,013 27.76% (5) (0.49%) Selling Expenses 455 13.81% 481 13.18% (26) (5.41%) Administrative Expenses 553 16.78% 532 14.58% 21 3.95% • Cost of sales The Company had a cost of sales of Baht 2,294 million, a decrease amount to Baht 317 million from 2013, representing a decrease of 5.4%; the decrease was in line with the lower sales revenue and the raw material prices which fell significantly. • Selling and administrative expenses The Company had selling and administrative expenses of Baht 1,008 million, down Baht 5 million from the previous year or 0.49% when considered based on the cost of sales which is down by Baht 26 million and can be calculated at 5.41%. This is in accordance with the strict cost control implemented on marketing expenses, while administrative expenses increased Baht 21 million or 3.95% due to the expansion of the retail market in Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam, which is consistent with the business strategy & direction of the company. • Profits Consolidated 2014 2013 Increase / (Decrease) Million Baht % Million Baht % Million Baht % Sales revenue 3,295 100’00% 3,649 100.00% (354) (9.70%) Cost of sales 2,294 69.62% 2,611 71.55% (317) (12.14%) Gross Profit 1,001 30.38% 1,038 28.45% (37) (3.5%) Selling and Administrative expenses 1,008 30.59% 1,013 27.76% (5) (0.49%) Operating Profit (Loss) (7) (0.21%) 25 0.69% (32) (128.00%) Gain (loss) on exchange rate (74) (2.25%) 93 2.55% (167) (179.57%) Reversal of impairment loss on goodwill from property investments 188 5.71 188 Income tax (expenses) (2) (0.06%) 30 0.82% (32) (106.67%) Profit of Equity Holders of the Company 146 4.43% 165 4.52% (19) (11.52%) PRANDA Annual Report 2014 121 • Gross Profit The Company gross profit was Baht 1,001 million, a decrease of Baht 37 million or 3.5% decrease when compared to the previous year and is in line with the sales revenue which has also declined. However the Gross Profit Margin has shown an increase from 28.45% to 30.38% due to the production group’s efficient administration of production costs. • Net Profit (Loss) from Operations The Company loss for the year 2014 amounted to Baht 7 million due to the decline in sales revenue. • Net Profit Attributable to the Shareholders of the Group The Company profit attributable to shareholders of the company amounts to Baht 146 million, down from the previous year at Baht 19 million, representing a decrease of 11.52%, or calculable as a net profit margin of 4.43%, due to the decline in revenue from sales. A foreign exchange loss of Baht 74 million was also incurred. However, in November 2014, the Group sought out an independent appraiser to perform a fair appraisal of the value of various investment properties, consisting of undeveloped land for future projects. Using the standard market price (“Market Approach”), it was found that the estimated fair value of the undeveloped land is higher than the net bookkeeping value. The Group has therefore recorded a reversal of the impairment losses recognized in prior periods in the amount of Baht 188 million. • Return on Shareholders’ Equity The return of equity (ROE) in the year 2014 is at 5.42%, down from last year’s figure which stood at 6.09%, as profit attributable to the shareholders of the Group has been reduced by reasons aforementioned under the topic of Profit. For the fiscal year 2014, the Board of Directors has resolved to approve the payment of dividends, which will be presented at the General Meeting of Shareholders for approval on Tuesday, April 21, 2015, at the rate of Baht 0.15/share, representing a dividend yield of about 2.23% per year (a yield per share of Baht 0.15 / an average yearly price of Baht 6.74 per share) and a dividend of 41.89% of the net profits in the consolidated financial statements for shareholders who have a right to receive the dividends on March 17, 2015, and whose names will be collected in accordance with Section 225 of the Securities and Exchange Act, closing the register on March 18, 2015 and scheduling the dividends to be paid on May 8, 2015. 3) Asset Management Abilities • Asset Components The comparison of annual financial statements in 2014 and 2013 is shown below. Unit : Million Baht Statement of Financial Position 31 Dec 2014 % 31 Dec 2013 % Cash and cash equivalents 342 7.44% 288 6.35% Current investments deposits with financial institutions 9 0.19% 8 0.18% Trade account receivables and other receivables 564 12.27% 757 16.69% Short-term loans to related parties 23 0.50% 16 0.35% Inventory, net 1,845 40.13% 1,981 43.69% Other current assets 51 1.11% 83 1.83% Total current assets 2,834 61.64% 3,133 69.10% Total non-current assets 1,764 38.36% 1,401 30.90% Total Assets 4,598 100.00% 4,534 100.00% 122 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 • Asset Quality The Company had total assets of Baht 4,598 million, an increase over the previous year of Baht 64 million, or an increase of 1.41%, with non-current assets increasing by Baht 363 million, mainly from the increase in other receivables of Baht 111 million, which come from the promissory notes of foreign accounts receivable and investment properties following from the Group’s action to seek out an independent appraiser to perform a fair appraisal of the value of various investment properties, consisting of undeveloped land for future projects. Using the standard market price (“Market Approach”), it was found that the estimated fair value of the undeveloped land is higher than the net bookkeeping value. The Group has therefore recorded a reversal of the impairment losses recognized in prior periods in the amount of Baht 188 million. • Impairment of Assets The adequacy of the provision or allowance for impairment of assets • Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Unit : Million Baht Aging of outstanding debts counting from Accounts receivable Affiliates the due date for payback Increase / (Decrease) 2014 2013 Not yet due 1 (1) Overdue No more than 3 months 3 3 3 6 months 2 3 (1) 6 12 months 4 2 2 More than 12 months 22 19 4 Total 31 28 3 Less the allowance for doubtful accounts (2) 2 Total accounts receivable net 29 28 1 The Company’s net accounts receivable from related parties stands at Baht 29 million, an increase of Baht 1 million from the previous year, from an increase in those accounts of affiliates and associates which are more than 12 months overdue. Unit : Million Baht Aging of outstanding debts counting from Accounts Receivable – Unaffiliated parties the due date for payback Increase (Decrease) 2014 2013 Not yet due 202 234 (32) Overdue No more than 3 months 206 259 (53) 3 6 months 31 49 (18) 6 12 months 35 26 9 More than 12 months 67 189 (122) Total 540 761 (221) Less the allowance for doubtful accounts (45) (86) (41) Total accounts receivable net 495 703 (208) PRANDA Annual Report 2014 123 The Company has net accounts receivable from trade receivables of unrelated parties totaling Baht 495 million, representing a decrease of 29.59%, mostly from a reduction of those accounts more than 12 months overdue by Baht 122 million. This is because in the year 2014, the Group entered into a repayment agreement with a foreign trade receivable amounting to USD 6.3 million via repayment in cash, promissory notes issued by a foreign company, raw materials and finished goods. During the current year, the Group has received a cash payment of USD 0.8 million and also received USD 0.2 million in raw materials. This has left a remaining balance USD 5.3 million in the aforesaid account receivable. Later, in December 2014, the Company amended its debt agreements with the said account receivable of USD 5.3 million by accepting payment in cash of USD 0.75 million, which is scheduled to be paid under the terms of the contract, promissory notes issued by the said foreign debtor in the amount of USD 1.55 million and promissory notes issued by a foreign company in the amount of USD 3 million. The total amount of promissory notes is USD 4.55 million and is presented under other receivables in the Non-Current Assets (Other Receivables). As of December 31, 2014, the Group’s outstanding debt from the above-mentioned foreign trade receivable is listed under accounts receivable from non-associates in the amount of USD 0.75 million, or about Baht 25 million. • Inventory Unit : Million Baht Inventories 2014 2013 Increase (Decrease) Finished products 1,318 1,342 (24) Work-in-progress 184 211 (27) Raw materials 558 632 (74) Plant materials 15 13 2 Goods in-transit 1 9 (8) Sum total 2,076 2,207 (131) Less the listings of cost reduction adjustment (230) (226) 4 for net capital Remaining inventories net 1,845 1,981 (136) As of December 31 the Group and its subsidiaries had inventories of Baht 2,076 million, which decreased from the 2013 year-end figure by Baht 131 million, a reduction in finished goods, work-in-progress and raw materials, because of the decline in orders from customers for use in production, as well as the raw material prices in the world market which declined during the year 2014. This results in a lower average cost per unit of inventory than that of year-end 2013. For the reduction of cost price to a net realizable value to be received, management has already taken into consideration the allowance for diminution in value of inventories as sufficient and appropriate to the policy of the company. 4) Liquidity and Capital Adequacy of the Group 4.1 Sources and Uses of Funds • Cash Flow Components The Company net cash flow from its operations increased from Baht (190) million to Baht 59 million due to being able to increase collection of accounts receivable debts and other payables and increasing its inventory sales, as well as being able to achieve more tax reduction. 124 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Cash flow from investing activities decreased from Baht (228) million to Baht (157) million due to decreased land acquisition and the purchase of buildings and plant equipment. See Section 4.2 for further details of capital expenditure. Cash flow from financing activities decreased from Baht 134 million to Baht 120 million due to long-term loans and dividend reduction. From operating, investing and financing activities, the Group had an increase of Baht 54 million net cash for the year 2014, and when combined with the Baht 288 million cash at beginning of period, forms a total of Baht 342 million in cash at the end of the period. The Comparison of statement of cash flows for the year 2014 and 2013 is shown below. Unit : Million Baht Statement of Cash Flows 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Cash flows from (used in) operating activities 59 (190) Cash flows from (used in) investing activities (157) (228) Cash flows from (used in) financing activities 120 134 Translation adjustment 32 (43) Net cash flows 54 (327) Cash at the beginning of the year 288 615 Cash at the end of the year 342 288 • Liabilities The Company liabilities totaled Baht 1,877 million, Baht 12 million down from the previous year, and non-current liabilities decreased by Baht 75 million, mainly from the reduction of long-term loans by Baht 34 million and provision for long-term benefits of employees decreased by Baht 41 million, resulting in a debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio that was 0.69 times while the previous year’s was 0.71 times; therefore it can be concluded that the Group continues to have a strong financial structure. • Shareholder’s Equity The Group’s equity ratio increased from Baht 2,645 million to Baht 2,721 million due to an increase in retained earnings. 4.2 Capital Expenditure • Past Capital Expenditures The Company invested a total of Baht 167 million which is divided into two types of investment, as follows: 1) Approximately Baht 150 million was invested in the production base, including a new building and improving the plant facilities of 1.1) Pranda Jewelry (PCL), 1.2) Crystaline Co., Ltd, 1.3) Pranda Vietnam, Co., Ltd, as well as the replacement of machinery and equipment. 2) Approximately Baht 17 million was invested in distribution and retail sales, including 2.1) Prima Gold International, Co., Ltd, 2.2) Pranda North America, Inc., 2.3) H.Gringoire s.a.r.l., 2.4) Pranda & Kroll, 2.5) Pranda UK and 2.6) Pranda Jewelry Pvt. Ltd. for customer service and thorough distribution coverage. 4.3 The Ability to Service Debt and to Comply with the Terms of the Loan As of December 2014, the Group has failed to maintain certain financial ratios, more specifically the DSCR Ratio as specified in the agreement (no less than 1.25 times), because in 2014 the company’s sales dropped and losses on foreign exchanges occurred. The Company sent a letter to the bank requesting a waiver of the DSCR Ratio conditions as covenanted in the loan agreements. In December 2014, the bank considered and approved the request and sent a letter in response to the Company; the matter is now completed. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 125 5) Factors or Events that Could Affect Financial Position or Operations in the Future Foreign Exchange Rates If Thai Baht against US Dollar, Euro and Pound Sterling continues strong (weak) it will effect a decrease (increase) on the Group’s sales volume and a loss (gain) on exchange rates which will significantly affect net income. Cost of Raw Material Gold and silver bullion are raw materials which impact the cost of goods in significant proportion. If gold and silver prices show high (low) volatility or the prices are adjusted up (down) rapidly, it will result in a delay (increase) in purchase orders. Closing the production of Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG Subsidiary Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG, of which the Company carries 75% of the stake holding, has shifted its business from production and distribution of jewelry to become a distributor of jewelry, with effect from January 2015 onwards. However because the production income of Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG in 2014 represented only 1.95% of the total revenue of the company, it has no significant impact on the operations and revenues of the Group. For the 12-month period ending December 31 Financial Ratios 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 Liquidity ratio Current Ratio1 (times) 1.98 2.29 2.54 2.11 Quick Ratio 2 (times) 0.64 0.77 1.03 0.86 Cash Flow Ratio3 (times) (0.04) (0.14) 0.38 0.28 Accounts Receivable Turnover Ratio 4 (times) 4.84 4.71 4.86 4.06 Average Collection Period 5 (days) 74 76 74 89 Inventory Turnover Ratio 6 (times) 1.89 2.29 2.63 2.79 Average Inventory Conversion Period7 (days) 191 158 137 129 Accounts Payable Turnover Ratto 8 (times) 5.01 3.90 3.24 3.30 Payable Payment Period 9 (days) 72 92 111 109 Cash Cycle 10 (days) 193 142 100 109 Profitability ratio Gross Profit Margin11 (%) 30.39 28.44 33.93 33.46 Operating Margin 12 (%) (0.22) 0.68 11.29 9.91 Other Margin 13 (%) (821.23) 0.93 1.00 0.93 Cash to Profitability14 (%) 105.65 (764.56) 114.09 100.03 Net Profit Margin15 (%) 4.36 4.36 10.64 10.88 Return on Equity 16 (%) 5.42 6.09 16.97 18.09 Efficiency ratio (3.27) 2.53 9.03 9.68 Return on Assets17 (%) 3.19 3.62 10.15 10.94 Return on Fixed Assets 18 (%) 14.31 18.66 45.39 50.97 Asset Turnover 19 (เท่า) 0.74 0.83 0.95 1.01 126 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 For the 12-month period ending December 31 Financial Ratios 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 Financial policy ratio 0.77 0.71 0.65 0.68 Liabilities to Shareholders’ Equity Ratio20 (times) 0.69 0.71 0.65 0.70 Interest Coverage Ratio21 (times) 1.96 -3.03 13.40 13.72 Debt Service Coverage Ratio (cash basis) (times) 22 0.12 -0.35 1.28 0.98 Divident Payout Ratio23 (%) 56.28 123.53 53.89 52.78 Notes: 1 Current ratio = Current Assets / Current Liabilities 2 Quick Ratio = (Cash and Bank Deposits + Marketable Securities + Accounts Receivables and Receivables) / Current Liabilities. 3 Cash Flow Ratio = Cash Flow from Operating Activities / Average Current Liabilities 4 Accounts Receivable Turnover Ratio = Net Sales / (Accounts Receivable before the Loss of Doubtful Accounts + Receivables) (Average) 5 Average Collection Period = 360 / Accounts Receivable Turnover Ratio 6 nventory Turnover Ratio = Cost of Sales / Inventory (Average) *Only the finished product is taken into account; work-in-progress, goods in-transit & raw materials are not included. 7 Average Inventory Conversion Period = 360 / Inventory Turnover 8 Accounts Payable Turnover Ratio = Cost of Buying or Selling / (Creditors + Notes Payable) (Average) 9 Payable Payment Period = 360 / Accounts Payable Turnover Ratio 10 Cash Cycle = Average Debt Collection Period + Average Sales Duration Repayment Period 11 Gross Profit Margin = Gross Profit / Net Sales 12 Operating Margin = Profit from Operations / Net Sales 13 Other Margin = Non-Operating Profit / Total Revenue 14 Cash to Profitability = Cash Flow from Operations / Profit from Operations 15 Net Profit Margin = Net Income / Total Revenues 16 Return on Equity = Net Income / Equity Shares (Average) 17 Return on Assets = Net Income / Total Assets (Average) 18 Return on Fixed Assets = (Net Income + Depreciation) / Net Fixed Assets (Average) 19 Asset Turnover = Total Income / Total Assets (Average) 20 Liabilities to Shareholders’ Equity Ratio = Total Liabilities / Equity Shares 21 Interest Coverage Ratio = Cash Flow from Operations + Interest Expense from Operations + Tax / Interest Expenses from Operations and Investments 22 Debt Service Coverage Ratio (cash basis) = Cash Flow from Operations / (Repayment of Debt + Investment + Purchase of assets + Dividends) 23 Dividend Payout Ratio = Dividends / Profits PRANDA Annual Report 2014 127 Report of the Board of Directors’ Responsibilities to Financial Report The Board of Directors has a responsibility toward the consolidated financial statements and the financial statements, including the financial information appeared in the Annual Report of Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited. The financial statements are implemented in accordance with the general accepted accounting standard, and are disclosed with enough important information in the remark of the Company’s financial statements for the benefit of the shareholders and general investors with transparency. The Board of Directors has established the risk management system and maintained the appropriate and effective internal control system to reasonably ensure the accurate, complete, and sufficient accounting record of the information in order to maintain the assets and to prevent any corruption and abnormal operation. The Board of Directors assigns the Independent Directors to be the Audit Committee to review accounting policy and the quality of the financial report, the internal control system, the risk management system, as well as the consideration the disclosure of connected transaction report. The report of the Audit Committee’s opinion of the mentioned subjects is disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report. The Company’s financial statement and the consolidated financial statement of the Company and its subsidiaries received an auditing by the auditors from Ernst & Young Office Limited. The information and the documents for the auditing were supported by the Board of Directors so that the auditors’ auditing and opinion followed the auditing standard. The opinion of the auditors appears in the report of the auditors in the Annual Report. The Board of Directors opined that the internal control system in all aspects of the Company is effective at satisfactory level and can create reasonable creditability that the Company’s financial statements and the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ending December 31, 2014 is credible and in compliance with the general accepted accounting standard and related laws and regulations. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan Chairman 128 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Independent Auditor’s Report To the Shareholders of Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited I have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, and have also audited the separate financial statements of Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited for the same period. Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with Thai Financial Reporting Standards, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s Responsibility My responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit. I conducted my audit in accordance with Thai Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that I comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion. Opinion In my opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries and of Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited as at 31 December 2014, and their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Thai Financial Reporting Standards. Chonlaros Suntiasvaraporn Certified Public Accountant (Thailand) No. 4523 EY Office Limited Bangkok: 23 February 2015 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 129 Financial Statements Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries Statement of financial position As at 31 December 2014 (Unit: Baht) Consolidated financial statements Separate financial statements Note 2014 2013 2014 2013 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 7 342,388,503 287,963,601 141,438,151 92,648,965 Current investments deposits with financial institutions 8,819,818 8,207,623 Trade and other receivables 8 563,646,375 757,028,737 971,879,643 1,055,755,320 Short-term loans to related parties 6 23,000,000 16,000,000 6,689,700 Current portion of long-term loans to related parties 6 9,029,369 33,379,000 Inventories 9 1,845,452,200 1,981,157,662 762,624,688 863,306,981 Other current assets 50,782,671 82,881,828 18,754,086 26,427,141 Total current assets 2,834,089,567 3,133,239,451 1,903,725,937 2,078,207,107 Non-current assets Restricted bank deposits 10 8,781,001 4,015,613 Investment in convertible debentures issued by subsidiary 11 31,512,300 32,022,900 Investments in subsidiaries 12 834,264,320 953,195,404 Investments in associates 13 232,489 Other long-term investments 14 24,378,901 24,341,967 23,238,781 23,201,847 Advances for investment 6 5,308,824 5,643,142 Other receivables 15 111,047,431 111,047,431 Amounts due from related party 6 38,752,405 50,027,504 Long-term loans to related parties 6 208,478,588 170,900,480 Investment properties 16 689,261,812 504,103,750 676,992,176 489,603,099 Property, plant and equipment 17 760,146,962 705,798,133 618,316,934 549,962,664 Leasehold rights 18 25,621,675 28,106,075 Other intangible assets 19 31,780,854 35,664,532 19,623,490 19,916,442 Deferred tax assets 29 95,404,589 83,483,661 61,552,436 61,343,134 Other non-current assets 17,494,653 15,523,719 683,445 668,446 Total non-current assets 1,764,150,367 1,401,037,450 2,629,771,130 2,356,485,062 Total assets 4,598,239,934 4,534,276,901 4,533,497,067 4,434,692,169 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 130 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries Statement of financial position (continued) As at 31 December 2014 (Unit: Baht) Consolidated financial statements Separate financial statements Note 2014 2013 2014 2013 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity Current liabilities Bank overdrafts and short-term loans from financial institutions 20 689,031,332 457,669,643 513,440,415 240,000,000 Trade and other payables 21 553,143,516 743,708,304 305,033,186 519,900,931 Short-term loan from related party 6 627,500 Short-term loans from unrelated parties 22 30,000,000 30,000,000 Current portion of long-term loans 23 88,701,403 113,222,761 80,200,000 105,310,000 Income tax payable 11,753,645 1,148,177 Other current liabilities 56,499,747 50,817,471 12,094,547 15,418,774 Total current liabilities 1,429,757,143 1,366,566,356 940,768,148 880,629,705 Non-current liabilities Long-term loans, net of current portion 23 293,967,046 328,448,076 274,750,000 300,423,100 Provision for long-term employee benefits 24 152,319,839 192,806,437 126,580,179 158,585,002 Other non-current liabilities 1,063,566 1,058,364 Total non-current liabilities 447,350,451 522,312,877 401,330,179 459,008,102 Total liabilities 1,877,107,594 1,888,879,233 1,342,098,327 1,339,637,807 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 131 Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries Statement of financial position (continued) As at 31 December 2014 (Unit: Baht) Consolidated financial statements Separate financial statements Note 2014 2013 2014 2013 Shareholders’ equity Share capital Registered 410,000,000 ordinary shares of Baht 1 each 410,000,000 410,000,000 410,000,000 410,000,000 Issued and fully paid up 409,529,000 ordinary shares of Baht 1 each (2013: 409,144,800 ordinary shares of Baht 1 each) 26 409,529,000 409,144,800 409,529,000 409,144,800 Share premium 26 786,855,043 786,086,643 786,855,043 786,086,643 Retained earnings Appropriated statutory reserve 27 41,000,000 41,000,000 41,000,000 41,000,000 Unappropriated 1,663,393,307 1,560,263,414 1,954,014,697 1,858,822,919 Other components of shareholders’ equity (47,503,582) (75,943,724) Equity attributable to owners of the Company 2,853,273,768 2,720,551,133 3,191,398,740 3,095,054,362 Non-controlling interests of the subsidiaries (132,141,428) (75,153,465) Total shareholders’ equity 2,721,132,340 2,645,397,668 3,191,398,740 3,095,054,362 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 4,598,239,934 4,534,276,901 4,533,497,067 4,434,692,169 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Directors 132 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries Income statement For the year ended 31 December 2014 (Unit: Baht) Consolidated financial Separate financial Note statements statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Revenues Sales 30 3,295,125,903 3,648,839,165 2,322,698,937 2,703,282,571 Other income Interest income 8,492,537 5,576,640 22,712,387 30,416,686 Gain on exchange 92,746,647 106,105,222 Others 37,168,407 29,446,434 66,850,621 66,266,834 Total revenues 3,340,786,847 3,776,608,886 2,412,261,945 2,906,071,313 Expenses Cost of sales 2,293,665,993 2,611,158,515 1,858,431,283 2,209,566,273 Selling expenses 455,186,516 481,040,234 68,769,295 92,065,574 Administrative expenses 553,448,081 531,765,827 319,163,261 303,732,567 Other expenses Loss on exchange 73,789,260 48,165,771 Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries 12 123,897,584 68,731,399 Reversal impairment loss on investment properties 16 (188,015,909) (188,015,909) Total expenses 3,188,073,941 3,623,964,576 2,230,411,285 2,674,095,813 Profit before share of profit (loss) from investments in associates, finance cost and income tax expenses 152,712,906 152,644,310 181,850,660 231,975,500 Share of profit (loss) from investments in associates 13.2 232,489 (13,310,919) Profit before finance cost and income tax expenses 152,945,395 139,333,391 181,850,660 231,975,500 Finance cost (63,556,265) (54,785,278) (43,060,875) (41,000,588) Profit before income tax expenses 89,389,130 84,548,113 138,789,785 190,974,912 Tax income (expenses) 29 (2,191,905) 30,378,810 7,828,900 28,757,544 Profit for the year 87,197,225 114,926,923 146,618,685 219,732,456 Profit attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 145,533,874 164,606,348 146,618,685 219,732,456 Non-controlling interests of the subsidiaries (loss) (58,336,649) (49,679,425) 87,197,225 114,926,923 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share 31 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 0.3554 0.4040 0.3581 0.5393 Diluted earnings per share Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 0.3554 0.4026 0.3580 0.5375 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 133 Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries Statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2014 (Unit: Baht) Consolidated financial statements Separate financial statements Note 2014 2013 2014 2013 Profit for the year 87,197,225 114,926,923 146,618,685 219,732,456 Other comprehensive income: Exchange differences on translation of financial statements in foreign currency 29,658,348 (37,048,489) Actuarial gains 24 47,992,434 38,097,991 Less: Income tax effect 29 (8,228,708) (7,619,598) Other comprehensive income for the year 69,422,074 (37,048,489) 30,478,393 Total comprehensive income for the year 156,619,299 77,878,434 177,097,078 219,732,456 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 213,475,335 135,333,005 177,097,078 219,732,456 Non-controlling interests of the subsidiaries (loss) (56,856,036) (57,454,571) 156,619,299 77,878,434 177,097,078 219,732,456 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 134 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity For the year ended 31 December 2014 (Unit: Baht) Consolidated financial statements Equity attributable to owners of the Company Other components of shareholders’ equity Other comprehensive income Exchange differences Deficit from Total other Total equity Equity attributable Issued and on translation of change components ofin attributable to to non-controlling Total paid-up Share Retained earnings financial statements in shareholding shareholders’ owners of interests of the shareholders’ share capital premium Appropriated Unappropriated in foreign currency of subsidiary equity the Company subsidiaries equity Balance as at 1 January 2013 406,282,554 780,362,151 41,000,000 1,598,989,193 11,757,126 11,757,126 2,838,391,024 (75,823,904) 2,762,567,120 Ordinary shares issuance from exercised warrants (Note 26) 2,862,246 5,724,492 8,586,738 8,586,738 Dividend paid (Note 34) (203,332,127) (203,332,127) (203,332,127) Profit for the year 164,606,348 164,606,348 (49,679,425) 114,926,923 Other comprehensive income for the year (29,273,343) (29,273,343) (29,273,343) (7,775,146) (37,048,489) Total comprehensive income for the year 164,606,348 (29,273,343) (29,273,343) 135,333,005 (57,454,571) 77,878,434 Effect from change in shareholding in subsidiary (58,427,507) (58,427,507) (58,427,507) 58,427,507 Decrease in non-controlling interests of the subsidiaries (302,497) (302,497) Balance as at 31 December 2013 409,144,800 786,086,643 41,000,000 1,560,263,414 (17,516,217) (58,427,507) (75,943,724) 2,720,551,133 (75,153,465) 2,645,397,668 Balance as at 1 January 2014 409,144,800 786,086,643 41,000,000 1,560,263,414 (17,516,217) (58,427,507) (75,943,724) 2,720,551,133 (75,153,465) 2,645,397,668 Ordinary shares issuance from exercised warrants (Note 26) 384,200 768,400 1,152,600 1,152,600 Dividend paid (Note 34) (81,905,300) (81,905,300) (81,905,300) Profit for the year 145,533,874 145,533,874 (58,336,649) 87,197,225 Other comprehensive income for the year 39,501,319 28,440,142 28,440,142 67,941,461 1,480,613 69,422,074 Total comprehensive income for the year 185,035,193 28,440,142 28,440,142 213,475,335 (56,856,036) 156,619,299 Decrease in non-controlling interests of the subsidiaries (131,927) (131,927) PRANDA Annual Report 2014 Balance as at 31 December 2014 409,529,000 786,855,043 41,000,000 1,663,393,307 10,923,925 (58,427,507) (47,503,582) 2,853,273,768 (132,141,428) 2,721,132,340 135 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity (continued) For the year ended 31 December 2014 PRANDA (Unit: Baht) Separate financial statements 136 Annual Report 2014 Issued and paid-up Retained earnings Total shareholders’ share capital Share premium Appropriated Unappropriated equity Balance as at 1 January 2013 406,282,554 780,362,151 41,000,000 1,842,422,590 3,070,067,295 Ordinary shares issuance from exercised warrants (Note 26) 2,862,246 5,724,492 8,586,738 Dividend paid (Note 34) (203,332,127) (203,332,127) Profit for the year 219,732,456 219,732,456 Other comprehensive income for the year Total comprehensive income for the year 219,732,456 219,732,456 Balance as at 31 December 2013 409,144,800 786,086,643 41,000,000 1,858,822,919 3,095,054,362 Balance as at 1 January 2014 409,144,800 786,086,643 41,000,000 1,858,822,919 3,095,054,362 Ordinary shares issuance from exercised warrants (Note 26) 384,200 768,400 1,152,600 Dividend paid (Note 34) (81,905,300) (81,905,300) Profit for the year 146,618,685 146,618,685 Other comprehensive income for the year 30,478,393 30,478,393 Total comprehensive income for the year 177,097,078 177,097,078 Balance as at 31 December 2014 409,529,000 786,855,043 41,000,000 1,954,014,697 3,191,398,740 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries Cash flow statement For the year ended 31 December 2014 (Unit: Baht) Consolidated financial statements Separate financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 89,389,130 84,548,113 138,789,785 190,974,912 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash provided by (paid from) operating activities: Depreciation and amortisation 80,974,140 80,786,005 45,404,880 46,108,305 Amortisation of leasehold rights 2,484,400 2,484,400 Write-off machinery and equipment 4,656,296 5,259,069 702,110 861,508 Amortisation of discounted value of government bond (36,934) (36,934) (36,934) (36,934) Doubtful accounts (reversal) 233,345 (7,247,138) 62,642,472 54,254,794 Write-off bad debts 1,765,230 22,777,256 1,765,230 22,777,256 Reduce cost to net realisable value of inventories (reversal) 4,028,406 16,373,888 (8,615,000) 6,100,000 Loss (gain) on sales of machinery and equipment (5,244,594) 3,842,129 (194,686) (194,819) Share of loss (profit) from investments in associates (232,489) 13,310,919 Long-term employee benefits expenses 12,009,734 18,862,669 10,299,517 14,591,480 Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries 123,897,584 68,731,399 Reversal impairment loss on investment properties (188,015,909) (188,015,909) Loss from sales of investment in associates 708,359 45,057 Fair value adjustment on other long-term investment (733,579) Unrealised loss (gain) on exchange 193,760 11,484,060 51,297,593 (78,579,034) Interest income (8,492,537) (6,679,797) (22,712,387) (30,416,686) Interest expenses 58,028,745 51,267,155 41,218,896 38,766,838 Profit from operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities 51,740,723 297,006,574 256,443,151 333,984,076 Operating assets (increase) decrease Trade and other receivables 72,268,040 (63,028,722) (110,953,911) (221,432,556) Inventories 131,677,056 (32,404,773) 109,297,293 46,374,484 Other current assets 22,841,194 1,630,940 11,476,334 (1,624,655) Other non-current assets (1,970,934) (1,667,456) (14,999) 564,540 Operating liabilities increase (decrease) Trade and other payables (164,789,488) (265,035,172) (187,274,929) (361,606,318) Other current liabilities 10,883,994 (43,250,813) 1,851,854 (23,360,309) Provision for long-term employee benefits (4,503,898) (6,981,196) (4,206,349) (6,078,619) Other non-current liabilities 5,202 45,445 Cash flows from (used in) operating activities 118,151,889 (113,685,173) 76,618,444 (233,179,357) Cash paid for interest expenses (58,356,875) (52,587,576) (41,395,634) (38,066,147) Cash paid for corporate income tax (7,796,421) (23,903,852) (2,196,202) (11,702,951) Cash refund from corporate income tax 6,925,388 Net cash flows from (used in) operating activities 58,923,981 (190,176,601) 33,026,608 (282,948,455) PRANDA Annual Report 2014 137 Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries Cash flow statement (continued) For the year ended 31 December 2014 (Unit: Baht) Consolidated financial statements Separate financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash flows from investing activities Decrease (increase) in current investments deposits at financial institutions (612,195) 16,671,448 Increase in restricted bank deposits (4,765,388) (69,272) Decrease (increase) in short-term loans to related parties (7,000,000) 48,465,920 Decrease (increase) in long-term loans to related parties (20,197,500) 10,871,573 Increase in investments in subsidiaries (4,966,500) (9,371,000) Increase in investments in associates (11,687,115) Net cash received from acquisition of subsidiary 545,395 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (166,578,650) (253,428,878) (143,666,548) (180,534,808) Acquisition of other intangible assets (1,550,931) (7,119,330) (1,476,400) (5,508,796) Proceeds from sales of machinery and equipment 6,050,125 10,304,154 303,737 194,874 Proceeds from sales of investments in associates 7,665,258 7,665,258 Cash receipt from interest income 9,545,368 5,402,354 7,802,993 21,355,879 Net cash flows used in investing activities (157,246,413) (227,694,129) (154,534,960) (126,213,473) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 138 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries Cash flow statement (continued) For the year ended 31 December 2014 (Unit: Baht) Consolidated financial statements Separate financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash flows from financing activities Increase in bank overdrafts and short-term loans from financial institutions 229,975,129 261,107,114 272,053,855 240,000,000 Increase in short-term loans from related parties 627,500 Increase in short-term loans from unrelated parties 29,779,483 29,779,483 Cash receipt for long-term loans 54,526,900 160,773,098 54,526,900 145,473,100 Repayment of long-term loans (113,529,288) (92,957,320) (105,310,000) (78,650,000) Proceeds from ordinary shares issuance from exercised warrants 1,152,600 8,586,738 1,152,600 8,586,738 Dividend paid (81,905,300) (203,332,127) (81,905,300) (203,332,127) Payment to non-controlling interests of the subsidiary (131,927) (302,497) Net cash flows from financing activities 120,495,097 133,875,006 170,297,538 112,077,711 Increase (decrease) in translation adjustment 32,252,237 (42,780,336) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 54,424,902 (326,776,060) 48,789,186 (297,084,217) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 287,963,601 614,739,661 92,648,965 389,733,182 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 342,388,503 287,963,601 141,438,151 92,648,965 Supplemental cash flow information Non-cash transactions Increase in construction payables 44,177,272 44,177,272 The conversion of the Company’s related trade accounts receivable to become investment in subsidiary 279,592,073 The conversion of the Company’s long-term loan to related party to become investment in subsidiary 123,250,000 Payables from acquisition of investments in associates 23,263,335 Receivables from sales of investments in associates 21,735,840 21,735,840 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 139 Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and its subsidiaries Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 1. General information Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited (“the Company”) is a public company incorporated and domiciled in Thailand. The Company is principally engaged in the manufacture and distribution of jewelry. The registered office of the Company is at 28 Soi Bangna-Trad 28, Bangna Subdistrict, Bangna District, Bangkok. The Company has factories located in Bangkok and Nakhonratchasima. 2. Basis of preparation 2.1 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Thai Financial Reporting Standards enunciated under the Accounting Profession Act B.E. 2547 and their presentation has been made in compliance with the stipulations of the Notification of the Department of Business Development dated 28 September 2011, issued under the Accounting Act B.E. 2543. The financial statements in Thai language are the official statutory financial statements of the Company. The financial statements in English language have been translated from the Thai language financial statements. The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except where otherwise disclosed in the accounting policies. 2.2 Basis of consolidation a) The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited (“the Company”) and the following subsidiary companies (“the subsidiaries”): Company’s name Nature of business Country of Percentage of incorporation shareholding 2014 2013 Percent Percent Held by the Company Primagold International Co., Ltd. Distribution of jewelry Thailand 100 100 Crystaline Co., Ltd. Manufacture and distribution of jewelry Thailand 96 96 Pranda Lodging Co., Ltd. Dormitory rental Thailand 83 83 Pranda North America, Inc. Distribution of jewelry U.S.A. 100 100 H.GRINGOIRE s.a.r.l. Distribution of jewelry France 100 100 Pranda UK Ltd. Distribution of jewelry United Kingdom 100 100 Pranda Singapore Pte. Limited Holding company Singapore 100 100 Pranda Vietnam Co., Ltd. Manufacture and distribution of jewelry Vietnam 100 100 Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG Manufacture and distribution of jewelry Germany 75 75 Pranda Jewelry Private Limited Distribution of jewelry India 51 51 Pranda Trading (Shenzhen) Limited Distribution of jewelry China 100 100 Guangzhou Pangda Zhubao Shoushi Ceased its operation in 2013 China 100 100 Youxian Gongsi 140 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Company’s name Nature of business Country of Percentage of incorporation shareholding 2014 2013 Percent Percent Held by the subsidiaries Pranda Acceptance Sdn. Bhd. Ceased its operation in 2000 Malaysia 100 100 (Held by Pranda Singapore Pte. Limited) KSV Brand GmbH Distribution of jewelry Germany 75 75 (Held by Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG) PDU (UK) Limited (Held by Pranda UK Limited) Distribution of jewelry through website United Kingdom 100 100 Controlled by the subsidiary PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia Retail jewelry Indonesia 55 55 (controlled and had equity interest of 55 percent by Primagold International Co., Ltd.) On 31 March 2013, Primagold International Co., Ltd. entered into an agreement with the shareholders of PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia, assigning control over the financial and operating policies of PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia to Primagold International Co., Ltd., through the majority of the Board of Directors of that company including voting power and granting an equity interest of 55 percent in this company, effective from 31 March 2013. However, the subsidiary is not a shareholder and without transferring any consideration to the shareholders of PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia but has power to control and owns more than half of the voting power. Therefore, the Company considered this company as the subsidiary of the group. b) Subsidiaries are fully consolidated, on the date which the Company obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases. c) The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared using the same significant accounting policies as the Company. d) The assets and liabilities in the financial statements of overseas subsidiary companies are translated to Baht using the exchange rate prevailing on the end of reporting period, and revenues and expenses translated using monthly average exchange rates. The resulting differences are shown under the caption of “Exchange differences on translation of financial statements in foreign currency” in the statement of changes in shareholders’ equity. e) Material balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated from the consolidated financial statements. f) Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets of the subsidiaries that are not held by the Company and are presented separately in the consolidated profit or loss and within equity in the consolidated statement of financial position. 2.3 The separate financial statements, which present investments in subsidiaries and associates under the cost method, have been prepared solely for the benefit of the public. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 141 3. New financial reporting standards Below is a summary of financial reporting standards that became effective in the current accounting year and those that will become effective in the future. (a) Financial reporting standards that became effective in the current accounting year Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting (revised 2014) Accounting Standards: TAS 1 (revised 2012) Presentation of Financial Statements TAS 7 (revised 2012) Statement of Cash Flows TAS 12 (revised 2012) Income Taxes TAS 17 (revised 2012) Leases TAS 18 (revised 2012) Revenue TAS 19 (revised 2012) Employee Benefits TAS 21 (revised 2012) The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates TAS 24 (revised 2012) Related Party Disclosures TAS 28 (revised 2012) Investments in Associates TAS 31 (revised 2012) Interests in Joint Ventures TAS 34 (revised 2012) Interim Financial Reporting TAS 36 (revised 2012) Impairment of Assets TAS 38 (revised 2012) Intangible Assets Financial Reporting Standards: TFRS 2 (revised 2012) Share-based Payment TFRS 3 (revised 2012) Business Combinations TFRS 5 (revised 2012) Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations TFRS 8 (revised 2012) Operating Segments Accounting Standard Interpretations: TSIC 15 Operating Leases-Incentives TSIC 27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease TSIC 29 Service Concession Arrangements: Disclosures TSIC 32 Intangible Assets Web Site Costs Financial Reporting Standard Interpretations: TFRIC 1 Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities TFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease TFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration andEnvironmental Rehabilitation Funds TFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under TAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies TFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment TFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements TFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes TFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners TFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers Accounting Treatment Guidance for Stock Dividend 142 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 These financial reporting standards were amended primarily to align their content with the corresponding International Financial Reporting Standards. Most of the changes were directed towards revision of wording and terminology, and provision of interpretations and accounting guidance to users of the accounting standards. These financial reporting standards do not have any significant impact on the financial statements. (b) Financial reporting standards that will become effective in the future The Federation of Accounting Professions has issued a number of revised and new financial reporting standards that become effective for fiscal years beginning on or after 1 January 2015. These financial reporting standards were aimed at alignment with the corresponding International Financial Reporting Standards, with most of the changes directed towards revision of wording and terminology, and provision of interpretations and accounting guidance to users of accounting standards. The management of the Company believes they will not have any significant impact on the financial statements in the year in which they are adopted. However, some of these financial reporting standards involve changes to key prin ciples, as discussed below: TAS 19 (revised 2014) Employee Benefits This revised standard requires that the entity recognise actuarial gains and losses immediately in other comprehensive income while the existing standard allows the entity to recognise such gains and losses immediately in profit or loss, or in other comprehensive income, or to recognise them gradually in profit or loss. This revised standard does not have any impact on the financial statements as the Company and its subsidiaries already recognised actuarial gains and losses immediately in other comprehensive income. TFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements TFRS 10 prescribes requirements for the preparation of consolidated financial statements and replaces the part dealing with consolidated financial statements as included in TAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements. This standard changes the principles used in considering whether control exists. Under this standard, an investor is deemed to have control over an investee if it has rights, or is exposed, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and it has the ability to direct the activities that affect the amount of its returns, even if it holds less than half of the shares or voting rights. This important change requires the management to exercise a lot of judgement when reviewing whether the Company and its subsidiaries have control over the investees and determine which entities have to be included for preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The management of the Company and its subsidiaries believes that this standard will not have any significant impact on the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ financial statements. TFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities This standard stipulates disclosures relating to an entity’s interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates, including structured entities. This standard therefore has no financial impact to the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries. TFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement This standard provides guidance on how to measure fair value and stipulates disclosures related to fair value measurements. Entities are to apply the guidance under this standard if they are required by other financial reporting standards to measure their assets or liabilities at fair value. The effect of the change from the adoption of this standard is to be recognised prospectively. Based on the preliminary analysis, the management of the Company and its subsidiaries believes that this standard will not have any significant impact on the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ financial statements. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 143 4. Significant accounting policies 4.1 Revenue recognition Sales of goods Sales of goods are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer. Sales are the invoiced value, excluding value added tax, of goods supplied after deducting discounts and allowances. Rental and service income Rental income is recognised based on an accrual basis on straight-line basis over the lease term. Service revenue is recognised when services have been rendered taking into account the stage of completion. Interest income Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis based on the effective interest rate. 4.2 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand and at banks, and all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less and not subject to withdrawal restrictions. 4.3 Trade accounts receivable Trade accounts receivable are stated at the net realisable value. Allowance for doubtful accounts is provided for the estimated losses that may be incurred in collection of receivables. The allowance is generally based on collection experiences and analysis of debt aging. 4.4 Inventories Finished goods and work in process are valued at the lower of cost under the weighted average method and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is measured using the standard cost method, which approximates actual cost and includes all production costs and attributable factory overheads. Raw materials and factory supplies are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value and are charged to production costs whenever consumed. 4.5 Investments a) Investments in debt securities expected to be held to maturity are recorded at amortised cost. The premium/discount on debt securities is amortised/accreted by the effective rate method with the amortised/accreted amount presented as an adjustment to the interest income. b) Investment in associates are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method. c) Investments in subsidiaries and associates are accounted for in the separate financial statements using the cost method. d) Investments in non-marketable equity securities, which the Company classifies as other investments, are stated at cost net of allowance for impairment loss (if any). The weighted average method is used for computation of the cost of investments. On disposal of an investment, the difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the investment is recognised in profit or loss. 144 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 4.6 Investment properties Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and allowance for loss on impairment (if any). Depreciation of investment properties is calculated by reference to their costs on the straight-line basis over estimated useful lives of 20 years. Depreciation of the investment properties is included in determining income. On disposal of investment properties, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised in profit or loss in the period when the asset is derecognised. 4.7 Property, plant and equipment/Depreciation Land is stated at cost. Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and allowance for loss on impairment of assets (if any). Depreciation of plant and equipment is calculated by reference to their costs on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives: Land improvements 20 years Buildings and building improvements 10 40 years Leasehold improvements period of lease (2 40 years) Machinery and equipment 3 13 years Furniture, fixtures and office equipment 2 20 years Motor vehicles 2 6 years Depreciation is included in determining income. No depreciation is provided on land and assets under installation and construction in progress. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on disposal of an asset is included in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised. 4.8 Leasehold rights Leasehold rights are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is calculated by reference to cost on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease (25-30 years). Amortisation is included in determining income. 4.9 Business combination Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method with the cost of the acquisition being the fair value at the acquisition date of consideration transferred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. Goodwill is initially recorded at cost, which equals to the excess of cost of business combination over the fair value of the net assets acquired. If the fair value of the net assets acquired exceeds the cost of business combination, the excess is immediately recognised as gain in profit or loss. Goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and when cicumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. An impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 145 4.10 Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantia period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they are incurred. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. 4.11 Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses (if any). Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised on a systematic basis over the economic useful life and tested for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method of such intangible assets are reviewed at least at each financial year end. The amortisation expense is charged to profit or loss. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are computer software which have finite useful lives of 2 10 years. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the cash generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite useful lives of the intangible assets is reviewed annually. 4.12 Related party transactions Related parties comprise enterprises and individuals that control, or are controlled by, the Company, whether directly or indirectly, or which are under common control with the Company. They also include associated companies and individuals which directly or indirectly own a voting interest in the Company that gives them significant influence over the Company, key management personnel, directors and officers with authority in the planning and direction of the Company’s operations. 4.13 Long-term leases Leases of equipment which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased assets and the present value of the minimum lease payments.The outstanding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in long-term payables, while the interest element is charged to profit or loss over the lease period. The assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the useful life of the asset. Leases of property, plant or equipment which do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the lease term. 4.14 Foreign currencies The consolidated and separate financial statements are presented in Baht, which is also the Company’s functional currency. Items of each entity included in the consolidated financial statements are measured using the functional currency of that entity. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Baht at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Baht at the exchange rate ruling at the end of reporting period. Gains and losses on exchange are included in determining income. 146 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 4.15 Impairment of assets At the end of each reporting period, the Company performs impairment reviews in respect of the property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset may be impaired. An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of an asset, which is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, is less than the carrying amount. In determining value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value less costs to sell, an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by a valuation model that, based on information available, reflects the amount that the Company could obtain from the disposal of the asset in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, after deducting the costs of disposal. An impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. In the assessment of asset impairment if there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased, the Company estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. The increased carrying amount of the asset attributable to a reversal of an impairment loss shall not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss. 4.16 Employee benefits Short-term employee benefits Salaries, wages, bonuses and contributions to the social security fund are recognised as expenses when incurred. Post-employment benefits and other long-term employee benefits Defined contribution plans The Company and its employees have jointly established a provident fund. The fund is monthly contributed by employees and by the Company. The fund’s assets are held in a separate trust fund and the Company’s contributions are recognised as expenses when incurred. Defined benefit plans and other long-term employee benefits The Company and its subsidiaries have obligations in respect of the severance payments they must make to employees upon retirement under labor law of each country. The Company and its subsidiaries treat these severance payment obligations as a defined benefit plan. In addition, the Company and local subsidiaries provide other long-term employee benefit plan. The obligation under the defined benefit plan and other long-term employee benefit plans is determined by a professionally qualified independent actuary based on actuarial techniques, using the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses arising from post-employment benefits are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. Actuarial gains and losses arising from other long-term benefits are recognised immediately in profit and loss. 4.17 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company and its subsidiaries has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 147 4.18 Income tax Income tax expense represents the sum of corporate income tax currently payable and deferred tax. Current tax Current income tax of the Company and its subsidiaries (in Thailand) is provided in the accounts at the amount expected to be paid to the taxation authorities, based on taxable profits determined in accordance with tax legislation. Income tax of overseas subsidiaries are provided in accordance with tax legislation and tax rates mandated by the tax laws of those countries. Deferred tax Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts at the end of each reporting period, using the tax rates enacted at the end of the reporting period. The Company and its subsidiaries recognise deferred tax liabilities for all taxable temporary differences while they recognise deferred tax assets for all deductible temporary differences and tax losses carried forward to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which such deductible temporary differences and tax losses carried forward can be utilised. At each reporting date, the Company and its subsidiaries review and reduce the carrying amount of deferred tax assets to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. The Company and its subsidiaries record deferred tax directly to shareholders’ equity if the tax relates to items that are recorded directly to shareholders’ equity. 5. Significant accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with financial reporting standards at times requires management to make subjective judgements and estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. These judgements and estimates affect reported amounts and disclosures; and actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgements and estimates are as follow: Allowance for doubtful accounts In determining an allowance for doubtful accounts, the management needs to make judgement and estimates based upon, among other things, past collection history, aging profile of outstanding debts and the prevailing economic condition. Property, plant and equipment/Depreciation In determining depreciation of plant and equipment, the management is required to make estimates of the useful lives and residual values of the plant and equipment and to review estimate useful lives and residual values when there are any changes. In addition, the management is required to review property, plant and equipment for impairment on a periodical basis and record impairment losses when it is determined that their recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount. This requires judgements regarding forecast of future revenues and expenses relating to the assets subject to the review. 148 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Post-employment benefits under defined benefit plans and other long-term employee benefits The obligation under the defined benefit plan and other long-term employee benefit plans is determined based on actuarial techniques. Such determination is made based on various assumptions, including discount rate, future salary increase rate, mortality rate and staff turnover rate. Tax assessment by the Revenue Department The Company has contingent liabilities as a result of tax assessment by the Revenue Department and believes that no loss will result. In determining tax assessment, the Company’s management has used judgement to asses of the result of the tax assessment. Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences and losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of estimate future taxable profits. Impairment of investments in subsidiaries Impairment testing on investments in subsidiaries requires management to make estimates of the cash flows to be generated by the subsidiaries and to determine an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows. 6. Related party transactions During the years, the Company and its subsidiaries had significant business transactions with related parties. Such transactions, which are summarised below, arose in the ordinary course of business and were concluded on commercial terms and based agreed upon between the Company and those related parties. (Unit: Million Baht) Consolidated financial Separate financial Transfer pricing policy statements statementss 2014 2013 2014 2013 Transactions with subsidiaries (eliminated from the consolidated financial statements) Sales of goods 1,296 1,304 Normal business price close to those charged to other customers Purchases of goods and raw materials 257 307 With reference to market price Loan interest income 16 25 Per loan agreement Interest income on overdue payment 1 2 Interest rate at 7.5 percent per annum Guarantee fee income 3 3 1 percent per annum Service income 36 36 Agreed between the parties Management income 13 10 Agreed between the parties Service expenses 2 2 Agreed between the parties Commission payments 3 Agreed between the parties PRANDA Annual Report 2014 149 (Unit: Million Baht) Consolidated financial Separate financial Transfer pricing policy statements statementss 2014 2013 2014 2013 Transactions with associates Sales of goods 3 3 Normal business price close to those charged to other customers Purchases of goods and raw materials 242 418 242 377 With reference to market price Service income 1 1 Agreed between the parties Transactions with related companies Sales of goods 9 13 7 7 Normal business price close to those charged to other customers Purchase of goods 59 39 1 1 With reference to market price Loan interest income 1 1 Per loan agreement Service expenses 7 6 3 4 Agreed between the parties Service income 1 1 1 Agreed between the parties Transactions with management and directors Commission payments 1 2 1 2 Agreed between the parties As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the balances of the accounts between the Company and those related parties are as follows: (Unit: Million Baht) Consolidated financial Separate financial statements statementss 2014 2013 2014 2013 Trade accounts receivable related parties (Note 8) Subsidiaries 929 852 Related companies (related by common directors) 31 28 27 24 Total 31 28 956 876 Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts (2) (241) (194) Total trade accounts receivable related parties, net 29 28 715 682 Other receivables related parties (Note 8) Subsidiaries 231 238 Related companies (related by common directors) 2 2 1 1 Subsidiary and related company’s directors 26 35 15 23 Total 28 37 247 262 Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts (159) (155) Total other receivables related parties, net 28 37 88 107 150 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 (Unit: Million Baht) Consolidated financial Separate financial statements statementss 2014 2013 2014 2013 Advances for investment Subsidiary 5 6 Amounts due from related party Subsidiary 51 50 Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts (12) Total amounts due from related party, net 39 50 Trade and other payables related parties (Note 21) Subsidiaries 29 35 Related companies (related by common directors) 44 45 Total trade and other payables related parties 44 45 29 35 During the year 2014, the Company has recorded allowance for doubtful accounts for its trade and other receivables related parties in the income statement for the year 2014, a total of Baht 63 million (2013: Baht 61 million). Loans to related parties As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the balances of loans between the Company and those related parties and the movement are as follows: (Unit: Million Baht) Consolidated financial Separate financial statements statementss 2014 2013 2014 2013 Short-term loans to related parties Subsidiaries 7 Related companies (related by common directors) 23 16 Total short-term loans to related parties 23 16 7 Long-term loans to related parties Subsidiaries 218 204 Long-term loans (9) (33) Less: Current portion 209 171 Long-term loans, net of current portion PRANDA Annual Report 2014 151 During the year 2014, movements of loans to related parties were as follow: (Unit: Million Baht) Consolidated financial statements Balance as at Increase Decrease Balance as at Loans to related parties Related by 31 December during during 31 December 2013 the year the year 2014 A-List Corporate Co., Ltd. The Director related to 13 7 20 the Company’s director Supree Holding Co., Ltd. Shareholders related to 3 3 the Company’s director (Unit: Million Baht) Separate financial statements Balance as at Increase Decrease Unrealised Balance as at Loans to related parties Related by 31 December during during gain (loss) on 31 December 2013 the year the year exchange rate 2014 Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG Subsidiary 7 20 (3) 24 Pranda UK Ltd. Subsidiary 204 (10) 194 Pranda Singapore Pte. Limited Subsidiary 1 (1) Short-term loans to related parties Consolidated financial statements A local subsidiary (Pranda Lodging Co., Ltd.) granted short-term loans of Baht 13 million (2013: Baht 13 million), to a related company, A-List Corporate Co., Ltd., and these loans are subject to interest at the rate of 7 percent per annum, secured by the director of this related company and repayable on demand. In addition, the subsidiary granted short-term loan of Baht 3 million (2013: Baht 3 million), to a related company, Supree Holding Co., Ltd, and this loan is subject to interest at the rate of 7 percent per annum, unsecured and repayable on demand. A local subsidiary (Crystaline Co., Ltd.) granted short-term loan of Baht 7 million, to a related company, A-list Corporate Co., Ltd., and this loan is subject to interest at the rate of 8 percent per annum, unsecured and repayable on demand. Separate financial statements The short-term loan to a subsidiary, Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG, is subject to interest at a rate of 7.5 percent per annum. This loan is unsecured and principal and interest were to be paid within December 2014. However, in December 2014 the Company amended the loan agreement with this subsidiary, making it a long-term loan agreement with a term of 3 years. During 2014, the Company granted a short-term loan to its subsidiary, Pranda Singapore Pte. Limited, of SGD 35,000 or approximately Baht 1 million. This loan was subjected to interest at the rate of 5 percent per annum, and unsecured. However, the loan was repaid within the current year. Long-term loans to related parties Consolidated financial statements A local subsidiary granted a long-term loan of USD 1 million, or approximately Baht 33 million (2013: USD 1 million or approximately Baht 30 million), to PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia, a subsidiary company. The loan is subject to interest at the rate of 7.5 percent per annum, has a term of 5 years (maturity in 2016), and is secured by the pledge of all shares of this company. 152 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 The loan agreement grants the subsidiary the option to have PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia, makes loan repayment in cash, or to convert part or all of the unpaid loan to the newly issued shares of the company, provided these do not exceed up to 55 percent of total shares. The conversion ratio is set at the par value of that company’s shares. Separate financial statements The long-term loan of GBP 3.8 million, granted to a subsidiary, Pranda UK Ltd., is unsecured and was repayable quarterly within 10 years, from March 2010 to December 2019. Subsequently, in December 2014, the Company amended the long-term loan agreement such that the loan is repayable within 6 years, by quarterly from March 2015 to December 2020. The loan is unsecured and interest is payable quarterly at a rate of 7.5 percent per annum. The long-term loan of EUR 0.6 million, granted to a subsidiary, Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG, is unsecured and repayable quarterly within 3 years, from March 2015 to December 2017. Interest is payable quarterly at a rate of 7.5 percent per annum. Loan from related party As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the balance of short-term loan from related party are as follows: (Unit: Million Baht) Consolidated financial Separate financial statements statementss 2014 2013 2014 2013 Short-term loan from related party Subsidiary’s director 1 During the current year, Pranda Jewelry Private Limited, its subsidiary, had short-term loan amounting to Indian Rupee 1 million (or equivalent to Baht 1 million) from its director. This loan is unsecured and has no interest charge. Directors and management’s benefits During the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Company and its subsidiaries had employee benefit expenses of their directors and management as below. (Unit: Million Baht) Consolidated financial Separate financial statements statementss 2014 2013 2014 2012 Short-term employee benefits 88 76 43 38 Post-employment benefits 2 1 2 1 Other long-term benefits 2 3 1 Total 92 80 45 40 Guarantee obligations with related parties The Company has outstanding guarantee obligations with its related parties, as described in Note 35.3.1 to the financial statements. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 153 7. Cash and cash equivalents (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial Separate financial statements statementss 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash 3,739 4,143 604 404 Bank deposits 273,650 283,821 75,834 92,245 Fixed deposit receipt 65,000 65,000 Total 342,389 287,964 141,438 92,649 As at 31 December 2014, bank deposits and fixed deposit receipt carried interests between 0.05 to 2.50 percent per annum (2013: between 0.05 and 2.70 percent per annum). 8. Trade and other receivables (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial Separate financial statements statementss 2014 2013 2014 2013 Trade accounts receivable related parties Aged on the basis of due dates Not yet due 830 174,966 208,835 Past due Up to 3 months 2,730 2,873 93,857 105,885 3 6 months 1,867 3,045 33,127 58,456 6 12 months 4,015 2,003 111,247 93,150 Over 12 months 22,651 19,444 542,794 410,127 Total 31,263 28,195 955,991 876,453 Less: Allowance for doubtful debts (1,931) (241,474) (193,959) Total trade accounts receivable related parties, net (Note 6) 29,332 28,195 714,517 682,494 Trade accounts receivable unrelated parties Aged on the basis of due dates Not yet due 201,529 237,612 51,994 55,554 Past due Up to 3 months 205,712 258,610 78,601 99,212 3 6 months 30,623 49,389 7,114 23,511 6 12 months 34,706 26,430 4,306 4,658 Over 12 months 67,462 188,879 43,044 139,777 Total 540,032 760,920 185,059 322,712 Less: Allowance for doubtful debts (45,111) (86,213) (18,087) (56,797) Total trade accounts receivable unrelated parties, net 494,921 674,707 166,972 265,915 Total trade accounts receivable, net 524,253 702,902 881,489 948,409 154 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial Separate financial statements statementss 2014 2013 2014 2013 Other receivables Other receivables related parties (Note 6) 27,922 36,785 247,252 261,129 Other receivables unrelated parties 8,220 14,386 720 285 Accrued interest income 1,353 1,319 1,187 1,318 Accrued income 4,307 2,779 Total 41,802 55,269 249,159 262,732 Less: Allowance for doubtful debts (Note 6) (2,409) (1,142) (158,768) (155,386) Total other receivables, net 39,393 54,127 90,391 107,346 Total trade and other receivables, net 563,646 757,029 971,880 1,055,755 During the current year, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with an overseas trade debtor to settle debts totaling USD 6.27 million by means of a cash payment, the issue of a promissory note by the overseas company, and receipts of raw materials and finished goods. During the year 2014, the Company received cash payment of USD 0.8 million and raw materials of USD 0.2 million. As a result, the outstanding debt of the debtor was USD 5.3 million. In December 2014, the Company entered into an amendment to the settlement agreement with this debtor totaling USD 5.3 million. Under this amendment the debt will be settled through cash payments totaling USD 0.75 million, paid in accordance with the repayment schedule under the agreement, the issue of a promissory note for USD 1.55 million by the debtor, and the issue of a promissory note for USD 3 million by another overseas company. The total balance of promissory notes, amounting to USD 4.55 million, is presented in other receivables as non-current assets, as described in Note 15 to the financial statements. As at 31 December 2014, the outstanding balance receivable from this overseas trade debtor, included in trade accounts receivable unrelated parties, was USD 0.75 million or approximately Baht 25 million. 9. Inventories (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements Reduce cost to Cost net realisable value Inventories net 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Finished goods 1,318,166 1,342,423 (120,076) (111,952) 1,198,090 1,230,471 Work in process 183,724 211,030 183,724 211,030 Raw materials 558,392 631,860 (110,137) (114,233) 448,255 517,627 Factory supplies 14,586 13,424 14,586 13,424 Goods in transit 797 8,606 797 8,606 Total 2,075,665 2,207,343 (230,213) (226,185) 1,845,452 1,981,158 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 155 (Unit: Thousand Baht) Separate financial statements Reduce cost to Cost net realisable value Inventories net 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Finished goods 251,492 269,948 (64,322) (67,833) 187,170 202,115 Work in process 173,663 200,381 173,663 200,381 Raw materials 494,872 552,345 (103,123) (108,227) 391,749 444,118 Factory supplies 9,315 8,320 9,315 8,320 Goods in transit 728 8,373 728 8,373 Total 930,070 1,039,367 (167,445) (176,060) 762,625 863,307 During the current year, the Company and its subsidiaries reduced cost of inventories by Baht 4 million (2013: Baht 16 million (The Company only: Baht 6 million)), to reflect the net realisable value. This was included in cost of sales. In addition, the Company reversed the write-down of cost of inventories by Baht 9 million, and reduced the amount of inventories recognised as expenses during the year. 10. Restricted bank deposits The outstanding balances represented the subsidiaries’ deposits with banks, pledged to secure the credit facilities for forward exchange contracts and bank overdraft, and the letters of guarantee issued by banks on behalf of subsidiaries for electricity use. 11. Investment in convertible debentures issued by subsidiary In 2009, an Indian subsidiary, Pranda Jewelry Private Limited, issued and offered to the Company 69,000 units of fully compulsorily convertible debentures, unsubordinated and unsecured, with a par value of Indian Rupee 1,000 each, or a total of Indian Rupee 69 million. All debentures are to be converted into fully paid up equity shares of the subsidiary on a mutually agreed date after 31 December 2012 and mature on 31 December 2016. The conversion ratio will be calculated in accordance with related regulations in India. Under the debentures agreement, the subsidiary will pay interest on a quarterly basis at rates of 7.5 to 15 percent per annum. Moreover, the subsidiary has the right, under the agreement, to buy back the converted equity shares from the Company on or after the conversion date. In any case, if the subsidiary is unable to buy back such shares from the Company, the Company will offer some of the converted equity shares to the minority shareholder of the subsidiary in order to maintain the holding structure of the Company and the minority shareholder of the subsidiary. As at 31 December 2014, the Company had outstanding of 69,000 units of convertible debentures with a par value of Indian Rupee 1,000 each, totaling of Indian Rupee 69 million or approximately of Baht 32 million (2013: Baht 32 million), with the interest rate of 7.5 percent per annum. 156 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 12. Investments in subsidiaries Details of investments in subsidiaries as presented in separate financial statements are as follows: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Shareholding Company’s name Paid-up capital Currency percentage Cost 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 (Percent) (Percent) Pranda North America, Inc. 2 2 Thousand USD 100 100 120,283 120,283 H.GRINGOIRE s.a.r.l. 5 5 Million EUR 100 100 344,423 344,423 Pranda UK Ltd. 0.5 0.5 Million GBP 100 100 28,973 28,973 Pranda Vietnam Co., Ltd. 1.5 1.5 Million USD 100 100 48,180 48,180 Pranda Singapore Pte. Limited 3 3 Million SGD 100 100 53,681 53,681 Primagold International Co., Ltd. 200 200 Million Baht 100 100 200,000 200,000 Crystaline Co., Ltd. 100 100 Million Baht 96 96 96,000 96,000 Pranda Lodging Co., Ltd. 50 50 Million Baht 83 83 41,125 41,125 Guangzhou Pangda Zhubao Shoushi Youxian Gongsi 3.35 3.35 Million USD 100 100 112,523 112,523 Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG 14.96 14.96 Million EUR 75 75 573,303 573,303 Pranda Jewelry Private Limited 1 1 Million Indian Rupee 51 51 436 436 Pranda Trading (Shenzhen) Limited 0.55 0.4 Million USD 100 100 17,437 12,470 Total 1,636,364 1,631,397 Less: Allowance for impairment of investments (802,100) (678,202) Investments in subsidiaries, net 834,264 953,195 During 2014 and 2013, no dividend income was received from its investments in subsidiaries. During the current year, the Company made the additional investment in Pranda Trading (Shenzhen) Limited, its subsidiary, of USD 0.15 million, or approximately Baht 5 million. As a result, the Company’s total investment in this subsidiary company is USD 0.55 million, or approximately Baht 17 million, and its shareholding remains unchanged at 100 percent. During the year 2014, the Company has recorded allowance for impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries in the separate income statement for the year 2014, a total of Baht 124 million (2013: Baht 69 million). PRANDA Annual Report 2014 157 13. Investments in associates 13.1 Details of associates: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements Country of Shareholding Investments Company’s name Nature of business incorporation Percentage value equity method 2014 2013 2014 2013 (Percent) (Percent) KZ-Pranda Co., Ltd. Import and distribution Thailand of raw materials precious metals Cost 40 40 3,600 3,600 Accumulated Share loss (3,368) (3,600) Total carrying amounts based on equity method 232 (Unit: Thousand Baht) Separate financial statements Allowance for Carrying amounts Country of Shareholding impairment of based on cost Company’s name Nature of business incorporation percentage Cost investments method net 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 (Percent) (Percent) KZ-Pranda Co., Ltd. Import and distribution of Thailand 40 40 3,600 3,600 (3,600) (3,600) raw materials precious metals On 1 October 2013, the Company acquired 2,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of 1,000 Indonesian Rupiah each of P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam, an associate held by Pranda Singapore Pte. Limited, which is a 100-percent owned subsidiary of the Company. This represents 50 percent of the issued and paid up share capital of P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam. The purchase price was the net book value of SGD 1.4 million, or approximately Baht 35 million. The Company then disposed of 1,240,000 ordinary shares of its investment in P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam, representing 31 percent of the issued and paid up share capital of P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam, by sale to a shareholder of P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam, at a price of approximately USD 0.7 million, or approximately Baht 22 million, which was close to a fair value. The term of payment to the Company will be made in 2014 and 2015 amounting to USD 0.5 million and USD 0.2 million, respectively. The Company recognised loss on the sale of this investment in the 2013 consolidated financial statements and separate financial statements of approximately Baht 0.7 million and Baht 0.1 million, respectively. As a result of the sale, the Company’s shareholding in this company decreased from 50 percent to 19 percent, and the balance of the investment has therefore been recorded as other long-term investments. Investment in P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam under the equity method has consequently not been recorded in the Company’s consolidated financial statements since 1 October 2013. 158 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 13.2 Share of profit (loss) During the years, the Company and its subsidiaries recognised their share of profit (loss) from investments in associates in the consolidated financial statements as follows: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements Company’s name Share of profit (loss) from investments in associates 2014 2013 P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam (9,795) KZ-Pranda Co., Ltd. 232 (3,516) Total 232 (13,311) During 2014 and 2013, the Company and its subsidiaries received no dividend income from their investments in associates. 13.3 Financial information of associate Financial information of the associate is summarised below. (Unit: Million Baht) Total Total revenues Profit (loss) Paid-up Total assets liabilties for the years for the years capital as at as at as at ended ended Company’s name 31 December Currency 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 KZ-Pranda Co., Ltd. 9 9 Million Baht 98 139 98 146 1,784 1,975 8 (16) 13.4 Investment in associates with capital deficit In 2013, the Company recognised share of losses from investment in an associate, as listed below, until the value of the investment approached zero. Subsequent losses incurred by the associate has not been recognised in the Company’s accounts since the Company has no obligation, whether legal or constructive, to make any payments on behalf of the associate. The amount of such unrecognised share of losses is set out below. (Unit: Million Baht) Unrecognised share of losses for Cumulative unrecognised share Company’s name the years ended 31 December of losses up to 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 KZ-Pranda Co., Ltd. 3 3 14. Other long-term investments (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated Separate financial statements financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Investments in government bonds 9,889 9,852 9,889 9,852 Investment in other company P.T. Sumberkreasi Ciptalogam, which the Company’s shareholding is 19 percent (as described in Note 13.1) 14,490 14,490 13,350 13,350 Total other long-term investments 24,379 24,342 23,239 23,202 The Company has pledged some of its government bonds to secure performance bonds as require in the normal course of its business. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 159 15. Other receivables During the current year, the Company received the settlement from an overseas trade debtor in the form of promissory notes totaling USD 4.55 million, or approximately Baht 149 million that were issued by two overseas companies, in accordance with the settlement agreement as described in Note 8 to the financial statements. These promissory notes are repayable in five years (maturity in April 2019), with no interest. The outstanding balances as at 31 December 2014 are presented below. (Unit: Million Baht) Consolidated / Separate financial statements Promissory notes 149 Less: Allowance for devaluation (38) Net 111 16. Investment properties The net book value of investment properties as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is presented below. (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements Separate financial statements Land and Land and Land held for building Land held for building development for rent Total development for rent Total 31 December 2014: Cost 667,381 66,852 734,233 667,381 20,245 687,626 Less: Accumulated depreciation (44,971) (44,971) (10,634) (10,634) Net book value 667,381 21,881 689,262 667,381 9,611 676,992 31 December 2013: Cost 667,381 66,852 734,233 667,381 20,245 687,626 Less: Accumulated depreciation (42,113) (42,113) (10,007) (10,007) Less: Allowance for loss on impairment (188,016) (188,016) (188,016) (188,016) Net book value 479,365 24,739 504,104 479,365 10,238 489,603 A reconciliation of the net book value of investment properties for the years 2014 and 2013 is presented below. (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated Separate financial statements financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Net book value at beginning of year 504,104 506,962 489,603 490,230 Depreciation (2,858) (2,858) (627) (627) Reversal allowance for loss on impairment 188,016 188,016 Net book value at end of year 689,262 504,104 676,992 489,603 In November 2014, the Company arranged for an independent professional valuer to appraise the value of investment properties which are land held for development for future projects. The basis of the revaluation was “Market approach”. The results showed the fair value of land held for development which is higher than its net book value. The Company recorded the reversal previouslyrecognised allowance for loss on impairment totaled Baht 188 million in the consolidated and separate income statement for the year 2014. 160 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 The fair value of the investment properties stated below: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated Separate financial statements financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Land held for development 823,500 524,120 823,500 524,120 Land and building for rent 62,790 63,390 142,730 58,949 The fair values of the land held for development, land and building for rent have been determined based on valuations performed by an accredited independent valuer using the market approach. The Company and its subsidiaries have mortgaged their investment properties with a total net book value as at 31 December 2014, amounting to approximately Baht 673 million (2013: Baht 486 million) (The Company only: Baht 676 million, 2013: Baht 489 million) as collateral against credit facilities received from commercial banks. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 161 17. Property, plant and equipment (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements PRANDA Furniture, Assets under Buildings Machinery fixtures and installation 162 Annual Report 2014 Land and building Leasehold and office Motor and under Land improvements improvements improvements equipment equipment vehicles construction Total Cost: 1 January 2013 98,492 10,185 427,766 36,233 225,401 444,591 30,899 100,420 1,373,987 Additions 99 2,442 10,590 20,516 4,499 253,896 292,042 Disposals (3,014) (11,981) (3,096) (36,478) (2,751) (245) (57,565) Acquisition of subsidiaries during the year 1,514 389 1,903 Capitalised interest 5,564 5,564 Transfers 1,115 18,121 3,529 15,115 261 (38,141) Translation adjustment 201 3,751 1,948 1,877 4,156 507 12,440 31 December 2013 95,679 11,300 437,756 40,623 238,301 449,414 33,804 321,494 1,628,371 Additions 87 310 8,246 28,876 795 91,308 129,622 Disposals (2,897) (5,154) (12,167) (18,715) (2,612) (41,545) Capitalised interest 5,465 5,465 Transfers 4,102 55,118 194 63,126 (122,540) Translation adjustment 160 (1,195) (1,089) (2,236) (607) (825) (5,792) 31 December 2014 95,679 15,489 490,137 34,584 233,485 520,465 31,380 294,902 1,716,121 Accumulated depreciation: 1 January 2013 6,738 292,478 25,764 166,711 353,281 21,484 866,456 Depreciation for the year 428 13,268 4,210 20,195 29,761 3,860 71,722 Depreciation on disposals (1,641) (2,615) (32,285) (1,619) (38,160) Acquisition of subsidiaries during the year 838 389 1,227 Translation adjustment 2,204 1,294 1,456 3,255 1,286 9,495 31 December 2013 7,166 306,309 31,268 185,747 354,850 25,400 910,740 Depreciation for the year 456 14,583 1,369 18,940 34,363 3,413 73,124 Depreciation on disposals (2,111) (5,121) (9,566) (17,690) (1,597) (36,085) Translation adjustment 82 (729) (488) (2,214) (289) (3,638) 31 December 2014 7,622 318,863 26,787 194,633 369,309 26,927 944,141 17. Property, plant and equipment (continued) (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements Furniture, Assets under Buildings Machinery fixtures and installation Land and building Leasehold and office Motor and under Land improvements improvements improvements equipment equipment vehicles construction Total Allowance for impairment loss: 31 December 2013 11,833 11,833 31 December 2014 11,833 11,833 Net book value: 31 December 2013 95,679 4,134 131,447 9,355 52,554 82,731 8,404 321,494 705,798 31 December 2014 95,679 7,867 171,274 7,797 38,852 139,323 4,453 294,902 760,147 Depreciation for the year 2013 (Baht 39 million included in manufacturing cost, and the balance in selling and administrative expenses) 71,722 2014 (Baht 36 million included in manufacturing cost, and the balance in selling and administrative expenses) 73,124 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 163 17. Property, plant and equipment (continued) (Unit: Thousand Baht) Separate financial statements PRANDA Furniture, Assets under Buildings Machinery fixtures and installation 164 Annual Report 2014 Land and building and office Motor and under Land improvements improvements equipment equipment vehicles construction Total Cost: 1 January 2013 88,570 10,185 331,914 201,563 254,485 19,061 99,911 1,005,689 Additions 74 8,185 8,390 1,568 200,931 219,148 Disposals (1,389) (5,896) (814) (245) (8,344) Transfers 1,115 18,121 3,529 4,025 (26,790) Capitalised interest 5,564 5,564 31 December 2013 88,570 11,300 350,109 211,888 261,004 19,815 279,371 1,222,057 Additions 87 8,171 7,655 90,797 106,710 Disposals (777) (6,640) (10,837) (2) (18,256) Transfers 4,103 20,683 193 62,617 (87,596) Capitalised interest 5,465 5,465 31 December 2014 88,570 15,490 370,015 213,612 320,439 19,813 288,037 1,315,976 Accumulated depreciation: 1 January 2013 6,738 247,163 148,005 209,179 14,041 625,126 Depreciation for the year 428 9,121 19,072 11,968 2,028 42,617 Depreciation on disposals (1,374) (5,294) (814) (7,482) 31 December 2013 7,166 256,284 165,703 215,853 15,255 660,261 Depreciation for the year 456 9,995 17,779 12,731 2,048 43,009 Depreciation on disposals (207) (6,530) (10,705) (2) (17,444) 31 December 2014 7,622 266,072 176,952 217,879 17,301 685,826 17. Property, plant and equipment (continued) (Unit: Thousand Baht) Separate financial statements Furniture, Assets under Buildings Machinery fixtures and installation Land and building and office Motor and under Land improvements improvements equipment equipment vehicles construction Total Allowance for impairment loss: 31 December 2013 11,833 11,833 31 December 2014 11,833 11,833 Net book value: 31 December 2013 88,570 4,134 93,825 46,185 33,318 4,560 279,371 549,963 31 December 2014 88,570 7,867 103,943 36,660 90,727 2,512 288,037 618,317 Depreciation for the year 2013 (Baht 32 million included in manufacturing cost, and the balance in selling and administrative expenses) 42,617 2014 (Baht 32 million included in manufacturing cost, and the balance in selling and administrative expenses) 43,009 As at 31 December 2014, certain plant and equipment items of the Company and its subsidiaries have been fully depreciated but are still in use. The gross carrying amount before deducting accumulated depreciation and allowance for impairment loss of those assets amounted to approximately Baht 684 million (2013: Baht 665 million) (The Company only: Baht 520 million, 2013: Baht 500 million). The Company and its subsidiaries have mortgaged/pledged their property, plant and equipment with a total net book value as at 31 December 2014 amounting to approximately Baht 406 million (2013: Baht 400 million) as collateral against credit facilities received from commercial banks (The Company only: Baht 332 million, 2013: Baht 323 million). PRANDA Annual Report 2014 165 18. Leasehold rights A local subsidiary company has mortgaged leasehold rights with a total net book value as at 31 December 2014 of approximately Baht 14 million (2013: Baht 15 million) as collateral for credit facilities received from commercial banks. 19. Intangible assets The net book value of intangible assets as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is presented below. (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements Separate financial statements Computer Computer software Brand names Total software Brand names Total Cost: As at 1 January 2013 54,715 3,302 58,017 24,613 3,302 27,915 Additions 7,069 50 7,119 5,458 50 5,508 Disposals (69) (69) Translation adjustment 2,251 2,251 As at 31 December 2013 63,966 3,352 67,318 30,071 3,352 33,423 Addition 1,501 50 1,551 1,426 50 1,476 Translation adjustment (1,734) (1,734) As at 31 December 2014 63,733 3,402 67,135 31,497 3,402 34,899 Accumulated amortisation: As at 1 January 2013 24,032 24,032 10,643 10,643 Amortisation during the year 6,206 6,206 2,864 2,864 Accumulated amortisation for disposal (65) (65) Translation adjustment 1,480 1,480 As at 31 December 2013 31,653 31,653 13,507 13,507 Amortisation during the year 4,994 4,994 1,769 1,769 Translation adjustment (1,293) (1,293) As at 31 December 2014 35,354 35,354 15,276 15,276 Net book value: 31 December 2013 32,313 3,352 35,665 16,564 3,352 19,916 31 December 2014 28,379 3,402 31,781 16,221 3,402 19,623 166 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 20. Bank overdrafts and short-term loans from financial institution (Unit: Thousand Baht) Interest rate Consolidated Separate (percent per annum) financial statements financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Bank overdrafts 4.65, 7.70 14,211 12,305 Short-term loans from financial institutions 2.0 4.40, 12.75 674,820 445,365 513,440 240,000 Total 689,031 457,670 513,440 240,000 Bank overdrafts and some part of short-term loans from financial institutions of the Company are secured by the mortgage of the Company’s land with structures thereon, and investment properties. Bank overdrafts and short-term loans from financial institutions of a local subsidiary company are guaranteed by the Company, and directors of the Company and that subsidiary company. Bank overdrafts of a local subsidiary company are secured by fixed deposits pledged with the bank. Bank overdrafts and short-term loans from financial institutions of an overseas subsidiary are guaranteed by the standby-letters of credit issued by a commercial bank in Thailand and guaranteed by the Company and the subsidiary’s director. Short-term loan from financial institutions of an overseas subsidiary is guaranteed by the assets of the subsidiary’s director. 21. Trade and other payables (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated Separate financial statements financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Trade and other payables related parties (Note 6) 43,509 45,007 28,879 34,978 Trade payables unrelated parties 397,205 518,921 229,225 388,394 Other payables unrelated parties 38,457 81,348 19,305 52,329 Accrued expenses 73,973 98,432 27,624 44,200 Total trade and other payables 553,144 743,708 305,033 519,901 22. Short-term loans from unrelated parties As at 31 December 2014, short-term loans from unrelated parties of the Company comprise short-term loans from individuals totaling Baht 30 million in the form of bills of exchange. The loans are carrying the interest rate at 4 percent per annum, unse cured and repayable within March 2015. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 167 23. Long-term loans (Unit: Thousand Baht) Interest rate Consolidated Separate Loan (percent per annum) Repayment schedule financial statements financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 1 MLR 0.5 Quarterly installment as from June 2007 to December 2014 25,110 25,110 2 MLR 1 Quarterly installment as from November 2012 to February 2019 199,200 244,000 199,200 244,000 3 MLR 1 Quarterly installment as from October 2013 to October 2017 155,750 136,623 155,750 136,623 4 MLR Monthly installment as from January 2007 to December 2017 2,723 3,633 5 MLR + 0.5 Monthly installment as from July 2009 to December 2015 1,818 3,341 6 MLR Monthly installment as from October 2009 to June 2016 8,630 13,772 7 13.50 Monthly installment as from September 2013 to August 2028 (Indian Rupee loan) 14,547 15,192 Total 382,668 441,671 354,950 405,733 Less: Current portion of long-term loans (88,701) (113,223) (80,200) (105,310) Long-term loans, net of current portion 293,967 328,448 274,750 300,423 The long-term loans of the Company are secured by the mortgage of land with structures, and investment properties, and by the guarantee of the Company’s directors. The loan agreements contain covenants as specified in the agreements that, among other things, require the Company to maintain certain debt to equity according to the agreements. Long-term loans of a local subsidiary company were granted by local commercial banks. Such loans were secured by the mortgage of its office condominium units, investment properties and some of its leasehold rights, and by the guarantees of the Company and directors of the subsidiary. The loan agreements contain covenants as specified in the agreements that, among other things, require the subsidiary to maintain certain debt to equity according to the agreements. Long-term loan of overseas subsidiary company, Pranda Jewelry Private Limited, was granted by an Indian financial institution. Such loan is secured by the mortgage of a building of this subsidiary. 168 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 24. Provision for long-term employee benefits Provision for long-term employee benefits was as follows: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements Post-employment benefits Other long-term employee from employee’s retirement benefits plan Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 184,215 171,350 8,591 8,647 192,806 179,997 Current service cost 7,284 11,417 903 945 8,187 12,362 Interest cost 5,030 6,164 224 336 5,254 6,500 Increase from business combination 928 928 Benefits paid during the year (3,623) (5,644) (881) (1,337) (4,504) (6,981) Actuarial gains (47,992) (1,431) (49,423) Provision for long-term employee benefits at end of year 144,914 184,215 7,406 8,591 152,320 192,806 (Unit: Thousand Baht) Separate financial statements Post-employment benefits Other long-term employee from employee’s retirement benefits plan Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 150,851 142,302 7,734 7,770 158,585 150,072 Current service cost 6,755 8,262 653 798 7,408 9,060 Interest cost 4,343 5,233 190 299 4,533 5,532 Benefits paid during the year (3,418) (4,946) (789) (1,133) (4,207) (6,079) Actuarial gains (38,098) (1,641) (39,739) Provision for long-term employee benefits at end of year 120,433 150,851 6,147 7,734 126,580 158,585 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 169 Long-term employee benefit expenses included in the statements of income consist of the following: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements Post-employment benefits Other long-term employee from employee’s retirement benefits plan Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Current service cost 7,284 11,417 903 945 8,187 12,362 Interest cost 5,030 6,164 224 336 5,254 6,500 Actuarial gain recognised during the year (1,431) (1,431) Total expenses recognised in statements of income 12,314 17,581 (304) 1,281 12,010 18,862 Line items under which such expenses are included in statements of income Cost of sales 7,662 8,522 777 840 8,439 9,362 Selling and administrative expenses 4,652 9,059 (1,081) 441 3,571 9,500 12,314 17,581 (304) 1,281 12,010 18,862 (Unit: Thousand Baht) Separate financial statements Post-employment benefits Other long-term employee from employee’s retirement benefits plan Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Current service cost 6,755 8,262 653 798 7,408 9,060 Interest cost 4,343 5,233 190 299 4,533 5,532 Actuarial gain recognised during the year (1,641) (1,641) Total expenses recognised in statements of income 11,098 13,495 (798) 1,097 10,300 14,592 Line items under which such expenses are included in statements of income Cost of sales 6,696 7,491 708 816 7,404 8,307 Selling and administrative expenses 4,402 6,004 (1,506) 281 2,896 6,285 11,098 13,495 (798) 1,097 10,300 14,592 As at 31 December 2014, cumulative actuarial gain (net of actuarial losses), which were recognised in other comprehensive income of the Company and its subsidiaries, amounted to Baht 48 million (The Company only: Baht 38 million). Key actuarial assumptions used for the valuation are as follows: Consolidated financial statements Separate financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 (Percent per annum) (Percent per annum) (Percent per annum) (Percent per annum) Discount rate 1.0 8.0 1.0 6.5 4.0 3.9 Future salary increase rate 2.0 10.0 2.0 7.0 5.0 3.0 7.0 Staff turnover rate (depending on age) 0 22.92 1.0 55.0 0 22.92 1.0 55.0 170 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Amounts of defined benefit obligation and experience adjustments for the current and previous four years are as follows: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements Post-employment benefits from Other long-term employee employee’s retirement benefits plan Total Experience Experience Experience Defined benefit adjustments on Defined benefit adjustments on Defined benefit adjustments on obligations the obligations obligations the obligations obligations the obligations Year 2014 144,914 (11,323) 7,406 340 152,320 (10,983) Year 2013 184,215 8,591 192,806 Year 2012 171,350 8,647 179,997 Year 2011 156,947 8,469 165,416 Year 2010 144,096 8,496 152,592 (Unit: Thousand Baht) Separate financial statements Post-employment benefits from Other long-term employee employee’s retirement benefits plan Total Experience Experience Experience Defined benefit adjustments on Defined benefit adjustments on Defined benefit adjustments on obligations the obligations obligations the obligations obligations the obligations Year 2014 120,433 (7,242) 6,147 (133) 126,580 (7,375) Year 2013 150,851 7,734 158,585 Year 2012 142,302 7,770 150,072 Year 2011 130,245 7,518 137,763 Year 2010 120,556 7,517 128,073 25. Warrants On 18 April 2008, the Annual General Meeting of the Company’s shareholders approved the resolution to issue 14,251,410 registered and non-transferable warrants to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares under Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP) to be offered to directors and employees of the Company and/or its subsidiaries. No value is to be charged for the warrants upon issue. The warrants have an exercise price of Baht 3 per unit and are exercisable in a ratio of 1 warrant per 1 ordinary share, for a period of 5 years from the issue date. The warrant holders are entitled to exercise the warrants every six months. Subsequently, on 11 February 2009, the meeting of the Company’s Board of Directors No. 2/2009, approved the resolution to allocate and determine the date of issuance of the warrants to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares on 27 February 2009. The first exercise date was on 28 August 2009. The warrants were due for the last exercise date on 27 February 2014. Presented below is a summary of movement in the number of warrants. (Units) Outstanding units as at 1 January 2013 3,246,446 Number of exercised warrants during the year 2013 (2,862,246) Outstanding units as at 31 December 2013 384,200 Number of exercised warrants during the year 2014 (384,200) Outstanding units as at 31 December 2014 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 171 26. Share capital / share premium Presented below is a summary of movements in share capital during the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013. PRANDA Date of registration of Issued and fully paid-up additional shares with Date of listing securities on the 172 Annual Report 2014 share capital Share premium the Ministry of Commerce Stock Exchange of Thailand 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 (Thousand Baht) (Thousand Baht) (Thousand Baht) (Thousand Baht) Balance outstanding at the beginning year 409,145 406,283 786,087 780,362 Increase in share capital from exercised warrants in February 384 384 768 769 7 March 2014 8 March 2013 10 March 2015 12 March 2013 Increase in share capital from exercised 10 September 2013 11 September 2013 warrants in August 2,478 4,956 Total 384 2,862 768 5,725 Balance outstanding at the ending year 409,529 409,145 786,855 786,087 27. Statutory reserve Pursuant to Section 116 of the Public Limited Companies Act B.E. 2535, the Company is required to set aside to a statutory reserve at least 5 percent of its net profit after deducting accumulated deficit brought forward (if any), until the reserve reaches 10 percent of the registered capital. The statutory reserve is not available for dividend distribution. At present, the statutory reserve has fully been set aside. 28. Expenses by nature Significant expenses classified by nature are as follows: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated Separate financial statements financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Salaries and wages and other employee benefits 984,144 985,199 601,615 598,333 Depreciation and amortisation 83,459 83,270 45,405 46,108 Raw materials and consumables used and purchase of finished goods 1,474,398 1,864,620 1,276,197 1,559,582 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in process 51,563 (81,952) 45,174 71,080 Decrease of inventory to net realisable value (reversal) 4,028 16,374 (8,615) 6,100 Doubtful accounts (reversal) 223 (7,247) 62,642 54,255 Commission and sales promotion expenses 73,567 110,171 4,845 31,292 Rental expenses from operating lease agreements 66,240 63,722 379 421 29. Income tax Tax expenses (income) for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 are made up as follows: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated Separate financial statements financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Current income tax: Current income tax charge for the year 22,342 (3,786) Adjustment in respect of income tax of previous year 1,136 1,136 Deferred tax: Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (20,150) (27,729) (7,829) (29,894) Tax expense (income) reported in the statements of income 2,192 (30,379) (7,829) (28,758) The amounts of income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 are as follows: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated Separate financial statements financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Deferred tax relating to actuarial gains 8,229 7,620 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 173 The reconciliation between accounting profit and income tax expenses is shown below: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated Separate financial statements financial statements 2014 2013 2014 2013 Accounting profit before tax 89,389 84,548 138,790 190,975 Applicable tax rate 15% 40% 15% 40% 20% 20% Accounting profit before tax multiplied by income tax rate 19,402 7,713 27,758 38,195 Adjustment in respect of current income tax of previous year 1,136 1,136 Previously unrecognised deferred tax assets on impairment loss of investments in subsidiaries (11,252) (11,252) Reversals previously unrecognised deferred tax assets on impairment loss of assets (37,603) (37,603) Deferred tax assets which were not recognised during the year 51,633 46,827 36,920 12,133 Effect of elimination entries on the consolidated financial statements (4,416) (10,549) Effects of: Promotional privileges (Note 30) (33,250) (70,015) (35,679) (71,805) Non-deductible expenses 6,735 6,507 1,014 6,085 Additional expense deductions allowed (1,048) (3,275) (978) (3,250) Others 739 2,529 739 Total (26,824) (64,254) (34,904) (68,970) Tax expenses (income) reported in the statements of income 2,192 (30,379) (7,829) (28,758) The components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013 Deferred tax assets Allowance for doubtful accounts 2,504 2,364 Reduce cost of inventories to net realisable value 12,665 10,026 Provision for long-term employee benefits 27,310 34,033 Difference between tax and accounting of revenue recognition 1,104 997 Unused tax loss 13,906 5,113 Unrealised profit from inter-sales transactions 9,931 5,734 Allowance for impairment of investments in subsidiaries 22,505 22,505 Others 7,253 2,773 Total 97,178 83,545 Deferred tax liabilities Difference of depreciation for accounting and tax purpose 1,773 61 Total 1,773 61 Total deferred tax assets, net 95,405 83,484 174 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 (Unit: Thousand Baht) Separate financial statements As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013 Deferred tax assets Allowance for doubtful accounts 1,053 1,392 Reduce cost of inventories to net realisable value 1,026 Provision for long-term employee benefits 25,316 31,717 Unused tax loss 12,678 4,221 Allowance for impairment of investments in subsidiaries 22,505 22,505 Others 482 Total 61,552 61,343 As at 31 December 2014, the Company has deductible temporary differences totaling Baht 1,273 million (2013: Baht 1,333 million), on which deferred tax assets have not been recognised as the Company believes such deductible temporary differences cannot be utilised. As at 31 Dece mber 2014, the subsidiaries have deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses totaling Baht 1,375 million (2013: Baht 1,311 million), on which deferred tax assets have not been recognised as the subsidiaries believe future taxable profits may not be sufficient to allow utilisation of the temporary differences and unused tax losses. 30. Promotional privileges 30.1 The Company has received promotional privileges from the Board of Investment for the manufacture of jewelry for its factory located in Suranaree Industries Estate Zone in Nakorn Rachasima province, pursuant to the promotion certificate No. 1616(2)/2553 issued on 14 June 2010. Subject to certain imposed conditions, the privileges include an exemption from corporate income tax on income derived from the promoted operations for a period of 8 years from the date the promoted operations commenced generating revenues (4 January 2011) and a 50% reduction of corporate income tax on income derived from the promoted operations for a period of 5 years after the tax-exemption period ends. The Company’s operating revenues for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013, divided between promoted and non-promoted operations, are summarised below. (Unit: Thousand Baht) Promoted operations Non-promoted operations Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Sales Domestic sales 21,049 26,145 466,502 538,016 487,551 564,161 Export sales 998,410 1,163,735 836,738 975,387 1,835,148 2,139,122 Total sales 1,019,459 1,189,880 1,303,240 1,513,403 2,322,699 2,703,283 30.2 A subsidiary company (Pranda Vietnam Company Limited) was granted tax privileges by the Government of Vietnam for the manufacture of gold and silver jewelry. Subject to certain imposed conditions, the privileges include a reduction of corporate income tax from 22% to 15% (2013: from 25% reduce to 15%) on income derived from the promoted operations for a period of 40 years from the date the promoted operations commenced generating revenues. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 175 31. Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company (excluding other comprehensive income) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company (excluding other comprehensive income) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares which would need to be issued to convert all dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. The calculation assumes that the conversion took place either at the beginning of the year or on the date the potential ordinary shares were issued. The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share: Consolidated financial statements Weighted average number Profit for the year of ordinary shares Earnings per share 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 (Thousand Baht) (Thousand Baht) (Thousand Baht) (Thousand Baht) (Baht) (Baht) Basic earnings per share Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 145,534 164,606 409,468 407,433 0.3554 0.4040 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares Warrants 35 1,408 Diluted earnings per share Profit of ordinary shareholders assuming the conversion of warrants to ordinary shares 145,534 164,606 409,503 408,841 0.3554 0.4026 176 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Separate financial statements Weighted average number Profit for the year of ordinary shares Earnings per share 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 (Thousand Baht) (Thousand Baht) (Thousand Baht) (Thousand Baht) (Baht) (Baht) Basic earnings per share Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 146,619 219,732 409,468 407,433 0.3581 0.5393 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares Warrants 35 1,408 Diluted earnings per share Profit of ordinary shareholders assuming the conversion of warrants to ordinary shares 146,619 219,732 409,503 408,841 0.3580 0.5375 32. Segment information Operating segment information is reported in a manner consistent with the internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker in order to make decisions about the allocation of resources to the segment and assess its per formance. The chief operation decision maker has been identified as Board of Executive Directors. For management purposes, the Company and its subsidiaries are organised into business units based on its business activities and have three reportable segments as follows: 1) Production of jewelry 2) Distribution of jewelry 3) Retail jewelry Other segments are dormitory rental in Thailand, investment and dormant companies. The basis of accounting for any transactions between reportable segments is consistent with that for third party transactions. Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 177 The following tables present revenues and profit (loss) information regarding the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ operating segments for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013. PRANDA (Unit: Million Baht) Production Distribution Retail Others Total Segments Eliminations Consolidated 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 178 Annual Report 2014 For the years ended 31 December Revenues Revenues from external customers 1,255 1,615 1,227 1,300 813 734 3,295 3,649 3,295 3,649 Revenues from intersegment 1,273 1,275 10 2 227 259 2 1,512 1,536 (1,512) (1,536) Total revenues 2,528 2,890 1,237 1,302 1,040 993 2 4,807 5,185 (1,512) (1,536) 3,295 3,649 Results Segment profit (loss) 97 144 (112) (144) 65 (4) (29) (7) 21 (11) 55 119 76 108 Unallocated revenues and expenses Interest income 8 6 Gain (loss) on exchange rate (74) 93 Other income 37 29 Depreciation and amortisation (83) (83) Reversal impairment loss on investment properties 188 Share of loss from investments in associates (13) Finance cost (63) (55) Profit before income tax expenses 89 85 Tax income (expenses) (2) 30 Profit for the year 87 115 Geographic information Revenue from external customers is based on locations of the customers. (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements 2014 2013 Revenue from external customers Thailand 818,839 821,758 United States of America 1,070,126 1,155,664 Germany 488,212 565,646 Others 917,949 1,105,771 Total 3,295,126 3,648,839 (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated financial statements 2014 2013 Non-current assets (other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets) Thailand 1,576,680 1,216,376 Others 92,066 101,178 Total 1,668,746 1,317,554 Major customers For the year 2014, the Company and its subsidiaries have revenue from two major customers in totaling amount of Baht 1,099 million, arising from sales by the production and distribution segments (2013: Baht 1,187 million derived from two major customers, arising from sales by the production and distribution segments). 33. Provident fund The Company and its employees have jointly established a provident fund in accordance with the Provident Fund Act B.E. 2530. Both employees and the Company contribute to the fund monthly, at the rate of 3 to 5 percent of basic salary. The fund, which is managed by TMB Bank Public Company Limited, will be paid to employees upon termination in accordance with the fund rules. During the year 2014, the Company contributed Baht 11 million to the fund (2013: Baht 11 million). 34. Dividends Dividends Approved by Total dividends Dividend per share (Thousand Baht) (Baht per share) Final dividends for 2012 Annual General Meeting of the shareholders on 22 April 2013 203,332 0.50 Find dividends for 2013 Annual General Meeting of the shareholders on 21 April 2014 81,905 0.20 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 179 35. Commitments and contingent liabilities 35.1 Capital commitments As at 31 December 2014, the Company had capital commitments totaling of approximately Baht 21 million (2013: Baht 78 million), relating to acquisition of computer software, building construction and building improvements. 35.2 Operating lease commitments The Company and its subsidiaries have entered into several operating lease and service agreements in respect of the lease of office building space, factories, department store space, motor vehicles, and equipment. The terms of the agreements are generally between 1 and 30 years. Future minimum lease payments required under these operating leases contracts were as follows: (Unit: Thousand Baht) Consolidated Separate financial statements financial statements As at 31 December As at 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 Payable: In up to 1 year 37 42 1 In over 1 and up to 5 years 56 69 In over 5 years 18 25 35.3 Guarantees As at 31 December 2014, the Company had capital commitments totaling of approximately Baht 21 million (2013: Baht 78 million), relating to acquisition of computer software, building construction and building improvements. 35.3.1 The Company has issued guarantees to secure bank overdrafts and credit facilities of its subsidiaries. As at 31 December 2014, there were outstanding guarantees of Baht 591 million, EUR 0.3 million and USD 6.6 million (2013: Baht 561 million, EUR 0.3 million and USD 6.6 million), totaling of Baht 822 million (2013: Baht 793 million). 35.3.2 As at 31 December 2014, there was outstanding bank guarantee of Baht 18 million (2013: Baht 18 million) has been issued by a bank to meet obligations of the Company to the Revenue Department as described in Note 35.6 to the financial statements. 35.3.3 As at 31 December 2014, there were outstanding bank guarantees of USD 1 million and Baht 1 million, totaling of Baht 34 million (2013: Baht 1 million) issued by banks on behalf of the Company and its subsidiaries to guarantee purchase of goods, electricity use, among others. (The Company only: USD 1 million or approximately Baht 33 million (2013: Baht 0.3 million)). 35.3.4 As at 31 December 2014, the Company and its subsidiaries have outstanding standby-letters of credit of USD 5.6 million and EUR 0.4 million, or approximately Baht 198 million (2013: USD 8 million and EUR 0.3 million or totaling Baht 276 million) (The Company only: USD 3 million and EUR 0.4 million, totaling of Baht 113 million (2013: USD 6 million and EUR 0.3 million, or Baht 210 million)). 180 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 35.4 Long-term service commitments An overseas subsidiary company has entered into a license agreement with an overseas company for the use of a trademark. Under the conditions of the license agreement, the subsidiary is to pay a monthly license fee as stipulated in the agreement. The agreement period has started from January 2014 to December 2018. The fees for the current year amounting to Baht 4 million were recognised as expenses. 35.5 Commitment relating to promotional privileges Under the terms of the Company’s BOI certificate No. 1616(2)/2553, the Company has commitments in respect of its expenditure in support of educational institutions, whereby the Company is obliged to expend at the lower of one percent of total revenue of the first three years or Baht 150 million, within 8 years. Up to 31 December 2014, the Company recorded accumulated expenses a total of approximately Baht 43 million (2013: Baht 21 million). 35.6 Tax assessment by the Revenue Department In 2012, the Company received a corporate income tax assessment letter from the Revenue Department covering the years 2004-2006 and 2008-2010, assessing tax totaling approximately Baht 18 million (including surcharges). However, the Company submitted a letter of appeal to the Tax Appeal Committee seeking to have the assessment revoked, and provided a bank guarantee of approximately Baht 18 million issued by a bank on behalf of the Company to the Revenue Department in relation to the tax assessment. In November 2014, the Tax Appeal Committee rejected the Company’s appeal to revoke this assessment by the official, and ordered the Company to pay tax and surcharges to the Revenue Department. The Company, therefore petitioned the Central Tax Court to revoke this tax assessment on 25 December 2014. This petition is currently under the consid eration of the Central Tax Court. The management of the Company believes that the Company will have no corporate income tax obligations as a result of this assessment by the Revenue Department, and no significant losses will be incurred. Moreover, since the result of the appeal is not yet known the Company has not recorded any provision for this tax assessment. 36. Financial instruments 36.1 Financial risk management The Company and its subsidiaries’ financial instruments, as defined under Thai Accounting Standard No. 107 “Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentations”, principally comprise cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, loans, investments, and short-term and long-term loans. The financial risks associated with these financial instruments and how they are managed is described below. Credit risk The Company and its subsidiaries are exposed to credit risk primarily with respect to trade and other receivables and loans. The Company and its subsidiaries manage the risk by adopting appropriate credit control policies and procedures and therefore do not expect to incur material financial losses. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries do not have high concentrations of credit risk since they have a large customer base. The maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables and loans as stated in the statement of financial position. Interest rate risk The Company and its subsidiaries’ exposure to interest rate risk relate primarily to bank deposits, investments, loans to related parties, trade and other payables, bank overdrafts, short-term loans and long-term loans which are subject to interest. Most of the financial assets and liabilities bear floating interest rates or fixed interest rates which are close to the market rate. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 181 Significant financial assets and liabilities classified by type of interest rate are summarised in the table below, with those financial assets and liabilities that carry fixed interest rates further classified based on the maturity date, or the repricing date if this occurs before the maturity date. (Unit: Million Baht) Consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2014 Fixed interest rates Within 1-5 Over Floating Non-interest 1 year years 5 years interest rate bearing Total Interest rate (% per annum) Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 69 111 162 342 0.05 2.50 Current investments deposits with financial institutions 9 9 3.00 9.50 Trade and other receivables 15 549 564 1.32, 8.00 Short-term loans to related parties 23 23 7.00, 8.00 Restricted bank deposits 4 5 9 1.70 2.65 Other long-term investments 10 14 24 2.80 Other receivables 111 111 Total 120 10 116 836 1,082 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts and short-term loans from financial institutions 685 4 689 2.00 12.75 Trade and other payables 122 431 553 2.30 3.40 Short-term loan from related party 1 1 Short-term loans from unrelated parties 30 30 4.00 Long-term loans 2 13 368 383 (1) Total 837 2 13 372 432 1,656 (1) MLR, MLR-1, MLR+0.5, 13.50 182 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 (Unit: Million Baht) Consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2014 Fixed interest rates Within 1-5 Over Floating Non-interest 1 year years 5 years interest rate bearing Total Interest rate (% per annum) Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 4 113 171 288 0.05 2.70 Current investment deposits with financial institutions 8 8 2.90 9.50 Trade and other receivables 14 743 757 Short-term loans to related parties 16 16 7.00, 8.00 Restricted bank deposits 3 1 4 1.70 2.35 Other long-term investments 10 14 24 2.80 Total 45 10 113 929 1,097 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts and short-term loans from financial institutions 458 458 3.35 9.45 Trade and other payables 68 676 744 2.30 3.40 Long-term loans 1 13 428 442 (1) Total 526 1 13 428 676 1,644 (1) MLR, MLR-0.5, MLR-1, MLR+0.5, 13.50 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 183 (Unit: Million Baht) Separate financial statements as at 31 December 2014 Fixed interest rates Within 1-5 Over Floating Non-interest 1 year years 5 years interest rate bearing Total Interest rate (% per annum) Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 65 63 13 141 0.125 0.65, 2.00 Trade and other receivables 972 972 Amounts due from related parties 39 39 Long-term loans to related parties 9 209 218 7.50 Investment in convertible debentures issued by subsidiary 32 32 7.50 Other long-term investments 10 13 23 2.80 Other receivables 111 111 Total 74 251 63 1,148 1,536 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts and short-term loans from financial institutions 513 513 3.35 4.40 Trade and other payables 6 299 305 2.30 3.40 Short-term loans from unrelated parties 30 30 4.00 Long-term loans 355 355 MLR-1 Total 549 355 299 1,203 184 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 (Unit: Million Baht) Separate financial statements as at 31 December 2013 Fixed interest rates Within 1-5 Over Floating Non-interest 1 year years 5 years interest rate bearing Total Interest rate (% per annum) Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 58 35 93 0.125 0.65 Trade and other receivables 1,056 1,056 Short-term loans to related parties 7 7 7.50 Amounts due from related party 50 50 Long-term loans to related parties 33 171 204 7.50 Investment in convertible debentures issued by subsidiary 32 32 7.50 Other long-term investments 10 13 23 2.80 Total 40 213 58 1,154 1,465 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts and short-term loans from financial institutions 240 240 3.35 3.85 Trade and other payables 6 514 520 2.30 3.40 Long-term loans 406 406 (1) Total 246 406 514 1,166 (1) MLR-1, MLR-0.5 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 185 Foreign currency risk The Company and its subsidiaries’ exposure to foreign currency risk arise mainly from trading transactions and borrowings that are denominated in foreign currencies. The Company and its subsidiaries seek to reduce this risk by entering into forward exchange contracts when they consider appropriate. Generally, the forward contracts mature within one year. The balances of financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are summarised below. (Unit: Million) Consolidated financial statements Separate financial statements Foreign Financial Financial Financial Financial Average exchange rate currencies assets liabilities assets liabilities as at 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 (Baht per 1 foreign currency unit) US dollar 12 12 9 14 28 24 6 10 32.92 32.76 Euro 9 7 40.00 44.96 Singapore Dollar 1 1 24.86 25.84 Pound Sterling 8 7 51.07 53.83 Indian Rupee 69 69 0.50 0.51 Vietnam Dong 7,931 6,254 512 758 0.0016 0.0016 Foreign exchange contracts outstanding are summarised below. Consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2014 Foreign currencies Amount Contractual exchange rate Contractual maturity date Forward contracts to “Sell” 4,370,630 32.39 33.23 baht per US dollar March July 2015 US dollar Consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2013 Foreign currencies Amount Contractual exchange rate Contractual maturity date Forward contracts to “Sell” US dollar 8,229,982 31.38 33.07 Baht per US dollar January July 2014 Euro 44,686 41.50 41.80 Baht per Euro January February 2014 Pound Sterling 14,241 50.31 Baht per Pound Sterling March 2014 Forward contracts to “Buy” US dollar 130,366 0.76 0.77 Euro per US dollar January March 2014 186 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Separate financial statements as at 31 December 2014 Foreign currencies Amount Contractual exchange rate Contractual maturity date Forward contracts to “Sell” 4,309,993 32.79 33.23 Baht per US dollar May July 2015 US dollar Separate financial statements as at 31 December 2013 Foreign currencies Amount Contractual exchange rate Contractual maturity date Forward contracts to “Sell” US dollar 8,229,982 31.38 33.07 Baht per US dollar January July 2014 Euro 44,686 41.50 41.80 Baht per Euro January February 2014 Pound Sterling 14,241 50.31 Baht per Pound Sterling March 2014 In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange risk on their investments in overseas subsidiaries. These investments are currently not hedged by derivative financial instruments. 36.2 Fair values of financial instruments Since the majority of the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ financial instruments are short-term in nature or loans bear floating interest rates, their fair value is not expected to be materially different from the amounts presented in the statement of financial position. A fair value is the amount for which an asset can be exchanged or a liability settled between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. The fair value is determined by reference to the market price of the financial instrument or by using an appropriate valuation technique, depending on the nature of the instrument. 37. Capital management The primary objective of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it has appropriate capital structure in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. As at 31 December 2014, the Group’s debt-to-equity ratio was 0.66:1 (2013: 0.69:1) and the Company’s debt-to-equity ratio was 0.42:1 (2013: 0.43:1). 38. Event after the reporting period On 23 February 2015, the meeting of the Company’s Board of Directors passed the following significant resolutions: 1) To propose the payment of a dividend of Baht 0.15 per share from the net profit of year 2014, totaling approximately Baht 61 million, for approval at the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders. 2) To propose for approval at the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders a decrease in the Company’s registered share capital from Baht 410,000,000 (410,000,000 ordinary shares of Baht 1 each) to Baht 409,529,000 (409,529,000 ordinary shares of Baht 1 each) by cancelling 471,000 registered ordinary shares with a par value of Baht 1 each that are unissued due to the non-exercise of warrants. 3) To propose the issue and offer of up to Baht 500 million of debentures with tenors of no more than 5 years, for approval at the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders 4) To approve the issue and offer of up to Baht 300 million of short-term bills of exchange with maturities of not more than 270 days. 39. Approval of financial statements These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Company’s Board of Directors on 23 February 2015. PRANDA Annual Report 2014 187 Director and Management Biography Mr. Prida Tiasuwan Work Experience Board Chairman • Director of the Thai Gold Card Importer & Exporter Association Member of the Board of Director since April 22, 2013 • Director of the Thai Gem and Jewelry Business Traders Age 65 Years Shareholding in the company :5.37% Association • Director of Businesswoman Committee of the Thai Chamber Education of Commerce • Higher National Diploma in Business Studies Thames Valley Directorship University, England. • Other listed companies • Distinguished Senior Executive Program in Government and None Business at Harvard University, U.S.A. • Non-listed businesses Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of Chairman of Board of Pranda Group, 4 companies corporate directors Director of Pranda Group in 6 companies • Director Accreditation Program (DAP), Class 37/2005 Thai Advisor, Committee on life style Business Institute of Directors (IOD) Chairman, Sub Committee on Gems and Jewelry Busi ness of the Thai Chamber of Commerce Work Experience Gem and Jewelry Business Development Committee of • Vice President of Thai Gem and Jewelry Traders Association Thailand (GCT) Ministry of Commerce of Thailand for two times Board of executive directors of The Gem and Jewelry • Director of Listed and Authorized Companies Association Institute of Thailand (Public Organization) • Director of Thailand-US Business Council Board of directors of Gem and Jewelry Promotion Foundation • Director of The Thai Chamber of Commerce for two times • Director Duang Prateep Foundation for Klongtoey Slum Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan • Board Chairman of Social Venture Network Asia (Thailand) Director / Chair of Group Executive Committee • Director and Vice Chairman of International Coloured Stone / Chair of Finance & Risk Management Committee Association (ICA) / Nomination and Remuneration Director • Commissioner Law Reform Commission of Thailand Member of the Board of Directors since April 21, 2014 Sub Committee Chairman of Low Reform on Fair Trade Age 64 Years Shareholding in the company : 0.66% and Consumer Protection Education • Director Assembly of Thailand Reform • Ordinary National Diploma in Business Studies from Westminster Directorship University, England. • Other listed companies • Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of None corporate directors • Non-listed businesses • Director Certificate Program (DCP), Class 22/2002 Thai Institute Chairman of Board of Pranda Group, 6 companies of Directors (IOD) Director of Pranda Group, 5 companies • Top Executive Program, Capital Market Academy Class 11 Director & Treasurer May 1992 Memorial Foundation Work Experience Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul • Vice president of the Listed Companies Association Vice Chairman / Finance Risk Management • Director of the Listed Companies Association Director / Nomination and Remuneration Director Directorship Member of the Board of Directors since April 22, 2013 • Other listed companies Age 67 Years Shareholding in the company :1.83% • Audit Committee of Eastern Star Real Estate Public Company Education Limited • B.S.C. Accounting Woodberry University Major Accounting, • Audit Committee of Asian Seafoods Coldstorage Public Los Angeles, California, U.S.A. Company Limited Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of • Non-listed businesses corporate directors Chairman of Board of Pranda Group, 2 companies • Director Certificate Program (DCP), Class 17/2002 Thai Institute Director of Pranda Group, 9 companies of Directors (IOD) Director of Bridge view Company Limited 188 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan Directorship Director / Managing Director (Manufacturing) • Other listed companies / Chair of Core Values & CSR Committee None /Finance & Risk Management Director / Nomination • Non-listed businesses and Remuneration Director Chairman of Board of Pranda Group, 1 company Member of the Board of Directors since April 20, 2012 Director of Pranda Group, 3 companies Age 63 Years Shareholding in the company : 2.27% Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan Education Director / Nomination and Remuneration Director • Ordinary National Diploma in Technology. (Mechanical Member of the Board of Directors since April 21, 2014 Engineers) From Willesden College of Technology, London, Age 70 Years Shareholding in the company : 4.08% England. Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of Education corporate directors • Amatayanukul school and language study in England • Courses by the Thai Institute of Directors (IOD) • Mini Master of Management program from National institute • Director Certificate Program (DCP), Class 46/2004 of Development Administration (NIDA). • Director Accreditation Program (DAP), Class 16/2004 Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of • Finance for Non-Finance Program (FN), Class 12/2004 corporate directors Work Experience • Director Accreditation Program (DAP), Class 25/2004 Thai Institute of Directors (IOD) • Director of the Gem and Jewelry Industry Club of the Federation of Thai Industries Directorship • Other listed companies Directorship None • Other listed companies • Non-listed businesses None Chairman of Board of Pranda Group, 1 company • Non-listed businesses Director of Pranda Group, 1 company Director of Pranda Group, 4 companies Ms. Pittaya Tiasuwan Director / Deputy Managing Director (Manufacturing) Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert / Finance & Risk Management Director Director / Managing Director (Marketing) / Member of the Board of Directors since April 22, 2013 Finance & Risk Management Director / Nomination Age 59 Years Shareholding in the company : 4.38% and Remuneration Director Member of the Board of Directors since April 21, 2014 Education Age 61 Years Shareholding in the company :2.42% • Kilburn-Polytechnic London, England City and Guilds of London Institute Education • Training Course about Gemological Sciences at the Asian • Business Studies Course from Ealing Technical College, • Institute of Gemological Sciences (AIGS) London, England. Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of corporate directors corporate directors • Director Accreditation Program (DAP), Class 26/2004 Thai • Director Accreditation Program (DAP), Class 26/2004 Thai Institute of Directors (IOD) Institute of Directors (IOD) Directorship • Other listed companies None • Non-listed businesses Director of Pranda Group, 2 company PRANDA Annual Report 2014 189 Mr. Verachai Tantikul Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of Independent Director / Chairman of Audit corporate directors Committee / Chairman of Nomination and • Director Certificate Program (DCP) Class 59/2005 Thai Institute Remuneration Committee of Directors (IOD) Member of the Board of Directors since April 20, 2012 • Top Executive Program in Justice Management (Class 3) Age 71 Years Shareholding in the company : None • Top Executive Program in Commerce and Trade (TEPCOT) Class 1 Education • Top Executive Program, Capital Market Academy (Class 3) • LL.M., the University of California, at Berkely, U.S.A. • Public Administration and Public Law Program, King • Barrister-at-law, Thai Bar Association Prajadhipok’s Institute, Class 3 • LL.B (Hons), Thammasat University • National Defense College, The Joint State Private Sector • Certificate, National Defense College of Thailand. Class 37 Course Class 15, Thailand National Defense College • Senior Executive Development Program of the Office of the Work Experience Civil Service Commission (OCSC), Course 1, Class 13. • Inspector-General, Ministry of Finance Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of • Deputy Director-General, the Revenue Department corporate directors • Director of Bureau of Tax Appeals, the Revenue Department • Certificate of Director Certification Program (DCP), Class • Lawyer 9 (Expert in protection and counter destroying of the 37/2003 Thai Institute of Directors (IOD) tax system), Office of Tax Auditing, the Revenue Department Work Experience • Deputy Finance Ministry Spokesman • The National Legislative Assembly, Thailand. • Secretariat to the Revenue department • Director General, the Treasury Department, Ministry of Finance • The Revenue Department Spokesman • Director General, the Excise Department, Ministry of Finance • Clearing Director of Thai Asset Management Corporation • Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance • Chairman of the Audit Committee / Director of KTB Law Co., Ltd. • Inspectors General, Ministry of Finance • Advisor to the Finance Minister • Deputy Director General, the Revenue Department • Member of the Doing Business of Alien Committee, the Directorship Department of Trade Development, the Ministry of Commerce • Other listed companies • Member and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Sukhumvit Director of the SCB Life Assurance Public Company Limited Assets Management Co., Ltd. Tax Advisor of the Siam Commercial Bank Public Company • Director, Member of the Audit Committee, and Chairman of Limited the Selection and Remuneration Committee of Thai Petrochemical • Non-listed businesses Industry Public Company Limited Legal Advisor of SCG Legal Counsel Limited • Director, Member of the Audit Committee, and Member of Risk Director of the Petroleum Committee under the Petroleum Management Committee of the Thai Credit Guarantee Corporation Law • Director of Airport Authority of Thailand Public Company Limited • Representative of the Ministry of Finance in the Committee Mrs. Rawittha Pongnuchit of the Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT), the Ministry of Independent Director/ Member of the Audit Tourism and Sport Committee • Chairman of the Executive Committee of Office of Market Member of the Board of Directors since August 14, 2012 Affairs Administration of Bangkok Metropolitan Age 64 Years Shareholding in the company : None • Clearing Director of Thai Asset Management Corporation Education • The Committee in the Sub-Committee on Monetary, Fiscal, • LL.B. Ramkhamhaeng University Banking, and Financial Institution, Senate • M. Pol. Sc. Thammasart University 190 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Directorship Work Experience • Other Listed Companies • Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chairman of the Risk Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee Management Committee, Indara Insurance, Plc. of Solartron Public Company Limited • President of the following joint ventured companies with Independent Director, Member of the Audit Committee, the Siam Commercial Bank, Plc. and Chairman of the Sub-Committee Risk Management Siam Commercial Link, Ltd. on Law Committee of Synnex (Thailand) Public Company Science Commercial Link, Ltd., with the National Science Limited and Technology Development Agency (NSTDA) as 3rd • Non-Listed Companies partner Director of the Institute of Management Consultants SCB Technology, a venture capital of the Siam Commercial Association of Thailand Bank, Plc. Director of the Economics and Finance Academy • Founding Manager, Business Advisory Center for SMEs, Kenan Director of the Revenue Officers Association Institute Asia Foundation (funded by USAID) Director of the Fiscal Policy Research Institute Foundation • Member of the Executive Committee, Thailand Science Park, (FPRI) the National Science and Technology Development Agency Director of the Capital Market Academy Alumni Association • Adviser, the Technical Services Center, Mahidol University Director of Class 1, Top Executive program in Commerce and Trade (TEPCOT) • Audit Committee member, John Hancock Life Assurance, Plc. Chairman of the Class 59 of the Director Certificate • Advisor, the Senate Committee on Public Participation Program (DCP59) • Cultural Affairs staff, United States Information Agency, US Board of Chairman of Pootra Corporation Co., Ltd. Department of State, Washington, DC Board of Chairman of Chankham Residence Co., Ltd. • Insurance instructor, School of Management Science,Prince Independent Director, Member of the Audit Committee of Songkla University, Haad Yai, Songkla of NamHeng Concrete (1992) Co., Ltd. • Manager, the Technical Service Center, Interlife Assurance, Ltd. Chamnong Watanagase • Adjunct professor of Linguistics and Philosophy, Graduate Independent Director/ Member of the Audit School of Humanities, Ram Khamhaeng University Committee Directorship Member of the Board of Directors since March 25, 2014 • Other listed company Age: 62 Shareholding in the company: 0.02% Chairman of the Audit Committee, member of the Education Investment Committee, LDC Dental, Plc. • B.Com. (1974), Chulalongkorn University • Non-listed institutes • MBA, University of Central Missouri, 1982 Chairman of the Audit Committee, member of the • Completed Ph.D. coursework in Political Science and Philosophy, Selection & Compensation Committee, Thai Cardif Life Thammasat University, 2006 Assurance, Plc. • Cert. of Proficiency in English (with Merit), National Institute Chairman of the Selection Committee, Thai Investors of Development Administration, 1975 Association, under the patronage of the Stock Exchange of Thailand Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of Director, The Open Forum for Democracy Foundation corporate directors Director and past president, Rotary Club of Bangkok • Director Certification Program (DCP) Class 5 (2001), Chartered (chartered in 1927) Director, Class 1 (2007) Thai Institute of Directors (IOD) • The Capital Market Academy, Class 6 • Tactical Training in Hostage Rescues, US Marshal Service, Department of Justice, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, USA, 1990 (1-month) • Marketing Coaching, Tack Training International, London, UK, 1991 (5-week) PRANDA Annual Report 2014 191 Lt.Jg. Anan Panananda R.T.N. Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of Advisor to Board of Directors corporate directors Member of the Advisor to Board of Director since • Courses by the Thai Institute of Directors (IOD) August 14, 2012 Director Certificate Program (DCP), Class 22/2002 Age 78 Years Shareholding in the company : None Audit Committee Program (ACP), Class 1/2004 Education DCP Refresher Course , Class 1/2005 • BS. In Civil Engineering, W.P.I., Massachusetts, U.S.A. Monitoring the Quality of Financial Report (MFR), Class 5/2007 Monitoring the Internal Audit Function (MIA), Class 2/2008 • Certificate in Special Course in project Analysis, U.N. Asian • Seminar in “The internal control in Financial Reporting : Institute for Economic Development and Planning Value Enhancement Strategy“ by SET • Director Management Course, Organized by the Office of the Civil Service Commission, Class 10 Work Experience • Senior Executive Development Program (Norborsor1) the • Associate Professor (Level 9), Faculty of Commerce & Office of the Civil Service Commission, Class 6 Accountancy, Chulalongkorn University • Certificate, the National Defense College, Class 34 • Independent Director / Audit Committee ITV Public Company Limited Training attended with regard to roles and responsibilities of Asian Seafoods Cold Storage Public Company Limited corporate directors Islamic Bank of Thailand • Director Accreditation Program (DAP), Class 23/2004 Thai Amanah Leasing Public Company Limited Institute of Directors (IOD) • Advisor to Board of Directors of Islamic Bank of Thailand Work Experience Directorship • Deputy Director-General of Customs Department • Other listed companies • Director of the Sports Authority of Thailand None • Director of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund • Non-listed businesses • Director of Mutual Fund Securities Public Company Limited None • Director of ACL Bank Public Company Limited • Advisor of Deputy Finance Minister Mr. Decha Nuntanajaroenkul • Advisor of Finance Minister Deputy Managing Director (Marketing)/Finance & Risk Management Director • Advisor of Deputy Prime Minister Age 54 Years Shareholding in the company : None • Director of the Thai-German Ceramic Industry Public Company Limited Education • Advisor of A.J. Plus Public Company Limited. • BBA in Marketing Management in Memphis State University, Directorship Tennessee, U.S.A. • Other listed companies • MBA in Marketing Memphis State University, Tennessee, U.S.A. None Work Experience • Non-listed businesses • Marine Underwriter, New Hampshire Insurance, Bangkok None Year 1981 Mrs. Sarita Bunnag • Visiting lecturer at Srinakharinwirot University, Sukhumvit, Advisor to Board of Directors General Science Department, Materials Science (Gems Member of the Advisor to Board of Director and Jewelry) during 1996-1997 since March 25, 2014 • Member of Thai-Russian Chamber of Commerce Age 67 Years Shareholding in the company : None Directorship Education • Other listed companies • B.A. (Accounting), Chulalongkorn University None • M.A. (Finance), Western New Mexico University, U.S.A. • Non-listed businesses None 192 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Mr. Chatchai Teekaveerakit Mrs. Sasisopa Wattakeecharoen Executive Director / Core Values & CSR Assistant Managing Director (Marketing) / Committee / Managing Director-Crystaline Core Values & CSR Committee Co.,Ltd Deputy Managing Director (Marketing) Age 52 Years Shareholding in the company : 0.01% /Finance Director Age 47 Years Shareholding in the company : None Education Education • Bachelor of Arts in Accounting, Dhurakij Pundit University • BA. George Mason University, Vigeinia, U.S.A. • Mini Master of Management program from National institute • MBA South Eastern University, Washing Ton DC. of Development Administration. Work Experience Work Experience • Account Executive Dentsu Young & Rubican • Worked experience in Production Management field more • Product Manager Bristal Myer than 27 years • Marketing Manager Kmcc Directorship Directorship • Other listed companies • Other listed companies None None • Non-listed businesses • Non-listed businesses None Director of Pranda Group, 1 company Mrs. Nirarat Tanalekhapat Mr. Chanat Sorakraikitikul Assistant Managing Director (Marketing) / Assistant Managing Director (Marketing) / Core Values & CSR Committee Finance & Risk Management Director Age 59 Years Shareholding in the company : 0.04% Age 35 Years Shareholding in the company : 0.11% Education Education • Bachelor of Education in Arts, Chulalongkorn University • Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration, Babson College, USA Work Experience • Master of Arts in Accounting, University of Virginia, USA • Product Development Department Manager of YK Network • Certificate of TLCA Executive Development Program, Class 6 Corporation Company Limited (EDP 6), Thai Listed Companies Association. • Product Development and Business Division Manager of • Certificate of TLCA Leasership Development Program, Class Bijoux Holdings Public Company Limited. 2 (LDP 2), International Institute for Management Development • Assistant Department Manager of Jewelry and Design and Thai Listed Companies Association. Department of Beauty Gems L.P. Company Limited Work Experience Directorship • Vice President Forever Living Products, Vietnam • Other listed companies • Senior Auditor Ernst & Young, USA None Directorship • Non-listed businesses • Other listed companies None None • Non-listed businesses Director of Pranda Group, 2 company PRANDA Annual Report 2014 193 Mrs. Chawee Jarukornvasin Mr. Somsak Sriruengmon Assistant Managing Director (Manufacturing) / Assistant Managing Director (Manufacturing) / Core Values & CSR Committee Core Values & CSR Committee Age 50 Years Shareholding in the company : 0.01% Age 54 Years Shareholding in the company : None Education Education • Diploma of Vocational Eduction, (Home Economics) • Bachelor of Business Administration Program in Business Nakhonpathom Vocational Campus Computer, Assumption Business Administration College (ABAC) • Mini Master of Management program from National institute • Master of Public and Private Management Program, The of Development Administration (NIDA). National Institute of Development Administration (NIDA) Work Experience Work Experience • Worked experience in Production field more than 31 years • Worked experience in Production Management field more Directorship than 27 years • Other listed companies Directorship None • Other listed companies • Non-listed businesses None None • Non-listed businesses None Ms. Suporn Rungpitayatorn Assistant Managing Director (Manufacturing) / Mr. Thanes Panjakrid Core Values & CSR Committee Finance and Accounting Department Manager Age 53 Years Shareholding in the company : 0.03% Age 52 Years Shareholding in the company : 0.01% Education • Bachelor of Business Administration, Sukhothai Thammathirat Education Open University • Bachelor degree in accounting, Faculty of Commerce and • Diploma of Vocational Education, (Accounting) The Bangkok Accountancy, Chulalongkorn University Commercial College • Master of Public Administration Program, The National Institute • Mini Master of Management program from National institute of Development Administration (NIDA) of Development Administration (NIDA). Work Experience Work Experience • Worked experience in financial and accounting field more • Worked experience in Cost and Pricing Management field than 27 years more than 22 years Directorship Directorship • Other listed companies • Other listed companies None None • Non-listed businesses • Non-listed businesses None None 194 Annual PRANDA Report 2014 Mr. Dusit Chongsutthanamanee Corporate Secretary Age 42 Years Shareholding in the company : None Education • B.Eng. (Second Class Honor), Mahanakorn University of Technology • MBA in Finance, Kasetsart University Work Experience • Chairman of Siri Assets Company Limited • Chairman of Kin Author Company Limited • Financial Advisor of FPM Consultant Company Limited • Lecturer of “Certificate of Business Advisor” of Kasetsart University • Lecturer of “Certificate of Intelligent Investor” of Kasetsar University Directorship • Other listed companies None • Non listed companies Executive Director of Siri Assets Company Limited Director of Kin Author Company Limited PRANDA Annual Report 2014 195 Details of directors and executives Associated Related Companies The name of the Subsidiary Subsidiary Companies Companies Companies PRANDA Country Foreign Country Country Foreign PRANDA The list of the Board KZForward of Directors *PMG CTL PLG *PNA HGG PUK PVN PSG PKL PDI PDU PSZ PMI PRANDA P.Holding Freeland SCL 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan X / X+ ๏ / + // X / X / ๏ X+ ๏ / X+ ๏ X+ ๏ / X+ ๏ 2. Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul / / + // / + // X + ๏ X + // / + ๏ / X + // / + // X + // / 196 Annual Report 2014 3. Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan / + ◌ + // / + // / + // / + // // / + // / X + ๏ + X + // / / + // / + // // / + // / / + // 4. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan + / + // + / + // / + // / + // / / 5. Mrs. Pranee Khunprasert + / + // X + ๏ / + // // // // / + // // / // 6. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan / X+ ๏ / 7. Mr. Verachai Tantikul *+/ 8. Mrs. Rawitha Pongnuchit / 9. Mr. Chamnong Watanagase / 10. Ms. Pittaya Tiasuwan /+// / + // // // // / 11. Mr. Decha Nuntanajaoenkul // // ๏ ๏ // ๏ 12. Mr. Chartchai Teekavirakij // /+ 13. Ms. Rungnapa Ngowngamratana /+ 14. Mr. Sutha Sutaparvong / 15. Ms. Lamiad Pancharoen // 16. Mr. Chanat Sorakraikitikul // + // // / + // / + // // / // 17. Ms. Maureen Kelley /+ หมายเหตุ : 1. X = Chairman ➢ = Vice Chairman / = Director // = Executive * = Chairman of Adit Committee  = Chairman of Group executive Committee ◌ = Chairman of Group Finance Committee  = Chairman of Corporate Values & CSR Committee ๏ = Chairman of Executive Committee ◆ = Managing Director (Manufacturing) O = Managing Director (Marketing) ■ = Assistant Managing Director (Marketing)  = Managing Director 2. Report only of directors of subsidiaries which contribute over 10% of total revenues including * PMG, PNA PRANDA = Pranda Jewelry Pcl. PKL = Pranda & Kroll GmbH Co. KG PMG = Primagold International Co., Ltd. PDI = Pranda Jewelry Pvt Ltd. CTL = Crystaline Co., Ltd. PDU = PDU (UK) Limited PLG = Pranda Lodging Co., Ltd. PSZ = Pranda Trading (Shenzhen) PNA = Pranda North America, Inc. PMI = PT Pranda Marketing Indonesia HGG = H.Gringoire s.a.r.l. KZ – PRANDA = KZ-Pranda Co., Ltd. PUK = Pranda UK Ltd. P.Holding = Pranda Holding Co.,Ltd. PVN = Pranda Vietnam Co.,Ltd. Forward Freeland = Forward Freeland Co., Ltd. PSG = Pranda Singapore Pte Ltd. SCL = P.T. Pranda SCL Indonesia For Additional Information Please Refer to Annual Report Registration Statement (Form 56-1) on www.sec.or.th or Company official Website www.pranda.com and For Other Inquiries, Please Contact Corporate Secretary office E-mail : cs@pranda.co.th ; ir@pranda.co.th Tel : +662 769 9999 Ext. 403, 431, 436 PRANDA Annual Report 2014 197
