2014 Sustainability Report B e y o n d L N G , G l o b a l K O G A S About this Report Contents Overview Better Energy, Better World KOGAS strives to be the best global energy company growing together with every CEO Message 02 stakeholder for better energy and better world. Since 2006, KOGAS has published the 2014 Performance Highlight 04 Sustainability Report by annually in order to share our efforts for sustainability with stakeholders. Company Profile 06 KOGAS Value Chain 08 Reporting Standard Corporate Governance 10 This report was written in accordance with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 and partially compliance with ISO 26000 as international guideline for Corporate Social Responsibility. Risk Management 12 Innovation System 13 Reporting Period and Scope Stakeholder Engagement 14 This report contains the sustainability activities and performances for the period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. Some important records for the past three years are reported to identify trends in performances. Depending on the reporting period, the content for 2015 is partially included and stated in the report. The scope of this report encompasses the Material Issues KOGAS’ headquarters, 13 regional business locations, and R&D centers. In case of needs, Generation of Economic Value 16 performance and information for overseas business were also included. Reinforcement of Anti-Corruption and Ethical 20 Management Third Party Assurance To secure credibility and objectivity, Independent third party verification was conducted and GHG and Energy Management/Safety and Health 24 the result is contained in the report for independent assurance statement on pages 42. Shared Growth / Contribution to Community 28 Employment and Welfare Benefits 32 Appendix Sustainability Performance 36 Association and Principles 40 GRI G4 Content Index 41 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 42 CEO Message Better Energy, Better World Delivered by KOGAS Changes in the Energy Market and Generation of New Growth Engines The global natural gas industry is undergoing tremendous challenges. enable anyone to conveniently and stably utilize natural gases without Reduction in oil prices and renewable energy cost lowers the price neglecting any regions for gas supply. competitiveness of natural gases. As a consequence, power generation companies that mostly utilize such gases have decreased the portion of Such endeavors of KOGAS to securely and stably supply natural gases, power generation using natural gases, while increasing the generation which is the world’s one of the top three energy sources have borne of coal-fired thermal energies which are relatively cheaper. Against this fruit with the city gas penetration rate of 80%, opening up a new era of backdrop, KOGAS fulfills its duties as a public corporation to stably supply natural gases as the common fuel for the public. KOGAS’ prestige as a natural gases, and mulls over ways to seek for new future growth engines public energy corporation in Korea is proven by its No.1 storage facilities through a paradigm shift. As such, KOGAS explores new business of 9.46 million ㎘ amounting to 63 units and 4,239km-long supply opportunities abroad through commercialization in the entire energy facilities for the main pipe. These are testimonies of KOGAS’ hard work value change based on its over 30 years of brand power and technical and unyielding efforts, and interest and encouragement of stakeholders expertise, ranging from adoption of natural gases to the construction for the past 32 years. and operation of facilities. KOGAS plans to intensify overseas projects by going beyond its roles focusing on the adoption and sales of gases for the Better Energy, Better World domestic market so that it could make investment in the whole supply KOGAS exists on the foundation of stakeholders and the public. We chain under a new scheme of equity participations. Moreover, KOGAS are committed to causing no concerns among the public with a clean will strive to upscale the domestic demand by expanding investment in corporate culture, and to making a workplace where all the employees new growth energy projects that leverage natural gases in tandem with can work with a great self-esteem. climate change responses. It is because natural gases are clean fuels that generate almost no air pollutants during incineration as sulfur, nitrogen For KOGAS, the current challenges will become opportunities for further and ashes, etc. are removed in the course of liquefaction. growth and the competencies that have been built up will serve as wings to fly higher. I ask for your continued interest in and support for our Clean Energies that KOGAS Supplies continued commitment and efforts. Despite challenges in the domestic market, a stable supply of natural gases is put on the first burner of KOGAS because it is its mission as a public energy corporation to enhance benefits and happiness of the public through the supply of natural gases. With the world's largest natural gas purchasing power and market information, KOGAS plans to enhance the stability in supply and demand through using a demand prediction model according to scenarios. Meanwhile, KOGAS puts in efforts to upgrade accessibility to natural gases. A project to construct a natural gas pipe is in progress, while a secondary pipe construction, pipe network connecting the entire land of Korea. Once the pipe construction is completed, it will CEO and President Seung-Hoon Lee 2 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 3 2014 Performance ▶ 15,000 Barrels of Crude Oil a Day Commenced in the Badra Oilfield in Iraq ▶ Contract for design of 270,000 ㎘ storage tank LNG Terminal Project in Singapore Highlight KOGAS commenced the crude oil production in the Badra Oilfield in Iraq, which produces 15,000 barrels of crude oil a day, and is expected to produce KOGAS signed a contract on designing a 270,000 ㎘ storage tank, which is the world’s largest of its kind for the LNG Terminal Project in Singapore with 800 million barrels for the next 20 years. With the Samsung C&T. This is the world’s first and largest crude oil production there, the amount of crude oil design project. KOGAS is operating a total of 63 acquired by KOGAS through the production in Iraq storage tanks with a capacity of 9.46 million ㎘ in four will skyrocket, along with the Jubair Oilfield from LNG terminal divisions. This is one stark achievement which KOGAS undertakes over 10 million barrels where KOGAS’ know-how has led to profit making. since 2011. ▶ KOGAS Opening the Era of ▶ Gastech 2014 Successfully ▶ Dow Jones Sustainability Indices ▶ WGC 2021 Selected to Host Daegu through Relocating HQ Hosted Asia Pacific listed 2 years in a row KOGAS has honorably won the bid to host the into Daegu Innovation City ‘Gastech 2014’, which provides the opportunities Developed by S&P Dow Jones Indices and WGC 2021, known as the Olympics of the Gas of overseas expansion for domestic gas companies RobecoSAM, DJSI(Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) Industry, in October 2014. The WGC is the largest KOGAS completed the relocation of the comand strengthens cooperation in natural gas intracks stock performance of the world's leading event in the gas industry held every three years pany building into the Innovative City of Daegu, dustry, was held as the largest of its kind from companies in terms of sustainability as well as with the participation of 6,000 people from 90 heralding the era of Daegu in full swing. March 24 to 27 in 2014. For the first time across selects for the inclusion of indices by sustainability countries. Korea will be the chair of the IGU for KOGAS will contribute to the regional economic the north east Asia, about 20,000 people from assessments. KOGAS was successfully listed as ‘DJSI three years from 2018 to 2021 with the hosting development by seeking for mutual growth 383 companies of 44 countries participated in the Asia Pacific’ for 2 consecutive years and ‘DJSI Korea’ of the WGC 2021, thus raising the prestige of the measures with local industries for balanced conference and the exhibition. for 6 consecutive years in gas utility sector from Korean gas industry in the international community. development in Daegu and engaging in social contribution activities with passion. In all, the new Gastech is one of three global conference related 2014 DJSI. era will pave the way for KOGAS to leap higher as to gas including WGC and LNG Conference, having a stronger player of energy in the new century. a great economic riffle effect of KRW 62.5 billion value and employment inducing effect of around ▶ Ranked a winner as ‘Most 600 people. Respected Korean Company’ KOGAS was ranked as a winner for ‘Most Respected Korean Company of public energy sector in 2014’ hosted by Korea Management Association Registration for 7 years in a row (public sector / energy sector). 4 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 5 Company KOGAS is Korea’s representative public energy corporation that stably supplies natural gas to the public under its corporate philosophy of ‘Better Energy, Better World.’ We participate in overseas resources development for a stable supply and demand of natural resources, and extend of supplying natural gas System for Sustainable Management Strategies In accordance with vision 2017, KOGAS set the vision for sustainability management ; ‘Global KOGASKey Financial Performance Profile with people, with the planet.’ and implement specialized tasks accordingly. to nationwide for a greater convenience in living and better welfare benefits. Type Strategic directions Major Tasks Total assets Company name Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) Establishment date Foundation for establishment August 18, 1983 Korea Gas Corporation Act Governance Securing leadership for sustainable management by strengthening the foundation for manageIncrease independence and efficiency of BOD Raise BOD’s accountabilities for susImprove the non-financial risk control system Manage stakeholders’ issues on an inteKRW 3,106 billion tainability management grated basis Type of corporate body Corporation ment 2014 KRW 46,772 billion Establish R&R in risk-related departCommunicate issues internally and ments externally 2013 KRW 43,666 billion Location 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, Korea Establish an integrated form of stakeholder management Economy Carrying out sustainable Identify supply restraints and set up Set up plans to cooperate with indusSales Key Business Areas business by supplying peak oil strategies tries 778 billion energy in a stable manner Expand investments in overseas E&P Operate LNG facilities and develop KOGAS imports LNG for its stable supply to city gas producers and power plants, and is mostly involved transport businesses Raise efficiency on demand sides in projects for operating LNG bases and pipeline network construction to supply natural gas. KOGAS Reinforce business networks KRW comprehensively covers the entire process from the exploration, production and development of overseas Expand R&D investments in alternative energy 2014 KRW 37,285 billion resources to the procurement, transport, production, supply and sale of natural gas in Korea. 2013 KRW 38,063 trillion Environment Minimizing environmenRe-establish environmental manageUpgrade eco-purchasing programs Production/Supply of natural gas and refinement/sale of byproduct tal impacts by adopting ment organizations Strengthen controls on greenhouse gas leading environmental Set up biodiversity policies and guideemissions Construction/Operation of bases and supply networks for natural gas management lines Reduce carbon emissions to meet Amount of LNG sales Set up environmental data managetargeted goals Development, transport and ex/import of natural gas 3.51million tons ment standards Establish carbon-neutral systems Development and ex/import of Liquefied Petroleum Gas Redefine environmental data KPI Projects on new/renewable energies, clean synthesis fuel and climate-friendliness using natural gas or its Society Creating a corporate Upgrade ethical management policies Support SME’s sustainability manageculture focused on the Raise management transparency ment 2014 35.17 million tons byproduct people Help SMEs gain competencies Revamp human rights and labor prac2013 38.68 million tons R&D on related projects and auxiliary projects tices Analyze VOC and customer feedback Strengthen performance-based remuHeighten privacy protections for cusProjects commissioned by the central or local governments neration systems tomers Develop global talents Improve the management of social Exploration/Development projects for oil resources and related projects Credit ratings Manage operations free from accidents contribution activities / disasters Implement strategic social contribution Strengthen health controls for associprograms ates Vision System Under the goal to realize its corporate philosophy of ‘Better Energy, Better World,’ KOGAS established and has implemented ‘KOGAS Vision 2017.’ Accordingly, we set our goal to achieve the corporate value Aa3 of KRW 30 trillion by 2017, and initiated setting four strategic directions and 12 strategic tasks to reach Key Milestones the goal. 1980’s 1990’s 2000’s 2010’s Base building Expanding Growth Becoming a World Class Better Energy, Better Tomorrow Vision Global KOGAS Growing Together with Customer 1983 1990 2000 2010 Establishment of KOGAS Establishment of the R&D Korea, China and Russia Incheon LNG Terminal Goal Achieving KRW 30 trillion of corporate values 1986 Center reached to agreement for cosurpassed the 100 million development of Irkutsk gas ton mark in accumulated First import of LNG 1993 field development production of natural gas Commencement of city gas Commencement of supply to the mid region 2002 Landed development and Percentage of independent natural gas distribution to production rights in the oil development Percentage of overseas profits Improved production Commencement of (Unit: 10,000 ton) (Unit: KRW 100 million) (Unit: KRW 100 million) power plant operations 1994 operations at the Tongyeong and gas fields in Zubair and (Pyeongtaek) Commission first LNG terminal Badra , Iraq 850 10,000 national flag carrier Gained access to Akkas and 1987 2003 10 Mansuriya Gas Fields in Iraq Commencement of city gas 1997 Completed sales contract 7.08 supply to Seoul metropolitan Establishment of KOLNG with Australia Liquefied 2013 7.3 area and Commencement of Natural Gas for mid-term LNG Agreement signed for E&P 226 3,170 operations of the Incheon project on three blocks in terminal 2004 Cyprus 959 Achieved 20 million demand Additional Discovery of Gas 38 1999 Well in Area 4 of Mozambique Listed on the Korea Stock 2009 2014 2017 2009 2014 2017 2009 2014 2017 Exchange 2014 Hosted the Gastech 2014 Headquarters moved to Daegu Four Major Creating an from Seong Nam Leader in Expanding Enhancing global advanced Strategies securing business network capability management energy sources system 6 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 7 KOGAS Value Chain ▶ Exploration and Development of ▶ Adoption of LNG ▶ Storage of LNG ▶ Supply of Natural Gas Natural Gas KOGAS adopts approximately 36 million tons KOGAS possesses the world’s number one LNG KOGAS securely supplies natural gas from each KOGAS is realizing its dream to turn Korea into of LNG a year. Seeking to secure capacities in a storage capacity (9.46 million ㎘) tanks. By securing terminal division to power plants and city gas a strong player with energy by advancing into timely manner and seek for stability in supply in storage facilities continuously, KOGAS strives for a producers through pipelines. Natural gas is securely overseas upstream projects for natural gas including preparation against a higher demand in Korea, stable supply of natural gas. and stably supplied nationwide through the pipeline exploration and development of resources. KOGAS strives to supply natural gas in a stable that is up to 4,239km long, thereby contributing KOGAS is currently initiating 10 development and manner by diversifying the channels in different to national economic growth, balanced regional production projects as well as five exploration parts of the world. development and enhanced benefits for the public. projects. ▼ Area4 Exploration, Mozambique ▼ East Timor offshore exploration project ▼ Zubair Oil Field development Project ▼ Horn River & West Cutbank, Canada ▼ GLNG Project, Australia ▼ Ras Laffan LNG Co. Ltd. project, Qatar ▼ PTT LNG Re-gasification Terminal Project, ▼ Manzanillo LNG Re-gasification Thailand Terminal Project, Mexico 8 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 9 Corporate Shareholders of KOGAS are comprised of public shareholders and ordinary shareholders. Public shareholders, that is, the government, KEPCO and local governments, hold approximately 54.56% of total shares, enabling stable management of shares. Operation of Subcommittees KOGAS has established and operated three subcommittees under the BOD by utilizing the expertise of BOD Activities Governance non-executive directors. ▼ Ownership Structure(%) No. of Meetings Held Type Composition Key Roles 20 times 37.07 8.37 •Reporting to the BOD on directors’ act of violating laws and the Articles of 26.15 One executive Incorporation 2014 Government director, two Audit Committee •Matters entrusted by the BOD, and those determined to fall under the responsi2013 19 times non-executive KEPCO directors bilities of the Audit Committee according to laws and the Articles of Incorpora2012 18 times tion, etc. Foreigners Planning & Strategy Two or more direc•Deliberating or advising on matters including mid-and long-term business Local governments Committee tors plans, major investment projects, budget and operation plans, etc. No. of Agenda agreed 67 agendas Overseas Project Two or more direc•Deliberating or advising on exploration, development and production of overOthers Committee tors seas resources, overseas plant projects and other overseas projects 7.94 20.47 2014 2013 43 agendas 2012 55 agendas Composition and Operation of the BOD Roles of Non-executive Directors and Expertise Buildup KOGAS forms and operates the Board of Directors (BOD) pursuant to the Act on the Management Average Attendance Rate In order to enhance job capabilities of non-executive directors, we provide management information 90% of Public Institutions and the Articles of Incorporation. The BOD consists of the CEO, three executive on KOGAS to them for greater understanding of their job functions through such diverse channels as directors and seven non-executive directors. A non-executive director is appointed as the chairman of the reporting on the status of KOGAS and its major tasks, and visits to domestic production and supply 2014 BOD to ensure independence. We set operating directions and goals based on the analysis of internal and facility sites. Seeking to leverage the expertise of non-executive directors complete with seasoned 2013 95% external management environment, and establish yearly operating plans and “BOD Work System” to put experiences in various fields including law, economy and public administration, we have expanded their 2012 93% in place an efficient operating system for the BOD. channels of participating in corporate management including being appointed as advisors to three special committees on management normalization, giving corporate management advice and providing Type Name Position suggestions for management. CEO (Former) Chief Commissioner of the Presidential Committee on Green Growth ▼ Non-executive directors’ participation in management Seung-Hoon Lee (Former) Professor of Economics, Seoul National University Type 2012 2013 2014 President of the Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Advice for corporate management Once Once Once (number of times) Chief Auditor Executive Executive Suggestions for corporate management Heung Ki Kim (Former) Assistant of Lawmakers at the Secretariat of the National Assembly, and CEO 61 cases 65 cases 36 cases Director (number of cases) of Mupung Trading Company Reflection of the above suggestions 6 cases 7 cases 5 cases (number of cases) Vice president of Technology and Management Jong Ho Lee (Former) Head of the Resources Development Division, and Head of the New Project Division Lead Non-executive Director (Chairman of the BOD) Kwang Sik Choi (Current) Chairman of SL Innovations Co., Ltd. (Former) CEO of City Airport, Logis& Travel, Korea (CALT), and CEO of Daehan Oil Composition and Operation of the Executive Nomination Pipeline Corporation Committee Director (Former) Head of the Election Polling Committee for the Chungcheongbuk-do Party KOGAS forms the Executive Nomination Committee consisting of three non-executive directors and Man Kyo Chang under Saenuri Party for the Presidential Election two outside members in accordance with the ‘Protocol on the Operation of the Executive Nomination (Former) Auditor at the Korean Construction Guarantee Cooperative, and National Defense Commissioner at the Central Election Polling Committee for the Presidential Committee.’ The committee meetings are held to decide on the methodologies of operation and the Election appointment procedure to ensure transparency and independence. We also strive to enhance efficiency Auditor in work pursuant to a systematic executive appointment procedure by publishing and utilizing the (Current) President of Daewon University Won Tak Lee (Former) Chief Counsel of the Public Administration and Security Committee at the manual for executive appointment. National Assembly Director Non-executive (Current) Visiting Professor of Business Administration and Management, Chungnam Director Jong Rae Kim National University (Former)Director of the Publishing Bureau at the ChosunIlbo, and General Manager of Performance Evaluation of Directors and Executives the Social Affairs Division at the ChosunIlbo KOGAS increased the efficiency of the BOD operation by identifying director's needs and improvement Head of the Audit Committee matters based on the evaluation of individual directors and the BOD. The remuneration for executives (Current) President of Korea Institute of Finance, and Advisory Professor at Korea Fixed Sung Hwan Shin Income Research Institute is composed of basic salary, incentives, and severance pay. The yearly basic salary is decided in the (Former) Senior Financial Officer at the World Bank BOD meetings for non-executive directors within the scope of salary limit, which is approved in a Director shareholder's meeting. The president receives incentives depending on the result of assessment of (Current) Professor of Public Administration, Korea National Open University management performances after signing a management contract to achieve the corporate philosophy Sun Woo Lee (Former) Head of Reorganization Committee, Ministry of Security and Public Administration and vision with the chief of the relevant institution, and executive directors receive incentives after making a contract for performance with the president. Director Jun Hyung Lee (Current) Chairman of GoodNET Corp. (Former) Advisor at Jinhaeng Waterway, and Advisor at DongyangGangchul (ALUKO) 10 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 11 Risk Risk Management System KOGAS has a system to enable Risk Management Committee and the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) to Innovation Best & First– KOGAS’ Innovative Brand KOGAS continuously achieves innovation of its corporate management in a bid to cater to the rapidly Management system proceed with work independently upon making critical decisions. KOGAS’ risk management is based changing management environment and pave the way for a new leap. KOGAS has made the brand of BnF on the ‘3-lines of defense’ model: the first-line supervising departments that are primarily responsible (Best & First) to innovate itself earlier than others to be No.1 as it tries hard for on-site innovation. Activities for risks as they conduct daily risk management operations; the second-line Risk Control Management of ‘First’ are to ferret out setbacks within a business unit and encourage its employees to take part to Department that manages the risk management system and supports risk management operations improve on, while activities of ‘Best’ are to disseminate and share best practices generated from the ‘First’ in the working level; and the third-line Office of the Auditors that audits the procedural adequacy of activities throughout the corporation. risk management activities. We ensure that departments for establishing the risk management system KOGAS initiates ‘On-site BnF Rainbow Activities’ to determine eight core areas based on its annual and operating routine risk management are separated. There are the risk management supervisor, a management policies, and conduct autonomous tasks befitting each base and regional division. decision-making body and related regulations so that independence could be guaranteed in business areas. CEO Risk management Head of Head of Head of Head of committee Dividsion Dividsion Dividsion Dividsion CRO (Vice president) Team manager Team manager Team manager Team manager Support Manager Manager Manager Manager Audit committee Risk Control Summarize Management Check & Internal * Rainbow: It is KOGAS’ exclusive innovation campaign slogan selected in 2012. It implies that things are to be improved unceasingly Overseas Project Operating Risk Financial Risk Supervising audit in the era of limitless competitions to pursue a better future and innovation activities of various colors are to be initiated befitting the Department Risk Control Control Control Departments (Management features of each business site. Department Department Department (16 crisis areas) Information team) Division of Companies Crisis Audit Overseas Risk operating Risk Financial Risk Management 1st Line 2nd Line 3rd Line Knowledge Management Activities KOGAS conducts knowledge management (personal knowledge, CoP) and management innovation (BnF) Check & Internal audit activities to explore excellent knowledge to be conducive. In 2014, 541 Communities of Practice (CoP) were opened and operated, among which 108 best CoPs were selected through a stringent review, and two cases of personal knowledge were adopted as best knowledge. Moreover, 16 best cases of management innovation (BnF) were explored through management innovation (BnF) activities. Improvement of the Corporation-wide Management System Since we plan on patent filing for best knowledge to turn knowledge into our asset, we are working on KOGAS has continuously improved the risk/crisis management areas and work processes in order to knowledge standardization at the same time. We hold the BP Contest every year to share and spread out flexibly respond to the changes in the management environment. For crisis management, the existing 18 best knowledge excavated through knowledge management and management innovation (BnF) activities, types of crises that used to be classified by job were integrated into nine types, focusing on core/actual and produce the ‘Knowledge Management Casebook’ to share best practices. crises. Crisis management has been made more efficient by revising the crisis response manual in full swing. We also made a crisis response handbook separately to increase the usefulness of the manual. For risk management, the existing risk indicators for corporate management were reviewed across the Performance of Innovation Activities board to re-classify them into 31 core risk indicators as of now. We also plan to further reinforce preKOGAS has explored the outcome of best knowledge (CoP, personal knowledge and BnF) through diverse warning functions by developing early warning indicators. knowledge management activities, thus achieving tangible effects (cost reduction, etc.) and intangible effects (institutional improvement and systematization and system setup). The financial effects generated through the knowledge management and management innovation (BnF) activities throughout 2014 amount Improvement of the Risk Management System for Overseas to KRW 158.7 billion. As more CoPs opened in the intangible areas compared to the previous year, it could Projects be identified that a culture of collaboration and communication among CoP members was taking root. KOGAS established measures to identify, evaluate and counter risks by business in order to respond ▼ Performance of Best Knowledge Outcome (CoP, personal knowledge and BnF) and Financial Effects to the aggravated environment in overseas projects including oil and LNG price drop and defined relevant roles for person in charge. We also improved the risk management system by realigning the Best knowledge Best knowledge work process and the reporting scheme. We strive to enhance competencies for overseas projects by outcome registered (unit: cases) outcome reward (unit: KRW 100 million) Financial effects (unit : KRW 100 million) reinforcing risk management for new projects while improving the process for investment in overseas 3,332 projects. 2,941 1.24 2,691 3,158 1.03 1.02 Reinforcement of Risk Monitoring and Reporting 1,845 1,587 KOGAS monitors the status quo of risk management by month/quarter and reports it to the CRO and the Risk Management Committee. We monitor the response records upon the issuance of crisis warnings and forward them to the department in charge for timely and effective responses. We report the current 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 status of risk management by risk indicator and overseas project, and countering measures on major risk signals to the CRO and the Risk Management Committee. 12 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 13 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test KOGAS decided on core issues for reporting through the materiality test process. The materiality test is to identify areas that are important in business, economic, environmental and social aspects, and are of common interest among stakeholders. Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Identification of Issues Collection of Stakeholder Opinions Prioritization and Review Confirmation on Core Issues to be Reported KOGAS’ Stakeholder Engagement Review of external issues Review of internal issues Surveys Prioritization Review of prioritization Selection of the related Aspects KOGAS strives to reinforce stakeholder communication and reflect their voices in order to re-establish its prestige as a public energy corporation trusted •Media research •Management strategies •External stakeholders •Strategic materiality •External expert review •Determination of key content to be •Analysis of relevant •Status quo of •Employees •Level of interest among •Review by the reported based on GRI G4 by the public. We also make efficient responses to stakeholder needs by holding various channels to gather opinions of each stakeholder. We are companies sustainable stakeholders management committed to fulfilling social responsibilities by listening to stakeholder opinions. •Trend & Impact Analysis management and SR evaluation & analysis •Government policy and regulatory analysis High Strategic Materiality of Core Issue Ranking RankStrategic Stakeholders for KOGAS’ Sustainability Management ing Materiality Survey for customer satisfaction A Presentation meeting for price system E C A Health & Safety 1 89.2 91.8 Direct Customers -:Event for exchanging information on technology F B (City gas companies, System for supporting customers Anti-corruption and Ethical D B Management 2 89.8 89.0 Meeting with customers Workshops for strategy power companies, G Greenhouse Gas & Energy C Management 3 85.3 90.3 External System for dealing with complaints etc.) Explanatory materials of the current conditions of major businesses -:IR activities Internal Members D Generation of Economic Value 4 87.2 86.5 Meetings and conferences between labor union Shareholders & -:Electronic public announcement (ALIO, Korea and management Exchange, Financial Supervisory Service) Investors -:Newsletter E Shared growth 5 81.5 89.8 On-site presentation for management executives F Contribution to community 6 80.3 88.8 Low Employment and welfare G benefits 7 85.8 84.2 0 Low Internal High Direct ShareGlobal Public announcement on the web EmployGovernCommu-:System for requesting to disclose information Core Issues GRI G4 Material Aspect Customholders & CustomSuppliers Public Reporting of Core Issues Page Citizens Government & ees ment nity System for requesting information disclosure -:Audit by the administration and Board of Audit ers Investors ers Campaigns and social contribution activities (Consumers and the Regulatory and Inspection Stable production and supply of natural gas Pricing system hearing public) Global KOGAS Institutions -:Report on the current conditions of Company newsletter Growing Together with management Higher financial soundness and profitability Customer Higher demands for anti-corruption Improvement in slack management Generation of 1. Stable supply of natural gas and 16 Substantiation of overseas projects economic value higher business efficiency Development of projects for new growth engines Web disclosure Improvement of core technological Newsletter Local -:Broadcasting competencies Various conferences Communities & Global -:Newsletter in English Various campaigns and social contribution -:Local voluntary works and donation Eradication of corruption and irregularities activities NGO Stakeholders -:Sustainability report Stronger competencies in auditing Anti-corruption and 2. KOGAS with transparency and -:Local newspaper 20 ethical management reliability Improved ethical management/transparent Meeting Suppliers management Business presentation GHG and energy management Joint workshop and field day Survey for contract satisfaction Response to carbon emission trading system GHG and energy management Utilization of new & renewable energies and 3. Clean and safe energies 24 expansion of investment Prevention of safety accidents Health & safety ▼ Major Concerns of Stakeholders Workplace health Improvement of SME competencies Direct Customers Stability of supply / Soundness of facilities / System for supporting customers / Communication channels for pricing Compliance with fair trade and formation of the Shared growth fair trade culture Shareholders & Investor Stock price / Investment / Stability / Prospect for growth / Financial soundness / Dividend / Corporate governance 4. A corporation that grows along Expansion of the shared growth culture 28 Government & Regulatory Institutions Respond to climate change / Corporate governance structure / Reforming / Stability in supply and demand of natural gas with its neighbors Facilitation of community investment and local Global Stakeholders Policies on environment and human rights / Global CSR activities economy Contribution to community Suppliers Expanding business / Supporting SMEs / Financial soundness Realization of welfare in energy Local Communities & NGO Social contribution / Safety and environmental management / Sustainability management / Ethical management / ISO 26000 Work-life balance Citizens Price / Stable provision of natural gas / Heating value (quality) / Social contribution and energy welfare Creation of quality jobs Employment & welfare 5. A favorable corporation to work 32 Expanding business / Reinforcing capability / Wage / Stabilizing employment / Welfare and benefits / Health and safety Fair wage and HR management benefits for Internal Members / Labor-Management relations Respect for labor diversity 14 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 15 1. Stable Supply of Natural Gas Sophistication of Supply and Demand Management Construction of New Facilities Long-term Supply and Demand Planning According to the gas supply Timely Expansion of Facilities and Scale-up of Supply KOGAS ensure and demand plan of Article 18.2 of the Urban Gas Business Act, the that there is no setback in the long-term natural gas supply through Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy sets long-term supply & demand mid-and long-term facility construction plans. Under a plan to increase planning on natural gas for over 10 years and promulgates it biannually. the storage ratio up to 21% by 2027, we completed the construction The long-term plan for natural gas is divided into the one for urban gas of three storage tanks at Samcheok Terminal Division in 2014, and are and for power generation, and is based on specified forecasting models. now equipped with production systems in four terminal divisions with Accuracy is raised through supply and demand prediction in consideration the initiation of transmission of LNG to Samcheok Terminal Division of the economic growth rate, population growth rate, industrial following the ones in Pyeongtaek, Incheon and Tongyeong. We also structures and basic plans for power supply and demand. Contracts to completed the construction of the 174km-long main pipe and 21 be implemented, construction of supply facilities and investment plans production management offices for stable supply of natural gas. Once are determined based on such demand prospects, and plans are set the construction is completed for Samcheok Terminal Division by 2017, to expand natural gas to untapped areas to achieve balanced national we will be complete with 12 tanks, the natural gas storage capacity of 2.61 development. million kℓ, and vaporization facilities of 1,320 T/H. Some new projects are in the pipeline: additional construction of a combined cycle power Accurate Forecasting of Demand A stable supply of natural gas starts plant in the metropolitan area; extension of 4th area of Incheon Terminal from accurate forecasting of demand. KOGAS operates an integrated Division bracing for a peak demand in winter; and construction of small supply& demand management system for scientific supply& demand LNG terminals to establish stable energy infrastructure in Jeju, a renowned management. Monitoring has been reinforced on factors with demand tourist destination. On the matters of an extension of 4th area of Incheon fluctuations including temperature, GDP and demand for electricity to Terminal Division, some local residents showed their worries over stability enable timely identification of the rapidly changing supply& demand of LNG terminal division. In order to relieve their anxiety, KOGAS clearly status. We have forged partnerships with the Econometric Research demonstrated its safety over LNG terminal division by conducting safety Center at Sungkyunkwan University and Korea Energy Economics Institute test through third party expert agency from February to August in 2014. to boost accuracy in forecasting demand, which continues to improve the ▼ Expansion of Storage Facilities & Construction of Supply Pipelines demand forecasting models for natural gas. Performance for the construction of Storage ratio (unit : %) supply pipelines (unit : km) ▼ Integrated Supply & Demand Management System 536 Supply & demand planning system 12.2 507 11.1 City gas producers KOGAS KPX 10.4 Forecasting demand Forecast models Forecasting demand Forecasting demand for Forecasting demand for city gas power generation 01. Generation of Economic Value 174 Setting plans for supply & demand for long term/short term/winter KOGAS will strive for the stable supply of 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Facility setup system System for procurement Efficient Construction and Improvement of Facility Standards Supply & demand forecasting KOGAS supplied natural gas 12 months earlier than planned to Ansan natural gas and higher business efficiency. Calculation of Pipeline storage tanks analysis (LNGSIM) (STONER) Combined Cycle Power Plant, thus shortening the gas supply period by Spot trade/ Calculating swap a total of 26 months to four power plants. This contributed to securing surplus / Calculation of Calculation of shortage a sufficient power reserve ratio, and enhanced the sales increase of storage tanks pipeline facilities Integrated supply & volume Due to the strong instability of supply and demand of electric power for years, the construction of combined cycle power plants has been massively and annexed including demand system Short-term KRW 400.2 billion through the early supply of natural gas. As a result of facilities pipeline plan extended, and a higher demand for heating in winter has made a stable supply of natural gas even more significant. The issue of stably supplying natural pressure Demand forecasting Mid-and reasonable improvement in design standards and the Value Engineering Demand management long-term and gas and raising accessibility to it directly impacts the national economy and welfare for the public. In this aspect, KOGAS’ efforts to seek for new growth short-term Mid-and long(VE), we could reduce the investment cost of KRW 118.8 billion. We also Facility planning and Procurement management strategies term plan engines have been spotlighted in developing overseas resources. It has become critical to raise the self-sufficient development rate for resources and also construction Facility management established the design standard for LNG storage tanks of 270,000 kℓ, efficiency in investment. the world’s first and largest capacity, and applied it to three storage tanks at Samcheok Terminal Division. As a consequence, we could additional Preparation for Supply & Demand Instability KOGAS signs longsecure 200,000 kℓ tanks vis a vis our initial plan, while minimizing the term and short-term procurement contracts for natural gas based on boil-off gas (BOG). the demand forecasts by period and demand prospects in winter. Upon ▼ 270,000 kℓ tank construction site at ▼ Construction site for the main pipe 2014 Key Performance 2018 Attainment Targets the occurrence of surplus or shortage, we calculate the volume needs by Samcheok Terminal Division semi-shield from Janglim to Jinhae period, and make responses through additional purchases in the LNG spot LNG storage ratio 16.8% market or treatment of surplus volumes. With our branches in Southeast Accumulated construction of Asia and the Middle East where most of LNG is concentrated, we monitor 4,857 km pipeline networks the local status of facility operation and local political and economic 440 million circumstances. In order to overcome regionally skewed distribution of Amount of resources secured km million tons/year tons % procurement lines and minimize political and geographical risks, we have Amount of resources 8.68 million LNG storage ratio Construction of Amount of resources produced tons diversified our procurement lines to Russia and Australia, etc. We have supply pipelines production E&P technological secured self-sufficient development volumes through our exclusive LNG 90% independence development projects in Canada and Mozambique. 16 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 17 Enhancement of Operation Efficiency In 2014, KOGAS signed an investment agreement to establish 100MW Through three of the LNG projects, that is, GLNG of Australia, DSLNG of Best Practice Enhancement of Reliability of Long-term Operation Facilities KOGAS fuel cells with eight institutions including Gyeonggi Provincial Government Indonesia and Prelude LNG of Australia, the volume of developing and established a standard for lifecycle management for facilities for the first and Pyeongtaek City Government. We are currently looking at a measure procuring natural gas will be scaled up to 2.42 million tons by 2017. In time in the gas industry to systematically manage the operation facilities. to supply natural gas to Pyeongtaek Fuel Cell Power Plant through 2014, we could procure 928 thousand tons to Korea among the total Zero Supply Disruption and Power In 2014, an inspection team consisting of internal and external experts Poseung Governor Station. volume of natural gas produced abroad. System Failure conducted precise safety checks and maintenance for 11 storage tanks Amount of resources Amount of resources Current Status of Volume KOGAS strives to ensure no supply disruption or power system failure operated for long, that is, for over 15 years and the 288.5km-long main ▼ Expected Results of Pyeongtaek Fuel Cell Project secured produced for Procurement (Unit: million tons, accumulated) (Unit: 10,000 tons/year) (Unit: 1,000 tons of LNG) by securely and stably operating facilities. In 2014, we operated an pipe. For obsolete facilities of over 30 years, in particular, we strive to Sales volume of emergency control unit to prevent supply disruption, and conducted Revenues of natural gas Net income 2,423 maintain reliable facilities with integrity through collaborative inspection natural gas accident recovery drills for 53 times. In order to guarantee more with outside facility experts. 147,000 tons/year KRW 153.8 billion/year KRW 6.3 billion/year 261 269 231 226 prompt responses to risks of power system operation, we reduced the existing four stages to two. Voltage boosting facilities are operated to respond to the setback of lower pressure in gas supply 2. Development of New Growth Projects Efficient Initiation of Overseas Projects 928 in the Gyeongnam region on which the tip end of the pipeline Development of Overseas Resources KOGAS has continuously initiated network lies, and pressure reduction facilities are up and running in Expansion of New and Renewable Energies projects to develop overseas resources for stable supply and demand of the metropolitan area in summer. As a result of such endeavors of 2013 2014 2013 2014 2014 2017 KOGAS has expanded the supply of fuel cells as an effort to explore new domestic natural gas and secure new growth engines. We established KOGAS, there has been no single case of supply disruption of natural demands for natural gas. The fuel cell market grows by about 140% a three major strategic directions, including “ enhancing investment gas for 18 years since 1996. year on average, showing the fastest growth among new and renewable efficiency”, “selecting and focusing”, and “reinforcing business capability” Empowerment of Technological Prowess Aiming to foster technological energies. Moreover, fuel cells are spotlighted as the optimal solution for for strategies in mid and long-term resources development based on the prowess and reinforce technical evaluation for exclusive minefield ▼Stability in Supply (unit : cases) power supply, and the demand for power generation using fuel cells global energy market trends, the government’s energy policies and the operation, KOGAS selected 17 core technological competencies on 2012 2013 2014 is likely to soar as the mandatory supply ratio for new and renewable analysis of the management environment. Accordingly, we plan to secure resources development and established a roadmap to secure technologies Gas Supply 0 0 0 energies increases. We are keen to find new market opportunities resources that are equivalent to a domestic natural gas volume to be over the medium and long haul in its efforts to strengthen technological Disruption through models to develop and support fuel cell projects using natural consumed for a decade by 2020, and produce 20% of domestic annual prowess. KOGAS seeks to achieve technology self-sufficiency of 85% by Power System 0 1 0 gas. consumptions outside Korea. Failure 2017 to lead Exploration & Production (E&P) projects. KOGAS is currently engaged in 22 resources development projects in 12 * Gas supply disruption: cases when there is a failure of gas supply to parties specified on the supply protocol ▼ Supply ratio of new and renewable energies (unit : %) countries (excluding other projects). As of 2014-end, we have secured and contracts ▼ E&P Technology Self-sufficiency * Power system failure:cases when there is a gas supply of over one hour while not satisfying the needs on Year 2014 2024 269 million tons of resources, which is about a volume to be domestically the demand side including the volume and pressure as a result of facility breakdown and accidents consumed for 6.4 years, if converted into LNG. We produce oil & gas Mandatory Ratio 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 in a total of 10 projects including A-1/A-3 in Myanmar, Jubair project in Iraq and Rasgas project in Qatar. In 2014, we produced oil & gas worth 35% 52.5% 60.3% World-class management of the natural gas loss ratio * Starting with 2% in 2012, an annual increase of 0.5%: after 2020, an annual increase of 1% to reach 10% by 2024 2.26 million tons to generate the income of USD 765 million (revenues ▼ Distribution of fuel cells for power generation (unit : accumulated, MW) + dividend income), among which the project income worth USD 128 KOGAS could reduce the loss of KRW 57.9 billion by unifying the 2012 2013 2014 million from three projects, namely, Rasgas of Qatar, OLNG of Oman and calculation methods for LNG trading unit procured in Korea and Year 2012 2013 2014 YLNG of Yemen was utilized as resources to lower the domestic city gas raising the accuracy of LNG inventory management. In 2014, the Amount of Distribution 58 126 164 price, thereby contributing to improved energy welfare for the public. natural gas loss ratio, that is, the ratio of the actual supply volume Efforts to Create New Demand to the total amount of procurement reached 0.053%, which is the As regulations on ocean emissions (led by advanced countries) are world’s best record. ▼ Status of Overseas Projects expected to expand to Northeast. Asia, the demand for a clean energy source, LNG-fueled ships is expected ▼Comparison of Loss Ratios (unit : %) CNG/ Cylinder Project, Uzbekistan to increase. In April 2013, KOGAS signed a contract forsupplying LNG Company S, Company N, Company C, Company T, KOGAS, Exploration Project, Cyprus Umiak SDL, Canada Italy U.K. U.S. U.S. Korea with Econuri, an LNG-fueled ship at Incheon Port, for the first time in Zubair Field development Project, Iraq Surgil Project, Uzbekistan Asia and prepared forthe alternative demand for diesel use for ships by Loss Ratio 0.13 0.50 1.00 3.00 0.053 Joint Exploration of gas field in Uzunkui, Unconventional Gas Project, Canada predicting demand. In order to address the severe GHG emissions from * Companies selected for comparison have the same business format with KOGAS (companies that supply Badra Field development Project, Iraq Uzbekistan Cordova Gas Resouces, Canada diesel-powered yard tractors, a transport device for containers in port, we gas to city gas producers through high-pressure pipeline networks) . modified the engines, replacing diesel with LNG. According to a survey Mansuriya Field development Project, Iraq A-1 & A-3 fields development project. LNG Project, Canada done by the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, once these yard tractors Myanmar Krueng Mane exploration project, are fuelled by LNG, about 42% of CO2 and about 27% of fuel cost can Integration of Value Chain for the Entire Process in DSLNG of Indonesia Akkas Field development Project, Iraq Indonesia be reduced, while lowering vibration and noise, thus contributing to an DSLNG Project, Indonesia improved working environment. The usage of LNG for transport devices Pipeline Project, Iraq Manzanillo LNG Re-gasification Terminal A project in Indonesia titled ‘Donggi-Senoro LNG’ is KOGAS’ first Project (Mexico) at ports is recognized to have contributed to more environmentally Senoro Gas Field development Project, overseas LNG plant project. It is also Indonesia ’s first gas field Indonesia friendly ports emitting less pollutants and CO2, and we plan to expand separation and development project whereby the two regions this practice to major ports nationwide. East Timor offshore exploration project of Donggi and Senoro are separately developed. It is capable Mozambique Maputo Natural Gas Distribution Project of producing LNG of 2 million tons a year. KOGAS, Mitsubishi, Exploration Pertamina and Medco are jointly taking part in the project. KOGAS Area4 Exploration Project, Mozambique OLNG Project, Oman Development / Production is spearheading the entire process ranging from development YLNG Project, Yemen GLNG Project, Australia production of upstream gas field to LNG plant construction, operation, LNG transport and procurement of LNG. This is analogous to integrating Prelude FLNG Project, RasGas Project, Qatar Australia Others the entire value chain in a LNG project covering development up to domestic procurement. 18 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 19 1. Comprehensive Measures against Corruption 2. Better Execution of Ethical Management In 2014, some executives at KOGAS were indicted for taking bribes and Sophistication of the Ethical Management System committing breach of trust, and the former president and CEO was KOGAS has established and operated a system for ethical management dismissed. As such, KOGAS was on the verge of being stigmatized as strategies to achieve systematic ethical management. Under the vision of a structurally corrupt entity to extent where the whole organization’s ‘Realization of clean and transparent global management with integrity’, transparency raised suspicions. Our reputation that has been accumulated we established three strategic directions including sophistication of as we tried to make a better world plummeted as we received the lowest a culture of ethics and integrity, and formed the Global Ethical and grade in the comprehensive integrity evaluation of the Anti-Corruption & Integrity Innovation Committee, classifying tasks for execution into three: Civil Rights Commission. As a consequence, employees that used to be institutional improvement, protocol alignment, and ethics and integrity proud of their corporation lost their morale and customers were about to training. We also conduct internal and external evaluation and diagnosis, turn their back against KOGAS. Under this backdrop, we came up with through which measures for improvement are devised. These measures anti-corruption measures lest these corruption cases occur again. We are reflected in improving institutions and future plans. have operated 17 core tasks based on multifaceted comprehensive anticorruption measures. Realization of clean and transparent global management with integrity Vision Operation of Comprehensive Management System against Corruption Risks Goal Clean KOGAS fulfilling social responsibilities with ethical management We increased accessibility to reporting on corruption cases by launching Strategic an app-based ‘KOGAS Ombudsman’ system on a smartphone in a bid Establishment of a system for Improvement of the ethical Sophistication of the ethical ethical management management system management system directions to enhance tangible effects for an anti-corruption management system. We also made a database on vulnerabilities to corruption and high risks Steering unit Ethical protocol Activities System for so that anti-corruption behaviors and their signals could be monitored actions Global Ethical and KOGAS’ code of ethics Operation of the Ethical around the clock through the improved e-auditing system. Moreover, we Integrity Innovation Code of actions for and Integrity Action adopted the integrity auditor system to select division-specific integrity Committee employees Program managers and impose monitoring roles and the rights to demand Institutional Protocol Ethics and integrity Tasks for execution institutional improvement. improvement alignment training Establishment of a Stringent Punishment System Implementing internal and Devising measures for Reflecting the measures in Evaluation external evaluation and improvement planning and institutional and feedback We reinforced the disciplinary level by extending the period of disciplinary diagnosis improvement suspension from the existing three months to six months on corrupt actors so that strict punitive practices could take root. HR provisions were revised to limit voluntary dismissal including limitation on re-employment Improvement of the Ethical Management System and of corrupt actors, and wage provisions were amended to halve the Protocol Alignment 02. Reinforcement of Anti-Corruption and Ethical Management amount of the expected severance pay upon disciplinary dismissal. KOGAS has implemented the corporate-wide institutional improvement KOGAS will be reborn with transparency to secure executional capabilities for ethical management and strengthen Creation of Instruments for Job Transparency control functions. We also strengthened executional capabilities on Aiming to enhance job transparency in areas that are vulnerable to ethics and formed internal consensus on the issues by aligning the ethics and reliability. corruption including contract signing, budgeting and appointment of protocol e.g. suggesting specific standards for the code of actions, while personnel, we improved our systems in multiple angles. We set up a minimizing abstract features in the code of actions by formulating a system to detect suspicious cases on collusive bidding based on the standard for disciplinary actions and indicating a mandate for employees The year 2014 was a painful time for KOGAS due to anti-corruption issues. All the employees at KOGAS have kept in their heart that a analysis of bidding cases including bidding rate and the number of working abroad to submit a pledge on ethics and integrity. corporation with the highest economic value cannot sustain itself if it not ethical, and KOGAS sought after a path of new changes toward ethical successful bids by company. We also revised a specific standard to review management. Stakeholders of KOGAS selected ‘anti-corruption and reinforcement of ethical management’ as the material issue in the materiality on the adequacy of the bidding price to prevent bid rigging so that test and as the most material issue in strategic materiality, which, in total, ranked second, hinting at their emphasis on how the corporation must upon estimating the base price, randomly generated cases could reflect Type Departments in Activities the estimation rate. In order to secure transparency in the contractual charge transform itself as a transparent one. process, we ensured to implement a prior external verification system Operation of Adopting the integrity auditor system Comprehensive Operating around-the-clock auditing system on order placement plans and run the Bidding Proposal Inspection and Office of the Management e.g. setting up a system to utilize smart phones Auditors Evaluation Committee. For fair handling of IT contractual work, evaluation System against Corruption Risks is separately conducted, and external reviewers are mandatorily engaged Operating a committee to improve in along with a verification procedure on settlement. The number of Material Contract 2014 Key Performance 2018 Attainment Targets Team procurement systems participated by outside steps for reviewing account bookkeeping increased from two to three Creation of experts to improve the system to manage incomings and outgoings. We also Instruments for Job Strengthening internal control on cash book Accounting Team Comprehensive integrity Grade 1 Transparency and improving SAP enhanced the integrated IT system to prevent double withdrawals for the Human Resources Adopting a system to manage recruitment same case. We have also come up with a whistleblowing system to report Team interviewers on solicitation for personnel affairs to secure transparency in personnel Intensifying the level of disciplinary punishment Increase of the number of integrity auditors Establishment Human Resources % employees employees affairs. and internally disclosing the reasons for of a Stringent Team disciplinary punishment Punishment System Implementing their Integrity auditors Participating in ethics training Performance & Imposing limitations on corrupt actors 100% of employees attending cyber ethical against Corrupt recommendation Actors Compensation fordismissal at their own request and reducing training Team their severance pay 20 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 21 Formation of a Corporate Culture with Integrity improvement in integrity awareness and culture, prevention of corruption and a lack of operation of monthly settlement schemes for material KOGAS Code of Ethics KOGAS encourages its employees on voluntary reporting of cases to and facilitation of reporting. Areas of improvement are found through procurement. As a result of mobile inspection, five people were prevent possibilities of unethical acts that run counter to ethics and precise ethical diagnosis and addressed accordingly. reprimanded or dismissed due to accusations of the following: In an effort to foster transparent management and thus help KOGAS integrity, and to enhance individuals’ degree of ethics, thus facilitating excessive allocation of facility maintenance fees, personal usage of the Type 2012 2013 2014 become a clean energy supplier, we have prepared a code of ethics voluntary compliance with the code of ethics. We have also practiced corporate fees, and disruption of contractual norms for procurement Results of the Comprehensive that is built on the trust from customers, shareholders and the local Grade 3 (8.68) Grade 3 (8.24) Grade 5 (7.46) of goods. Disciplinary actions were also taken on three people due ethical management for mutual growth by encouraging ethical Integrity Survey integrity community. Therefore, the code will provide a clear direction for all by the AntiExternal integrity Grade 3 (9.06) Grade 3 (8.86) Grade 5 (7.61) to the inappropriateness of bonus payment and the operation of an compliance through reporting on engagement in external lectures and Corruption & Civil KOGAS employees to follow when they have to make ethical decisions. the operation of a gift returning center on Korean traditional holidays, Rights Commission Internal integrity Grade 3 (8.29) Grade 4 (8.22) Grade 3 (8.39) overseas junket in the name of training. As a result, irrational systems of and donating the returned gifts to social welfare centers. Driven by the subsidiaries were demanded to be improved. There is an annual adequacy dissemination of voluntary reporting and self-diagnosis of ethical degree check through the verification of an external accounting firm on the operating status of the internal accounting management system (internal The 1st conducted every year, employees’ satisfaction and level of improvement are evaluated, which are later used to devise measures for improvement. 3. Reinforcement of the Internal Control control system) of KOGAS. The first mission is to firmly establish a basic framework for practicing ethical management in the workplace. We are also developing content for customized ethical integrity training System Reinforcement of Follow-up Management and for employees to enjoy empathy and joyfulness, while raising the ethical •Handling affairs fairly in the workplace and putting the interest of the Prevention of Corrupt Practices awareness among employees. We offer customized training programs Reinforcement of Expertise and Independence of the company before anything else KOGAS has re-established a follow-up management process on audit by stakeholder groups: cyber ethical training for all employees, outreach Auditing Bodies •Fostering mutual trust and respect among all KOGAS employees ethical training, Global KOGAS Forum for executives and a program on results, and is making improvement on related weaknesses. Audits regardless of rank KOGAS selects auditors with over three years of experience in overseas integrity with credit mileage points for the promoted and new employees. are conducted according to the annual audit plan, and the results are projects and resources development projects to enhance the expertise of disclosed through the Board of Audit and Inspection’s ‘Public Audit ▼ Number of voluntary reporting among employees the auditing bodies. Audit training related to individual jobs takes place System’, intranet and KOGAS’ website. For any of the weaknesses, they The 2nd Type Activities Performance for 54.9 hours on average per head every year. Exclusive audit regulations are reflected in audit plans through follow-up management which takes Reporting on were formulated and amended to intensify the independence of auditing The second mission is to act responsibly in dealing with other KOGAS Facilitating the ethical compliance through voluntary place to identify if appropriate measures are underway for the cases of participation in 149 cases bodies. Integrity auditors were selected among employees whose integrity workers. reporting disposition. As a result of checking out if the action notices have been outside lectures •Pursuing cooperative industrial relations for peaceful coexistence grade was three and lower by division, who were imposed with the Operating a gift Practicing ethical management for mutual growth by implemented, we completed taking actions for 497 cases on slack •Evaluating and promoting workers based on their ability and return center donating the gifts to social welfare centers 24 cases auditing rights on areas vulnerable to corruption including contracting, management. Information on corrupt practices or violates of the code Self-diagnosis on Coming up with data on the level of objective ethical accounting and construction. Moreover, the auditing bodies are ensured performance Once of actions are shared as we registered at the ‘Zero Me System’ of Antiethical level awareness with independence to independently conduct personnel, training and Corruption and Civil Rights Commission to prevent the reoccurrence evaluation programs. ▼ Number of Participants for Customized Training Programs of corrupt practices. For employees that are removed or dismissed due Auditors are applied to independent personnel, training and evaluation The 3rd Number of to their corrupt acts, they are given individual notices on a regulatory Type Targets Activities system besides other employees. Through personnel verification, auditors The third mission is to fulfill duties and obligations for shareholders participants provision on the prohibition of re-employment in public positions for the are selected and required to take a 40 hours of compulsory training. and customers. Raising executional capabilities next five years. Ethics training All employees 2,963 people At least, 3 years of continuous-service are guaranteed and when aligned with internal evaluation •Ensuring stable supply of safe natural gas With the operation of the accountability system for implementation, Training Conducting integrity training evaluation for promotion, 1 addition points added up. Instead of being •Maximizing investment return for shareholders and practicing ‘open’ Construction 19 people KOGAS appointed managers in charge to manage the implementation of for partner reaching out on integrity and antiexcluded from internal evaluation, their performance is in accordance companies companies corruption activities (5 companies) audit results by one person each for three departments under the Audit Management with evaluation of The Board of Audit and Inspection of Korea. As such, Inducing voluntary ethical leadership Division. And also by registering audit results and due date for actions, we Global KOGAS by encouraging high-ranking KOGAS appointed 6 auditors, who received average 59 hours of audit Executives 186 people review implementation status for any time. We report on review results by Forum executives including team directors training. and above to participate in training conducting follow-up inspection on the action status quo and the survey The 4th Program on on the overall management in full account biannually. As such, KOGAS The fourth mission is to fulfill duties and obligations for the local integrity with The promoted Conducting a program with Operation of a Preemptive Internal Check System and new mandatory credit mileage points on 164 people completed actions taken for 479 action notices on slack management. community and the nation as a whole. credit mileage KOGAS has enhanced the auditing quality and strengthened internal employees integrity by life cycle •Engaging in and providing support for volunteer social services points control based on intensive auditing. Consulting services were provided Integrity and New Understanding integrity and antiactively 63 people for areas requiring institutional improvement including protocols and Notification of audit results ethics training employees corruption •Making the society cleaner by engaging in activities for protecting Outreach Understanding integrity policies and guidelines in order to conduct preemptive management diagnosis. • Sending a report on audit results Employees 1,311 people the environment integrity training integrity Improvement was made in 117 cases in the areas of contracts & • Designating a due date for action and managers in charge Completing courses of the Antiaccounting and facility operation: specifically, inappropriate specific Cyber integrity Corruption Training Institute under Employees 3,147 people inspection standards for negotiation-based procurement contracts, training the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission Monitoring 19times 366 cases 140 cases • Registering at the Board of Audit and Inspection’ Public Audit (including field System and KOGAS’ audit system actions) • Checking out the progress for taking actions Evaluation and Feedback KOGAS is subject to the ‘Integrity Evaluation of Public Corporations’ and ‘Evaluation of Anti-Corruption Prevention Measures’ of the AntiIdentification of actions taken Number of audits Total number of action Institutional Corruption & Civil Rights Commission on an annual basis. The outcome notices improvement and • Registering the outcome for taking actions and of the evaluations is disclosed via KOGAS’ website and ‘Alio’, an online recommendation evaluating them disclosure system on management information of public corporations, etc. Weakness in integrity and anti-corruption measures are analyzed 1case 17 people KRW 34.6billion through the evaluation outcome, based on which we set ‘plans to initiate Feedback integrity innovation policies’ every year. Based on these efforts, we seek • Conducting performance evaluation on audit results for setting up of anti-corruption infrastructure, higher transparency and • Reflecting any shortcomings in the next year’s audit plan reliability in policies, removal of and improvement in corruption factors, Accusation Reprimand Budget reduction 22 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 23 1. Responses to Climate Change Management of GHG Emissions GHG and manage energy. Since then, three terminal divisions and five Identifying the sources of GHG emissions on sites and accurately district divisions have acquired the ISO 50001, an international standard identifying the amount of GHG emissions generated from them serve on the energy management system. In 2014, KOGAS implemented the as the foundation to reduce GHG. KOGAS set an inventory guideline to certification for the business sites without certification within the Trunk enhance the accuracy of the information on GHG emissions. In 2014, we Line Division to apply the certification to all sites. With this, all business set the GHG energy IT system to manage not only the GHG inventory sites within the Supply Division are complete with the integrated energy but also the amount of energy used to more substantially and effectively ▼ Status Quo of Certification of the Energy Management System lower GHG. According to the Operation Guideline on Management of the GHG & Energy Target of the Notification (No. 2011-29) of the Ministry Type Certified Business Sites Note of Environment, KOGAS operates the GHG management guideline LNG Terminal Incheon Terminal Division, Pyeongtaek Terminal Samcheok without Division Division, Tongyeong Terminal Division certification and the GHG quality management and assurance procedure. KOGAS Seoul, Gyeonggi, Incheon, Chungcheong, Integrated in the documents a GHG energy specification, which is verified by a third party, Trunk Line Gangwon, Busan Gyeongnam, Daegu Gyeongbuk, Trunk Line Division Division and the relevant information is disclosed to the national GHG system. We Gwangju Jeonnam, Jeonbuk District Divisions * Samcheok Terminal Division to be certified in 2015 as a new site launched in 2014 adopted a system to convert the natural gas pressure generated when lowering the equipment pressure into energy to generate electric power for the first time in Korea. Facilities are improved by applying systems and management system. technologies to control GHG emissions. KOGAS also practices the efficient usage of energy by replacing the ordinary lighting with LEDs or placing LEDs in new spots. In 2014, 4,039 ▼ GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO e) 2 lightings were replaced with LEDs and 62 LED lightings were installed, Direct emissions Indirect emissions Total emissions thus distributing a total of 4,101 LED lightings and saving approximately 650,868 682,427 588,037 205 MWh of energy a year. 308,957 329,511 352,916 ▼ LED Lighting Distribution Rate in 2014 (accumulated) 341,911 342,083 245,954 Number of total lightings Number of LED lightings LED lighting distribution rate 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 47,570 31,922 67 % * Excluding the business sites emitting a small amount (headquarters, R&D Center and Jeongseon Training Institute) and fugitive emissions newly reported in 2014 * Emissions from the business sites emitting a small amount: 3,840 tCO2e * Fugitive emissions: 298,893 tCO2e Expansion of New and Renewable Energies Considering that there will be a higher demand for energy sources Response to the Carbon Emission Trading System without GHG emissions over the long term, one of the 12 strategic 03. GHG and Energy Management/Safety and Health KOGAS established measures to respond to the emission trading system tasks under the long-term business plan is to foster a low-carbon under the five-year plan for climate change response. The trading energy project. Specific tasks to be implemented are advancement into KOGAS will make clean and safe energies. system is also known as the ‘carbon emissions trading system’ that allows for trading of emission rights or Certified Emission Reduction (CER) among business sites or countries that are obliged to reduce GHG. eco-friendly projects and new and renewable energy projects, which are reflected in the business strategies of KOGAS on climate change issues. We are reducing GHG and energy usage by utilizing five types Once companies register their performance in lowering the six GHGs of new and renewable energy facilities – geothermal energy, PV, solar The globally agreed-upon responses to climate change are irreversible for companies to survive over the long haul. The government’s 7th basic designated by the Kyoto Protocol, that is, CO2, methane, nitrogen oxide, energy, wind energy and fuel cells. We also concentrate on adopting plan on the supply and demand of electric power even mulls over measures to achieve post-2020 GHG reduction goals. Natural gas is used as per fluoro carbon, hydero fluoro carbon and sulfur hexafluoride at the and commercializing fuel cell facilities that produce electricity and heat a major means to respond to climate change because it generates almost no pollutants in incinerating itself since sulfur, nitrogen and ashes United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), without the process of GHG-emitting incineration by using natural gas. are removed during liquefaction as a clean fuel emitting little GHG. As such, the issue of climate change and the environment are critical issues they are given the CERs to extent of the amount reduced. The three KOGAS conducts carbon reduction activities throughout the corporation directly impacting KOGAS’ business as well as the demand for natural gas, so was evaluated as the third material issue in the material test. Since core tasks for KOGAS to respond to the emissions trading system are by making business sites greener and disseminating new and renewable LNG might lead to a big accident albeit safe compared to other fuel sources, safety is the top priority. Stakeholders selected ‘safety and health’ as establishing a system to respond to the emission trading, developing a energies. We focus on exclusively producing a part of electric power to be the most significant reason for KOGAS. specialized workforce on emission trading and initiating GHG reduction internally consumed by introducing PV, wind energy and fuel cell facilities, projects. and utilize solar and geothermal energies for cooling and heating. As such, various new and renewable energy sources are produced to lower GHG. In 2014, KOGAS reduced the usage of energy of 1,250 TOE, Efficient Energy Usage which is about 22 times more than that of 2013 by using more new and 2014 Key Performance 2018 Attainment Targets KOGAS adopted the energy management system at Incheon Terminal renewable energies, thus saving the energy cost of about KRW 1.6 billion. Division for the first time as a public energy corporation in 2011 to lower Responses to the GHG emission trading system ▼ Core Tasks of KOGAS to Respond to the Emission Trading System ▼ Expansion of new and renewable power generation facilities in 2014 (Unit: kW) 300 300 3 ISRS-C(Safety Culture Index) 8.1 points tCO2e TJ Grade GHG emission Amount of energy used ISRS(Safety System) Establishing a system to Developing a specialized ISRS(Safety System) Grade 9 Initiating GHG reduction respond to the emission workforce on emission projects Fuel cells PV Wind energy trading trading 24 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 25 2. Environment and Safety Management misses and disaster cases. Training to raise site-focused safety awareness by minimizing the emission of pollutants. Combined heat and power Best Practice is conducted for all employees to upgrade the corporation-wide safety generation facilities are managed below 75ppm, which is one half of the Establishing a Roadmap to Enhance the Mid-and Longculture, while safety is emphasized in executives’ leadership training. domestic air environment standard of 150ppm. The intensity and flow term Safety The Handbook on Safety Lessons is conductive to the development of rate of NOx is monitored and controlled in real time by TMS installed in Adoption of LNG Ambient Air Vaporizers In order to seek for safety management, the top priority in management employees’ safety awareness as it contains major gas accident cases at at chimneys. Developing a core technology to secure growth engines of the future for KOGAS, we implement comprehensive and corporation-wide safety home and abroad released by KOGAS every year. ▼ Other Pollutants Activities (unit : KRW million) LNG is made for easy transporting by compressing in low temperature management by establishing a roadmap to enhance the mid-and longHarmful chemical Unit requirement (kg/thousand tons) Usage/generation (kg) by capturing natural gas. When LNG reached to consumption site, ▼ Global Safety Culture Index (ISRS-C) term safety. Our goal is to advance world-class EHSQ management to substance usage Waste generation once again it is vaporized and delivered. In this process, LNG cold Year 2012 2013 2014 explore tasks to be initiated and improve the effects of execution. Specific 9.18 10.72 11.31 energy emitted and used coolant could cause impact on the marine KOGAS 5.8 6.2 6.7 8.89 10.10 mid-and long-term quantitative objects are in place for each task for environment around terminal divisions. In order to reduce the impact, Average of domestic companies execution including spearheading the disaster prevention in the industry, 4.4 4.5 4.8 391,778 391,502 397,662 KOGAS developed a vaporizer thawing system through recirculation of measured 325,047 355,060 4.79 enhancing the Safety Culture Index and reducing the disaster rate for natural gas at high temperature and filed patent for the LNG vaporizer. partner companies, and performance monitoring is implemented. 168,614 Management of Eco-friendly Business Sites Strengthening facility safety and 2017 Attainment Goals Grade for operating capabilities for the EHSQ Grade 9 out of Grade 10 Management of Pollutant Emissions KOGAS manages the environment 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 efficiency by improving the process with of business sites by setting the standards for emission of pollutants in creativity management system the air and water quality of production sites more stringent than the Management of Expenses for Environmental Activities KOGAS Safety Culture Index 8.1 points / 10 points legally permissible level as an eco-friendly corporation. The data on the Intensifying innovative safety by establishing a system for separated developed a standard to calculate expenses for environmental activities management of terminals KOGAS disaster rate To reduce the disaster rate below one third of the average amount of pollutant emissions generated from air pollutant emitting to manage expenses in four areas of environmental activities: cost for in the industry of electricity, gas and water supply Incheon base is the largest scale of facility as in charge of 38% of facilities installed in each site is managed on a monthly basis. Analysis commissioning the treatment of environmental pollutants; pollution To reduce the disaster rate below one third of the national natural gas demand and 60% of metropolitan area demand in Disaster rate of partner companies average disaster rate of public corporations and inspection results on quarterly emissions are reported to the prevention expenses for facility investment, environmental training and winter season. Because of production base being enlarged and focused, management. The data on environmental pollutant emissions is also R&D, etc. to prevent environmental pollution; environmental subsidies Number of facility accident cases Zero when accident occurred, danger and the impact of suspension could provided to the Environmental Information Disclosure System run by for stakeholders as in eco-friendly projects and sponsorship for events be doubled. KOGAS established a basic plan to separate terminals at the Ministry of Environment as KOGAS is proactively engaged in related of environmental organizations; and statutory response fees including Incheon base in 2014 by separating single terminal to 4 terminals and institutions’ efforts for environmental management. Moreover, as we environmental fines and penalties and punitive fines. load balancing for substations in order to minimize the impact and Operation of the EHSQ Management System conduct periodic facility checkup and facility improvement to reduce ▼ Cost for Environmental Activities (unit : KRW million) increase the stability. KOGAS developed such separated operating KOGAS operates its own EHSQ management system to comprehensively the amount of pollutants generated, we stringently apply our exclusive Treatment of Pollution Response to system as standard model for production base and applied to design and efficiently manage the environment, health, safety and quality. It treatment standard more stringently than what is required by the relevant pollutants prevention Stakeholders regulations for new production base in Jeju. We believe that convenient operating has expanded the participation in safety and health of business sites law (Act on the Conservation of Air Environment, etc.). As a result of 24,865 24,894 24,047 2,669 system for integration and separation will increase the stable production with the help of the EHSQ management system that can be immediately striving for environmental management, KOGAS was externally certified 2,475 2,233 1,935 122 of natural gas. applicable to sites. KOGAS evaluates on whether or not business sites as a green corporation. Major facilities discharging air pollutants among 111 safety management regulations are complied with. Moreover, we production and supply facilities of KOGAS include combustion vaporizers, 749 77 ▼Terminal Seperate Operating System in Incheon Base 176 received follow-up inspection after acquiring certifications including ISO gas heaters, combined heat and power generation facilities, boilers 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (environment), OHSAS 18001 (safety and and cooling and heating equipment. KOGAS manages these facilities 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 health) and ISO 29001 (natural gas and oil quality) which are environment *F or adapting to new environment system such as carbon emission trading system and toal 1,800 t/h maximum daily load for NOx, external responding cost has increased as well. and safety-related international standards. We strive to minimize risks that Pier 2 might occur throughout the entire process ranging from the production ▼ Air Pollutants Unit requirement (kg/thousand tons) Emission (kg) 2,070 t/h and supply of natural gas. NOx emission SOx emission Dust emission Improvement of Safety Awareness 25.73 0.245 0.213 Disaster and Risk Management 1,300 t/h 19.93 KOGAS manages disaster risks systematically based on its disaster Driven by the CEO’s strong commitment and the government’s national Pier 1 995,111 14.05 0.165 response system. The central control office at the headquarters, eight 1,440 t/h initiative on ‘strengthening safety management of energy facilities’, 8,319 8,241 700,953 0.123 regional control offices and four production adjusting offices monitor KOGAS established an on-site safety culture to focus on safety in 0.071 5,787 Storage Recondenser Pump Vaporizer Metering 513,544 0.054 gas facilities 24/7, and precise safety check is conducted for vulnerable tank facility everyday work life. Marking the 20th anniversary of the Ahyeon-dong 4,252 2,732 facilities and facilities of long-term use every year to remove risks. In order city gas explosion in 2014, we organized a rally to practice gas safety, 1,891 Separation of the facilities: a single terminals→4 terminals to reduce disasters on construction sites, inspection on the status of safety and expand the scope of operating the Safety Management Committee. 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 management for partner companies has been strengthened. We pay Seperation of two Seperation of four During the corporation-wide EHSQ manager meeting, site-specific safetyextra attention on preventing safety accidents also by designating hold related issues and improvement measures were discussed to share nearDongchun Ohbong Dongchun Ohbong points for high-risk tasks with a high probability of accidents. KOGAS ▼ Water Pollutants Unit requirement (kg/thousand tons) Emission (kg) conducts supply chain patrol and safety management with Daehan Oil ▼ Rally on Taking Actions for Gas Safety BOD emission COD emission SS emission Pipeline Corporation for the safety of gas pipelines and efficient facility management. There has been zero safety accident thanks to continued 0.0054 0.0050 0.0065 0.0022 0.0013 0.0017 cooperation with related institutions as well as further efforts on 50% 50% 25% 25% 25% 25% 0.0044 0.0029 251.9 operational techniques. 207.9 0.0021 82 58.6 182.6 155.4 104.6 51 ▼ Safety Check for Facilities of Long-term Use (targeting facilities of 15 years elapse) Vaporizer Vaporizer Vaporizer Vaporizer Vaporizer Vaporizer 72.35 Pump Pump Pump Pump Pump Pump Storage tanks Production facilities Main pipelines Production management offices External power paralleling: a single substation→multiple substations 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 11 units 74 cases 288.5 km 19 offices 26 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 27 1. Initiation of Shared Growth with SMEs Establishment of a System for Shared Growth Support for SMEs’ Exploration of New Channels KOGAS has initiated projects to discover and develop small-and mediumKOGAS’ Advancement into Overseas Projects with SME Partners sized suppliers that are sound and competitive. To this end, we have KOGAS has proactively advanced into relevant overseas projects with assisted them to develop new technologies in the natural gas field, tap SME partners. We support them to enhance their global competitiveness onto sales channels at home and abroad and enhance competitiveness by assisting them to make inroads into hard-to-enter overseas market. In in quality. In 2014, we put in place a mid-and long-term road map to 2014, KOGAS’ SME partners took part in 11 projects of 89 companies in foster and manage small-and medium-sized suppliers in an effective and seven countries, expanding overseas channels even further: Manzanillo continuous manner, and set and executed a system for shared growth LNG Terminal Project in Mexico, AKKAS Gas Field Development Project consisting of four strategic directions and 12 tasks for execution. As a in Iraq, DGS South Project in Iraq, Maputo Pipe Operation Project in result, KOGAS was selected by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Mozambique; and Kirkuk EPC Project on Pipes in Iraq. as a ‘favorable company’ in the shared growth evaluation. Support for SME Partners’ Marketing We support SME partners to ▼ Breakdown of the Vision and Strategies for KOGAS’ Shared Growth participate in various exhibitions at home and abroad to strengthen their marketing, one of their vulnerable areas. Marketing opportunities Vision KOGAS– a glocal platform to growth together with SMEs are provided including promotion of their products and information Strategic exchanges on new products. In 2014, we ensured that a total of 44 SMEs KOGAS goals companies could take part in various conferences including Gastech, Performance Sharing System Global Small Giant Development Index Dissemination Index the largest international conference on natural gas in Korea, Gas Korea Amount of purchases of SME products Satisfaction Level in Shared Growth known as an international gas industry exhibition, Environment&Energy Tech and Asia Pacific Gas Conference and explore new sales channels. Strengthening Procurement seminars were organized in Gyeonggi, Daegu and Strengthening Strengthening efforts to pioneer Creating a culture for technological competitiveness in new domestic shared growth Gyeongbuk to support SMEs to tap into new sales channels. competitiveness quality and overseas sales channels A Push for Private Enterprises to Advance into Overseas Market Driven by our overseas resources development projects, KOGAS not only fosters Reinforcement of R&D Competencies of SMEs related domestic industries but also helps SME partners in the gas industry KOGAS strives for shared growth and cooperation to develop new and private enterprises to advance into global market. In 2014, 11 SMEs technologies through projects on technological development cooperation in Korea advanced to the world to construct a gas-chemical plant in the with small-and medium-sized suppliers and raise the local content rate Surgil Project in Uzbekistan, offering jobs to 2,993 employees. As a result of major components for gas facilities. KOGAS sponsors technological of exploring related projects with resources development, 20 private 04. Shared Growth / Contribution to Community primary subcontractors successfully advanced to global market by 2014, development expenses and extends know-how on site operation achieving the accumulated order volume of USD 10.6 billion. KOGAS will grow together with our neighbors. to SME partners, and develops major components for gas facilities through their exclusive technological expertise. This cooperation enables KOGAS to reduce the expenses to purchase imported products, and pave the way for stable supply of natural gas through improved facility ▼ Gastech exhibition As the impact of the gas industry on the overall industries and people’s life implies, KOGAS puts a great emphasis on its ties with other performance and maintenance efficiency. For SME partners, technological companies and community. The significance lies in a mutually essential relationship for the growth of KOGAS beyond its mere extension of competitiveness can be secured and profitability in management can support or assistance. Therefore, our approach to this has been passionate in the perspective of ‘growth’ unlike other companies that tend to be improved through new sales channels. Thanks to the projects on the consider social contribution and mutual growth as a way of supporting others or doing some charity work. Likewise, the materiality of mutual technological development cooperation, KOGAS successfully developed growth was ranked fifth and that of social contribution to community was ranked sixth in the materiality test of stakeholders. a total of five new technologies with four SMEs and achieved the local content rate for 67 components in 2014, saving the procurement cost of KRW 2.5 billion. ▼ Financial Improvement by Technological Development(unit : KRW million) Amount of Reduction by Using Products with Technological Development Success Developer Products with technological Amount of development success reduction 2014 Key Performance 2018 Attainment Targets HMC Co., Ltd. Digital security warning systems 300 ▼ Hosting purchasing consultation for female-owned firms Bee-Ryong Multi-functional site control devices 50 Electronics Co., Ltd. Remote surveillance systems for 280 KRW KRW Points of Social Responsibility perimeter security 64.8 points Management CMD Korea Co., Ltd. Imaging control systems for regional 170 control offices Satisfaction level in shared Ground Co., Ltd. Direct current blocking devices 9 85 points billion billion points growth Amount of Reduction through Component Localization Amount of purchases of SME Amount of gas price discount Satisfaction level in shared Korea Seal System Co., Ltd., etc. 20 products including top bearings 250 products for the socially vulnerable growth Satisfaction level in public S Grade Turbo Links, etc. 16 products including bearing sleeves 710 institution Bosung Industry etc 31 products including castle nut 780 gaskets 28 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 29 2. Support for SMEs to Enhance Best Practice Competitiveness in Quality Onnuri Hope Project Productivity Innovation Partnership with SME Partners KOGAS KOGAS’ partners in building national flag LNG carriers and SME partners’ KOGAS has strived to contribute to the promotion of public interest and Reducing cost and increasing income provides consulting to enhance productivity of primary SME partners. The scope of consulting services includes establishing a management system, advancement into overseas market with KOGAS, which were the issues raised at the Shared Growth Committee in 2014. As a result, we enabled the development of future generations through the Onnuri Hope Project. through social contribution A biannual campaign to protect cultural heritage sites is conducted for 27 diagnosing and improving manufacturing sites, innovating processes two of our partners to take part in building national flag LNG carriers and of them nationwide around our business sites along with environmental KOGAS has implemented the Onnuri Project for Improving Heat and technologies for operating operation. In order for the effects of 44 companies to take part in overseas projects with KOGAS. Numerous clean-ups and safety check for fire extinguishers and donations of related Efficiency for housing through floor heating, wall insulation and productivity innovation to go beyond primary SME partners and spread requests collected through KOGAS’ CEO visiting SME partners’ sites goods. We take the lead in the air quality improvement campaign for window and door replace for the underprivileged. This led to the to secondary and tertiary ones, we conduct a program to strengthen including the expansion of sales channels for SMEs were implemented metropolitan cities through air environmental survey, installation of PV reduction of GHG emissions of 323.1 tCO2e, which can be translated competitiveness in quality covering all the primary, secondary and tertiary internally at KOGAS. Moreover, ‘KOGAS Regulatory Reform Group’ facilities and youth training on the environment under the Blue Sky Project into the environmental effect of KRW 2,879,421 in the currency partners. The three participating companies had their revenues increased participated by the CEO was installed and operated to reform hidden in conjunction with civic organizations and local governments in order to value. The social return on investment reached 27.42%, generating by 7.5% on average, and could save expenses by KRW 19,200,000/year regulations. Institutional improvement was completed for 10 issues inherit the blue sky to our offspring. Cultural vouchers are provided to the the employment, income effect and energy saving for the socially as a result of shorter working hours, thus gaining the financial effect registered online including easing of qualification of bidders. socially vulnerable as we sponsor cultural and art events through invited vulnerable. KOGAS supports technological development of SMEs of KRW 64 million. Five SME partners were selected and supported lectures at KOGAS Academy. to achieve shared growth. Successfully developed products are ▼ Shared Growth Committee for SMEs ▼ Expanding Shared Growth Forum under the project to support productivity innovation partnerships, their designated as ‘selected products for development’, and they are operating income increased by 4.2% from the previous year. Productivity purchased prior to others during a predetermined period/for a certain Onnuri One Heart Project portion. As the efficiency in vaporization of open rack vaporizers has of added value rose 33% compared to the previous year to achieve the KOGAS conducts community-focused social contribution activities at the skyrocketed due to a lower sea temperature in winter, we conducted financial performance of KRW 450 million. headquarters and each of the 13 business sites by operating the Onnuri a project as a strategic CoP (Community of Practice) titled the ▼ Number of Productivity Innovation Partnerships and Details of their Effects voluntary groups. A culture of sharing is continuously spread to neighbors ‘Research Group to Stably Secure Vaporization in Winter.’ We could (unit : cases, KRW 1,000) through diverse volunteering programs including family volunteering save the investment cost of about KRW 55 billion by localizing the Number of tasks on Type Financial effects on weekends, food trucks, book sharing and blood donation. KOGAS financial effects high-performance seawater heater, achieving win-win cooperation Sunglim Industry Co. 3 200,868 is implementing the ‘Volunteer 5-up Movement,’ a creative project for and mutual growth with SMEs. KOGAS’ excellence in improvement Correl Technology 1 1,757 sharing practices in the corporation to encourage employees to enhance of work was also selected as the best management practice among MS ENG 1 17,472 social contribution points by more than 5% compared to last year. We public corporations by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance in 2013. SHINWOO FA 1 184,000 also signed an agreement titled the ‘Project to Support a Health Body and GRANTECH 1 46,000 a Healthy Dream’ last August upon the relocation of the headquarters Total 7 450,097 4. Contribution to Community to Daegu, unfolding various social contribution projects including construction of a children’s toy library, sponsoring school uniforms for Onnuri Love Project middle and high school students and establishment of infrastructure for Technical and Job Training for Employees of SME Partners KOGAS Onnuri Project for Improving Heat Efficiency KOGAS has conducted Kyungpook National University Children’s Hospital in Daegu. is providing various education and advisory programs to improve job KOGAS Onnuri Project for improving heat efficiency since 2010 to achieve ▼ Social Contribution Mileage capability for SME partners. We are operating the ‘Management Doctor energy welfare and raise the quality of life for the energy poor and the Key Performance Indicator(KPI) 2012 2013 2014 System’, providing executives of SMEs with advice on management, socially vulnerable. Over KRW 2 billion is injected every year to improve heating efficiency for low-income households and welfare facilities for Social contribution mileage points per and conducting job education for their employees to enhance their employee 24.4 28.67 29.15 capabilityin overall management. We are sharing relevant technologies the improvement in heating, insulation work, window replacement and and experience by dispatching experts in the facility operation sector wallpaper flooring. Improvement has been made for heat efficiency of among our retirees and professionals with extensive business experience. houses for the underprivileged including 663 lower-income households Onnuri Harmony Project and 389 social welfare facilities by 2014. We enabled social enterprises to KOGAS is engaged in diverse social contribution activities to forge trust take part in construction to contribute to job creation and energy saving, with residents in community and global citizens through the Onnuri 3. Dissemination of a Culture for Shared thus raising the efficiency in social investment. Harmony Project. Contribution will be made to community through voluntary works, and starting from 2014, municipal, county and Growth with SMEs Waiver of Gas Fees for the Underprivileged KOGAS conducts a autonomous districts located in the radius of 2 km from LNG terminal Better Communication with SME Partners KOGAS is operating project to subsidize heating fees for the underprivileged suffering from divisions will receive operating subsidies worth KRW 6 billion a year. communication channels to identify various needs and provide suppliers a shortage of heating fees as Korea’s representative public energy We also conduct projects to support rehabilitation centers for disabled with practical systems. Twice a year, we consult SME partners about corporation. In 2014, gas fee discounts worth KRW 65.5 billion were children and youths in all regions including Jeju District to strike a related policies by the Shared Growth Committee. We are also collecting offered to 865,000 households of social minority, up about 42% from harmony with community.We also strive to develop top talents through opinions from partners and improving measures for support by holding KRW 48.2 billion of 2013, while KRW 3 billion was donated to 22,542 scholarship programs and industry-academia cooperation targeting various meetings. Site-oriented win-win cooperation is taking root among social welfare facilities. We also tried to share warm-heartedness to many high school and university students of low-income households. Global contractors and primary/sub-contractors by operating a shared growth neighbors by suspending the gas supply cut-off even if gas fees are not fellowships are extended to students from countries where overseas management committee on each construction site nationwide. Executives paid during winter for basic livelihood security recipients and the nearresources are developed. For least developed countries, we sponsor the and heads of divisions at KOGAS also visit the sites of SME partners to poverty class. East Timor Soccer Team, and sponsor child patients with heart diseases listen to their difficulties and suggestions and reflect them to shared in Iraq and Uzbekistan for their surgical operations. As such, we are growth policies. One Company One Hope Village Project KOGAS has supplied goods committed to fulfilling our social responsibilities as a global energy for winter including blankets and sleeping bags to local residents under corporation driven by proactive social contribution programs. Improvement of Institutions to Address Difficulties and Extend the Once Company One Hope Village Project in winter. Such donations Support In order to address difficulties of SMEs and extend support have been made to residents in jjokbangchon, or ‘cell town,’ for the for them, we take their feedback and try to make improvement. In many cubicle-sized dwellings in Dongdaemun from 2010 to 2014. Winter 2014, we have proactively embraced such requests as the registration of goods were extended to residents in jjokbangchon in Daegu this year. 30 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 31 1. Fair HR Management Fairness in Promotion and Allocation As a result, the base pay, which takes up 60% of the total pay, is raised At KOGAS, when employees of Grade 3 or the intermediary manager differentially in five grades based on competency evaluation, and 32% level and above are to be promoted, they are to pass a qualification test. of the total pay is converted into performance pay so that performance Then, the information of those that pass the test as candidates including is reflected in pay by having a twice or larger difference between the their work performance, language abilities and other qualifications is maximum and minimum amounts. In order to make up for weaknesses of comprehensively compared and evaluated in multi-dimensions. Those formality in written test, interviews have been adopted for fair evaluation that pass the process become eligible interviewees. Members of the – a new arrangement based on employees’ feedback from a survey on Promotion Review Committee selected through the electronic system performance training. The face-to-face interviews have been included for decide on the finalists to be promoted with the presence of those at the external expert panels to verify the performance on top of the existing auditing bodies. The interviewers would make the decisions based on written evaluation of performance reports. This ensures objectivity and the candidates’ track records and performance specifications, following fairness in evaluation, raising evaluation acceptability through greater ranking them on an anonymity basis. The ranking is then aggregated reliability. to determine the winners for promotion (for Grade 2 and above, the decisions are made by the president). During the period of performance Preemptive Risk Management for HR Management evaluation and promotion, a bulletin board for individual PRs is up KOGAS preemptively manages risks resulting from a conflict of interests and running to give official opportunities to employees to promote on HR management. Our HR systems have been significantly improved themselves, thus eradicating any practices of under-the-table solicitation by holding seminars for all employees on HR systems and gathering their for personnel affairs. Efforts are poured in to secure fairness in the entire feedback. We eliminate HR-related irregularities and laxity by limiting the promotion process by disclosing a list of solicitors of personnel affairs and severance pay for corrupt players and adjusting the standard for financial prohibiting collusions among judges. In allocating new employees, their incentives. Stability in employment is sought after by changing the job career buildup and job aptitude are considered in positioning them. Even status of researchers as regular employees, and converting the contracts for the job rotation of the existing employees, they are to submit up to of contractual employees into open-ended ones. We also adopted a three candidates for the departments they would like to belong so that system to manage job interviewers to eradicate irregularities, while individual preferences and issues on job positioning are considered and reminding employees of the importance of integrity by strengthening fair job opportunities are guaranteed. We also run a committee to select integrity training for those engulfed in irregularities and indicating reasons employees to work abroad and long-term trainees to position the right for disciplinary personnel appointment. As such, we strive to stably talents for the right jobs. control risks in personnel management. Performance-based Evaluation and Compensation KOGAS conducts performance evaluation on each employee according 2. Open Recruitment 05. Employment and Welfare Benefits to annual goal set by strategic indicators. All employees establishes their goals for performance and capabilities and then approved by the Expansion of Open Recruitment KOGAS is a Favorable Place to Work for. managers at the beginning of the year. Accordingly, their performance KOGAS openly recruits employees without limitations on age, academic evaluation is implemented based on individual performance at the end of background, major or region. Credentials of interviewees including the year. their name, place of affiliation and university name are not disclosed for KOGAS conducts performance pay programs according to the governinterviews to enable transparent recruitment. KOGAS started to recruit A total of 3,483 employees work for KOGAS, which provides high-quality jobs, respects the diversity of workforce upon recruiting them and ment’s ‘Recommendations on Pay-for-Performance in Public Enterprises.’ employees without considering their career or academic background strives to strike a work-life balance for employees as a public corporation. As a result of the materiality test the issue was ranked 7th in materiality with 84.2 points for the stakeholder score and 85.8 points for strategic materiality. ▼ Social equity-based new recruitment Ratio of New Recruitment(unit : %) ▼ KOGAS’ Performance Performance-based Pay (Unit: %) 2 11.8 5.3 10.7 People of Women The disabled national 88.2 94.7 89.3 merit 32 60 6 (Unit: Person(%)) 2014 Key Performance 2018 Attainment Targets Type 2012 2013 2014 Total new employees 227 269 187 Merit increase based on the accumulation of five grades by Base Pay The disabled 3(1.3) 12(4.5) 10(5.3) integrating the basic job-based pay and base pay Organization Effectiveness Variance for three grades within the same rank based on job Women 63(27.8) 47(17.5) 22(11.8) 78.9% Index Job-based Pay value and difficulty evaluation (utilizing the resource generated RecruitHigh school by abolishing the wage-type welfare benefits) ment graduates 8(3.5) 59(21.9) 41.5(22.2) targets Conversion of the fixed bonus pay into performance pay, and People of national 15(6.6) 35(13.0) 20(10.7) % people % Performance Evaluation Performance Pay differentiating the minimum and maximum amounts by over merit 83 Points two times Portion of women The number of local talents Utilization rate of the flexible Capacity Local talents 86(37.9) 133(49.4) 82(43.9) working hours Year-End *B ased on disclosure from Alio, Ministry of Strategy and Finance Maintaining of the current year-end allowance Allowance 32 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 33 in 2013, abolishing a document screening process to recruit Grade 6 no discrimination under the social equity-focused recruitment program. in close proximity. In order to prevent women’s career break due to Best Practice employees and giving opportunities to all applicants to take an aptitude Although the application rate among female talents is low due to the childbirth and childcare, the maternity leave was expanded from one test. KOGAS also adopted the National Competency Standards (NCS) nature of the gas industry, we do the best to continuously generate year to three years, and working hours during the childcare period have in 2015, expanding open recruitment based on individual capabilities. women managers by offering them a fair promotion procedure and been shortened to 15 to 30 hours a week. We proactively accept jobs Raising Adequacy of Performance We continue on with our social equity-focused recruitment. Specifically, recruitment of local talents, high school graduates and people of national enabling them to develop their career path. As such, KOGAS has expanded the organizational diversity, and fostered the competencies of wanted by employees when they return from their leave so that their job career does not have to be halted. We enhance women employees’ job Evaluation Schemes merit is in place with a designated quota, and those that have completed top talents so that they could together contribute to the society. satisfaction and immersion by operating on-site breastfeeding facilities In order to prevent errors of evaluation, KOGAS newly developed their internship at KOGAS can apply for jobs within a quota exclusively and childcare centers and guaranteeing breastfeeding hours during the ‘Normalization Program’ of the individual and organizational designated for them. working hours. performance evaluation for the first time as a public corporation. It is the program that developed the four-step diagnosis methods and 3. Work-Life Balance As a result of such efforts as open recruitment, fair HR management and the standard deviation optimization process on the performance KOGAS’ HR Management a work-life balance for employees, KOGAS was ranked first for three consecutive years as the ‘best place to work for in Korea’ in the public evaluation results. The first step is diagnosing the central tendency As of 2014-end, 3,483 employees work for KOGAS. Over 600 young Facilitation of Flexible Workplace Programs of organizational evaluation (correlational analysis, variance analysis talents have been newly recruited for the past three years, reinvigorating energy sector by the Korean Management Association Consulting. Since KOGAS adopted the flexible workplace programs on a pilot scale and comparison of distribution). And then it goes through reference the corporate atmosphere. Competent talents are also recruited with in 2011, the ways of operation have continuously improved through a ▼ On-site Day Care Centers point (GAP) analysis, optimization of variance by adjusting the better application procedure, differential selection of days, and expansion organizational evaluation grades (S~D), and statistical verification ▼ Composition of HR of types of flexible work. The utilization rate of the programs, as a result, of analytical results. As such, KOGAS reduced the distortion of has gradually gone up. Employees in even more diverse job ranks have performance evaluation and increased evaluation acceptability by Non-regular employees 30 persons utilized the flexible workplace programs, especially with the relocation 2.1% from the previous year. of the headquarters to Daegu in 2014. The programs continue to be 0.86 % upgraded by exploring and recruiting for jobs requiring less than 40 hours of working a week, and operating the Smart Work Center for headquarters employees’ convenient handling of tasks in the metropolitan ▼Resolving Central Tendency of Performance Evaluation Recruitment from high school graduate 558.5 persons area. A compressed work arrangement is being reviewed to improve working styles and flexibility of job types as the programs have made a 16.0 % soft landing. ▼ Status of Usage of Flexible Workplace Programs Operation of Family-Friendly Programs Aiming to enhance job satisfaction among employees through their work(Unit: Person(%)) Recruit from local talents 1,616 persons Type 2012 2013 2014 Job Type life balance, family-friendly programs have been up and running. Every Flex-time Wednesday is designated as the Day of Family Love for employees to 291 (9.3) 479 (14.3) 914 (26.2) No limitation work 46.4 % spend their invaluable family time by encouraging them to leave work in 68 72 76 80 84 88 92 96 100 Part-time Targeting security time, and family-care leave has been expanded and is encouraged to be 14 (0.4) Before improvement work & protection jobs used within a year. Targeting jobs in Gender diversity Smart work 51 (1.5) the metropolitan Female Male area 2012 9.6% 90.4% Employment Regulation related to Expanding 2013 10% 90% Childcare Support 2014 10% 90% [Article 44-1-4 and Subparagraph 2 of Article 25 of Employment (Unit: Person(%)) Rule] When men and women employees with a child aged 8 and lower (for 68 72 76 80 84 88 92 96 100 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Total employees Number 3,193 3,386 3,483 elementary school children, second graders and lower) applies for After improvement of Employment Regular 3,145 3,347 3,453 a childcare leave for babies and infants, the childcare leave shall be people type Non-regular 48 39 30 allowed up to one year (three years for women employees), and the Distribution Below the 30s 1,054 1,203 1,263 period may be divided into separate terms only once. of employees by age In the 40s 1,611 1,616 1,627 bracket Above the 50s 528 567 593 [Article 12-2 of Employment Rule] Women Women Number 302(9.6) 336(10.0) 346(10.0) employees employees of When employees apply for shorter working hours within 12th or people Women 1(0.03) 2(0.06) 5(0.14) after 36th week during pregnancy, a two hour-less working day may managers (%) Social equityThe disabled Number 78 93 100 be allowed for a designated period of time. focused of recruitment High school people 510 546 558.5 graduates People of national 272 302 318 merit Local talents 1,470 1,568 1,616 Expansion of Childcare Support for Women Employees *B ased on disclosure from Alio, Ministry of Strategy and Finance We provide an environment for maternity protection by shortening *D ata of distribution of employees by age bracket may differ from the previous year's one due working hours and changing jobs during pregnancy, and allocating to change of calculation measure.(standard changed from regular employee to all employmarried couples working for KOGAS to be appointed in workplaces ees) 34 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 35 Appendix Economic Performance Social Performance Major Economic Performance Status of Employees As of 2014-end, 3,483 employees work for KOGAS. We have recruited over 600 young talents for the past three years, revitalizing the organization, and Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 created an environment to indiscriminately employ competent talents through the recruitment scheme based on social equity. We also strive continuously Revenues 350,313 380,627 372,849 for women managers to be generated driven by a fair promotion procedure and career management. As such, we have expanded the organizational Operating income KRW 100 million 12,667 14,882 10,719 diversity, and fostered our employees’ competencies to contribute to the society. Net income (loss) 3,620 -2,036 4,472 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Major Financial Indicators Total employees 3,193 3,386 3,483 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Regular 3,145 3,347 3,453 Employment type Increase rate in revenues 23.22 8.65 -2.04 Non-regular 48 39 30 Growth potentials Number of employees Increase rate in net income 107.23 -156.25 319.62 Distribution of Below the 30s 1,009 1,167 1,234 Return on Assets (ROA) 0.94 -0.48 0.99 employees by age In the 40s 1,610 1,615 1,626 Profitability bracket Return on Equity (ROE) 4.41 -2.35 4.79 Above the 50s 526 565 593 % Current ratio 115.74 146.78 139.84 Women employees Number of employees 302(9.6) 336(10.0) 346(10.0) Women employees Stability Debt ratio 385.39 388.83 380.98 Women managers (%) 1(0.03) 2(0.06) 5(0.14) Capital ratio 20.60 20.46 20.79 The disabled 78 93 100 Distribution of High school graduates 510 546 558.5 Productivity Productivity of capital 7.46 6.04 6.18 personnel based on Number of employees social equity People of national merit 272 302 318 Summary for Consolidated Financial Statement Local talents 1,470 1,568 1,616 The disabled 227 269 187 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Women 3 12 10 Current assets 117,857 122,394 137,913 New recruits based on High school graduates Number of employees 63 47 22 Assets Non-current assets 288,360 314,270 329,807 social-equity People of national merit 8 59 41.5 Total assets 406,217 436,664 467,720 Local talents 15 35 20 Current liabilities 101,832 83,384 98,621 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 220,696 263,952 271,855 Total liabilities 322,528 347,336 370,476 Capital stock KRW 100 million 3,864 4,616 4,616 Performance in the BOD Operation Others 79,919 84,712 92,628 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Equity attributable to Shareholders Number of times BOD meetings have been held Number of times 18 19 20 Shareholders’ equity 83,783 89,328 97,244 of the Corporation (subtotal) Agenda agreed upon Number of agenda 55 43 67 Non-controlling interests △94 0 0 Pre-deliberation rate % 83 94 80 Total shareholders’ equity 83,689 89,328 97,244 Revised agreed-upon agenda Number of agenda(%) 2(2) 0(0) 1(1) Reported agenda Number of agenda 25 33 27 Government Subsidies and Grants BOD attendance rate % 93 95 90 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Attendance rate of non-executive directors % 94 94 88 Government subsidies KRW 100 million 392 381 9 Portion of speeches/motions delivered by non-executive directors % 64 65 57 *D  ue to changes in calculation of government subsidies and grants, figures for previous years' one have changed. current standard is in line with a statement of cash flows. R&D Status of Training for Employees Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 R&D investment expenses KRW 100 million 453 443 468 Investment expenses for education and training KRW million 9,244 8,658 8,726 Patented technologies Number of cases 29 53 33 Per-head education hours Number of hours 136 136 116 Per-head education & training expenses KRW million 2.94 2.58 2.51 Generation and Distribution of Economic Value Stakeholders Calculation Criteria Unit Distribution Value Suppliers Expenses for purchasing goods from SMEs 5,305 Employee Training on Human Rights Policies and Procedure Employees Employee wages and welfare benefits 2,679 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Government Corporate tax + Taxes & dues 488 Ethical training 2,777 2,861 2,963 KRW 100 million Number of employees Community Donations and social contribution activity expenses 264 Cyber integrity training on the code of actions 2,787 2,924 3,122 Customers Revenues 372,849 Creditors Interest 8,430 36 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 37 Employees’ Performance Evaluation Support for SMEs’ Competitiveness We have established a corporate culture focusing on performance and values by operating a fair performance evaluation system. We have adopted Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 specific evaluation standards ranging from setting goals for individuals and work units to the relevant evaluation in order to secure fairness and Number of cases Number of cases 10 16 26 distinction in individual evaluation. We have complemented the institutions and processes to expand interactions between evaluators and the evaluated, Joint R&D Participating companies Number of companies 10 16 25 thus raising evaluation acceptability among the evaluated, and reliability of the evaluation results. R&D budget KRW 100 million 20 28 23 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Rate of application of performance evaluation % 100 100 100 Customer Satisfaction Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index(PCSI) Number of points 98.0 98.0 97.2 Employees’ Rate of Return to Work After a Childcare Leave We ensure that employees could maintain their work life without a career break by inducing a work-life balance by expanding the childcare leave and shortening working hours during pregnancy and a childcare period. We also support them to scale up their existing career by proactively considering the jobs they want upon returning to work after a leave. Status of Social Contribution Activities Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Childcare applicants 19 15 22 Total volunteering hours 25,205 52,558 45,878 Number of employees Number of hours Men employees applying for a childcare leave 3 3 4 Per-head volunteering hours 11 21 19.6 Post-childcare leave return rate % 89.5 93.3 54.5 Discounts for gas fees KRW 100 million 349 482 685 ※ A shrinkage in the return rate due to the expansion of the childcare leave in 2014 (from one year to three years) Employees’ Retirement Management We support employees and their family to prepare for a stable post-retirement life by operating the retirement pensions scheme. By offering both defined benefit (DB) plans and defined contribution (DC) plans, we give opportunities to employees to select a plan based on their preference. Type Amount of assets under management Unit KRW 100 million 2012 1,180 2013 1,251 2014 1,241 Environmental Performance Number of subscribers Number of employees 3,145 3,181 3,485 Greenhouse Gas Emission Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Status of the Labor Union Subscription Total GHG emission 650,868 682,427 588,037 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Direct emission tCO2e 308,957 329,511 245,954 Number of labor unionists Number of employees 2,701 2,922 3.000 Indirect emission 341,911 352,916 342,083 Labor union subscription rate % 85.9 87.9 86.5 Amount of Energy Usage Status of Suppliers We pursue mutual growth through cooperation and collaboration with diverse suppliers. As of 2014, 64 major suppliers are in contractual partnerships Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 with KOGAS. Total amount of energy usage 13,130 13,775 11,978 Direct energies Fuel TJ 6,081 6,486 4,855 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Indirect energies Electricity + Steam 7,049 7,289 7,123 Number of major partner companies Number of companies 18 55 64 Amount of Water Usage Procurement Contracts with SMEs Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 We share the economic performance from our management activities through transactions with suppliers. As of 2014, the amount of purchases Total amount of water usage 486,676 1,634,824,872 1,577,284,392 from SME products stands at KRW 530.6 billion. Seawater 1,634,424,870 1,576,806,104 ㎥ Water service 448,657 387,763 469,210 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Others 20,019 12,239 9,078 Purchases of SME products KRW 100 million 4,392 5,550 5,306 * Since 2013, we have started to track the usage of seawater, total water usage has increased as well. Ratio of purchases of SME products % 26.2 27.2 27.3 38 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 39 Association and Principles GRI G4 Content Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES External External Page Assurance Page Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 2~3 MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE UN Global Compact Organizational Profile G4-DMA G4-EC1 Generic disclosures on management approach Direct economic value generated and distributed 16 36 G4-3 Name of the organization 6 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 6 G4-EC2 18, 25 the organization's activities due to climate change Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of G4-5 Headquarter location 6 MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and G4-6 Countries in operation 6, 18 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 28~30 G4-7 Nature of ownership 10 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant IUCN Principle 2 G4-EC9 locations of operation 29~30 make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. G4-8 Markets Served 6, 18 MATERIAL ASPECT: RESOURCE RESERVE G4-9 Scale of the organization 36~37 OG1 Resource secured and production 17~20 G4-10 Total workforce by region and gender 33, 37 Percentage of total employees covered by CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-11 40 Principle 3 collective bargaining agreements MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the G4-12 Supply chain 29 UN Universal Declaration of Human effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Significant changes regarding size, structure, or G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 25 G4-13 7 Rights Labour ownership G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 25 Principle 4 12 30 G4-14 Precautionary approach G4-EN4 Energy consumption out of the organization the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; G4-15 Initiatives to which the organization subscribes 40 OG3 Total amount of renewable energy 25 Principle 5 G4-16 Memberships of associations 40 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS the effective abolition of child labour; and G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 24~27 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Institute for Global Economics Principle 6 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions 25, 39 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and All entities included in the organization’s G4-17 About This Report consolidatedfinancial statements G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions 25, 39 occupation. G4-18 Process for defining report content 15 CATEGORY: SOCIETY G4-19 Material aspects 15 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT 15 Energy & Mineral Resources Development G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 32~33 Association of Korea Principle 7 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 15 G4-LA1 New recruitment 33, 37 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Restatements of information provided in previous G4-22 33, 36 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after maternity leave 38 Environment reports challenges; G4-23 Significant changes in the scope, boundary About This Report MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH and SAFETY Principle 8 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 26 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 14 G4-LA5 26 Principle 9 G4-24 Stakeholder groups management Green Company Council encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of 14 MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY and EQUAL OPPORTUNITY stakeholders technologies. G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 32~34 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 14~15 G4-LA12 Composition of Human Resources 33, 37 Key topics and concerns that have been raised G4-27 15 throughstakeholder engagement MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITY Principle 10 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 28, 30~31 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including REPORT PROFILE Percentage of operations with implemented local Anti-Corruption extortion and bribery G4-28 Reporting period About This Report 30 Korea Environmental Preservation G4-SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs About This Report Association G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Operations with significant actual and potential negative G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Report G4-SO2 31 impacts on local communities G4-31 Contact point for questions 44 OG10 Significant disputes G4-32 GRI Content Index 41 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-33 External assurance 42 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 20~23 Since 2007, KOGAS has joined the UN Global Compact(UNGC), which is an GOVERNANCE Communication and training on anti-corruption policies G4-SO4 21~22 and procedures Ethical Management SM Forum international agreement that stipulates the social responsibilities of the global G4-34 Governance structure 10 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 22~23 enterprise. We declared that it will sincerely implement ten principles in four areas ETHICS AND INTEGRITY as human, rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. http://www.kogas.or.kr/ G4-56 Codes of conduct moral/ 40 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 41 Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of Korea Gas Corporation Sustainability Report 2014: Foreword Our conclusion Korea Management Association Registration Inc. (hereinafter “KMAR”) has been requested by of Korea Gas Corporation (hereinafter “KOGAS”) Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with KOGAS on the revision of the to verify the contents of its Sustainability Report 2014 (hereinafter “the Report”). KOGAS is responsible for the collection and presentation Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been of information included in the Report. KMAR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the assurance scope stipulated below. compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. Scope and standard KOGAS describes its efforts and achievements of the sustainability activities in the Report. KMAR performed a Type 2, moderate level of assurance · Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. KMAR’s assurance team (hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of sustainability. Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI G4 indices as below, where professional judgment of the team KOGAS is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment was exercised as materiality criteria. to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder KOGAS left out during this procedure. The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4 which covers the followings. · Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue ·Reporting Principles is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. ·General Standard Disclosures KOGAS is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality ·Specific Standard Disclosures evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. Generic DMA of each of following material aspects Economic Performance: EC1, EC2 · Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is Procurement Practices: EC9 realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. Energy: EN3, EN4 The assurance team could not find any evidence that KOGAS’ counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately Emissions: EN15, EN16 recorded in the Report. Employment: LA1, LA3 Occupational Health and Safety: LA5 We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4. Diversity and Equal Opportunity: LA12 Local Communities: SO1, SO2 Recommendation for improvement Anti-corruption: SO4, SO5 We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures: OG1, OG3, OG10 · KOGAS needs to further improve strategies related on sustainability and more systematic performance management system. This Report excludes a data and information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. KOGAS, among report · We suggest that KOGAS continually improve materiality analysis process and performance management system to minimize the gap boundaries. between views of the company and its stakeholders in respect of its sustainability performance. Our approach Our independence In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other KOGAS’ business operations that are aimed at out an assurance engagement as follows: making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. ·Reviewed overall report ·Reviewed materiality test process and methodology Oct, 12th, 2015 ·Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets ·Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities ·Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report 000-129 CEO Ki Ho Park 42 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2014 43 Contact Information Homepage http://www.kogas.or.kr E-mail lionking@kogas.or.kr Phone 053-670-0296 FAX 053-670-0299 Address 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, Korea Korea Gas Corporation, Corporate Planning Division, Corporate Management Dept. CSR Team www.kogas.or.kr Eco-Design To minimize environmental impact throughout the entire lifecycle of this eco-design report, KOGAS has used soybean oil and shunned the use of spot color printing or coating.
