ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Contents Year 2014 1 Corporate Governance 63 Lemminkäinen in brief 1 Corporate Governance Statement 63 CEO's review 3 Remuneration 72 Strategy 4 Board of Directors 76 Financial development 7 Executive Team 78 Operating environment 11 Risk management 80 Business 13 Financials 82 Travelling 13 Board of Directors' report 82 Case: The metro goes west 15 Group key figures 82 Case: The Rantaväylä tunnel will remove a bottleneck 15 Group strategy 83 Case: Kivisydän increases the attractiveness and safety of the city centre in 16 Deliver 2014 cost savings programme 83 Oulu Financial performance 83 Case: We improve traffic connections in Espoo 16 Balance sheet, cash flow and and financing 85 Case: Meeting high quality requirements in airport paving in Western 17 Business segments 86 Norway Investments 88 Living 18 Personnel 89 Case: Aino residential complex record-breaking construction time 19 Changes in management 89 Case: One sea – many scenes 20 Occupational safety and environment 90 Working 21 Research and development 90 Case: We develop learning environments 22 Shares 90 Case: Renovating the Parliament Building to meet today’s requirements 22 Shareholders 91 Key figures by business segment 24 Resolutions of the AGM and administration 91 Legal proceedings 92 Sustainability 27 Risks and uncertainties 92 Our way of working 27 Market outlook 93 Cooperation with stakeholders 28 Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit 94 Financial responsibility 31 Profit guidance for 2015 94 Environmental responsibility 34 Consolidated financial statements 95 Case: Laboratory specialised in paving 35 Consolidated income statement (IFRS) 95 Case: Mass stabilisation by the sea 36 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (IFRS) 96 Case: Use of reclaimed asphalt in the rise in Denmark 36 Consolidated statement of financial position (IFRS) 97 Social responsibility 37 Consolidated cash flow statement (IFRS) 98 HR 37 Consolidated statement of changes in equity (IFRS) 99 Case: Learning common rules through an online training programme 38 Accounting principles applied in the IFRS consolidated financial 101 Occupational well-being 39 statements, 31 December 2014 Occupational safety 39 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 113 Case: The new fall protection equipment makes it easier to work safely 41 1 Adjustments concerning prior periods 114 GRI 42 2 Operating segments 114 GRI table 42 3 Information by market area 115 Reporting principles 50 4 Acquisitions 116 Sustainability management systems 51 5 Seasonality of business 117 Economic performance indicators 52 6 Construction projects 118 Environmental performance indicators 54 7 Other operating income 119 Social performance indicators 56 8 Employee benefit expenses and number of personnel 120 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 120 12 Shareholders's equity 168 10 Other operating expenses 121 13 Provisions 168 11 Investments 122 14 Liabilities 169 12 Finance income and costs 125 15 Guarantees and commitments 169 13 Taxes 125 Financial indicators (IFRS) 170 14 Discontinued operations 128 Share-related financial indicators (IFRS) 171 15 Earnings per share 129 Calculation of key ratios 172 16 Other comprehensive income items 129 Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit 173 17 Dividends paid and proposed 130 Auditor's report 174 18 Property, plant and equipment 130 19 Intangible assets 132 Investor information 175 20 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets 135 Shares and shareholders 175 21 Non-current receivables 135 Information for shareholders and investors 177 22 Inventories 135 23 Current receivables 136 24 Current available-for-sale financial assets 136 25 Cash and cash equivalents 136 26 Financial assets and liabilities by category 137 27 Shareholders' equity 140 28 Interest-bearing liabilities 141 29 Pension obligations 142 30 Share-based payments 144 31 Provisions 146 32 Trade and other payables 147 33 Financial risk management 147 34 Derivative financial instruments 153 35 Adjustments to cash flows 153 36 Operating lease commitments 154 37 Guarantees and commitments 154 38 Contingent liabilities 154 39 Related-party transactions 155 Parent company financial statements 158 Parent company income statement (FAS) 158 Parent company balance sheet (FAS) 159 Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) 160 Parent company's accounting principles, 31 Dec 2014 161 Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) 162 1 Net sales by market area 163 2 Other operating income 163 3 Materials and services 163 4 Personnel, management and board members 163 5 Depreciation 164 6 Audit fees 164 7 Finance income and costs 164 8 Extraordinary items 164 9 Direct taxes 165 10 Non-current assets 165 11 Current assets 167 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Year 2014 › Lemminkäinen in brief Lemminkäinen in brief We are an expert in infrastructure and building construction. building construction, we focus on selected customer With a hundred years of experience, we create conditions segments and regions in Finland and in Russia. that make living, working and travelling functional, safe and healthy. Our net sales in 2014 were EUR 2.0 billion. We employ on average 5,600 construction professionals. The Group’s To enable future profitable growth, we concentrate in the parent company Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share is quoted short term on improving our competitiveness, profitability on NASDAQ OMX Nordic Exchange Helsinki. and financial position. In the long term, we seek profitable growth by leveraging our strong market position in infrastructure construction in northern Europe. In Key figures 2014 2013 Change Net sales, EUR million 2,044.5 2,020.1 24.4 Operating profit (IFRS), EUR million 36.3 -89.3 125.6 Operating margin (IFRS), % 1.8 -4.4 Operating profit (excl. non-recurring items), EUR million 52.3 -3.9 56.2 Operating margin (excl. non-recurring items), % 2.6 -0.2 Pre-tax profit, EUR million -1.7 -116.1 114.4 Profit for the period, EUR million 18.1 -93.5 111.6 Basic earnings per share, EUR 0.40 -4.81* 5.21 Dividend per share, EUR 0.00** 0.00 Cash flow from operations, EUR million -54.8 8.3 -63.1 Gross investments, EUR million 30.0 71.2 -41.2 Key figures 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Change Order book, continuing operations, EUR million 1,456.1 1,733.2 -277.1 Personnel at end of period, continuing operations 4,748 5,526 -778 Interest-bearing net debt, EUR million 213.6 326.5 -112.9 Equity ratio, % 37.1 27.3 Gearing, % 51.8 100.8 Return on investment, % 13.5 -9.4 Site accident frequency rate, continuing operations, accidents/ million working hours 6.9 10.5 -3.6 *) Includes a retrospective adjustment due to the effect of the rights offering in 2014 on the the weighted average number of shares **) Board of Directors' proposal to the AGM 1 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 2 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Year 2014 › CEO's review A challenging year accelerated our turnaround Dear Lemminkäinen shareholders, leveraging the potential of the new operating model: we harmonise our ways of working and share best practices We have a challenging year behind us, during which we across country borders and business boundaries. We pay managed to achieve a turnaround in our result. We focused attention to risk management as well as the quality of our on lightening our cost structure, strengthening our balance products and services. We seek operational efficiency in sheet and increasing our financial flexibility. paving, for instance, by increasing wintertime planning, energy-efficient production methods and the utilisation of In the spring of 2014, we launched the Deliver 2014 costrecycled materials. In all infrastructure business, we invest in saving programme. In the programme, we concentrated on optimising our fleet and increasing utilisation rates. Norway, Russia and the streamlining of our cost structure, securing our result for 2014 in this manner. The programme I am pleased to note that our accident frequency rate was successful. In Norway, the result turned to positive, and, decreased by 34.3 per cent in 2014, to 6.9 (10.5). In 2015, in Russia, a good result was achieved — thanks to the Deliver we will continue occupational safety improvement measures measures and to good housing sales. Unfortunately, the and promote common ways of working in all of our operating programme also resulted in personnel reductions involving countries. nearly 500 employees. In 2015, we will ensure that the programme is completed and that our lighter cost structure is The renewal of our more-than-100-year-old company has clearly reflected in our result. only begun, but 2014 showed that we are heading in the right direction. We were forced to make and implement tough In June 2014, we issued a EUR 100 million five-year bond. In decisions, but we begin 2015 from a good starting point. September, we conducted an approximately EUR 30 million When these efforts are combined with the skills and rights offering targeted at our shareholders. In addition, we expertise of Lemminkäinen’s employees, I believe that this divested our technical building services business in the year we are an even more competitive player in the market. summer. Thanks to these measures, we strengthened our We want to retain the trust of our customers in the future, balance sheet and extended our debt maturity. too, and generate added value for them through our joint projects. Our target is to improve our operations continuously, The divestment of the technical building services business which translates to higher quality, better project clarified our business portfolio and enabled us to concentrate management and new innovations for our customers. on our core businesses: infrastructure construction and building construction. Following the divestment, we revised I would like to thank our personnel for your support and a job our strategy. In the short term, we will concentrate on well done. I thank our customers for the smooth cooperation building a solid foundation for future profitable growth by in which we will also invest strongly in the future. A thank improving our competitiveness, profitability and financial you also goes to our shareholders who have shown their position. We have launched development initiatives to support and their trust in our turnaround. improve our operational efficiency, to develop tendering processes and project management, and to release capital. President and CEO These initiatives will continue in 2015 and 2016, too. In the Casimir Lindholm long term, we will leverage our strong market position in infrastructure construction in Northern Europe. In building construction, we focus on selected customer segments and regions in Finland and in Russia. At the beginning of 2015, we renewed our operating model, which supports the advancement of our strategy. Our business operations are organised into four business segments: Paving; Infra projects; Building construction, Finland; and Russian operations. We are concentrating on 3 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Year 2014 › Strategy Strategy for 2014–2016 In the summer of 2014, we reviewed our strategy in order to In addition, we are seeking better profitability in the paving sharpen our strategic focus after the divestment of the business, supported by the inclusion of these business technical building services business. We now have a more operations into one business segment. This will help us to focused business portfolio – infrastructure construction and share best practices and utilise economies of scale across building construction. We seek profitable growth in geographical boundaries and to adapt local presence and infrastructure project construction as well as in residential fleets to business needs. development and construction in the Helsinki metropolitan area in Finland. We concentrate on improving operational Focusing our operations in building efficiency in paving and building construction contracting. construction The implementation of our new strategy is supported by the In the future, our building construction will focus more new organisational structure, valid as of 1 January 2015, in strongly on the growing areas of Helsinki and St Petersburg. which we divided infrastructure construction into two In Finland, we are investing in residential development and segments. This way, we ensure the right management construction projects and negotiated construction models both for infrastructure construction projects and for contracting projects in the Helsinki metropolitan area and in paving, as these segments have different development other urban growth centres. needs. In St Petersburg, we are building comfort-class apartments Going forward, our reporting segments will be: for the needs of the growing middle class. The apartments combine high technical quality with individually tailored Paving housing solutions. We estimate that our net sales in Russia Infra projects will not increase during the next few years, due to the Building construction, Finland economic and political uncertainty in the country. Russian operations We are reducing the amount of competitive contracting in Improving competitiveness building construction both in Finland and in Russia. In the summer of 2014, we identified several measures for improving the profitability, operational efficiency and longInvesting in a strong position in term competitiveness of our business operations. In the infrastructure construction in northern autumn of 2014, we launched internal development initiatives to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of Europe We have a strong position in the provision of infrastructure our business. The first phases of the initiatives will be construction solutions and services in the Nordic and Baltic completed during the first half of 2015, and all phases of the initiatives will be completed by the end of 2016. countries. In the long term, we are focusing on leveraging this position and aiming to expand our operations in growing The internal development initiatives focus on: infrastructure construction markets outside Finland through our technical expertise and versatile competences. We are Harmonisation of tendering processes with regard to seeking profitable growth in the energy and logistics sectors, pricing and operating models, for example for example. Development of project management, project tracking and claims management Fleet optimisation in paving and infrastructure Our financial targets Our long-term financial targets are: construction Return on investment: 18% over the cycle We are also investing in the improvement of capital Equity ratio: at least 35% efficiency by accelerating invoicing and by optimising fixed assets and inventories according to our profit performance, In addition, we have defined a short-term financial target of for example. reaching a return on investment of >15% by the end of 2016. 4 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 We are aiming for a stable distribution of dividends, with at proposes that no dividend will be paid for 2014. least 40% of the profit for the financial year distributed to shareholders. The Board of Directors Return on investment, % Equity ratio, % 15 40 10 30 5 0 20 -5 10 -10 -15 0 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Earnings per share, dividend per share EUR 2010: over 100% % 5 50 0 0 -5 -50 10 11 12 13 14* Earnings per share, EUR Dividend per share, EUR The profit for the financial year distributed to shareholders as dividends, % *The Board of Directors proposes that no dividend will be paid for 2014. Figures for 2010-2013 include a retrospective adjustment due to the effect of the rights offering in 2014 on the weighted average number of shares Progress of the strategy 5 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Progress of the strategy Target Actions in 2014 Actions in 2015 Profitability improvement Deliver 2014 cost-saving Completion of the Deliver 2014 costprogramme saving programme Strengthening the balance 5-year, EUR 100 million Divestment of non-core business sheet and capital bond operations and assets EUR 30 million rights offering Improvement in working capital efficiency EUR 70 million hybrid bond Improved profitability of business Divestment of non-core business operations operations and assets Competitiveness Lightening of the cost structure New operating model improvement Improvement of risk and project Harmonised ways of working and the management sharing of best practices Wintertime planning Internal development initiatives Harmonisation of tendering processes Improvement of project management Fleet optimisation Our strengths Presence in the growing markets We have a strong position in the growing infrastructure construction market in Nordic countries. In residential construction we focus on urban growth centres in St Petersburg area in Russia and in the Helsinki metropolitan area in Finland. Strong position in paving in the We benefit from our strong position in operational efficiency and product development, for example. main operating area Versatile know-how for demanding infrastructure We estimate that we are the leading provider of demanding infrastructure construction solutions in Finland. Long experience and strong expertise will construction projects enable us to strengthen our position also outside Finland. Experience and proven track record of new types of We have experience of projects that are based on new types of cooperation models and alternative financing models. They create new innovations to demanding project models customers and tie less of our capital. Well-known brand associated with reliability and long history We are a reliable and respected player in Finland, and our brand awareness is growing steadily in other key markets. Balanced and diversified customer base We have a diverse customer base in both private and public sectors, and our business is not dependent on any individual customer. 6 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Year 2014 › Financial development Financial development in 2014 KEY FIGURES GROWTH Net sales, EUR million The Group’s net sales remained on a par with last year and were EUR 2,044 million. The company did not aim 2,500 for net sales growth in 2014. The impact of exchange rate changes on the euro2,000 denominated net sales was EUR -73 million with regard to the comparison year. 1,500 Net sales by country were 52% from Finland, 32% from Scandinavia, 10% from Russia and 6% from the 1,000 Baltic countries. 500 0 10 11 12 13 14 Distribution of net sales by business, % Nearly half of the Group’s net sales came from the paving, mineral aggregates and earthworks businesses. The mild winter lengthened the paving season and increased paving business net sales in nearly all operating countries. In Finland, the increase in net sales was supported by major infrastructure projects. In building construction, net sales were boosted by residential development and construction in Russia. Competitive contracting in building construction in Paving*, 45% Finland and Russia decreased. Building construction, 41% Infra projects, 14% *Incl. road maintenance, mineral aggregates and earthworks 7 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Order book, continuing operations, EUR million The order book decreased by 16% year-on-year. In infrastructure construction, the increase in the 2,000 stage of completion of major infra projects decreased the order book. 1,500 At the end of the year, the paving order book was clearly lower than in the previous year, as the mild winter lengthened the 2014 paving season. 1,000 The building construction order book was increased by major renovation contracts in Finland. 500 In Russia, the order book decreased clearly due to the completion of two residential development 0 projects. 10 11 12 13 14 Approximately 65% of the order book is attributable to 2015. KEY FIGURES PROFITABILITY Operating profit, EUR million Profitability was improved by ongoing infrastructure 100 projects in Finland, building construction in the Helsinki metropolitan area, paving in all Nordic 50 countries and residential construction in Russia. The Group’s cost structure was lightened by EUR 10 million. 0 Profitability was impaired by expenses related to the revised organisation and declining margins in individual -50 projects. The Group’s operating profit (IFRS) includes non-100 recurring items: EUR 9.6 million (2013: EUR 10 11 12 13 14 19.8 million) of asset-related write-downs and EUR 6.4 million (2013: EUR 65.6 million) of asphalt cartel damages and related provisions. Profit for the period, EUR million The profit for the financial year 2014 includes a 50 EUR 23.6 million capital gain recorded for the divestment of the technical building services business. The Board of Directors proposes that no dividend will 0 be paid for 2014. -50 -100 10 11 12 13 14 8 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 KEY FIGURES SOLVENCY Equity ratio, % Equity increased 27% and stood at EUR 413 million at the end of year. It was boosted by the rights offering, 40 the hybrid bond, the divestment of business operations and the year-on-year improved result. 30 Equity includes hybrid bonds worth EUR 140 million (2013: EUR 70 million). If the hybrid bonds were recognised as debt, the equity ratio would be 24.6% 20 (2013: 21.5%). 10 0 10 11 12 13 14 Gearing, % Interest-bearing net debt decreased by 35% and was EUR 214 million. 125 Equity and the liquidity situation were boosted by the rights offering, the hybrid bond, the divestment of 100 business operations and the year-on-year improved result. 75 If the hybrid bonds were recognised as debt, the gearing would be 128.4% (2013: 155.2%). 50 25 0 10 11 12 13 14 KEY FIGURES CASH FLOW Cash flow from operating activities, The operating cash flow remained negative in 2014. EUR million The cash flow includes EUR 60 million of damages 75 paid related to the asphalt cartel. Working capital was released through more efficient 50 invoicing, but, at the same time, the slowdown of 25 housing sales in Finland increased inventories. 0 -25 -50 -75 10 11 12 13 14 9 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 KEY FIGURES FINANCING Debt portfolio, 31 December 2014 Interest-bearing debt decreased by 15% and was EUR 348 million. Of this debt, 40% (2013: 15%) was long term and 60% (2013: 85%) short term. Commercial papers decreased by 42% and project loans increased by 74% compared to 2013. In the spring, the company issued a EUR 100 million five-year bond to refinance the old EUR 60 million bond. At the end of 2014, the company had unused credit limits worth EUR 185 million. In addition, the company has hybrid bonds worth EUR 140 million. Net finance costs 2013–2014 Net finance costs increased by 40% and were 2013 2014 EUR 38 million (2013: EUR 27 million) compared to 5 2013. 0 11 1 The share of interest expenses in net finance costs was -5 less than half. -10 -18 -16 The largest individual item was a EUR 7 million writeEUR million -15 -1 down of loan receivables related to the divestment of -20 -5 -5 the Lemcon Networks business. -25 -6 -7 -30 Other costs were increased by changes in financial -35 -9 agreement terms and conditions, expenses incurred by -40 a covenant violation and consultancy costs. Note! The interest expenses of the hybrid bonds are not recorded under the Finance income finance costs in the income statement. Interest costs Interest rate derivatives Currency hedging costs Write-downs of loan receivables Other finance costs 10 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Year 2014 › Operating environment Operating environment PAVING INFRA PROJECTS BUILDING CONSTRUCTION Growth drivers The public sector’s investments in The public sector’s and industry’s Migration to city centres road maintenance investments in infrastructure Decrease in family size Major road projects Urbanisation Change in demographic Urban growth centre development Need for energy production Apartment as part of investment Repair backlog renewal assets Several years’ investment gap in Weak infrastructure in the Baltic Increased logistics and storage Russia countries and Russia needs Old building stock in a poor condition In Russia, constant need for apartments and high dwelling density Outlook for the near future In Finland, the weak economic Major infrastructure projects In Finland, renovation projects situation of the public sector underway and being planned in patch declining new construction affects road maintenance Finland Economic uncertainty and negatively New and replacement investments increasing unemployment Growth in Scandinavia in the energy sector increase decrease the demand for housing, Stable market situation in the demand in all Nordic countries demand focuses in urban growth Baltic countries Strong growth in Scandinavia centres In Russia, funding depends on In the Baltic countries, In Russia, the outlook is very economic development. Allocation infrastructure construction is uncertain and the direction of decisions are political. supported by EU funding growth is difficult to forecast The limited scope of the Russian financial markets influences mortgaging 11 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Competitive field and the most significant competitors Lemminkäinen holds a strong position in In Finland, Lemminkäinen In Finland, Lemminkäinen is among the Nordic and Baltic countries; it is one is the market leader in the the five largest builders of the largest paving companies industry in terms of net When it comes to smalland The industry entry threshold has become sales medium-sized contracts, there are lower Of the different forms of many minor players and the industry In Russia, the company operates in the contract, PPP and entry threshold is low paving business mainly as a alliance projects are In Russia, apartments are built by subcontractor increasing several local players. In the comfortIn Scandinavia, class residential construction, there is The most significant competitors: NCC, competition is increased less competition. Skanska, Veidekke, Peab, Colas; in by Central European Russia: Major Russian players, such as players The most significant competitors: Mostotrest and VAD YIT, SRV, NCC, Skanska; in Russia, The most significant also LSR and Settle Group competitors: NCC, Skanska, Veidekke, Peab, YIT, SRV, Destia Market development Finland Sweden Norway Denmark Baltic countries Russia* Paving Infra projects Building construction Other building construction *includes high political and economic risk Black arrow = Lemminkäinen operates in this market Grey arrow = Lemminkäinen doesn't operate in this market Source: Euroconstruct, company's own estimate 12 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Business › Travelling Expert in demanding infra projects and road network maintenance As one of the major infrastructure construction companies in northern Europe, we smoothen traffic flows and ensure that our construction projects are executed safely and sustainably, taking people’s needs into account. We offer our customers comprehensive infrastructure construction services, from road maintenance to specialised contracting, in Finland, Norway, Sweden and the Baltic countries. In addition, we carry out paving in the Danish and Russian markets. In line with our strategy, we focus on leveraging our strong In Espoo, we continued the construction of the Turvesolmu market position as the provider of infrastructure construction graded interchange and the Turveradantie street. The project solutions and services in northern Europe. Our target is to was started at late 2013 and will continue until the end of grow and become the leading provider of demanding 2015. The construction site was elected the Piling Site of infrastructure solutions in our market area. In paving, we aim the Year 2014, thanks to the excellent organisation and at leveraging our strong position in operational efficiency and management of piling work as well as the smooth product development, for example, to our customers’ benefit. cooperation among different parties. In Russia, we focus on paving and special paving in European Russia. In all of our operating countries, our most important In Norway, we continued the Tisleifjord contract to renovate customers include the public sector, construction an old dam and a power plant. The contract was started in companies, industry and property owners. 2013 and will continue until 2015. In the spring of 2014, we completed the excavation contracts for two underground Constructing demanding infrastructure caverns for the zinc melting plant Boliden Odda AS in Norway. We built two caverns for the storage of zinc In 2014, we had major infra projects underway, especially in production waste and carried out the concrete work. We also Finland: three West Metro stations, the Kivisydän built transport tunnels and a storage area for mercury. underground parking facility in Oulu, in northern Finland, as well as the Turvesolmu graded interchange in Espoo, in the In Sweden, the new spillage channel for the Bergeforsen Helsinki metropolitan area. Towards the end of 2013, we hydroelectric power plant was completed in the summer of started working on a major project, the Rantaväylä tunnel in 2014. Work on the construction site started in 2011 and Tampere, in central Finland; that project will continue until involved demanding dam arrangements during work and the end of 2017. exceptionally large amounts of land mass, for example. In addition, we completed the extensive Sjömalmen mine In Oulu, the excavation and reinforcement work of the contract for LKAB in Kiruna towards the end of the year and approximately 900-space Kivisydän parking facility slightly ahead of the schedule. continued throughout the year and was completed at the beginning of 2015. In addition, we started the construction In the Baltic countries, in addition to public sector projects of the parking facility interior in the summer of 2014. during 2014, we gained new kinds of customers in property Kivisydän is a turnkey project management contract. In this and industrial foundation engineering. A good example of this type of contract the construction company is responsible for is the Rotermann parking facility construction project in both design and construction. We started the earthworks and Estonia. The project involves digging below the water level foundation construction in 2012. The parking facility will be and under buildings to construct two underground levels in a completed in autumn 2015. In the spring of 2014, INFRA ry, tight city centre setting in protected historical surroundings. a Finnish infrastructure construction association, awarded Kivisydän the title of the Safest Underground Construction Site of 2013. Proof of demanding new operating models Good planning and cooperation in infrastructure construction means quality and cost efficiency. We need new 13 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 operating models, such as PPP and alliance contracts, for In Denmark, we continued for example the paving of the first developing the construction industry's efficiency and two phases of the highway to be constructed around the city cooperation. of Silkeborg, which we started in 2013. In this contract, we developed our spreading methods in order to speed up the Our major project in Finland, the Rantaväylä tunnel in work, and we used significant amounts of reclaimed asphalt. Tampere, is being carried out under an alliance contract. The The contract was completed in the autumn. experience during the planning stage was excellent: the cost estimate decreased by more than 10% compared to the In Russia, our strengths in infrastructure construction include traditional way of working. Various projects that we and reliability, efficiency and expertise — especially in special others have done have shown that the average savings surfacing. Mobile asphalt plants, enable us to develop our potential in alliance contracting is 10–20%. The principles of geographical flexibility in European Russia. In 2014, we alliance contracting were also used in the three-year Helsinki repaired streets in St Petersburg’s Moskovsky district, the Airport contract for Finavia, completed in 2014. largest industrial and residential area in the city. Near the City of Moscow, we renovated a 24-kilometre section of the In Russia, we participate in large-scale PPP projects, such as A108 road. A108 is a ring road located approximately 80 the Moscow – St Petersburg highway’s construction and kilometres from the centre of Moscow and an important development, as a subcontractor or main contractor for cross-traffic artery for major highways leading out of the city. paving and special surface works. In addition, we renovated nine bridges on the M2 road. The busy M2 road is one of Russia’s major highways with heavy Smooth traffic flows traffic. Towards the end of the year, we also won a contract We are one of the largest paving contractors in our market for the asphalt work for a bridge that crosses the Oka River area. In 2014, we manufactured 6.2 million tonnes of on the M4 road. asphalt mass. During the year, we contributed to the maintenance of the We are developing our operations We continued the Group-wide paving development road network in each of our operating countries. In Finland, programme, which focuses on implementing best practices we are a leading paving contractor. We paved and patched and promoting energy efficiency by, for example, increasing roads in extensive areas in Ostrobothnia and Central Finland, the use of low-temperature asphalt and reclaimed asphalt. In for example. Denmark and Finland, the use of reclaimed asphalt is at a We specialise in paving in challenging locations, such as good level. In 2014, we significantly increased the production airports. In Finland, we completed the three-year paving of low-temperature asphalt in Finland. In Norway, the use of contract for Finavia at Helsinki Airport in 2014. We also reclaimed asphalt was started. replaced the paving of Ivalo Airport. Extensive paving and FINAS accreditation service accredited our Central repair work started in 2013 at Andøya Airport in northern Laboratory in Finland, specialising in infrastructure Norway and was completed in late 2014. In addition, our construction and paving, in July, as the first – and so far the paving projects in 2014 included the paving of two runways only – laboratory in the asphalt industry in Finland. For the at Stavanger Airport within a challenging schedule of nine customer, an accreditation is a guarantee that the quality days. control follows the strict evaluation and monitoring criteria Near Tallinn, Estonia, we expanded the container terminal at set by the accreditation, and that the work is reliable and the Muuga harbour. Our contracts also included the independent. In addition to the Finnish laboratories, our renovation of two kilometres of a four-lane motorway Latvian, Lithuanian and Swedish laboratories have been between Kurna and Luige. In Lithuania, we were responsible accredited. for rebuilding the foundations and paving a 9-kilometre stretch of the 7-metre wide road between Smiltyne and Nida. 14 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Business › Travelling › The metro goes west Case The metro goes west The West Metro contract, which began five years ago in the as a management contract, which means that the cash basis Helsinki metropolitan area, in Finland, proceeded in giant policy is, unlike the two earlier station contracts, a target leaps during 2014. We continued work on the Tapiola and price contract and is based on open cost control with the Matinkylä metro station contracts that we started in 2013 customer. The Niittykumpu station will be completed by the and will be completed by the end of 2015. According to end of 2015. forecasts, the Tapiola and Matinkylä stations will have the highest number of passengers of all stations in Espoo, with In 2014, our West Metro project proceeded above ground 20,000–30,000 passengers travelling through them every when all excavation work was completed in February. During day. the past five years, Lemminkäinen and other construction companies excavated two parallel 13.9-kilometre track In May 2014, we started our third station contract, the tunnels and eight stations. In September, the superstructure construction of the Niittykumpu station. For a long time, contract, in other words, the actual track work, was launched Niittykumpu featured in the plans only as a reservation for a throughout the West Metro line. station, but in October 2013, the Espoo City Council made the decision to have the station built on the same schedule In September 2014, the Espoo City Council gave the green as the other stations. During the summer and early autumn, light for the extension of the West Metro from Matinkylä to we worked hard at the Niittykumpu construction site, doing Kivenlahti. Construction work between Matinkylä and day, evening and weekend shifts. The Niittykumpu station Kivenlahti includes seven kilometres of new metro track as contract covers the construction of the station building and well as five metro stations: Finnoo, Kaitaa, Soukka, the maintenance tunnel. Our customer ordered the work Espoonlahti and Kivenlahti. Business › Travelling › The Rantaväylä tunnel will remove a bottleneck Case Rantaväylä tunnel will remove a bottleneck In 2014, cars are still queueing at traffic lights on Rantaväylä “In 2014, approximately one third of the contract was road in Tampere, in central Finland, during the evening rush completed and about 70% of the tunnel was ready. Outside hour, but the situation soon will become better. The the tunnel, we carried out ground cutting, foundation construction of the Rantaväylä tunnel will improve the flow reinforcement, open-pit excavation and treatment of and safety of traffic and contribute to the development of contaminated soil, among other work. Two bridges are ready. Tampere city centre. It will free up plots by lake Näsijärvi, At the turn of the year, the construction site had a total of enabling the construction of the Ranta-Tampella residential approximately 360 workers,” says Esko Mulari, Project area for approximately 3,600 residents. Manager for the alliance contract at Lemminkäinen. We will move the Rantaväylä section between Santalahti and Naistenlahti into a 2.3-kilometre road tunnel, the longest in In an alliance, cooperation is power The Rantaväylä tunnel project is being carried out through an Finland, that will also go under the Tammerkoski rapids. In alliance formed by Lemminkäinen, the City of Tampere, the addition to the tunnel, we will construct two graded Finnish Transport Agency, the engineering office Saanio & interchanges and related road arrangements in the area. The Riekkola Oy, and A-Insinöörit Suunnittelu Oy. The alliance is project improves a 4.2-kilometre section of Highway 12. a pioneering implementation model in Finland. The 15 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 customer and the service providers design and implement the excavating two road tunnels east and two road tunnels west. project together, as a joint organisation. Everyone wins when Without this innovation, we would have needed to start benefits and risks are shared. excavation in the middle of the existing Rantaväylä road and to build a detour for current traffic close to the shore of lake Through jointly created innovations, we are reducing the Näsijärvi,” Esko Mulari says. disruption caused by the construction site, creating cost savings and accelerating the progress of the project. One of The Rantaväylä tunnel project is divided into two separate the innovations of the alliance was to change the planned phases. The project’s development phase took place in location of the access tunnel. “We built an access tunnel in 2012–2013 and the implementation began in October 2013. the middle of the site using the existing access tunnel of the The tunnel will be opened to traffic in 2017. Näsinkallio sports facility. Starting from the middle, we are Business › Travelling › Kivisydän increases the attractiveness and safety of the city centre in Oulu Case Kivisydän increases Oulu's accessibility and safety We are building the Kivisydän parking facility below the city Kivisydän, to be excavated at a depth of around 30 metres centre of Oulu, in northern Finland, making the services of the below the centre of Oulu, will be a high-quality 900-space centre easily accessible both on foot and by car. At the same parking facility utilising modern technology. Its functionality, time, the facility will free up space in the cityscape for other safety and comfort will be among the elite of parking uses. facilities. Below the facility, we will build a maintenance road along which will be the maintenance premises of four Kivisydän will expand Oulu’s commercial centre and improve properties. the parking situation in the heart of the city. Underground parking makes it possible to carry out complementary We started the construction of the parking facility in the construction in central blocks, develop parks and expand the summer and work on technical building systems began in Rotuaari pedestrian zone. By moving parking and late autumn. Excavation and reinforcement work will be maintenance traffic underground, the functionality, completed at the beginning of 2015. Construction is attractiveness and safety of the expanding central pedestrian proceeding on schedule and the project will be completed in zone can be improved significantly. autumn 2015. With good planning, we have ensured that traffic and daily life in nearby properties can proceed as normally as possible during the project. Business › Travelling › We improve traffic connections in Espoo Case We are improving traffic connections in Espoo In Espoo, in the Helsinki metropolitan area, in Finland, we are passing over the Turunväylä highway. Turveradantie street building the Turveradantie street, a main link connecting the will connect with Turunväylä highway via the Turvesolmu districts of Leppävaara, Mankkaa and Tapiola and graded interchange that is part of the same contract. 16 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 The contract covers major earthworks and civil engineering the main road network of the Helsinki metropolitan area. It is work as well as six new bridges. estimated that in 2030, approximately 9,800 cars per day will use the street between Mankkaantie and Sinimäentie. The Turvesolmu and Turveradantie project is the all-time The currently unbuilt area will be developed; a shopping largest individual project undertaken and self financed by the centre is also being planned close to Turveradantie street. City of Espoo; it provides employment for hundreds of people. Nearly all of the work included in the contract lies within In 2014, piling and bridge casting were started at the Lemminkäinen’s core areas of infrastructure construction construction site. The construction site was awarded Piling expertise. For example, the contract entails excavation, Site of the Year 2014 by the Confederation of Finnish crushing, treatment of contaminated soil, piling, stabilisation Construction Industries RT. The grounds for the award and paving. We are also improving noise reduction in the area included the project's extremely challenging foundation to minimise noise nuisance in residential areas. conditions. Paving and construction of stone-paved areas and noise barriers as well as landscaping will begin in spring Turveradantie significantly improves not only traffic 2015. The contract will be completed in late 2015. connections within Espoo, but also connections to Business › Travelling › Meeting high quality requirements in airport paving in Western Norway Case Meeting high-quality requirements in airport paving in western Norway Our completion of the paving of one of the two runways at of Transport and Communications and is responsible for 46 Stavanger Airport Sola in June 2014, in northern Norway, is state-owned airports. the latest in a string of recent airport projects for us in Finland and Norway. The work was completed in just nine Safety is always priority number one in our operations, but in days and met the high-quality requirements. ”It was an airport projects security demands are of a different order intensive project. Including sub-contractors, there were 75 entirely. ”We need to be focused on extreme 'clean' people working in shifts around the clock,” says Åsbjørn operations throughout, for instance by removing small stones Skrettingland, head of Lemminkäinen Norway’s Region in order to prevent any damage to aircraft engines or West. fuselages. In addition, we had contingency plans for equipment removal in case of a stoppage, to make sure the Airport projects are complex, with high requirements for runway was kept open at all times,” says Skrettingland. density, stability and wear resistance. ”We had to create an asphalt recipe that met all these requirements and a surface Although the final assessment report on the work delivered durability of at least 12 years, to secure a runway surface has not been yet received, we have received very positive with the highest standards,” says Skrettingland. The busy feedback from the customer Avinor. “We are pleased with airport was open for traffic throughout construction and both the planning and execution at our end, and Avinor has paving operations, and we worked in close cooperation with signalled satisfaction with the full project delivery,” says our customer Avinor. Avinor is a wholly-owned state limited Skrettingland. We have contributed to safe and smooth company under the Norwegian Ministry take-offs and landings. 17 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Business › Living Easy living We build apartments in urban growth centres in Finland and in the St Petersburg region in Russia. Our customers appreciate the quality and good location of our apartments. In the housing market, 2014 was a challenging year. In completed Aurajoen Helmi, a 78-apartment complex, and Finland, the general economic uncertainty could be seen in continued the construction of Telakkaranta. In Oulu, in housing sales and, consequently, in the number of residential northern Finland, we completed the 83-apartment Louhi units started. So far, the economic uncertainty in Russia has complex, and in Jyväskylä, in central Finland, we handed over not been reflected in the demand for our apartments in St two projects built for investors. We have numerous new Petersburg city centre. In 2014, we started the construction residential projects underway in Tampere, Jyväskylä, Vaasa of 979 (1,058) new residential development units in Finland. and Oulu, for example. In Russia, we did not start any new residential development units (757) but continued the construction of ongoing Quality assurance permeates the projects and completed two major residential development projects. construction process Our management system covers all construction phases. We Apartments for customers appreciating use it to make sure that all inspections and reviews are done on time, right up to the pre-handover inspection. This way we high quality and location can ensure that our apartments are handed over to our In Finland, we focus on residential development and customers according to schedule and in impeccable construction in the Helsinki metropolitan area and other condition. In addition, for all of our completed projects, we urban growth centres. Our aim is to build high-quality measure the quality of both the product and the customer apartments in attractive areas. In the acquisition of new service with resident satisfaction surveys, for example. plots, we focus on the Helsinki metropolitan area, where our apartments are mainly located near good traffic connections Our own housing sales network helps our customers to find and services. Our customers include both private buyers and the most suitable solution. Working in cooperation with the investors. Private residential property investors are also a housing sales organisation, our alteration engineers help our growing customer group. customers to choose the optimal space solutions and surface materials. In 2014, the use of Nettikoti, a web-based In the Helsinki metropolitan area, we completed and additional work and alteration service, was expanded from continued several residential area development and the Helsinki metropolitan area to other major cities in Finland, construction projects in 2014, such as in the Töölö Bay, as planned. Vuosaari and Jätkäsaari areas. In the Töölö Bay area, we completed our second residential project. In Vuosaari, we are A busy year in St Petersburg building a residential entity of 22 apartment blocks, called In Russia, we are developing our operations as one of the Kahvikortteli, on the plot of land where Paulig’s old coffee largest foreign players in the construction of premium, roastery was once located, offering homes for approximately technically high-quality comfort-class apartments in the St 2,000 people by 2022. In 2014, we completed the Petersburg region. In 2014, we completed two large construction of the housing cooperative Paahtaja. In residential development projects in St Petersburg: the second addition, we started building one new apartment complex in phase of the 230-apartment Aino project and the first phase the area and continued the construction of the housing of the 339-apartment Tapiola project. In addition, we started cooperative Kahvimylly. In Jätkäsaari, we will build 430 the construction of the second phase of Tapiola in the apartments in the Saukonpaasi quarter by 2016. In 2014, we autumn, and the construction is proceeding well. The 418continued construction in the Ruori, Kompassi and Loisto apartment project is scheduled to be completed in last apartment complexes. We also completed the conversion of quarter of 2015. a former office and commercial building, Kivipalatsi, into apartments in the centre of Helsinki. Location is the most important criterion in plot acquisition in St Petersburg, too. Our primary target group is Russia’s In the centre of Turku, in western Finland, we growing middle class that appreciates high technical quality 18 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 of apartments and living in a central location near good for high quality both in concrete construction and in roof traffic connections and services. In Russia, developers also structures. take part in the development of the urban infrastructure, which means that a day-care centre or a school is often built Our housing sales organisation supports our customers at as part of residential projects. In 2014, we handed over to the every step of the home buying process. Our customer service City Administration the kindergarten built in connection with also helps in the registration of the apartment purchase and our Aino residential project, as the first construction provides advice on the mortgage options of the banks. When company in St Petersburg to do so. one of our residential projects is completed, our property management company looks after its upkeep and We also have residential contracting projects underway in maintenance as well as the cleaning of public areas. Russia. In 2014, we completed the elite residential building project for Tetra Invest in Kamennyi Ostrov, St Petersburg. In New housing sales websites addition, the contracting project we started to build for OOO In Russia, the web is the primary customer service Mikrorayon Kantri in 2013 is proceeding as planned. The channel. Consequently, we launched a new housing sales project includes the construction of 46 low-rise apartment website at the end of 2014 to better serve our customers buildings in the park-like, esteemed Istra area near Moscow. online. In 2014, we also started renewing the Finnish housing sales website in order to improve our customer service online. Quality awards for our teams The new website was launched in early 2015. Our customers appreciate our reliability and high standard of finishing. In 2014, two of our Tapiola teams received awards Business › Living › Aino residential complex record-breaking construction time Case Aino residential complex – record-breaking construction time The Aino residential complex is located in the centre of St Petersburg, in Russia, in the historical district on Vasiliyevsky Ahead-of-schedule commissioning The construction of the second stage of the Aino residential Island. A thirteen-storey building comprises six complex started at the end of 2013. Thanks to the structural interconnected sections. The Aino residential complex was solutions and the well-coordinated three-shift operations, we built in two phases and completed in 2013 and 2014. An reduced the installation time of one floor in three sections to underground heated parking facility is designed for 156 7 days, with one of those days used for setting of concrete. parking spaces. The ground floor of the Aino residential That allowed us to construct the building faster than complex accommodates commercial premises. planned. The first residents have already moved into their new homes. Unique technical solutions The unique technologies of the environmentally friendly and energy-efficient construction have been implemented in the A historical kindergarten In September 2014, we handed over to the City of St Aino residential complex and are incorporated in the building Petersburg a kindergarten located in the Aino residential structure, its engineering systems and apartment layouts. All complex. The kindergarten in Aino is the first social facility apartments were fitted with a smart-house system, which that was constructed by the contractor at their expense and allows automatic optimisation and control of the heating handed over to the City as a part of the city infrastructure. system of the apartment. The building has also its own gas The kindergarten is designed for 60 children and houses the boiler plant equipped with weather-dependent automation spaces for three age groups, a hall for musical and sports that controls the heat supply depending on the outdoor activities, a kitchen, a medical office and staff offices. The temperature. We always use environmentally friendly kindergarten opened in January 2015. finishing materials from the leading European manufacturers. 19 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Business › Living › One sea – many scenes Case One sea – many scenes We are building new homes and commercial premises in 15-apartment Alvar in May 2014 and Arietta in June 2014. various parts of Helsinki, Finland. The projects offer solutions The apartments meet the highest standards and are designed for many different needs, and their location varies from to be comfortable in all four seasons. All of the buildings in peaceful natural surroundings to active urban areas. Most of the Töölö Bay area meet the criteria for international LEED these projects have one thing in common: the sea. Seaside environmental certification. area planning and solutions related to construction activities in city centres are part of our core expertise. The day-to-day An entity consisting of four residential life of residents is the focus of contemporary residential planning: services, transportation connections, recreational blocks in Vuosaari services and jobs are all located in the vicinity of residential In the Vuosaari region in Helsinki, we are building an areas. When building new residential areas, we can attractive residential entity of 22 apartment blocks, housing implement innovative solutions with regard to waste approximately 2,000 people, on the plot of land where recycling, parking and the comfort and safety of yards. Paulig’s old coffee roastery was once located. Construction on the Kahvikortteli residential blocks began in 2011, and the The new seaside residential area of buildings will be completed over several stages by 2022. Jätkäsaari The buildings will form residential blocks with protected and Jätkäsaari has become a new seaside neighbourhood in safe inner courtyards. Parking spaces for the apartments will central Helsinki, and will be home to 17,000 residents by be built under a deck in the yard, with direct lift access from 2025. Saukonpaasi, our residential development and the parking facility to the residential floors. Kahvikortteli is construction project in the area, consists of high-quality located close to a boat harbour and a beach. The area offers apartment blocks and low-rise apartment buildings. In 2013, excellent opportunities for outdoor activities and hobbies, as we started the construction of housing cooperative Merituuli, well as convenient access to the Helsinki city centre by the first of our four apartment complexes. In 2014, we metro. continued construction in the Ruori, Kompassi and Loisto In 2014, housing cooperative Paahtaja was completed and apartment complexes. The seven-storey apartment blocks the construction of Kahvipannu started. The construction of will have 50 residential units each. All apartments have the 13-storey Kahvimylly also proceeded on schedule. glazed balconies with a view of the sea. The apartment blocks have a cooling system that allows residents to reduce the indoor temperature by a few degrees in the summer. In Jätkäsaari, waste is collected by an innovative pipelinebased system that reduces maintenance vehicle traffic in the neighbourhood. Long-term solutions in the Töölö Bay area In 2011–2014, we built new commercial premises in a premium location, Töölö Bay, in Helsinki. Alma Media’s head office, completed in 2012 next to the railway tracks, has now been joined by EY’s and KPMG’s office buildings, completed in 2014. KPMG’s office building is a colourful eye-catcher that has a 200-metre-long wavy facade. All of the new business premises represent timeless, high-quality architecture. Töölö Bay is also a residential area. Housing cooperative Aalto was completed in 2013, followed by the 20 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Business › Working Functional and sustainable premises for working We build functional and comfortable commercial premises that not only revitalise cities but also last from generation to generation. We build new commercial premises and renovate old ones in renewed the Sibelius Academy concert hall during the winter Finland and Russia. We want to provide our customers with of 2014–2015 to serve as a temporary Session Hall. comfortable working environments located near good traffic connections. When renovating old premises, we can also The use of a premises can be altered in renovation projects. In convert them to other purposes, if necessary. In 2014, our 2015, we will also begin the renovation of the Auratalo office projects in Finland were concentrated even more strongly in property located in Helsinki’s Töölö district and its conversion the Helsinki metropolitan area. to a hotel. Within the scope of the contract, we will completely renew the interior and technical building services Functional and comfortable working of the 11-storey property. In addition, we will renovate the facade while preserving its original appearance. We are environments responsible for both the design and construction of the We are actively investigating opportunities to execute project. commercial construction projects that enable innovative solutions and bring services closer to residents, for example. Responsibility throughout the lifecycle In addition to a central location, we pay attention to ensuring We want to proactively develop the construction industry and that space solutions are modifiable and that technical new ways of working together with our customers. New building solutions support the comfort of the end users of the models of cooperation are needed, as lack of funding hinders premises. public-sector investments while the need for renovation and new construction increases. In 2014, we completed our project, launched in 2011, in the Töölö Bay area in Helsinki in which we built three office The PPP model is often used when building public projects, blocks as well as apartments located in connection with such as schools. It requires that the builder understands the them. The interior of each office property was tailored owner's needs and the users’ needs. In the PPP model, we according to the tenants’ needs. Each property complies with design and construct the buildings and see to the the LEED environmental certification criteria. The developer maintenance of the premises throughout the 25-year of the project was Etera. lifecycle responsibility. In 2014, we also continued the construction of the S Group's In 2014, we completed the construction of the Kastelli logistics centre in Sipoo, in southern Finland, in cooperation community centre in Oulu, in northern Finland, and now we with Skanska. are responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of the building for the next 25 years. We utilised pedagogic In Russia, we completed the Hermitage contract and the expertise when designing the premises as modern and Betset factory building, among other projects. In commercial modifiable learning environments. The community centre construction in Russia, we have made the strategic decision was awarded the Finnish Association of Civil Engineers’ to focus on negotiated construction contracts with our longannual RIL award. The RIL award is presented to term customers. construction projects whose planning and implementation demonstrate outstanding expertise in construction Modernising old premises engineering. Kastelli is also the first Nordic school to be The renovation of old buildings is a good way to revitalise awarded the Gold level LEED for Schools certificate. In 2014, cities. We have the professional competence and expertise we also started the construction of a new PPP project in required for demanding renovation projects. In 2015, we will Pudasjärvi, in northern Finland. This timber school for 800 begin the renovation of the main Parliament Building. When students will be completed in 2016. the renovation is completed in the autumn of 2017, the Parliament will have fully restored, energy-efficient premises. In connection with this project, we 21 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Business › Working › We develop learning environments Case We develop learning environments We design, build and maintain schools with the PPP model Finland, was completed in autumn 2014 and is an in Finland in Kuopio, Oulu and Pudasjärvi. In projects like this, educational, leisure and cultural centre for the residents of a far-reaching vision is needed: what kind of environment the nearby areas and the entire city. The building houses a supports new information-gathering methods, virtual day-care centre, a comprehensive school, upper secondary learning and cooperation? Ensuring the best conditions for schools for young people and adults, an adult education learning, teaching and multiprofessional school communities centre, a library and a youth centre. The building is designed is our top priority, starting from the planning stage. to be a modern collaborative learning environment that is equipped to meet the needs of the future learning and With the PPP model, construction expands into a teaching environments in many ways. The space is comprehensive long-term service. We design and construct extensively adaptable and the structural solutions are the buildings meticulously and maintain the premises sustainable and lasting. Kastelli is the first Nordic school to throughout the 25-year lifecycle responsibility. In addition to be awarded the Gold level LEED for Schools certificate. The the owner’s needs, the PPP builder must understand the community centre was also awarded the Finnish Association users' needs. For this reason, we cooperate closely with users of Civil Engineers’ annual RIL award. and planners and utilise pedagogic expertise when designing learning environments. Currently, we are building a timber school in the Poropudas region in Pudasjärvi, in northern Finland. The school will be “We consider how everything works, how information will be taken into use in the summer of 2016 and comprises four shared at schools in the future, and how project schedules buildings to house the primary and secondary schools, a high and costs are managed. By taking user needs into account at school, an adult education centre and the school gym. The all phases, we are also building the trust required by a longschool will accommodate around 800 students. In addition term partnership,” describes Vice President Esa to planning and construction, we are responsible for the Kemppainen, who is responsible for PPP projects at maintenance, upkeep, user services and basic renovation Lemminkäinen. investments during the 25-year service contract. The Kastelli community centre in Oulu, in northern Business › Working › Renovating the Parliament Building to meet today’s requirements Case Renovating the Parliament Building to meet today’s requirements We started the renovation of the main Parliament Building in the technical building systems are the original ones, the Helsinki, Finland, in spring 2015. Work will continue until basement is cramped, and the interior and the facades, along autumn 2017. For the duration of the renovation, the with their stairs, require renovation or restoration. Parliament will be relocated to the Sibelius Academy building, where we altered the concert hall to serve as a We have strong experience in technically demanding, Session Hall during the winter 2014–2015. versatile and extensive renovation projects. We ensure that the entire contract is carried out on schedule and with high The Parliament Building was completed in 1931. Its main quality and cost efficiency. building has never been fully renovated before. For instance, 22 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 When the renovation is completed, the Parliament will have national heritage, and it is subject to continuous publicity. fully restored and energy-efficient premises. Accessibility will The museal protection results in its own challenges. The also be improved, as the southern lift tower will be renovated seasons and humidity conditions will change during the to accommodate larger lifts and a service lift. project, but the indoor conditions must continuously be in such a state that the works of art and specially treated One of the most demanding parts of the contract will be the surfaces do not suffer. The schedule of this major project is expansion of the narrow pipe tunnel in the basement area, another challenge; this is why we chose the supplier well in which requires excavation in an area sensitive to vibration. advance in order to ensure a shared clear insight into the details even before the work begins,” says Hannu Peltonen, “Both the site and the project are unique in Finland in many Project Manager at the Parliament. ways. The Parliament Building is a unique part of our 23 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Business › Key figures by business segment Key figures by business segment INFRASTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION Distribution of net sales, % Paving*, 68% Infra projects, 21% Other operations, 11% *Incl. road maintenance, mineral aggregates and earthworks Net sales, EUR million Operating profit (IFRS), EUR million 1,500 40 1,250 1,000 20 750 500 0 250 0 -20 12 13 14 12 13 14 24 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION Distribution of net sales, % Residential construction, 43% Commercial construction, 21% Competitive contracting and other operations, 36% Net sales, EUR million Operating profit (IFRS), EUR million 800 20 600 15 400 10 200 5 0 0 12 13 14 12 13 14 25 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 RUSSIAN OPERATIONS Distribution of net sales, % Residential development and construction, 48% Paving, 25% Building construction contracting, 27% Net sales, EUR million Operating profit (IFRS), EUR million 200 20 15 150 10 100 5 50 0 0 -5 12 13 14 12 13 14 26 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Sustainability › Our way of working Our way of working Our goal is to grow our business operations profitably over the long term in compliance with the principles of sustainable development and good governance. Together with our customers, we want to create conditions that make living, working and travelling functional, safe and healthy. We base our operations on our values: spring of 2015. In the future, the training will be repeated annually and included in the induction training. Respect and trust Constructive collaboration We do not condone bribery, nor do we enter into business Sustainable growth and development relationships that could lead to conflicts of interest. We require every Lemminkäinen employee to adhere to current We comply with our Code of Conduct legislation and the Group’s internal principles and guidelines at all times. Our supervisors are responsible for familiarising Our operations are guided by our Code of Conduct. The Code employees with our working methods and for ensuring is based on international regulations, such as the UN’s compliance. Declaration of Human Rights and the Global Compact’s ten principles that are related to human rights, labour law, the We encourage all Lemminkäinen employees to report to their environment and anti-corruption. The Code also adheres to own supervisors or to the internal audit unit any suspected the ILO’s employment rights and principles, the OECD’s malpractice or behaviour that does not comply with our Code operational guidelines for multinational companies, and the of Conduct. The internal audit unit investigates all reports it International Chamber of Commerce’s (ICC) receives. In addition, its tasks include conducting regular recommendations. In addition, our Code of Conduct acts as a audits of business operations and reporting its findings to the set of guidelines for our partners. Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. Our Code of Conduct is supplemented by various guidelines We use the SpeakUp service where Lemminkäinen and policies, such as entertainment and sponsorship employees and external stakeholders can report any principles as well as Competition Law and insider guidelines. suspected malpractice anonymously. Suspected cases are In 2014, we started the Code of Conduct online training that handled in accordance with all relevant legislation and is mandatory for the entire personnel. The goal of the training Lemminkäinen’s internal practices, while respecting personal is to ensure that Lemminkäinen’s employees know how to privacy and the rights of all parties. In 2014, the internal apply the Code of Conduct in practice and how to act in audit unit launched further investigations into 13 cases of conflict situations. Some of our seasonal employees will not suspected malpractice, 4 of which led to further action. take the training until the beginning of the new season in the 27 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Sustainability › Cooperation with stakeholders Cooperation with our stakeholders Continuous engagement with our stakeholders is an important way to develop our operations. The successful execution of demanding projects and new, innovative solutions requires close cooperation with our customers and partners. In all stakeholder cooperation, we adhere to our Code of Conduct as well as to local and international commitments We monitor the results of stakeholder and legislation. Our stakeholders are current and potential cooperation regularly customers, current and potential employees, shareholders In order to develop our operations, we measure the results of and investors, analysts, financiers, partners and the media. stakeholder cooperation regularly. Our most important GroupOur business segments have the main responsibility for wide surveys are: customer relations and the personnel and the business segments’ procurement professionals for our partner the net promoter score measuring customer satisfaction network. Our Group functions are responsible for relations the employee survey with investors, shareholders, financiers, the media, industry the employer image survey associations, decision makers and authorities. the public image analysis the brand survey Continuous dialogue In 2014, our stakeholders were particularly interested in our We support non-profit associations financial situation and the outlook in our operating Our sponsorship principles are based on our values and Code environment, especially in Russia. Other topics of discussion of Conduct. We focus on supporting children and young included the development of services and solutions as well as people, and, in 2014, we continued our cooperation with the our revised strategy and renewed operating model. Finnish National Skills Competition Taitaja and the Myrsky project of the Finnish Children and Youth Foundation. As in As a significant local employer and buyer of services, we previous years, instead of sending Christmas greetings, we engage in a continuous dialogue with local authorities and supported a charity. The charity for 2014 was the Baltic Sea decision makers. At the planning and launching phase of Action Group’s Give the Baltic Sea a Nutrient-poor Christmas large construction projects, we also arrange town hall campaign. meetings for those stakeholders whose daily lives will be affected by our projects. Due to the cost-saving programme and personnel negotiations initiated in the spring of 2014, we did not sign We regularly collect customer feedback, which enables us to any new cooperation agreements during the year. develop our business. For example, everyone who has purchased an apartment built by us as well as all our commercial property customers are asked about their satisfaction with our products and services. During the reporting year, we renewed Lemminkäinen’s housing sales websites. The Russian housing sales website was launched towards the end of 2014 and the Finnish website in January 2015. The renewed websites offer our customers an easier way to learn about our housing offering. 28 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Stakeholder Expectations Actions in 2014 Industry associations, such as the Continuous development in the Active participation in Confederation of Finnish Construction industry associations’ work, work groups Industries RT Promoting common interests and projects Customers High-quality, reliable and Face-to-face meetings sustainable solutions Customer events Good project management, Dialogue at industry trade fairs, delivery reliability, transparency, seminars and other events and the right price-quality ratio Newsletters and websites Understanding customer needs, Customer magazine customer service, and customer relations management Personnel Good leadership and supervisory Developing supervisory work and work leadership Motivating remuneration and Developing remuneration opportunities for training and Continual development of personal development occupational safety Equality and openness within the Open communications organisation Personnel magazine, intranet, Occupational safety and wellinternal newsletters being Media Reliable and up-to-date Stock exchange and press releases information about the company’s Visits by editorial staff operations Interviews Open communications culture Easy to contact Shareholders and investors Return on investment and a Shareholder, investor and analyst sufficient analysis of the meetings company’s risk management Interim report briefings Open and timely information about Annual General Meeting the company’s financial position, Investors section of profit drivers and outlook Lemminkäinen’s website Documentation and meetings related to financial arrangements Easy to contact 29 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Students and job applicants Interesting and challenging tasks Summer jobs and trainee positions, Comprehensive information about opportunities for writing theses, and career opportunities offered by cooperation with educational institutions Lemminkäinen Dialogue at recruitment events Employer image surveys Cooperation with Taitaja, a competition run by Skills Finland Decision makers and opinion Compliance with laws and Dialogue through industry organisations in, leaders regulations for example, political decision making Transparency and minimising Local meetings with decision makers hazardous impacts Regular, open reporting Regular reporting Increasing employment; good corporate citizenship Payment of taxes Partners and suppliers Safeguarding earnings and Meetings and direct contacts growth Supplier audits Opportunities for networking and Development of procurement systems developing operations Operational reliability and continuity 30 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Sustainability › Financial responsibility Financial responsibility Distribution of economic value added to our stakeholder groups For us, it is important to grow and develop our company’s business sustainably over the long term. We want to create added value for our stakeholders in a manner that benefits all parties. This requires investments in the development of our customer relations, services and competence so that we are able to offer our customers the best services in the market. Economic value added generated 2014 31 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Economic value added generated 2014 Customers EUR 2,164.3 million (EUR 2,235.9 million) Direct impact We offer our customers high-quality, reliable and sustainable solutions. Indirect impact Our solutions create conditions that make living, working and travelling functional, safe and healthy. We develop our operations and introduce new, cost-effective and sustainable solutions. For example: Low-temperature and reclaimed asphalts reduce the environmental footprint of infrastructure projects, as their manufacture consumes less energy or virgin materials. Distribution of economic value added 2014 Suppliers and partners EUR 1,699.3 million (EUR 1,882.4 million) Direct impact We purchase construction-related raw materials, products and services from our partners. Indirect impact We are a significant local service buyer. Our purchases create local jobs and open up new business opportunities for our partners. We seek long-term cooperation agreements that give our suppliers and partners the opportunity to develop their business over the long term. We are continuously developing new cooperation models that enable the sharing of expertise. Personnel EUR 376.1 million (EUR 449.0 million) Direct impact We employ on average 5,600 people in eight countries. We make social security and employer contributions. Indirect impact We develop our personnel’s competence and offer various career opportunities. We are a significant local employer. We invest in our personnel’s occupational safety and well-being by, for example, using the early support model. This lengthens careers. We provide our personnel with retraining opportunities. Investments EUR 30.0 million (EUR 71.3 million) Direct impact We invest in operational development in all of our operating countries. Indirect impact We create new business opportunities to improve our competitiveness. At the same time, we safeguard jobs. We invest in new, environmentally friendly production methods and equipment, which helps to reduce our environmental footprint. Public sector 32 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Public sector EUR 2.0 million (EUR 4.2 million) Direct impact We pay income taxes. We also pay other public levies, such as property, waste and energy taxes. Indirect impact We support social well-being by paying taxes and making other mandatory payments. In addition, our personnel pays income taxes from their salaries. We comply with the local tax legislation in all of our operating countries and we do not operate in tax havens for taxation reasons. In our operations, we apply the principles of the OECD’s transfer pricing guidelines and local legislation. We are a significant local employer in many countries and our purchases from partners also support employment. Shareholders and financiers EUR 35.3 million (EUR 42.1 million) Direct impact The Boad of Directors proposes that no dividend will be paid for 2014 (EUR 0.00 per share). The figure for 2013 includes paid dividends for the year 2012. We pay interest to financiers. Indirect impact We seek to increase shareholder value by creating conditions for the future flow of dividends through measures that aim at strengthening our balance sheet. In 2013, our result was clearly negative; in the financing negotiations in the spring 2014, we agreed not to pay dividends without the consent of certain lenders. We secure our position as a reliable debtor by meeting payment obligations as agreed. The figures include discontinued operations. 33 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Sustainability › Environmental responsibility We save energy and the environment We minimise any environmental impact of our operations, use natural resources sparingly, generate as little waste as A pioneer in environmentally friendly possible and sort it appropriately. By recycling raw materials, paving we reduce both the amount of waste and the need for virgin Most of our environmental footprint comes from our own materials. To our customers, we offer products and services production, especially our paving and mineral aggregates that we strive to produce with the highest possible energy business. In these sectors, Lemminkäinen is a pioneer in and material efficiency. developing environmentally friendly products and operating methods in Finland. Focus on the energy efficiency of building During 2014, we increased the use of reclaimed asphalt in construction our own production in Finland by 15% and reduced the fuel We comply with regulations defined in legislation for the oil and electricity costs of the production. In addition, we energy efficiency of new buildings. In 2020, all new buildings produced a significant amount of low-temperature asphalt at in Finland must have a zero energy rating. We continue to six asphalt plants. The production method of lowprepare for this new requirement. Many property investors temperature asphalt is low in emissions and environmentally require their commercial properties to be very energy efficient friendly. Low-temperature asphalt is produced at a and executed in a manner that allows them to obtain general substantially lower temperature than normal asphalt, which construction industry environmental certification, such as reduces fuel consumption, emissions and odour pollution. BREEAM or LEED. We consider these requirements already during design management. In 2015, we will develop energy-efficiency measurement methods and monitoring in all of our operating countries. The Kastelli community centre in Oulu, in northern Finland, Furthermore, we will make environmental investments in built by us under the PPP model and completed in 2014, was several asphalt plants, enabling the production of recycled the first Nordic school to be awarded the Gold level LEED for asphalt and low-temperature asphalt, for example. Schools certificate. The certificate encompasses the environmental friendliness of the entire building, assessing Ecological and energy-saving earthworks how ecological its key environmental aspects are. The high As a major northern European construction group, we use energy efficiency of the Kastelli community centre is based large volumes of different mineral aggregates as raw on comprehensive heat recovery and utilisation in ventilation material. For this reason, we have approximately 300 mineral as well as on energy-efficient lighting and lighting control. aggregate areas around our operating countries. Furthermore, the building has numerous individual features that improve energy efficiency, such as condensing heat We aim at reducing the environmental impact of quarrying by recovery in refrigeration devices and heating control on the investing in large, long-term mineral aggregate quarrying basis of weather forecasts. sites near urban growth centres. This makes transportation distances shorter and allows us to make investments that During the reporting year, the property we built for reduce the impact caused by the sites in their immediate Technopolis in St Petersburg was awarded a LEED Gold surroundings. These investments include noise and certificate. Commercial premises built for the developer Etera protection barriers and stable and impermeable support in the Töölö Bay area in Helsinki and completed in 2014 also areas. We also ensure that areas that have been used for meet the LEED environmental certificate criteria. In addition, mineral aggregate quarrying can later be utilised for we are currently building a logistics centre for S Group in construction or as an recreational area, for example. Sipoo in the Helsinki metropolitan area and applying for BREEAM environmental certificate for it. The certificate is awarded for above-the-norm performance in energy Utilising by-products Our goal is to constantly develop the recycling of raw efficiency and minimisation of the environmental impact of a materials and to utilise waste generated as a by-product of building. construction projects to an increasing extent. 34 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 We develop and implement methods that make it possible to The goal is to expand the use of the stabilisation method to replace the natural mineral aggregates used in earthworks different operating countries. Thus far, we have done mass with recovered materials. These materials can be recovered stabilisation in Finland, Estonia and Sweden. from surplus soil, industrial by-products and waste, mildly contaminated soil and materials used in old earthworks We are developing the entire industry in cooperation with structures. For example, we use blasted rock from tunnel authorities and other industry players. For example, we are construction sites as raw material in foundation engineering actively involved in the UUMA2 programme in which Finnish and asphalt production. authorities and industry players join forces to look for solutions on how to promote the use of recovered materials in Stabilisation is a foundation reinforcement method that uses earthworks and thus decrease the use of virgin materials and a mineral aggregate-based binder in reinforcing soft soil, the environmental effects of earthworks. making it suitable for construction. Using recovered material, otherwise transported to a landfill site, in the binder reduces energy consumption and the environmental impact of construction. Sustainability › Environmental responsibility › Laboratory specialised in paving Case Laboratory specialised in paving Our Central Laboratory in Tuusula, Finland, serves “Our extensive experience of polymer modification in Lemminkäinen’s business operations and customers in our particularly demanding paving is now utilised in the binding different operating countries. The Laboratory’s area of agents for paving aggregates used on other traffic routes and expertise is infrastructure construction, in particular paving. at airports. In this way, we have succeeded in extending the useful life of paving and making it more weatherproof,” Our paving customers, such as the Swedish Transport Orttenvuori explains. Administration, require high quality and absolute reliability in testing activities. For this reason, the Central Laboratory and “Recycling of old asphalt has increased significantly during the Oulu regional laboratory operating under it have applied the past few years. Recycled asphalt has become an for and been granted accreditation for certain asphalt tests. important raw material for asphalt. Consequently, the Accreditation, laboratory certification (SFS-EN ISO properties of old asphalt must be studied and known 9001:2000) and external audits required by the CE marking thoroughly when planning new mixtures. Laboratory tests of products guarantee the validity of results. play a significant role in this. Our production operations are highly controlled and the products are tested regularly. “Accreditation means that supervision exceeds the Customers have no quality risks to worry about,” says Vesa requirements of CE marking. It is a guarantee given by an Laitinen, Research Manager at Lemminkäinen. official authority indicating that our operations are reliable and independent, and our reports are valid,” says Nina Lemminkäinen has a paving laboratory in each of its Orttenvuori, Product Development Manager at operating countries. In addition to the Finnish laboratories, Lemminkäinen. the Latvian, Lithuanian, Estonian and Swedish laboratories are accredited. New uses for asphalt products In addition to quality control, the Central Laboratory develops and improves asphalt products and finds new uses for them. The products include recycled asphalt and polymer-modified bitumen, or, in colloquial terms, rubber bitumen. For the latter, we are the only Finnish producer that manufactures it for use on roads. 35 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Sustainability › Environmental responsibility › Mass stabilisation by the sea Case Mass stabilisation by the sea A shipping lane in front of Jätkäsaari, Helsinki’s new seaside Energia’s by-products, such as fly ash produced by the residential area, was moved in 2012–2014. As ship traffic to combustion of coal and desulphurisation end product the West Terminal in Jätkäsaari has increased significantly produced in flue-gas scrubbing. On the customer’s request, during the past few years, traffic safety and adherence to we also tested oil shale ash from Estonia as a binder. timetables required a new lane routing. According to the results, it works as a binder as well as coal fly ash. The seabed was dredged for the new lane, and we stabilised dredged soil masses for further use. As the dredged masses Together with the Public Works Department and our were mildly contaminated and contained heavy metals and customer, Stara (the construction service of the City of other hazardous substances, they could not be disposed of in Helsinki), we achieved an end result that everyone was the sea but had to be placed on land. satisfied with. The City of Helsinki can use the solidified dredged masses as a filler in noise barriers or at landfill sites, We transferred the nearly 40,000 m³ of dredged masses to for example. Consequently, less waste is produced and there basins that had been built specifically for them on the shores is also less need to use virgin materials. of Jätkäsaari island. We stabilised the masses with various binders. The binders used included, for example, Helsingin Sustainability › Environmental responsibility › Use of reclaimed asphalt in the rise in Denmark Case Use of reclaimed asphalt on the rise in Denmark In Denmark, we increased the use of reclaimed asphalt to autumn 2014. The total asphalt volume of the contract was 26% from our total asphalt production in 2014. about 240,000 tonnes. The use of old crushed asphalt pavements as part of new asphalt has increased significantly. Nowadays, approximately Durable reclaimed asphalt Ordinary asphalt is made from 95% mineral aggregates and 20% of all new asphalt in Denmark is produced using 5% bitumen, which is the binder in asphalt. Recycling old recycled asphalt. asphalt saves valuable natural resources, expensive bitumen One of our worksites where we used a large amount of as well as large quantities of crushed rock. It also decreases reclaimed asphalt in the base layer in 2014, was the new asphalt production's carbon dioxide emissions. motorway constructed around the city of Silkeborg for the In principle, all types of old asphalt can be recycled into new Danish Road Directorate. Lemminkäinen started the paving durable and high-quality asphalt. work there in 2013 and it was finished during 36 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Sustainability › Social responsibility › HR Our HR work supports the turnaround In 2014, we focused on change support for personnel. As our financial situation was challenging, our HR work concentrated on measures that supported the efficiency improvement targets defined in the strategy. We want to be an attractive and valued workplace for roles and tasks. We defined the supervisory tasks and revised construction industry professionals, offering interesting and the organisations so that each supervisor has a reasonable challenging tasks as well as career development number of employees. In order to better support the opportunities. In 2014, our aim was to support the Group’s performance of both the manager and the employees, we cost-savings targets and operational efficiency improvement have focused on optimising the ratio of supervisors and initiatives by creating tools and operating models for all HR employees. work. In 2014, we also investigated which kind of talent and We invest in target setting and bonus competence we need in order to achieve our strategic targets. The information we obtained about both organisational and harmonisation individual-level expertise needs, gives us a good foundation Target setting and performance discussions are an important for future competence development. leadership and management tool for us. During the discussion, an employee and his/her supervisor agree on the As part of the Deliver 2014 cost-saving programme, we did employee’s targets as well as the means for achieving them. not conduct an employee survey. The survey will be The discussions clarify to Lemminkäinen employees their role conducted in 2015. in the implementation of the strategy. According to our experience, the discussions have a clear impact on personnel We develop our employer image satisfaction, efficient organisation of tasks and labour The aim of developing Lemminkäinen’s employer image is to productivity. ensure that our current employees enjoy their work and are satisfied with Lemminkäinen and that the company is an In 2014, we provided training on target setting and interesting employer option for future employees so that we performance discussions for supervisors in different have a sufficient number of experts in the long term. operating countries. In 2014, approximately 70% of Lemminkäinen employees had a target setting and In Finland, we monitor our external employer image through performance discussion. Our goal is for our entire personnel the annual employer image survey conducted by T-Media. to have an annual target setting and performance discussion. Awareness of Lemminkäinen among construction industry The implementation of the model will continue in 2015. students and graduates is high: 92–96% of the respondents know Lemminkäinen as an employer. According to the survey, We also strive to continuously develop our incentive systems approximately 34% of the respondents are interested or so that they support the achievement of our targets more somewhat interested in Lemminkäinen as an employer. effectively. In 2014, we modified the annual performance bonuses practices so that the targets defined in the strategy In Finland, we searched for summer employees through a are emphasised to an even greater extent than before. In recruitment campaign and received more than 3,000 2015, our goal is to harmonise annual performance bonus applications. We want to ensure that Lemminkäinen’s practices in all countries and to create a common project summer employees have a practical and enjoyable work bonus model. experience. Therefore, in 2014 we participated again in the Responsible Summer Jobs (Vastuullinen kesäduuni) We support supervisors and ensure the campaign, which challenges employers to offer young people more – and better – summer jobs. In 2014, Lemminkäinen availability of the right kind of had about 250 summer employees working in Finland. competence The Finnish National Skills Competition Taitaja is the biggest In 2014, we continued the clarification of supervisory annual event for vocational students 37 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 in Finland. The competition is intended for vocational Furthermore, 1,550 employees in Finland transferred to Are in students aged 20 or younger. We have sponsored the Taitaja conjunction with the divestment of the technical building competition for several years, and in 2014 we were one of the services business. The divestment of the Lemcon Networks main partners of the competition, held in Lahti, Finland. telecommunications network business has reduced the number of employees in other countries. Personnel negotiations in spring 2014 During 2014, we offered our personnel support for handling In spring 2014, we launched the Deliver 2014 cost-saving and coping with change. For example, in Finland we arranged programme to improve our competitiveness. The programme group guidance as well as outplacement coaching for included personnel negotiations or other similar measures dismissed personnel and provided supervisors with guidelines that started in the second quarter in all our operating to ensure appropriate change management skills. countries. The personnel reductions related to the negotiations conducted in 2014 have, for the most part, been realised. Sustainability › Social responsibility › HR › Learning common rules through an online training programme Case Learning common rules through an online training programme We comply with Lemminkäinen’s Code of Conduct in so the online training was arranged in two ways. Whiteeverything we do. It ensures that we obey the law and norms collars took the training independently; for blue-collars, group in each of our operating countries. The Code of Conduct events were organised at construction sites in connection applies to each and every one of us. With it and other with weekly meetings, for instance. common guidelines, we can ensure that everything we do supports the achievement of Lemminkäinen’s targets of Our goal was for all Lemminkäinen employees to complete improving our competitiveness, profitability and financial the training by the end of 2014. The exception to this is position. The Code of Conduct also applies to our partners. certain seasonal employees, who will take the training when they return to work in 2015. Our employee surveys have indicated that some Lemminkäinen employees are not sure about how to We have received positive feedback on the training. An online implement the Code of Conduct in practice. Consequently, environment is an easy way to familiarise oneself with we launched Code of Conduct online training for the entire different topics, and learning common rules also personnel in autumn 2014. The aim of the training is to strengthened the sense of togetherness within the Group. In teach us to apply the Code of Conduct in our day-to-day the future, the training will be repeated annually, and online work and to act according to our common rules, also in training will be used when implementing other common rules conflict situations. and guidelines, too. Not all of Lemminkäinen employees work on computers, 38 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Sustainability › Social responsibility › Occupational well-being We take care of personnel well-being The majority of our personnel work in physically demanding working capacity, which helps us to improve occupational conditions at construction sites. This may leave them well-being and lengthen the careers of our personnel. In susceptible to occupational diseases and injuries and addition, we identify persons with reduced working capacity increase the risks of disability and early retirement. Therefore, through a regular health survey. We want to find the tasks we ensure that our entire personnel has access to that are suitable for everyone’s individual working capacity. occupational healthcare and occupational well-being services that support health maintenance and coping at The early support model has steadily decreased sickness work. Our occupational healthcare is arranged in accordance absences for a couple of years in a row. In 2014, the sickness with the local operating model in each of our operating absence percentage in Finland was 2.56% (2.67). countries. Occupational healthcare consultations are also part of our management of risks related to working capacity. During a Good results in improving occupational consultation, the employee and his/her supervisor, together with the occupational healthcare service, discuss solutions health and well-being through the early to support working capacity. We offer our employees the support model opportunity to retrain or help them to reorganise their current duties with the help of coaching. We focus on preventive measures and the early identification of potential risks to working capacity in particular. We believe During 2015, our goal is to look into the arrangement of that healthy and contented employees accomplish the best employee healthcare in different operating countries and thus results and are satisfied with their work. establish a foundation for standardised operating models and In Finland, we use the early support model for policies. Sustainability › Social responsibility › Occupational safety We improve occupational safety through cooperation We are committed to The Confederation of Finnish Construction Industries CFCI's zeroaccident target, which we are systematically pursuing by making on-site weekly meetings an established practice and by standardising protective equipment, among other measures. In addition to the site accident frequency rate at our own sites, we monitor the development of our subcontractors’ accident frequency rate. In 2014, our site accident frequency rate was 6.9 (10.5). The minor accidents at our construction sites in 2014, but the figure does not include accidents during commuting or number of serious accidents increased. In addition, occupational diseases. In 2014, we started the consistent unfortunately, a fatal accident involving one of our employees monitoring and reporting of our subcontractors’ site accident occurred in Russia. frequency rate in all of our operating countries. When subcontractors are included, our site accident frequency rate We conduct weekly safety inspections at our sites, and was 4.81. safety issues are discussed at weekly meetings. The Group’s Executive Team and business segment management teams Although our site accident frequency rate decreased, we regularly monitor the development of the site accident cannot be satisfied with it. There were fewer frequency rate. Furthermore, we share information about 39 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 serious accidents within all businesses and countries. The our subcontractors and their employees. In 2014, we started Board of Directors also monitors the development of standardising our protective equipment practices in all of our occupational safety. operating countries. Our goal is that Lemminkäinen employees in all of our operating countries use the same Weekly meetings are an important protective equipment and always in compliance with the requirements of local legislation. We will continue the channel for sharing information standardisation of protective equipment in 2015. On-site weekly meetings are an important channel for sharing information about current occupational safety issues. We train our personnel in occupational safety issues. The aim Weekly meetings are mandatory and attended by our of training is to reduce the risk of accidents at construction subcontractors and their employees, too. The meetings sites and to ensure that protective equipment is used enable us to distribute information, for example, about appropriately. changes in working methods to all of our operating countries. The meetings also provide us with development proposals Industry-wide occupational safety week from construction sites for future weekly meeting topics. In 2014, we held an occupational safety week together with other member companies of The Confederation of Finnish Weekly meetings have become an established practice in all Construction Industries CFCI in all of our operating countries. of our operating countries, and we have received positive The activities organised during the week included seminars, feedback from our construction sites. The number of management’s visits to own construction sites as well as to meetings held increased in 2014. those of other companies in the industry, and Scaffolding In all of our operating countries, we conduct occupational Thursday, a theme day focusing on the safety of scaffolding. safety audits during which we review the site-specific risks During the occupational safety week, all Confederation of and agree on measures to improve safety. The site managers, Finnish Construction Industries CFCI member companies, together with the occupational safety managers, are their subcontractors and stakeholder personnel as well as responsible for the safety audits. In connection with site authorities participated in measures promoting occupational visits, we can, for example, introduce new protective safety. equipment and ensure compliance with existing guidelines. We also plan occupational safety improvements by collecting Continuous development occupational safety observations from our construction sites We are committed to the Confederation of Finnish and by monitoring the number of observations regularly. In Construction Industries CFCI’s target of zero accidents. We 2014, the number of safety observations in the entire Group are pursuing the target by continuing the practice of holding decreased – a development with which we cannot be on-site weekly meetings, by reacting to any defects reported satisfied. In the future, the Group’s development initiatives in occupational safety observations, by standardising the use will also pay attention to safety observations. of protective equipment and including an occupational safety initiative as part of the Group’s development initiatives, Standardisation of protective equipment among other measures. We focus on monitoring and will continue reporting our subcontractors’ site accident frequency rate and investigate how accidents could be prevented. Personal protective equipment is mandatory at all of our construction sites. The rules also apply to 40 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Sustainability › Social responsibility › Occupational safety › The new fall protection equipment makes it easier to work safely Case New fall protection equipment makes it easier to work safely In occupational safety, we are continuously working towards industry, we utilised the idea in order to develop a bushing, the Confederation of Finnish Construction Industries RT’s which is installed into wall elements at the factory and in target of zero accidents and we are paying particular which the pole is inserted at the construction site. The use of attention to the use of protective equipment. At the the fall protection equipment requires two poles that are Kahvikortteli construction site in Helsinki, we have developed placed on opposite sides of the floor. The poles are new fall protection equipment. It is intended to be used in connected with a Lifeline safety line, to which the employees’ moulding work in prefabricated apartment blocks where harnesses are attached. timber moulds are installed around a floor or a section for the casting of elements. When working at a height, proceeding The working area increases floor by floor, the use of functional and safe protective With the new fall protection equipment, employees can move equipment at each phase of the work is crucial. easily. The father of the innovation, Lemminkäinen's Site Manager “There can be two employees attached to Lifeline safely, Sami Saarinen, says that with the aid of the new safety expanding their working area to a total of 400 square metres. pole, the safe working area of a single employee extends up In this way, moulding can be carried out on both sides of the to 20 metres, whereas with traditional fall protection section at the same time,” says Sami Saarinen. equipment, it is approximately three metres. This makes working easier and speeds up production substantially. The new protective equipment will be used on Lemminkäinen’s other residential construction sites, Together with Vepe Oy, a company specialising in whenever possible. occupational safety solutions for the construction 41 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Sustainability › GRI › GRI table GRI table We have declared that our reporting is compliant with Application Level B of the GRI G3 Guidelines. ● Reported ● Partly reported ● Not reported Global Compact GRI Content Reporting Remarks Pages 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 CEO's statement ● CEO's review 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities ● Strategy Operating environment Risk management 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization ● Lemminkäinen in brief 2.2 Primary brands, products and services ● Lemminkäinen in brief 2.3 Operational structure incl. main divisions, ● Operating segments Investments operating companies, subsidiaries, joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters ● Accounting principles applied in the IFRS consolidated financial statements 2.5 Number of countries and names of countries ● The number of major with major operations or that are relevant to operating countries of sustainability issues Lemminkäinen is 8: Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Russia, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● Corporate Governance Statement 2.7 Markets served (geographic breakdown, ● Key figures by business Financial sectors served, types of segment development customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization (Number ● Lemminkäinen in brief of employees, number of operations, net sales, total capitalization by debt and equity, quantitity of products/services provided) 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure ● No significant changes during or ownership (location of, or changes in the reporting period. operations, incl. facility openings, closings, and expansions; and changes in share capital structure) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● No awards that GRI requires to be reported during the reporting period. 42 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 3. Report Parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period ● Reporting principles 3.2 Date of most recent report ● Lemminkäinen’s annual report 2013 was published 14 March 2014. 3.3 Reporting cycle ● Reporting principles 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the ● www.lemminkainen.com/ report or its content contacts/ Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content ● Reporting principles Our way of (materiality, prioritizing topics and working stakeholders using the report) 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, ● Reporting principles divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or ● Reporting principles boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, ● Reporting principles subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases ● Reporting principles of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements ● Reporting principles of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting ● Reporting principles periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard ● Disclosures in the report. Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to ● Reporting principles seeking external assurance for the report. 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, incl. ● Corporate Governance Board of committees under the highest governance Statement Directors body (mandate and composition incl. number of independent members and/or nonexecutive members) (report % of individuals by gender within the highest governance body, broken down by age group and minority group membership/ other indicator of diversity) 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest ● Corporate Governance governance body is also an executive officer. Statement 43 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board ● Board of Directors structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Corporate Governance to provide recommendations or direction to Statement the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members ● Remuneration of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance ● Corporate Governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are Statement avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, ● Corporate Governance qualifications and expertise of the Board of Statement Directors and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or ● Sustainability management values, codes of conduct, and principles systems relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for ● Sustainability management Corporate overseeing the organization's identification systems Governance and management of economic, environmental, Statement and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest ● Corporate Governance governance body's own performance, Statement particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the ● Risk management precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, ● Sustainability management and social charters, principles, or other systems initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as ● Our way of working industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the ● Cooperation with our organization. stakeholders 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of ● Cooperation with our stakeholders with whom to engage. stakeholders 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, ● Cooperation with our including frequency of engagement by type stakeholders and by stakeholder group. 44 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been ● Cooperation with our HR raised through stakeholder engagement, and stakeholders how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Economic Performance Indicators Management approach to economic ● Corporate Governance Risk responsibility Statement management Economic Performance Group strategy Sustainability management systems EC1* Direct economic value generated and ● Financial responsibility Cooperation distributed, including revenues, operating with our costs, employee compensation, donations stakeholders and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 7 EC2* Financial implications and other risks and ● Economic performance opportunities for the organization's activities indicators due to climate change. EC3* Coverage of the organization's defined benefit ● Pension obligations plan obligations. EC4* Significant financial assistance received from ● Economic performance government. indicators Market presence 1 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage ● by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6* Policy, practices, and proportion of spending ● on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 6 EC7* Procedures for local hiring and proportion of ● senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8* Development and impact of infrastructure ● investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant ● Financial responsibility Economic indirect economic impacts, including the performance extent of impacts. indicators Environmental Performance Indicators Management approach to environmental ● Sustainability management Environmental responsibility systems responsibility Materials 8 EN1* Materials used by weight or volume ● 8-9 EN2* Percentage of materials used that are ● Environmental responsibility recycled input materials Energy 8 EN3* Direct energy consumption by primary source ● Environmental performance indicators 8 EN4* Indirect energy consumption by primary ● Environmental performance source indicators 8-9 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and ● efficiency improvements 8-9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or ● Environmental responsibility renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 45 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 8-9 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy ● consumption and reductions achieved Water 8 EN8* Total water withdrawal by source ● Environmental performance indicators 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by ● withdrawal of water (incl. value/importance of water source to local communities) 8-9 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water ● recycled and reused Biodiversity 8 EN11* Location and size of land holdings in areas of ● high biodiversity 8 EN12* Description of significant impact of activities, ● products, and services on biodiversity 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored ● 8 EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity (incl. ● Environmental performance engagement with relevant stakeholders) indicators 8 EN15 Species with extinction risk with habitats in ● areas affected by operations Emissions, Effluents and Waste 8 EN16* Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas ● Environmental performance emissions indicators 8 EN17* Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas ● emissions 7-9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas ● emissions 8 EN19* Emissions of ozone-depleting substances ● 8 EN20* NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions ● 8 EN21* Total water discharge by quality and ● destination 8 EN22* Total amount of waste by type and disposal ● Environmental performance method indicators 8 EN23* Total number and volume of significant spills ● 8 EN24 Transported, imported, exported, or treated ● hazardous waste 8 EN25 Water bodies and habitats affected by ● discharges of water Products and Services 7-9 EN26* Mitigating environmental impacts of products ● Environmental responsibility and services 8-9 EN27* Percentage of products sold and their ● packaging materials reclaimed by category Compliance 8 EN28* Significant fines and sanctions for non● Environmental performance compliance with environmental regulations indicators Transport 8 EN29 Environmental impacts of transportation ● Environmental performance indicators Overall 7-9 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures ● Environmental performance and investments indicators 46 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Social Performance Indicators Labor Practices and Decent Work ● Sustainability management HR systems Management approach to labor practices Occupational well-being Occupational and decent work safety Employment LA1* Total workforce by employment type, ● Social performance indicators Board of employment contract and region, broken Directors' down by gender report 6 LA2* Total number and rate of new employee hires ● Social performance indicators Board of and employee turnover by age group, gender Directors' and region report LA3 Benefits to full-time employees that are not ● provided to temporary or part-time employees Labor/Management Relations 1-3 LA4* Coverage of collective bargaining agreements ● Social performance indicators 3 LA5* Minimum notice period regarding operational ● Lemminkäinen complies with Social performance indicators HR changes local legislation. Occupational Health and Safety 1 LA6 Percentage of employees represented in joint ● Social performance indicators health and safety committees 1 LA7* Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost ● Social performance indicators Occupational days, fatalities and absenteeism by region, safety and by gender 1 LA8* Education and prevention programmes ● Social performance indicators Occupational regarding serious diseases well-being 1 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal ● Occupational safety agreements with trade unions Training and Education ● LA10* Average training hours per year per employee by gender and by employee category LA11 Programmes for skills management and ● Social performance indicators lifelong learning LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and ● Social performance indicators career development reviews, by gender Diversity and Equal Opportunity ● 1-6 LA13* Composition of governance bodies and ● Social performance indicators breakdown of employees 1-6 LA14* Ratio of basic salary of men to women by ● employee category LA15* Return to work and retention rates after ● parental leave, by gender Human rights Management approach to human rights ● Sustainability management Our way of systems working Investment and procurement practices 1-6 HR1* Percentage and number of significant ● investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 1-6 HR2* Percentage of significant suppliers, ● Social performance indicators contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening and actions taken 1-6 HR3* Total hours of employee training on policies ● and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, incl. percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination 47 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 1-2, 6 HR4* Incidents of discrimination and actions taken ● Freedom of association and collective bargaining 1-3 HR5* Operations and significant suppliers identified ● Social performance indicators in which the right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken to support these rights Child labor 1-2, 5 HR6* Operations and significant suppliers identified ● Social performance indicators as having significant risk for child labor and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Forced and compulsory labor 1-2, 4 HR7* Operations and significant suppliers identified ● Social performance indicators as having significant risk for forced or compulsory labor and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Security practices 1-2 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in ● the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Indigenous rights 1-2 HR9 Number of incidents involving rights of ● indigenous people and actions taken Assessment HR10* Percentage and total number of operations ● that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Remediation HR11* Number of grievances related to human rights ● filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Society Management approach to society ● Sustainability management Our way of systems working Local community SO1* Percentage of operations with implemented ● Environmental performance local community engagement, impact indicators assessments, and development programs Corruption 10 SO2* Percentage and total number of business ● units analyzed for risks related to corruption 10 SO3* Percentage of employees trained in anti● corruption policies and procedures 10 SO4* Actions taken in response to incidents of ● Social performance indicators corruption Public Policy 1-10 SO5* Public policy positions and participation in ● Social performance indicators public policy development and lobbying 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind ● Social performance indicators contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions SO7 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive ● Social performance indicators Legal behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices proceedings and their outcomes Compliance SO8* Monetary value of significant fines and ● Social performance indicators number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations 48 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 SO9* Operations with significant potential or actual ● negative impacts on local communities SO10* Prevention and mitigation measures ● implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Product Responsibility Management approach to product ● Sustainability management Cooperation responsibility systems with stakeholders Customer Health and Safety 1 PR1* Life cycle stages in which health and safety ● impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures 1 PR2 Number of incidents of non-compliance with ● regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service Labeling 8 PR3* Type of product and service information ● required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements 8 PR4 Number of incidents of non-compliance with ● regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction ● Social performance indicators Cooperation and results of customer satisfaction surveys with stakeholders Marketing Communications PR6* Programs for adherence to laws, standards ● Social performance indicators and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, advertising, promotion and sponsorship PR7 Number of incidents of non-compliance with ● regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Customer Privacy 1 PR8 Number of substantiated complaints ● regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance PR9* Monetary value of significant fines for non● compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services * GRI Core indicator 49 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Sustainability › GRI › Reporting principles Reporting principles Lemminkäinen’s combined annual report and sustainability The materiality matrix guides Lemminkäinen’s sustainability report covers the period 1 January–31 December 2014. The reporting; the company focuses on those themes that are annual report is geared towards our most important highlighted in the materiality evaluation. Lemminkäinen’s stakeholders: shareholders, investors, analysts, financiers, materiality matrix is from 2012 and it is based on the media, customers, partners, and personnel. This is management's assessment. Lemminkäinen's fifth sustainability report and it complies with the GRI G3.1 reporting framework. The company reports on sustainability annually. Materiality matrix Lemminkäinen’s consolidated financial statements are Personnel and remuneration data has been obtained during drawn up and presented in accordance with IFRS standards. personnel and financial reporting and is published in the Consolidated financial statements provide the majority of the financial statements. The data on Finnish employees is key economic responsibility figures. The consolidated supplemented with information from the HR data system. financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with Occupational health figures cover Lemminkäinen’s EU-approved IAS and IFRS standards, and the SIC and IFRIC operations in Finland, and occupational safety figures cover interpretations in effect on 31 December 2014. Segment all of Lemminkäinen’s operations. Absences due to sickness reporting is based on management reporting, as per IFRS 8, and accidents are calculated on theoretical, regular working which complies with the consolidated accounting principles. hours. The figures do not include the Technical building Comparison figures for 2013 are presented in brackets. services segment that Lemminkäinen divested in June 2014. 50 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Environmental reporting for 2014 covers operations in Finland. The reporting of waste, electricity and water covers the production facility operations subject to permits. The figures have not been adjusted in proportion to production volumes. The figures for 2013 and 2014 do not include the Technical building services segment that Lemminkäinen divested in June 2014. In 2014, Lemminkäinen's head office in Helsinki implemented an environmental management system with the WWF Green Office label. In 2014, Lemminkäinen participated in the CDP climate change survey. CDP is an international, non-profit organisation representing institutional investors that studies the impact of climate change from an investor’s perspective. Calculation principles as well as any exceptions in and limitations to the calculation methods used have been noted next to the figures in question. If there have been any changes in the key figures reported, or to their scope, boundaries or measurement techniques, these have also been noted next to the figures in question. Lemminkäinen has declared that its reporting is compliant with Application Level B of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. Sustainability › GRI › Sustainability management systems Sustainability management systems Lemminkäinen wants to develop its business sustainably the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and over the long term while growing profitably. In its operations, Rights at Work; the company takes the expectations of customers, personnel the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; and and other stakeholders into account. International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Lemminkäinen’s sustainability management is based on the recommendations. company’s values, Code of Conduct as well as policies and principles defined at the Group level. The President and CEO Lemminkäinen employs management systems that meet the is responsible for leading sustainability. The Group’s requirements of the international standards ISO 9001:2008 Executive Team discusses these matters regularly, and they (quality management system), ISO 14001:2004 are also reported to the Board of Directors. (environmental management system) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (occupational health and safety management Lemminkäinen adheres to current legislation both in all its system). The management systems ensure that there are the operating countries. The most significant international required resources for every stage of the projects and that regulations and agreements that guide the company’s work is completed on time and in accordance with the operations are: customer’s order. Lemminkäinen has separate, qualitycertified management systems for each business segment. the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights; The company’s mineral aggregates and asphalt plants are CE the UN Global Compact initiative in the field of corporate marked in those countries where legislation so requires. responsibility, promoting human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption Financial responsibility management 51 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financial responsibility management and to ensure equal treatment. Compliance with these Group-level policies and principles is managed and monitored systems within the scope of line operations. A detailed description of the financial responsibility management systems can be found in the Corporate Lemminkäinen’s partner and supplier network is expected to Governance Statement. comply with laws, international human rights, labour rights, environmental regulations and the Code of Conduct. In Environmental and safety management addition, Lemminkäinen requires all its subcontractors to adhere to the Act on the Contractor’s Obligations and systems Liability When Work Is Contracted Out when operating in Responsibility for the Group’s environmental and Finland. The Senior Vice President, Procurement, is occupational safety issues is held by an Executive Team responsible for the partner and supplier network. member, and at the business segment level, by an EHSQ manager. The Group’s Director, HSQE, coordinates the Legal affairs are coordinated by a Group-level unit in order to development of occupational safety between the different promote consistent practices. The General Counsel is business segments and countries. Lemminkäinen is responsible for this. Legal affairs related to business committed to the Confederation of Finnish Construction operations are handled by the lawyers in business operations. Industries RT’s target of zero accidents by 2020. Furthermore, additional guidelines about competition law and insider issues are provided to complement the Code of In July, Lemminkäinen published its revised strategy and Conduct. Business management is responsible for reporting system. Consequently, the environmental and monitoring compliance with these guidelines, and internal safety management systems will be reviewed during winter training on them is also provided. Lemminkäinen has zero 2014–2015. tolerance with regard to activities violating competition legislation. Social responsibility management In addition, Lemminkäinen uses the SpeakUp service through systems which Lemminkäinen employees and external stakeholders Lemminkäinen’s social responsibility management has been alike can report any suspected violation of the Code of decentralised. Human resources management is led by the Conduct. Executive Vice President, HR. Lemminkäinen’s HR policy aims to ensure that the company has the competent, Product responsibility is led by the Executive Vice Presidents motivated and satisfied personnel required by the operational of Lemminkäinen’s business segments. They are responsible targets. for customer service, and they ensure that Lemminkäinen’s products and marketing comply with laws and regulations. The goal of Group-level policies and principles, such as the equality action plan, is to promote fairness Sustainability › GRI › Economic performance indicators Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and impact can be found in the section discussing financial responsibility. distributed Lemminkäinen analyses the economic impact of its EC2 Financial implications and other risks operations at the Group level. The company’s key stakeholders are customers, employees, shareholders and and opportunities for the organisation’s financiers, suppliers and partners, and the public sector. activities due to climate change Climate change risk analyses More detailed information on Lemminkäinen’s financial 52 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 and financial impact assessments have been integrated into Legislation and voluntary certification (such as LEED, Lemminkäinen Group’s risk management processes. BREEAM and PromisE) have an impact on the energy Lemminkäinen has not defined the financial implications of efficiency of buildings and infrastructure. Due to the risks climate change in euros. and assumptions arising from climate change, uncertain outlooks and the changing socio-economic situation, In 2010, Lemminkäinen started to calculate its energy increasingly stricter legislation is being employed to promote efficiency and carbon footprint at the Group level. At the energy-efficient products, services and construction. Stricter moment, these calculations cover the production facilities in legislation – and also customers’ and consumers’ growing Finland. Lemminkäinen’s goal is to extend these indicators to demands – may have a significant cost impact by lowering cover project production throughout Finland and then all both demand for products and services, and their cost operating countries as soon as the information systems efficiency. For example, an increase in fuel taxes or fuel allow. Lemminkäinen aims to calculate how efficiently it prices may lower the cost efficiency of Lemminkäinen’s uses energy in its processes. With this information, production facilities and increase transportation costs. Lemminkäinen will be able to make estimates of future Lemminkäinen strives to minimise this risk by enhancing its trends in its energy consumption and emissions. Production traffic and transportation logistics. facilities, traffic and transportation are the most notable sources of the company’s emissions. Lemminkäinen takes into account its customers’, investors’, consumers’ and partners’ increased interest in Risks associated with the availability of exhaustible raw environmentally friendly products and material and energy materials have an impact on Lemminkäinen’s costs. Rises efficiency. Lemminkäinen has, for example, developed a and fluctuations in the price of raw materials also have an dense asphalt that protects the ground from chemicals and effect on the costs of the company’s contracts. Of these raw other hazardous substances. Lemminkäinen aims to materials, bitumen is the most important. Bitumen is one of constantly increase the percentage of low-temperature and Lemminkäinen’s biggest purchases on the annual level. The recycled asphalts in its production. The company is stepping price of bitumen is tied to the global price of oil. A rise in the up to meet the challenges posed by climate change by price of bitumen affects the profitability of the company’s enhancing the quality and energy efficiency of construction. paving production. Lemminkäinen manages the bitumen Lemminkäinen believes that meeting the challenges of price risk with oil derivatives and contractual terms. In order climate change with new energy-efficient solutions and to protect the company from this risk, the use of alternative services will also give the company a competitive advantage. materials and fuels as part of the company’s processes must also be researched. EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan Lemminkäinen continuously develops the material and obligations energy efficiency of its production. In mineral aggregate Lemminkäinen’s pension schemes are discussed in extraction, for example, the company takes an area's connection with the management’s remuneration and in the potential after-use into consideration already at the planning notes to the financial statements under Pension obligations. stage. By recycling asphalt, the company also saves virgin materials. Waste is one of the most significant environmental impacts caused by construction sites, and EC4 Significant subsidies received from Lemminkäinen is striving to achieve a high level of waste the government sorting at its sites. This enables the company to reduce the In 2014, Lemminkäinen received EUR 448,659 (2013: EUR amount of waste that ends up in landfill sites and ensures 113,677) in financial assistance for development projects effective re-use and recycling of materials. from the Finnish government. Climate change – and unusual weather conditions in particular – may have an effect on Lemminkäinen’s working EC9 Significant indirect economic conditions by, for example, interrupting or delaying the impacts projects or the start of the operational season, which can Lemminkäinen contributes to general well-being in society reduce the profitability of projects. The cold, snowy winters by, for example, providing employment and paying taxes, of recent years have increased heating costs and have salaries and social security contributions. shortened the company’s standard operating season. On the other hand, in 2014 the company benefitted from the mild More detailed information on Lemminkäinen’s financial impact can be found in the section discussing financial winter and a long paving season in its operating countries. Lemminkäinen has started to offer non-seasonal responsibility. maintenance services in some of its operating countries. 53 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Sustainability › GRI › Environmental performance indicators Environmental performance indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption direct energy sources. The company's direct energy consumption is based on consolidated Group purchases. Lemminkäinen uses non-renewable energy sources as our Direct energy consumption, Finland 2014 2013 2012 Light fuel oil, GWh 129 138 162 Heavy fuel oil, GWh 94 84 85 Natural gas, GWh 55 38 60 Liquefied petroleum gas, GWh* 2 2 2 Total, GWh 280 262 309 * Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) was added to the data for 2012–2014. EN4 Indirect energy consumption Indirect energy consumption, production facilities Finland 2014 2013 2012 Electricity, GWh 16 26 26 District heating, GWh* n/a n/a n/a Total, GWh 16 26 26 * Distict heating has been excluded from the reporting for years 2012-2014. It was only used at concrete product factories that were sold in connection with a divestment. Our indirect energy consumption is based on consolidated and environmental permits. The figure includes the Group purchases for 2014. registrations of asphalt plants. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source The Environmental Protection Act defines those projects that also require a separate environmental impact assessment During the reporting year, Lemminkäinen used an estimated (EIA). The company did not launch any EIA projects during 70,000 m3 (60,000*) of water in the production facilities the reporting year. of the paving and mineral aggregates operations. Lemminkäinen conducts its own environmental risk The company uses some water for dust suppression and for assessment for projects that do not legally require an drilling in rock engineering. Whenever possible, construction environmental permit. These assessments seek to predict sites also use surface water. The reporting is based on any detrimental environmental impact, enabling the company estimated usage. to target the necessary precautions correctly. Lemminkäinen’s business operations do not currently employ Lemminkäinen continually monitors the impact its operations any processes that consume high volumes of water. have on the environment. To the company’s knowledge, no * The figure has been revised. serious environmental incidents occurred in 2014. At the company’s mineral aggregate area in Karkkila, an oil spill EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity occurred in connection with an equipment breakdown. The surroundings have been cleaned of the traces of the incident Lemminkäinen’s mineral aggregates and paving operations in cooperation with authorities. require permits. At Lemminkäinen, these permits are coordinated by a separate team that supports production. Lemminkäinen is a member of Corporate Responsibility Network FIBS. In 2014, the company participated in FIBS’ In 2014, Lemminkäinen’s operations in Finland were granted Business & Biodiversity programme. The programme offered 15 new mineral aggregates permits, 22 environmental information about best business practices concerning permits and 5 registrations of asphalt plants. In Finland, biodiversity as well as tools for biodiversity management and Lemminkäinen has a total of 385 mineral aggregates for the determination of Lemminkäinen’s role and responsibilities as a provider and user of ecosystem services. 54 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse which reduce the volume of rock dust, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide released into the air. gas emissions Lemminkäinen continually seeks to reduce emissions from its production facilities. The company aims to employ the industry’s best available technology, such as filters, Calculated emissions, Finland 2014 2013 2012 Scope 1, t From fuels consumed and own transportation 81,000 75,600 86,100 Scope 2, t From purchased electricity and district heating* 3,200 5,200 5,700 Total CO₂ emissions, t scope 1 + 2 84,200 81,800 91,800 The following CO₂ emissions coefficients have been used when calculating the emissions for these forms of energy: Light fuel oil 261 g/kWh; heavy fuel oil 284 g/kWh; natural gas 198 g/kWh, diesel 265 g/kWh and petroleum 265g/kWh (source: Motiva). * Electricity, purchased 203 g/kWh (source: IEA 5-year average 2007-2011). The coefficient for purchased electricity is obtained annually from data published by the IEA. We have defined CO₂ as the most significant greenhouse gas. These emissions are generated by both transportation and energy consumption in our own operations. Scope 1 emissions cover the entire Group’s energy consumption and all the vehicles and fuel cards that we own. Scope 2 covers the emissions generated during the production of electricity and district heating at our production facilities. Our scope 3 coverage is currently being defined. In addition to CO₂, we also cause environmental loading through, for example, noise, dust, vibration and odour pollution, and SOx, NOx and small particle emissions. EN22 Total amount of waste by type and disposal method Waste, production facilities Finland 2014 2013 Production facilities Recycled, reused and incinerated waste, % 71 73.4 Recycled, reused and incinerated waste, t 848 756 Landfill waste, % 29 26.6 Landfill waste, t 350 274 The recycling, reuse and incineration rate includes all waste that is recycled, reused and incinerated as a percentage of total waste. The landfill rate includes all waste that ends up in landfills as a percentage of total waste. Hazardous waste has been included in recycling, as it is being reused. Reports do not include demolition waste and excavated materials. The amount of mixed waste is based on capacity of waste container / emptying. EN26 Mitigating environmental impacts of request led to charges for an environmental offence against Lemminkäinen and two of its employees. The hearing of the products and services case will continue in 2015. Read more about the environmental impacts of Lemminkäinen's solutions and services. EN29 Environmental impacts of EN28 Significant fines and sanctions for transportation Lemminkäinen is striving to optimise transportation and non-compliance with environmental ensure its efficiency. The company utilises systems that regulations enable it to reduce unnecessary driving, and the company pays attention to idling. Lemminkäinen received no significant fines or sanctions in 2014. To reduce business travel, Lemminkäinen uses In autumn 2013, the Centre for Economic Development, videoconferencing. Emissions caused by business trips in 2014 were reported as part of our head office’s Green Office Transport and the Environment for Uusimaa, that is to say reporting. They account for an estimated 1–2% of the total the authority controlling the environmental permit of Lemminkäinen’s asphalt plant in Sammonmäki, Tuusula, emissions caused by Lemminkäinen’s operations in Finland. Finland, submitted a request to the National Bureau of The carbon dioxide emissions limit for company vehicles is Investigation, asking it to launch an investigation with regard 150 g/km. to the terms and conditions of the environmental permit of the asphalt plant. In December 2014, the investigation Traffic andThis transportation 55 is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Traffic and transportation 2014 2013 2012 Energy consumption, GWh 36 31 27 Transportation causes CO₂, SOx, and NOx emissions as well as noise and dust pollution. CO₂ emissions are reported as part of our EN 16 indicator (scope 1). Our reporting covers our own vehicles’ fuel consumption in our domestic operations. Traffic and transportation includes all vehicles used on public highways. We reduce the environmental impact of traffic and transportation by paying attention to the optimisation and efficiency of transportation and by servicing our vehicles regularly. We avoid idling, and we choose machinery and equipment that are appropriate for the intended use. We take extra care to protect the ground on aprons, to prevent oils, fuels and solvents from contaminating the soil and groundwater. EN30 Total environmental protection purchases for the production of recycled asphalt and lowtemperature asphalt, for example. expenditures and investments Lemminkäinen made environmental investments of approximately EUR 1 million (1). Investments were mainly associated with equipment and machinery Sustainability › GRI › Social performance indicators Social performance indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Lemminkäinen employees worked in Finland. employment contract and region At the end of 2014, Lemminkäinen employed an average of 4,748 experts (5,526) in 8 countries. 49% of Personnel, 31 Dec Personnel by market area, 6,000 31 Dec 4,500 3,000 1,500 0 10 11 12 13 14 Finland 49% (49%) Sweden, Norway, Denmark 24% (23%) Baltic countries 14% (13%) Russia 13% (14%) Other countries 0% (1%) 56 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Personnel by segment, 31 Personnel by employment Dec group, 31 Dec Infrastructure construction 62% (59%) Building construction, Finland 22% (22%) Russian operations 13% (14%) Blue-collars 56% (56%) Parent company 3% (5%) White-collars 44% (44%) Age distribution, Finland, 31 Dec 600 400 200 0 <= 19 20 24 25 29 30 34 35 39 40 44 45 49 50 54 55 59 60 63 > 63 2012 2013 2014 57 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Permanent and temporary Full-time and part-time employment, Finland, 31 employment, Finland, 31 Dec, % Dec, % 100 100 75 75 50 50 25 25 0 0 13 14 13 14 Permanent Full-time Temporary Part-time LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region Personnel turnover, Finland, permanent employees 2014 2013 2012 Personnel turnover (outgoing), %: Employments ended / number of personnel at 31 Dec. 20.5 12.6 12.0 Personnel turnover (ingoing), %: Employments began / number of personnel at 31 Dec. 5.2 10.1 7.5 Average personnel turnover, %: Employments ended and began / 2 / number of personnel at 31 Dec. 12.8 11.3 9.8 Reason for departure (permanent personnel) by category, % Due to retirement 12.0 12.0 14.0 At own request 33.0 44.0 52.0 Employer ended 54.0 44.0 33.0 Due to death 1.0 1.0 0.5 Due to the seasonal nature of our business, the number of our employees varies monthly and is at its lowest level at the end of the year. LA4 Coverage of collective bargaining applies a period of notice equal to at least the minimum required by labour legislation in each operating country and agreements by collective labour agreements. Minimum periods of notice Lemminkäinen’s employment contracts comply with current vary depending on the employees’ collective agreements and labour legislation in each operating country. the length of time they have worked for Lemminkäinen. In 2014, all of our blue collar and white collar workers in Finland – over 87% of the Finnish personnel – were covered LA6 Percentage of employees by collective labour agreements. No collective labour represented in joint health and safety agreements, nor any other collective agreements, have been agreed on with senior white collar workers and management. committees In Finland, occupational safety and health committees enable Lemminkäinen’s employees to have a say in issues LA5 Minimum notice period regarding related to safety and health care in their workplace. 100% of operational changes Lemminkäinen’s employees are represented in the In all of its operating countries, Lemminkäinen committees. A joint meeting of all occupational 58 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 safety and health committee representatives of the Group’s Finnish companies is held once a year. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, fatalities and absenteeism Absence due to accident, %, Finland 2014 2013 2012 2011 All personnel 0.17 0.28 0.23 0.26 White-collars 0.02 0.02 0.08 0.02 Blue-collars 0.28 0.49 0.36 0.43 Corporate functions 0.01 0.04 0.03 0.01 Building construction 0.18 0.40 0.34 0.32 Infrastructure construction 0.18 0.23 0.17 0.25 Accident frequency rate 2014 2013 2012 2011 Lemminkäinen Group*) 6.9 10.5 13.6 n/a Lemminkäinen’s domestic operations 10.6 22.6 26.9 34.6 Corporate functions 0 0 3.9 0 Building construction 11.0 19.1 33.1 34.3 Infrastructure construction 10.4 14.4 18.4 17.4 Fatal accidents 1 0 1 0 International operations*) 4.0 5.3 5.1 n/a Accident frequency rate: the number of accidents resulting in an absence of more than one day per million working hours. Includes own staff. *) Operations in Russia were not included in 2012 reports. Absence due to sickness, %, Finland 2014 2013 2012 2011 All personnel 2.56 2.67 2.72 2.98 White-collars 1.63 1.42 1.63 1.69 Blue-collars 3.29 3.67 3.59 3.92 Corporate functions 2.38 2.32 2.64 2.41 Building construction 2.87 3.01 3.01 3.31 Infrastructure construction 2.36 2.44 2.47 2.73 LA8 Education and prevention In 2014, Lemminkäinen launched three new ASLAK groups for employees in Finland. ASLAK is the Social Insurance programmes regarding serious diseases Institute of Finland’s early rehabilitation for minor health Lemminkäinen believes that the best results can be achieved problems. with a combination of the early support model, professional rehabilitation and occupational healthcare. Through regular Lemminkäinen supports its personnel’s leisure-time exercise monitoring, the company evaluates the risks associated with in many ways. For example, in Finland the company offers all the personnel’s working capacity and implements preventive of its personnel an exercise card that can be used at measures in the required areas. Lemminkäinen conducts a approximately 850 sports facilities around Finland. Sante health survey as part of health check-ups and comprehensive occupational healthcare. According to the LA11 Programmes for skills management survey, the personnel’s greatest health risks are excess weight, diabetes, sleeping disorders, alcohol and smoking. and lifelong learning As part of the Deliver 2014 cost-saving programme, The most common symptom predicting work disability is Lemminkäinen focused its personnel development efforts on musculoskeletal disorders. Lemminkäinen’s occupational statutory competence training as well as on training that healthcare unit supports the solving of health problems either supports specific needs. individually or in groups. 59 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 In 2014, Lemminkäinen started the Code of Conduct online to set personal and team targets, monitor the achievement of training that is mandatory for the entire personnel. By the end these goals, and evaluate the personnel’s development of the year, more than 4,000 Lemminkäinen employees had needs. completed the training. In 2014, approximately 70 per cent of Lemminkäinen Read more about our way of working. employees had a target setting and performance discussion. The goal is for each Lemminkäinen employee to have an In Finland, the PAKKI training programme promotes annual target setting and performance discussion. occupational safety and skills that ensure top-quality results through so-called mandatory competence training. A total of Read more about target setting. 1,674 (926*) people completed PAKKI courses in 2014. The Lemminkäinen supervisor academy LEKA supports LA13 Composition of governance bodies supervisors in implementing Lemminkäinen’s strategy. In and breakdown of employees 2014, a total of 25 (86*) people took part in the LEKA Lemminkäinen’s Code of Conduct requires its personnel to be training, focusing on project management. treated equally. Lemminkäinen does not condone any form of discrimination on the basis of race, religion, political beliefs, The VIILA programme supplements LEKA training. VIILA gender, age, nationality, language or sexual orientation. courses were organised on competition law and the supervision of the contractor’s interests (General Conditions The company follows the realisation of equality with an for Building Contracts YSE), among other topics, and a total employee survey every other year. The next survey will be of 284 (287*) people took part in them in Finland in 2014. conducted in 2015. In addition, Lemminkäinen organised, when necessary, training on topics such as ICT and access control systems In addition, Lemminkäinen has a separate equality action changes. plan as well as guidelines to identify and prevent workplace bullying in Finland. The equality action plan promotes a *The training figures for 2013 include the personnel of the diverse personnel structure, salary consistency, the suitability Technical building services business divested in 2014. of working conditions for the entire personnel and equal opportunities for career development, among other things. LA12 Employees receiving regular In 2014, Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors had six performance and career development members of which two, 33.3%, were women. At the end of reviews 2014, the Group’s Executive Team had six members of which two, 33.3%, were women. Target setting and performance discussions are an important management tool for Lemminkäinen. They help the company 60 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Gender distribution, Finland 31 Dec 2014 Male 86% Female 14% HR2 Suppliers and contractors that have HR6 Operations identified as having undergone human rights screening and significant risk of child labour and actions taken measures taken to contribute to the Lemminkäinen requires all of its suppliers and partners to comply with legislation and international regulations elimination of child labour Lemminkäinen has not identified operations nor significant concerning human rights, employment rights and the suppliers which involve significant risks of child labour. environment, as well as its Code of Conduct. Lemminkäinen audits its suppliers when the company wants HR7 Operations identified as having to ensure the performance of a potential major supplier or when the company wants to identify areas for development significant risk of forced or compulsory with current suppliers. In 2014, the company audited five labour and measures taken to contribute suppliers. to the elimination of forced or compulsory HR5 Operations identified in which the labour Lemminkäinen has not identified operations nor significant right to exercise the freedom of suppliers which involve significant risks of forced labour. association or collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken to SO4 Actions taken in response to support these rights incidents of corruption Lemminkäinen’s Code of Conduct prohibits corruption. In Lemminkäinen has not identified operations nor significant 2014, Lemminkäinen started the Code of Conduct online suppliers where the right to exercise the freedom of training that is mandatory for the entire personnel. The goal association or collective bargaining would be at significant of the training programme is to ensure that Lemminkäinen’s risk. employees know how to apply the Code of Conduct in practice and how to act in conflict situations. In 2014, no incidents of corruption were detected at Lemminkäinen. SO5 Public policy positions and 61 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 SO5 Public policy positions and In addition to the claims which the Helsinki District Court has decided on in November 2013, Lemminkäinen has been participation in public policy development served summons regarding 21 claims against Lemminkäinen and lobbying and other asphalt companies for damages. The capital amount of these claims is approximately EUR 26 million. For Lemminkäinen exercises political influence through the industry’s advocacy groups. In Finland, Lemminkäinen these claims, Lemminkäinen has made a provision worth actively participates in the Confederation of Finnish EUR 12.3 million by the end of 2014. Construction Industries RT and other associations that More information on the asphalt cartel, related damages and represent its industry, such as Infra ry and the Building related communications can be found on the company’s Construction Association. Lemminkäinen is also involved website www.lemminkainen.com/Lemminkainen/Investors/. with corresponding associations in other operating countries. SO6 Contributions to political parties, SO8 Significant fines and sanctions for politicians and related institutions non-compliance with laws and regulations In 2014, Lemminkäinen received no significant fines or other Lemminkäinen does not donate money to political parties or sanctions. activities, religious organisations, authorities, municipalities, or local administrations. PR5 Practices related to customer SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive satisfaction and results of customer behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly satisfaction surveys Lemminkäinen tracks its customer satisfaction with the practices international NPS (Net Promoter Score) customer On 28 November 2013, the District Court of Helsinki issued satisfaction survey. In 2014, the survey was not conducted its decisions concerning damages related to the asphalt due to the Deliver 2014 cost-saving programme. The cartel. In line with the decisions, Lemminkäinen recorded company will conduct a customer satisfaction survey in approximately EUR 66 million in expenses in its 2013 result. 2015. Of this, approximately EUR 60 million consisted of damages ordered only to Lemminkäinen, Lemminkäinen’s share of the damages ordered to it and other asphalt industry companies PR6 Adherence to laws, standards and to be paid jointly and severally, as well as interest and legal voluntary codes related to marketing expenses related to the damages. This amount was paid by the company in January 2014. communications, advertising, promotion and sponsorship Lemminkäinen has appealed against all 35 decisions, where In 2014, in addition to meeting with the customers, the plaintiffs’ claims were partly upheld, to the Helsinki Court Lemminkäinen also kept them informed about current issues of Appeal. In Lemminkäinen’s opinion, there are some judicial through the customer magazine and newsletters. The aspects in the decisions of the District Court, where the company's advertising focuses on creating recognition of the conclusions of the District Court differ from previous legal range of solutions and services, and it complies with the practices. Such judicial aspects are related to the questions International Chamber of Commerce ICC guidelines. of prescriptions and value added tax, for example. The main oral hearing in the Court of Appeal will take place during 2015. The Finnish state and 22 municipalities have also submitted their appeals to the Helsinki Court of Appeal. 62 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Corporate Governance › Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance Statement Lemminkäinen aims to have the President and CEO, the Lemminkäinen Corporation is a Finnish public listed company auditor, and all members of the company’s Board of Directors whose administration complies with current legislation, such and Group Executive Team present at the AGM. Unless there as the Finnish Companies Act, the Accounting Act and the is a pressing reason for their absence, any prospective Finnish Securities Markets Act, and the company’s Articles members of the Board of Directors who have been nominated of Association. We also observe the rules, regulations and for the first time should be present at the AGM that votes on guidelines of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd and the Finnish their nomination. Financial Supervisory Authority, and we adhere to the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. The Corporate Governance Code 2014 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s 2014 Annual General is publicly available, e.g. on the Securities Market Association Meeting was held in Helsinki on 9 April 2014. Ninety-two website www.cgfinland.fi. shareholders attended the meeting, either in person or through an authorised representative, representing about Lemminkäinen's administrative bodies 65.7 per cent of the company’s total number of shares and The General Meeting is where shareholders exercise their votes. voting rights and is Lemminkäinen’s highest decisionmaking body. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) elects the Board of Directors Board of Directors, which in turn appoints the President and Lemminkäinen Corporation’s AGM elects at least four and at CEO. The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are most eight members each year to serve on the company’s responsible for the management of the Group. The Group Board of Directors, which elects a Chairman and Vice Executive Team and other management personnel assist the Chairman from among its members. The Board members’ President and CEO in his or her duties. The Board of Directors terms of office end upon the conclusion of the first AGM held decides on the Group’s administrative systems and ensures after their election. compliance with good governance principles. The Board of Directors handles the company’s administration Annual General Meeting and the appropriate arrangement of its operations. The Board Lemminkäinen’s AGM is held annually within six months of also ensures that the supervision of bookkeeping and asset the end of the previous financial year on a date determined by management is appropriate. The Board of Directors decides the Board of Directors. An Extraordinary General Meeting may on matters of principle and on any issues that would have be held if the Board of Directors deems it necessary, or if one wide-ranging implications for the company. The Board’s task is legally required. is to steer the company’s operations in a manner that adds the greatest possible value to the capital invested in the Notice of a general meeting of shareholders is published on company over the long term. The Board appoints and the company’s website no later than three weeks prior to the dismisses the President and CEO, supervises his or her meeting. All of Lemminkäinen’s shareholders have the right actions, and decides on his or her remuneration and other to attend general meetings, as long as they follow the terms and conditions of service. The Board also approves the instructions given in the notice. Shareholders may either Group’s strategy, operating principles and guiding values, as attend in person or authorise a representative to represent well as ensures that they are up-to-date and correctly them. Each share carries one vote at a general meeting. implemented. The Board also ensures that the Group has a functional system of internal controls and that the Group’s The AGM carries out all of the tasks stipulated in the risk management principles have been defined. It also Companies Act, such as adoption of the Financial ensures that key business risks have been identified and are Statements, profit distribution, granting discharge from being systematically monitored. The Board approves the liability to the members of the Board of Directors and the operational guidelines and annual plan for the internal audit, President and CEO, and making any potential changes to the and also assesses its effectiveness. Lemminkäinen’s company’s Articles of Association. The AGM also elects the President and CEO attends the Board’s meetings to present members of the Board of Directors and the auditors, and matters for the Board’s consideration, as does the CFO. Other decides on their remuneration. members of the Executive Team and the company’s 63 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 management attend meetings as required. The Group’s its balance sheet and financial position. The most important General Counsel acts as the secretary of the Board of agenda topics discussed included changes related to the Directors. President and CEO and the Group Executive Team, the clarification of the business portfolio, changes in the 2014 At the Annual General Meeting held on 9 April 2014, reporting structure and the operating model, the rights the following were elected as members of the Board of offering, the bond, the hybrid bond and the divestment of the Directors: Berndt Brunow, Noora Forstén, Finn Johnsson, technical building services business. Juhani Mäkinen, Kristina Pentti-von Walzel and Heikki Räty. At its organisational meeting on 9 April 2014, the Board The Board carried out a self-assessment of its structure, appointed from among its members Berndt Brunow as working methods, and compliance with its rules of procedure. Chairman and Juhani Mäkinen as Vice Chairman. The Board The results of this self-assessment are used to develop the of Directors convened 20 times in 2014. Each member’s Board’s working methods. The Board also assessed the attendance is shown in the table below. independence of its members. The Board’s focus areas in 2014 included improving Lemminkäinen’s profitability clearly and strengthening Members of the Board of Directors Independent Independent Board of Audit Nomination HR Members of the company of major shareholders Directors Committee Committee Committee Berndt Brunow 1), Chair born 1950, Yes Yes Chair (20/20) Chair1) (5/5) (2/2)1) B.Sc. (Econ.) Juhani Mäkinen, born 1956, Yes Yes Vice (19/20) Member (6/6) Counsellor of Law Noora Forstén, Member born 1981, Yes No Member (20/20) Member (5/5) (2/2) Secondary School Graduate, entrepreneur Finn Johnsson, born 1946, Yes Yes Member (19/20) M.Sc. (Econ.) Kristina Pentti-von Walzel, born 1978, Member M.Sc. (Econ.), Yes No Member (20/20) Member (6/6) Member (5/5) (2/2) B.Sc. (Pol.Sc.), Director, Libera Heikki Räty, born 1953, Chair Yes Yes Member (20/20) M.Sc. (Econ.), (6/6) Managing Director, Helectron Oy Ab Chair=Chairman, Vice=Vice Chairman Attendance rate in brackets 1) Did not participate in the committee work when acting as interim President & CEO from 2 April to 31 July 2014 Board committees parent company’s Financial Statements. The Committee At its annual organisational meeting, the Board of Directors monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk appoints three committees from among its members: the management, internal control and internal auditing. It also Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, and HR handles the section of the Group’s Corporate Governance Committee. These committees assist the Board of Directors Statement that describes the main features of the internal by preparing and drawing up proposals and recommendations control and risk management systems associated with the for the Board’s consideration. The Board of Directors has financial reporting process. approved the rules of procedure governing these committees. The Audit Committee deals with reports and plans prepared Audit Committee by the internal audit unit. It also assesses the independence The Audit Committee monitors and supervises of the statutory auditor or firm of authorised public Lemminkäinen’s annual statements and financial reporting accountants and, in particular, the provision of ancillary processes and the statutory audit of the consolidated and services to the audited firm. The Audit Committee 64 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 evaluates potential auditors and submits a proposal for the CEO. Berndt Brunow did not participate in the committee Board of Directors’ consideration. work during this period. The Audit Committee meets at least four times per annum. It HR Committee comprises a Chairman and at least two members appointed The HR Committee handles matters relating to senior by the Board of Directors. The company’s auditor, internal management’s salaries and incentives, as well as other key auditor and management representatives are also invited to terms and conditions of their service agreements. The meetings. Members of the Audit Committee must be Committee also deals with Group-level remuneration, independent of the company, and at least one member must incentive and retention schemes as well as other HR issues. also be independent of the company’s major shareholders. All The HR Committee meets at least once per annum. It members must be competent in the Audit Committee’s task consists of a Chairman and between two and four members domain, and at least one member must have expertise in appointed by the Board of Directors. The majority of the accountancy, bookkeeping or auditing in particular. members of the HR Committee must be independent of the 2014 The Audit Committee convened six times in 2014. The company. The President and CEO and other members of the members and their meeting attendance are presented in the company’s management may not be members of the Members of the Board of Directors table. Committee. In addition to mandatory items, other matters discussed by 2014 The HR Committee convened five times in 2014. The the Audit Committee included the Group’s financial members and their meeting attendance are presented in the arrangements, balance sheet structure, and progress in the Members of the Board of Directors table. Group’s efficiency improvement programme. The committee At its meetings, the HR Committee discussed management also discussed measures aimed at the improvement of incentive practices, shortand long-term management financial reporting. incentives, the elements and earning criteria of shortand Nomination Committee long-term incentives in 2015, and who falls within the scope The Nomination Committee makes preparations for the AGM of the management incentive scheme in 2014 and 2015. by drawing up a list of proposed nominees for the Board of The Committee also discussed long-term incentives for Directors and making a recommendation on their 2015–2018. The Committee drew up a list of remuneration remuneration. recommendations, which was approved by the Board of Directors. The Nomination Committee meets at least once per annum. It consists of a Chairman and between two and four During the period from 2 April to 31 July 2014, the company members appointed by the Board of Directors. The majority of deviated from Recommendation 32 (Members of the the members of the Nomination Committee must be remuneration committee) of the Finnish Corporate independent of the company. The President and CEO and Governance Code in that during this period the Chairman of other members of the company’s management may not be the Board of Directors Berndt Brunow, acting as the members of the Committee. Chairman of the Committee, served as interim President and CEO. Berndt Brunow did not participate in the committee 2014 The Nomination Committee convened twice in 2014. work during this period. The members and their meeting attendance are presented in the Members of the Board of Directors table. Management President and CEO The Committee made a proposal containing a list of proposed The President and CEO is responsible for the day-to-day nominees for Lemminkäinen’s Board and a recommendation management of the company in line with the Board of on the remuneration of Board and Committee members. The Directors’ guidelines and instructions. He or she is AGM approved the Nomination Committee’s proposal, which responsible for the Group’s day-to-day administration and was presented at the AGM on 9 April 2014. business planning. The President and CEO undertakes the execution of measures approved by the Board of Directors During the period from 2 April to 31 July 2014, the company and handles preparations for any measures that are deviated from Recommendation 29 (Members of the strategically important at the Group level. The President and nomination committee) of the Finnish Corporate Governance CEO makes sure that the Group has adequate management Code in that during this period the Chairman of the Board of resources and the company’s bookkeeping complies with Directors Berndt Brunow, acting as the Chairman of the legislation. He or she also ensures the appropriate Committee, served as interim President and arrangement of the Group’s administration and asset management. 65 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 As of 1 August 2014, Casimir Lindholm, M.Sc. (Econ.), MBA The Executive Team meets regularly, at least once a month (born 1971), has served as President and CEO of and supports the President and CEO in, for example, the Lemminkäinen Corporation. From 2 April to 31 July 2014, he preparation and execution of strategic matters, operating served as the company’s deputy CEO. The Chairman of the plans as well as matters of principle and any other significant Board of Directors, Berndt Brunow, acted as the company’s matters. The Executive Team also assists the President and interim President and CEO from 2 April to 31 July 2014, after CEO in ensuring information flow and smooth internal Timo Kohtamäki left the company on 2 April 2014. cooperation. During the period from 2 April to 31 July 2014, the company 2014 There were several changes in Lemminkäinen’s deviated from Recommendation 36 (Managing director and Executive Team in 2014. At the end of the review period, chairman of the board) of the Finnish Corporate Governance Casimir Lindholm served as Lemminkäinen’s President and Code in that during this period the Chairman of the Board of CEO and the Chairman of the Executive Team. The other Directors served as interim President and CEO. The members of the Executive Team were Executive Vice underlying reason for the deviation was the fact that, as the Presidents Harri Kailasalo (Infrastructure construction), Pauli former President and CEO left the company, the company Mäkelä (Building construction, Finland) and Maaret Heiskari would have been without a President and CEO until the (Russian operations), Ilkka Salonen, CFO, and Tania Jarrett, appointment of the actual President and CEO. Executive Vice President, HR. The Group’s Head of Group Communications and Marketing acted as the secretary of the Executive Team Executive Team. The table below contains more detailed Lemminkäinen’s Group Executive Team consists of the information on the members of the Executive Team and their parent company’s President and CEO and other members positions in 2014. appointed by the Board of Directors. The President and CEO is Chairman of the Executive Team and appoints its secretary. 66 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Position Executive Team member who held the position in 2014 The members of the Executive President and CEO and Chairman of the Executive Team Casimir Lindholm, as of 1 August 2014 Team, as of 1 January 2015 Berndt Brunow, interim President and CEO, 2 April–31 July 2014 Timo Kohtamäki, until 2 April 2014 Chief Financial Officer Ilkka Salonen, as of 8 April 2014 (from 8 April to 30 June 2014, Salonen acted as interim CFO) Robert Öhman, until 7 April 2014 Executive Vice President, HR Tania Jarrett, as of 1 November 2014 Tiina Mellas, until 19 June 2014 Executive Vice President, Harri Kailasalo Infrastructure construction (as of 1 January 2015 Executive Vice President, Infra projects) Executive Vice President, Building Pauli Mäkelä, as of 1 November 2014 construction, Finland Casimir Lindholm, until 31 July 2014 (from 1 August to 31 October 2014 Lindholm acted as interim EVP) Executive Vice President, Russian Maaret Heiskari operations Executive Vice President, Paving Robert Blumberg, as of 1 January 2015 (as of 1 January 2015) Members who have left the Executive Vice President, Scandinavia1) Timo Vikström, until 30 July 2014 Executive Team Executive Vice President, Technical Marcus Karsten, until 13 June 2014 building services1) Chief Strategy Officer2) Tiina Mikander, until 1 November 2014 Executive Vice President, Jouni Pekonen, until 9 June 2014 Procurement2) 1) Due to the reporting structure that was changed on 1 August 2014, the Scandinavia business segment was integrated into the Infrastructure construction business segment. On 13 June 2014, the technical building services business was divested in its entirety to Are Oy. 2) President and CEO Casimir Lindholm is responsible for Lemminkäinen’s strategy and Executive Vice President, Infrastructure construction Harri Kailasalo is responsible for procurement. The Executive Team held eighteen meetings in 2014. The programme), and the improvement of long-term Executive Team’s key topics during 2014 were the competitiveness (the reviewed strategy and new improvement of the company’s profitability and efficiency organisation). (the Deliver 2014 cost-saving programme), the strengthening of the balance sheet and the capital structure (the EUR 100 million efficiency 67 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Controls Lemminkäinen’s business is organised into business segments whose Executive Vice Presidents report to the The principles of the internal control, risk management and President and CEO. The Group’s other directors and internal audit adhered to by Lemminkäinen Corporation have managers are responsible for internal control within their own been approved by the Board of Directors. areas of responsibility. Internal control and risk management seek to ensure that the Lemminkäinen controls and monitors its functions to ensure company’s business is efficient and profitable, that reporting their efficiency and appropriateness, primarily through is consistent and reliable, and that applicable laws, financial reports and business reviews prepared by regulations and the Group’s operating principles are management at the business area, business segment and observed. Group level. In addition, the Group set up an Investment Internal control Board in 2014. The Investment Board convenes twice a The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the month to discuss and prioritise the Group’s most important Group’s internal control and risk management are adequate projects and investments while ensuring that the Group’s for the scope of the company’s business operations, and that resources are allocated as well as possible. their supervision is appropriately organised. The Board Risk management supervises the President and CEO to ensure that he or she Risk management is an essential part of Lemminkäinen’s handles the company’s business operations and business operations. Risk management seeks to ensure that administration in accordance with the guidelines and the Group’s strategic and operational targets are achieved instructions issued by the Board of Directors. In order to with the best possible result and by increasing shareholder ensure adequate risk management, the Board of Directors value. discusses the Group’s financial reports, business segment reviews and any substantial changes that have occurred in Risk management is based on the risk management policy the company’s business. The Board’s Audit Committee also approved by the Board of Directors. The Board also assesses the adequacy and efficiency of internal control and supervises the implementation of risk management. Where risk management. necessary, the Board assesses and updates the Group’s specified risk levels and decision-making authorisations. The The President and CEO is responsible for the organisation of President and CEO may tighten, but not loosen, these internal control. Among other duties, he or she ensures that specifications set by the Board. The Board’s Audit the company’s bookkeeping complies with the law and that Committee monitors the adequacy and effectiveness asset management is handled in a reliable manner. 68 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 of the Group’s risk management in accordance with the has sufficient and accurate information available for leading annual Action Plan. the company and that the financial reports published by the company give a true view of the company’s business The President and CEO is responsible for the implementation development and financial position. of risk management. Members of the Group Executive Team are responsible for the execution of the policy in their The structure and management of Lemminkäinen’s financial reporting process respective areas of responsibility. Personnel receive training Lemminkäinen’s financial administration is organised into in systematic and effective risk management, including legal the Financial Shared Services function, the Group Controlling and contractual matters. Detailed guidelines for different (Management accounting) and Taxes function, the Group areas, such as competition law and insider issues, have also Accounting (Group consolidation) function and segmentbeen drawn up. Monitoring compliance with these guidelines specific business controlling functions. In financial falls within the scope of line operations and management, administration in Sweden (excluding Rekab) and Finland, the and internal training on them is also provided. basic processes are handled in the Financial Shared Services, whereas other foreign subsidiaries have separate financial The main features of internal control and risk management administration organisations. All of the units mentioned systems associated with the financial reporting process above report to the Group’s CFO. Internal control associated with the financial reporting process aims to ensure that the company’s management Lemminkäinen’s financial reporting process consists of reporting, and other foreign companies use local systems. internal and external accounting. Internal accounting focuses The SAP business management system was implemented in on the monitoring and forecasting of the Group’s profit Finland in 2013 and in Sweden in 2014. performance and measures, whereas external accounting Main features and control environment of internal fulfils the information presentation requirements of the control of the financial reporting process International Financial Reporting Standards endorsed by the The company publishes an external accounting interim report European Union and, with regard to the notes to the financial quarterly (each year’s final quarter is reported as part of the statements, the presentation requirements set by the Finnish financial statements bulletin). The interim report includes a accounting and company legislation. The Board of Directors’ description of the business development and financial Report and the parent company’s Financial Statements are position in the review period with comparative figures as well prepared in accordance with the Finnish Accounting Act and as a short-term forecast about the development of the the instructions and statements issued by the Finnish operating environment and the result. The Board of Directors Accounting Standards Board. discusses and approves the interim reports, the financial statements bulletin as well as the financial statements and Group reporting employs both a standard chart of accounts the report of the Board of Directors. and a reporting and consolidation system. The accounting principles used in internal and external accounting are Group Controlling provides instructions on internal consistent. accounting reporting timetables and content and combines financial information from different business segments to In Finland and Sweden (excluding Rekab), a single financial prepare a monthly management report. The monthly administration system is used in all financial management report includes the Group’s 69 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 and the business segments’ income statement, capital in which the percentage-of-completion method and the employed, investments, order book, operative key indicators recognition-on-completion method of revenue recognition and a description of the most business-critical events. In are applicable, are characteristic of Lemminkäinen’s addition, the report contains a rolling forecast of the business. Approval authorisations determined by the development of the Group’s and the business segments’ magnitude and risks of the undertaking are defined for financial position. The Group Executive Team, the Group’s projects. The day-to-day financial control of construction Board of Directors and the Board’s Audit Committee monitor projects is supervised by the project organisation. The the development of the financial position and assess the business segment management regularly examines the achievement of targets monthly. current project forecast and any updates, project risks, the degree of project completion, and revenue recognition. Group Accounting (the Group accounting function) provides Recognition of revenue from construction projects is based guidance for Group companies in drawing up their quarterly on the management’s judgement and estimates. external accounting Group reports. In addition to Group guidance, the Group accounting function and the Group Internal audit Controlling function also support and coordinate the The internal audit unit is subordinate to the Board of Financial Shared Services, the business segments’ business Directors and operates under the supervision of the President controlling functions, and subsidiaries in their financial and CEO. It consists of the Head of Internal Audit and as reporting. The business segments’ business controlling many internal auditors as are required for the unit to carry out functions also ensure that their profit centres draw up the its work. Internal auditing resources are strengthened as monthly internal accounting report in accordance with the required by procuring internal auditing services from external specified principles and instructions. The Group Controlling service providers. Its operating principles are defined in the function reconciles internal and external accounting every internal auditing instructions approved by the Board of quarter to verify the reliability of financial information. Directors. The internal audit unit, too, assesses processes associated The internal audit unit assists the Board of Directors in its with financial reporting. In 2014, the internal audit unit supervisory role by obtaining information on the adequacy examined procedures related to management reporting and and functionality of risk management and internal control in the project reporting process as well as internal controls and the Lemminkäinen Group and its business units. The internal authorisations associated with financial administration audit unit assesses the economy and efficiency of resource processes and systems. In addition, the internal audit unit usage, the reliability of reporting, the protection and security assessed procedures related to the financial reporting of the of assets, and compliance with regulations, operating subsidiaries. principles and guidelines. Malpractice reports are regularly submitted to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. Risk management associated with the financial reporting process One of the tasks of risk management is to identify and 2014 The internal audits of 2014 focused on malpractice proactively deal with threats associated with the accuracy of reports, construction project management, development financial reporting, the realisation of which could lead to a project assessment and internal control of financial reporting, situation in which the management would not have among other areas. sufficient and accurate information available for leading the company and the financial reports published by the company Insider admisinistration would not give materially true information and assessment Lemminkäinen observes NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd’s insider about the company’s business development and financial guidelines, which are supplemented by the insider guidelines position. The Group’s CFO is responsible for risk approved by Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors. The management associated with financial reporting. company maintains a public and company-specific register using Euroclear Finland Oy’s Sire system. Lemminkäinen manages the risks associated with the financial reporting process with instructions related to Insiders subject to disclosure requirements are the members accounting, reporting and investments and the Group’s of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors, the President and treasury policy. One of the aims of the unified SAP reporting CEO, and the chief auditor of the accounting firm. The system is to harmonise and simplify the financial reporting company also defines the members of Lemminkäinen’s process and to mitigate the risks related to the management Group Executive Team as insiders subject to disclosure of several parallel systems. requirements. The share ownership of all insiders subject to disclosure requirements has been made public. Project-type operations, 70 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Lemminkäinen also maintains permanent company-specific Statements and the Board of Directors’ Report give a true registers of people who regularly receive inside information and fair view, as defined in the rules governing financial due to their position or duties. Their share ownership has not reporting, of the Group’s operative result and financial been made public. When necessary, registers of projectposition, and as to whether the information contained in the specific insiders are also kept. Board of Directors’ Report is consistent with the Financial Statements. The auditor’s fee is paid annually, in accordance Auditing with the Annual General Meeting’s decision. Lemminkäinen has one auditor, which must be a firm of 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, a firm of authorised authorised public accountants approved by Finland’s Central public accountants, is Lemminkäinen’s auditor. Kim Karhu Chamber of Commerce. The Annual General Meeting elects has been chief auditor since 2011. In 2010, Lemminkäinen the auditor for a term of office that runs until the end of the invited bids from firms of authorised public accountants. following Annual General Meeting. In 2014, Lemminkäinen paid its auditor EUR 457,843 The scope of the audit encompasses the Group’s accounting, (657,373) in auditing fees and EUR 595,472 (358,217) in administration, Financial Statements and Board of Directors’ consultancy fees. The increase in consultancy fees is due to Report for each financial year. The Auditor makes regular the rights offering and other financial arrangements reports to the Audit Committee and submits an Auditor’s Lemminkäinen carried out. Report to the Annual General Meeting. The Auditor’s Report contains a statement as to whether the Financial 71 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Corporate Governance › Remuneration Remuneration Remuneration – Board of Directors of the Board also received an attendance fee of EUR 500 per meeting (500). Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Annual General Meeting elects the members of the Board of Directors on an annual basis The Chairman of the Audit Committee was paid an and also determines their fees. These fees are paid entirely as attendance fee of EUR 1,000 (1,000) and members EUR monetary compensation. The Board members’ terms of office 500 (500) per committee meeting. end upon the conclusion of the first Annual General Meeting held after their election. The members residing abroad were paid the attendance fee increased by EUR 1,000. Members of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors do not fall within the scope of the company’s share scheme, nor do they Travel expenses were reimbursed as invoiced. have an employment contract with Lemminkäinen. The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Berndt Brunow, 2014 The 2014 Annual General Meeting decided that the acted as the company’s interim President and CEO from 2 Chairman of the Board is paid a fee of EUR 10,000 per April to 31 July 2014, after President and CEO Timo month (2013: EUR 10,000) and Board members each Kohtamäki left the company on 2 April 2014. receive EUR 3,000 per month (3,000). Members Fees – Board of Directors 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 EUR per annum Board of Directors Berndt Brunow 120,000 120,000 Juhani Mäkinen 36,000 36,000 Noora Forstén 36,000 36,000 Finn Johnsson 1) 36,000 26,143 Mikael Mäkinen 2) 9,857 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 36,000 36,000 Heikki Räty 36,000 36,000 Total 300,000 300,000 1) From 9 April 2013 2) Until 9 April 2013 72 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Meeting fees – Board of Directors 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 EUR per annum Board of Directors Berndt Brunow 10,000 6,500 Juhani Mäkinen 12,500 8,500 Noora Forstén 10,000 6,500 Finn Johnsson 1) 28,500 13,500 Mikael Mäkinen 2) 2,000 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 13,000 9,000 Heikki Räty 16,000 11,500 Total 90,000 57,500 1) From 9 April 2013 2) Until 9 April 2013 Remuneration – Management Short-term incentives Management’s short-term incentives are based on the On the basis of a proposal submitted by the HR Committee, Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors decides on the salaries, opportunity to receive an annual performance bonus. The size shortand long-term incentives and other benefits received of this reward depends on whether or not the financial and by the President and CEO and the Group Executive Team. operational targets specified at the beginning of each year have been achieved. Lemminkäinen’s management is divided The scope of the management remuneration policy adopted into five groups, which determine the maximum percentage by the Board of Directors encompasses, in addition to the applicable to each individual. Individuals are allocated to President and CEO and the Group Executive Team, the these groups on the basis of their position in the business segment management teams and the Group’s other organisational hierarchy and the nature and commercial value key personnel. According to the remuneration policy, the of their position. remuneration of the President and CEO, the members of the Group Executive Team and other management personnel 2014 In 2014, the size of management’s performance consists of a fixed basic salary, other benefits, annual shortbonus was based on the Group’s operating profit, the Group’s term incentives (a performance bonus), and long-term return on investment and the achievement of other growth incentives (share-based incentives and pension schemes). and development targets, such as those associated with the improvement of customer satisfaction and operational A fixed basic salary denotes monthly monetary efficiency. Performance bonuses for the Executive Vice compensation, which is determined by the nature of the Presidents of business segments were also based on each position and the person’s experience and performance. segment’s operating profit and return on capital employed. Achievements were monitored every six months. The The content of the benefits defined in the management maximum performance bonus payable to the President and remuneration policy varies from country to country. The CEO was 80 per cent of the annual salary and 60 per cent for benefits available to the President and CEO and the Group other members of the Group Executive Team. Executive Team include the use of a company car and mobile phone, the meal benefit, and extended insurance coverage for Share-based incentive plan accidents and travel during their leisure time. The meal The 2013–2015 incentive plan benefit is generally available to persons whose employment At the end of 2012, Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Board of started before 1 January 2012. For the President and CEO Directors decided to introduce a share-based incentive plan and the Group Executive Team, total remuneration therefore for key personnel. The plan consists of both a performanceconsists of both a basic salary and benefits (excluding the based and a conditional reward. The conditional reward seeks meal benefit). to encourage the Group’s key personnel to increase their holding in the company. The Board of Directors recommends Each year, Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors decides on that the President and CEO and members of the Group indicators and targets for shortand long-term incentives, Executive Team retain ownership of half of all the shares they which seek to support the achievement of the strategic receive through the plan until the value of their holding targets. On the basis of a proposal by the President and CEO, corresponds to half of their annual salary. They should the Board decides on the targets to be reached and the size maintain this holding during the validity of employment or of the incentives. service. 73 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 A reward paid through this plan may correspond to the value The performance-based reward was based on Lemminkäinen of a maximum of 700,000 Lemminkäinen Corporation Group’s operating profit and its return on investment. The shares (including the monetary portion). The value of the reward for the earning period 2014 will be paid out in 2015 reward will be determined by the market price of the reward partly in company shares and partly in cash. The cash portion shares on the payment date. The Lemminkäinen Corporation will cover any deferred taxes and tax-related costs arising shares handed over as rewards will be bought from the stock from the reward. The shares may not be transferred during market. Therefore, the incentive plan will not have a diluting the commitment period, which ends two years after the end effect on the value of the shares. of the earning period. The company’s President and CEO and the members of the Group Executive Team must retain Performance-based reward ownership of half of all the shares they receive through the The plan consists of three earning periods: the calendar years plan for two years after the end of the commitment period. 2013, 2014 and 2015. The company’s Board of Directors decides on the plan’s earning criteria and the targets to be In order to receive the conditional reward, a key person had to set at the beginning of each earning period. own or acquire a specified number of company shares, or a percentage thereof, by 30 June 2013. The number was set A possible performance-based reward for the earning period by the Board of Directors. The conditional reward will be paid will be paid out partly in company shares and partly in cash. by the end of April 2016, partly in shares and partly in cash. The cash portion will cover any taxes and tax-related costs arising from the reward. The shares may not be transferred Pension plan during the two-year commitment period. If a key person’s As of 1 January 2010, additional pension plans for the employment or service contract ends during the commitment President and CEO and the Group Executive Team have been period, they will generally have to return any reward shares to based on a defined contribution plan and obtaining a paid-up the company without compensation. policy. Contributions are calculated as a percentage of annual Conditional reward salary. In addition to the performance-based reward, the abovementioned individuals also have the opportunity to receive a The President and CEO and other members of the Group conditional reward based on share ownership and a Executive Team are entitled to retire either upon reaching 60 continuation of their employment or service contract. In order years of age (under the old system) or upon reaching 63 to receive the conditional reward, a key person must already years of age (under the new system, which came into force own or acquire a specified number of company shares, or a on 15 September 2011). percentage thereof, by a specified date. The number and date are set by the Board of Directors. If they do so, key personnel The President and CEO’s contract of service The President and CEO’s contract of service may be will then be granted one share for each share acquired, as terminated with six months’ notice. Upon termination of the long as their employment or service contract remains valid contract by the company, the President and CEO shall be and they retain ownership of these shares until the entitled to receive a one-off severance payment equivalent to conditional reward is paid. The earning period for the 12 months’ salary in accordance with his or her salary rate at conditional reward is the calendar years 2013–2015. The the time of termination. In Timo Kohtamäki’s contract of conditional reward will be paid by the end of April 2016, service, the severance payment was equivalent to 18 months’ partly in shares and partly in cash. salary. 2014 About 50 people fell within the scope of the plan during the 2014 earning period. 74 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Remuneration and fees – Executive Team members (Excluding the President and CEO) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 EUR per annum Monetary salary* 2,276,414 1,565,226 Benefits 111,198 98,223 Performance-based incentives 222,329 0 Pension schemes 496,557 586,030 Total 3,106,498 2,249,479 Share-based incentive (shares, no.) 2,269 0 *Includes compensations related to redundancy Remuneration and fees – President and CEO Timo Kohtamäki 1 Jan–2 Apr 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 EUR per annum Monetary salary* 1,239,570 486,720 Benefits 11,721 24,627 Performance-based incentives 0 0 Pension schemes 329,633 337,000 Total 1,580,924 848,347 Share-based incentive (shares, no.) 0 0 *Includes compensations related to redundancy Berndt Brunow 3 Apr–31 Jul 2014 EUR per annum Monetary salary* 124,000 Benefits 2,164 Performance-based incentives 0 Pension schemes 0 Total 126,164 Share-based incentive (shares, no.) 0 *Excluding Chairman of the Board fee and meeting fees Casimir Lindholm 1 Aug–31 Dec 2014 EUR per annum Monetary salary 205,000 Benefits 6,125 Performance-based incentives 85,608 Pension schemes 75,175 Total 371,908 Share-based incentive (shares, no.) 267 75 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Corporate Governance › Board of Directors Board of Directors Berndt Brunow b. 1950, B.Sc. (Econ.) Chairman of the Board since 2008 and a member of the Board since 2002 Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the HR Committee Independent of the company and its major shareholders Juhani Mäkinen b. 1956, Counsellor of Law Vice Chairman and member of the Board since 2008 Member of the Audit Committee Independent of the company and its major shareholders Noora Forstén b. 1981, Secondary School Graduate Member of the Board since 2012 Member of the Nomination Committee and the HR Committee Independent of the company and non-independent of its major shareholders 76 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Finn Johnsson b. 1946, M.Sc. (Econ.) Member of the Board since 2013 Independent of the company and its major shareholders Kristina Pentti-von Walzel b. 1978, M.Sc. (Econ.), B.Sc. (Pol.Sc.) Member of the Board since 2007 Member of the Nomination Committee, the HR Committee and the Audit Committee Independent of the company and non-independent of its major shareholders Heikki Räty b. 1953, M.Sc. (Econ.) Member of the Board since 2009 Chairman of the Audit Committee Independent of the company and its major shareholders More detailed information about Board members can be found at: www.lemminkainen.com/Lemminkainen/Investors/Corporate-Governance/Board-of-Directors/Board-of-Directors/ 77 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Corporate Governance › Executive Team Executive Team Casimir Lindholm b. 1971, M.Sc. (Econ.), MBA President and CEO since 2014, member of the Executive Team since 2013, Group employee since 2013. Since 2013, Lindholm worked as Executive Vice President, responsible for building construction in Finland. Before joining Lemminkäinen, Lindholm worked at Eltel Networks as President Fixed Telecom and as CEO of Eltel Networks in Sweden. Maaret Heiskari b. 1966, B.Sc. Linguistics, JOKO 57 Executive education Executive Vice President, responsible for business in Russia, member of the Executive Team since 2013, Group employee since 2013. Before joining Lemminkäinen, Heiskari was Regional Director for Russia at KONE Corporation. Tania Jarrett b. 1963, Master of Arts Executive Vice President, HR, Lemminkäinen Group, member of the Executive Team since 2014, Group employee Since 2014. Before joining Lemminkäinen, Jarrett worked at Microsoft Mobile Oy as a HR Director. 78 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Harri Kailasalo b. 1969, M.Sc. (Eng.), eMBA Executive Vice President, responsible for infrastructure construction in Finland, Scandinavia and the Baltic countries as well as environmental leadership, procurement and occupational safety, member of the Executive Team since 2012, Group employee since 1995. Kailasalo previously held a variety of executive positions in infrastructure construction at Lemminkäinen, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Operations. Pauli Mäkelä b. 1954, M.Sc. (Eng.) Executive Vice President, responsible for building construction in Finland, member of the Executive Team since 2014, Group employee since 1982. Mäkelä has had a long career at Lemminkäinen and held a variety of executive positions both at Oy Alfred A. Palmberg AB and Lemminkäinen Corporation. Ilkka Salonen b. 1965, M.Sc. (Econ.) Chief Financial Officer, responsible for finance, risk management, investor relations and ICT, member of the Executive Team since 2014, Group employee since 2014. Before joining Lemminkäinen, Salonen held executive positions in finance at several companies, most recently as Chief Financial Officer at Neste Oil. More detailed information about the members of the Executive Team can be found at: www.lemminkainen.com/Lemminkainen/Investors/Corporate-Governance/Group-management/Executive-Team/ 79 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Corporate Governance › Risk management Risk management Risk management is an essential part of Lemminkäinen’s in the sanctions between the EU and Russia could, in the business operations; it ensures that the most significant worst case scenario, lead to a standstill in housing sales, strategic, operative, financial and accident risks are changes in the infrastructure market that are unfavourable to identified, analysed, assessed and managed proactively. Risk us, and/or the interruption of or withdrawal from our ongoing management aims to ensure the achievement of the Group’s projects. Furthermore, the political culture, legislation, its strategic and operational targets with the best possible result interpretation and regulatory practices in Russia compared to as well as to secure the continuity of the operations under Finland as well as the uncertainty of the legal system, changing conditions, too. administrative procedures and interpretation of law enforcement mechanisms as well as changes in them may Our risk management is based on the risk management policy result in significant risks for us. In order to manage the risks, approved by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors we have increased the efficiency of our housing sales. defines the Group’s risk appetite and risk tolerance in conjunction with its strategic and annual planning processes Legislative changes can affect market development and and through its decisions. The Board’s Audit Committee customer behaviour and, consequently, the profitability of our monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk business operations. We continuously monitor and analyse management in accordance with the annual planning. our operating environment, invest in the maintenance and implementation of our Code of Conduct and Corporate The Group’s President and CEO is responsible for the Governance, and provide guidelines and training to our implementation of risk management. Members of the Group employees. Executive Team are responsible for the execution of risk management in their respective areas of responsibility. The Operative risks Group Executive Team monitors the implementation of risk Lemminkäinen’s financial performance depends largely on management regularly. Every Lemminkäinen employee is successful contract and project management, which, among responsible for identifying any risks related to their own work other things, includes the correct pricing of the project, and for bringing them to the attention of their supervisor. reasonable use of resources, careful planning and scheduling, ability to procure raw materials at competitive prices, cost We train our personnel to implement risk management control, appropriate change management as well as efficient systematically and effectively. We provide our personnel with and timely handling of claims for damages. We are training in legal and contractual matters. The Group also has continually developing our contractual expertise and project detailed guidelines for different areas, such as competition management practices during the tender and execution law and insider issues. We monitor compliance with these stage. We are renewing project tracking systems and steering guidelines as part of line operations and management. models, and we are paying more attention to the personnel’s competence development. Lemminkäinen’s major risks Strategic risks Residential and commercial development and construction Uncertainty in the global economy and financial markets may projects involve sales and price risks, as we have full have a negative effect on Lemminkäinen’s operations, responsibility over the entire project, starting with plot performance, financial position and sources of capital. acquisition. Our target is to actively manage and monitor the Lemminkäinen’s business operations are sensitive to new risk related to the capital tied up in unsold completed construction cycles in Finland in particular. We manage the apartments and other assets. We take market changes and risk structurally by distributing our business operations risks into account when assessing the profitability of new throughout Scandinavia, the Baltic countries and Russia. development and construction projects. We only start new However, ongoing changes in the organisation and residential projects if a sufficient number of units have been management may affect our ability to implement our strategy reserved in advance, taking into consideration the area in in the changing operating environment. question, and we keep the number of unsold completed apartments at a minimum. When undertaking commercial In Russia, the weakened economic situation, the prolonged development, we usually sell the business premises to political uncertainty or the significant escalation property investors in the early stages of construction, thereby reducing sales risks. 80 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Fluctuations in the price of raw materials may have an and personnel training help us to manage our environmental impact on financial performance. Lemminkäinen’s biggest risks. individual outsourced raw material is bitumen, and its price is based on the world market price of oil. We manage the We manage risks associated with occupational safety by bitumen price risk with contractual terms and oil derivatives. providing regular training for our personnel and by investing in Unexpected changes in the weather may also cause the reporting of safety observations. Lemminkäinen’s Board fluctuations in our income from road construction and of Directors, the Group Executive Team and the business paving. segment management teams regularly monitor the development of occupational safety. As our business operations and operating environment develop, we also need new kinds of expertise. The success of Accidents and damage involving IT systems, personnel our development and business projects is greatly affected by security and information security may also pose accident the availability and commitment of competent personnel. In risks for us. We manage these risks by making plans for addition, Lemminkäinen’s turnaround requires change exceptional circumstances. The implementation of new IT management expertise. We manage these risks by supporting systems involves risks, which we manage through careful supervisory work and providing training as well as by planning and training. investing in the competence development of current Legal proceedings employees and in increasing their work motivation, whenever One-off risks are posed by the legal proceedings concerning possible. damages related to the asphalt cartel as well as charges for an alleged environmental offence related to the amounts of Financial risks recycled asphalt used in asphalt mass production. More In its business operations, Lemminkäinen is exposed to information about the legal proceedings and related claims financial risks, such as liquidity, foreign exchange rate and can be found in the Board of Directors' report and on the interest rate risks, and impairment of tangible and intangible company’s website. assets. Management of financial risks is based on the treasury policy, which defines the operating principles, and division of responsibility in financial risk management and More information about risks and risk funding activities as well as the company's risk appetite. management Lemminkäinen protects itself from currency exchange risks Lemminkäinen also publishes its assessment of the most primarily through operative means. If necessary, transaction essential risks in its interim reports that can be found on the risks are hedged with the aid of foreign currency loans and company’s website at currency derivatives. The company does not hedge www.lemminkainen.com/Lemminkainen/Investors/Releasestranslation risk. In 2014, approximately 40% of and-publications/Interim-Reports-and-FinancialLemminkäinen’s net sales were generated in functional Statements-Bulletins/. currencies other than the euro, the major currencies being the Russian rouble and the Norwegian, Swedish and Danish More information on the asphalt cartel and the related kronas. damages can be found on the company’s website at www.lemminkainen.com/Lemminkainen/Investors/LemminkainenAccident risks as-an-investment/Asphalt-cartel-issue/. The majority of our environmental impact stems from our production facilities, construction, and transportation. We More information about Lemminkäinen’s financial risks and regularly monitor our environmental impact and constantly management can be found on the company’s website at seek to reduce it by, for example, enhancing our production www.lemminkainen.com/Lemminkainen/Investors/Creditmethods and optimising transportation. Our guidelines, facilities/Financial-risks/. compliance with our management systems 81 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Group key figures Board of Directors' report Group key figures Key figures, IFRS Jan–Dec 2014 Jan–Dec 2013 Change Net sales 2,044.5 2,020.1 24.4 Infrastructure construction, EUR million 1,339.0 1,279.2 59.8 Building construction, Finland, EUR million 539.0 592.9 -53.9 Russian operations, EUR million 196.1 164.5 31.6 Other items, EUR million -29.6 -16.4 -13.2 Operating profit, EUR million 36.3 -89.3 125.6 Infrastructure construction, EUR million 38.0 -13.1 51.1 Building construction, Finland, EUR million 9.3 5.0 4.3 Russian operations, EUR million 19.7 -0.3 20.0 Other items, EUR million -30.8 -80.8 50.0 Operating profit, excl. NR-items, EUR million* 52.3 -3.9 56.2 Operating margin, % 1.8 -4.4 Infrastructure construction, % 2.8 -1.0 Building construction, Finland, % 1.7 0.8 Russian operations, % 10.1 -0.2 Operating margin, excl. NR-items, %* 2.6 -0.2 Pre-tax profit, EUR million -1.7 -116.1 114.4 Profit from continuing operations, EUR million -5.0 -96.2 91.2 Profit for the period , EUR million 18.1 -93.5 111.6 Earnings per share, continuing operations, EUR -0.68 -4.94 4.26 Earnings per share for the period, EUR 0.40 -4.81 5.21 Cash flow from operations, EUR million** -54.8 8.3 -63.1 * Non-recurring items included in IFRS operating profit are: 1–12/2014: Total EUR 16.0 million (EUR 9.6 million write-downs and EUR 6.4 million increase in provisions related to asphalt cartel) 1–12/2013: Total EUR 85.4 million (EUR 19.8 million write-downs and EUR 65.6 million damages paid and provisions related to asphalt cartel) ** 1–12/2014 cash flow from operations includes EUR 60 million of damages paid related to asphalt cartel. Key figures, IFRS 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Change Order book, continuing operations, EUR million 1,456.1 1,733.2 -277.1 Balance sheet total, EUR million 1,257.8 1,342.7 -84.9 Interest-bearing net debt, EUR million 213.6 326.5 -112.9 Equity ratio, % 37.1 27.3 Gearing, % 51.8 100.8 Return on investment, rolling 12 months, %* 13.5 -9.4 * Includes discontinued operations. 82 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Group strategy Group strategy In July 2014, Lemminkäinen reviewed its strategy and paving, where Lemminkäinen already has a leading position, sharpened its focus after the divestment of technical the company will continue measures to improve its building services. In the short term, Lemminkäinen competitiveness through enhanced operational and capital concentrates on improving its competitiveness, profitability efficiency. In building construction in Finland and Russia, and financial position. In the long term, the company seeks where the market outlook continues to be uncertain, profitable growth by utilising its strong market position in Lemminkäinen is focusing on selected customer segments infrastructure construction in Northern Europe. In and areas. Financial targets and actual performance Financial target Target level Actual 2014 Actual 2013 Actual 2012 Return on investment over the cycle 18% (15% by the end of 2016) 14% -9% 11% Equity ratio* at least 35% 37% 27% 37% Payment of dividend at least 40% of the profit for the financial year 0 0 27% * If hybrid bonds were recognised as debt, equity ratios would be: 2014: 25%, 2013: 22% and 2012: 31%. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Deliver 2014 cost savings programme Deliver 2014 cost savings programme Early in the year, Lemminkäinen launched the Deliver 2014 initiative within the company. Its target is to reach cost savings programme, which is centrally managed, and EUR 30 million annual cost savings in fixed costs by the end consists of three modules: operational efficiency of 2015. From this target, EUR 10 million cost savings were improvement in both Norway and Russia and the achieved in 2014. The total personnel impact of the streamlining of the cost structure in all countries. The efficiency measures in 2014 was approximately 500 fullprogramme was the most important improvement time equivalents. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Financial performance Financial performance Net sales Net sales by segment, IFRS Jan–Dec 2014 Jan–Dec 2013 Change Infrastructure construction, EUR million 1,339.0 1,279.2 59.8 Building construction, Finland, EUR million 539.0 592.9 -53.9 Russian operations, EUR million 196.1 164.5 31.6 Other operations and eliminations, EUR million -29.6 -16.4 -13.2 Group total, EUR million 2,044.5 2,020.1 24.4 In 2014, the Group’s net sales were EUR 2,044.5 million The Group’s net sales by country in January–December were (2,020.1). The impact of currency exchange rate changes on 52% from Finland, 32% from Scandinavia, 10% from Russia the euro-denominated net sales was EUR -73.2 million and 6% from the Baltic countries. Net sales by business type compared to the comparison year. The main factors were 45% from paving (including road maintenance, mineral contributing to the increase in net sales were major infra aggregates and earthworks), 14% from infra projects and projects in Finland, the paving business in Norway and 41% from building construction. Denmark as well as residential development projects in Russia. In building construction, competitive contracting in both Finland and Russia decreased. 83 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Operating profit FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 Operating profit by segment IFRS IFRS excl. NR excl. NR Infrastructure construction, EUR million 38.0 -13.1 39.2 -7.4 Building construction, Finland, EUR million 9.3 5.0 13.4 19.1 Russian operations, EUR million 19.7 -0.3 24.0 -0.3 Business segments, total, EUR million 67.1 -8.5 76.7 11.3 Other operations, EUR million -30.8 -80.8 -24.4 -15.2 Group, total, EUR million 36.3 -89.3 52.3 -3.9 FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 Operating margin (%) by segment IFRS IFRS excl. NR excl. NR Infrastructure construction, % 2.8 -1.0 2.9 -0.6 Building construction, Finland, % 1.7 0.8 2.5 3.2 Russian operations, % 10.1 -0.2 12.2 -0.2 Group, total, % 1.8 -4.4 2.6 -0.2 In 2014, the Group’s operating profit was EUR 36.3 million brisk housing sales especially towards the end of the year and (-89.3). The operating profit includes asset write-downs the completion of two residential projects during the second worth EUR 9.6 million (19.8) and a EUR 6.4 (65.6) half of the year. In Norway, the result turned clearly positive damages related to asphalt cartel and associated provision. through overhead reductions and by closing down The 2014 operating profit, excluding non-recurring items, unprofitable sites and business operations, among other improved clearly and amounted to EUR 52.3 million (-3.9). measures. In Building construction in Finland, the The impact of currency exchange rate changes on the eurodevelopment was positive in the first half of the year. denominated operating profit was EUR -5.0 million However, the profitability for the second half of the year was compared to 2013, mainly resulting from the weakening of impaired by the slowdown of housing sales and declining the external value of the rouble. margins in individual projects. The profit development was clearly better in the Helsinki metropolitan area compared to The profitability was improved by ongoing major infra the rest of Finland. The result for 2014 was impaired by projects in Finland, measures to lighten the cost structure expenses related to organisation renewal (approximately EUR and a long paving season in all operating countries. In Russia, 10 million). the strong result was supported by Order book Order book by segment, continuing operations 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Change Infrastructure construction, EUR million 682.6 866.7 -184.1 Building construction, Finland, EUR million 687.1 544.3 142.8 Russian operations, EUR million 86.4 322.2 -235.8 Group, total, EUR million 1,456.1 1,733.2 -277.1 of which unsold (residential development projects), EUR million 188.7 346.5 -157.8 At the end of 2014, the Group’s order book was 16 per cent In Russia, the order book was decreased by the completion of lower than at the same time in 2013. two residential development projects (a total of approximately 550 residential units) in late 2014. The most significant ongoing infra projects in Finland were the Rantaväylä tunnel in Tampere, the underground parking Of the order book, 47% came from building construction, facility in Oulu, the construction of three West Metro 23% from paving (including road maintenance, mineral stations and the Turvesolmu graded interchange in Espoo. aggregates and earthworks) and 30% from infra projects. The infrastructure construction order book was impaired by The order book by country was 70% from Finland, 21% from rock engineering in all Nordic countries. Scandinavia, 6% from Russia and 3% from the Baltic countries. In Building construction, Finland, the order book was increased by major contracting projects, such as the renovation of the Parliament Building and the Sibelius Academy in Helsinki as well as the school campus of timber to be built in Pudasjärvi with the PPP model. 84 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Balance sheet, cash flow and and financing Balance sheet, cash flow and financing Measures to strengthen the balance sheet a rights offering in the third quarter. With the offering, the company raised gross proceeds of EUR 29.3 million (net On 14 May 2014, Lemminkäinen announced the divestment proceeds of EUR 27.3 million). In addition, the company will of its technical building services business. The price was divest non-core assets and operations by EUR 70 million. At EUR 55.4 million, of which Lemminkäinen recorded capital the end of the year, the company had carried out divestments gain of EUR 23.6 million. amounting to EUR 21.5 million. In 2014, Lemminkäinen committed to strengthening its The Board of Directors proposes that Lemminkäinen will not balance sheet with EUR 100 million by the end of September pay any dividends for the financial year 2014. 2015. As part of the programme, the company conducted Balance sheet, financing and cash flow, IFRS 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Change Key figures, balance sheet Equity ratio, %* 37.1 27.3 Gearing, %** 51.8 100.8 Return on investment, %*** 13.5 -9.4 Capital invested, EUR million 760.3 731.7 28.6 Net working capital, EUR million 362.6 325.1 37.5 Financial position and liquidity Interest-bearing debt, EUR million 347.8 407.6 -59.8 of which long-term liabilities, EUR million 139.5 61.3 78.2 of which short-term liabilities, EUR million 208.3 346.3 -138.0 Liquid funds, EUR million 134.2 81.1 53.1 Interest-bearing net debt, EUR million 213.6 326.5 -112.9 Committed, unused credit limits, EUR million 185.0 175.0 10.0 Unused overdraft limits, EUR million 33.2 44.0 -10.8 Net financial costs, EUR million**** 37.9 26.8 11.1 Cash flow Cash flow from operations, EUR million***** -54.8 8.3 -63.1 * If hybrid bonds were recognised as debt, the equity ratio would be: 12/2014 24.6%, 9/2014 22.5% and 12/2013 21.5%. ** If hybrid bonds were recognised as debt, gearing would be: 12/2014 128.4%, 9/2014 125.5% and 12/2013 155.2%. *** Rolling 12 months **** Cumulative, from the beginning of the year. ***** The 2014 cash flow was impaired by the payment of EUR 60 million in damages related to the asphalt cartel. Balance sheet, financing and cash flow for the Interest-bearing debt at the end of the year amounted to EUR 347.8 million (407.6) and interest-bearing net debt financial year totalled EUR 213.6 million (326.5). Liquid funds increased On 31 December 2014, the balance sheet total was due to the divestment of the technical building services and EUR 1,257.8 million (1,342.7), of which shareholders’ equity measures related to the strengthening of the capital accounted for EUR 412.5 million (324.0). In 2014, structure. Of the company’s interest-bearing debt, shareholders’ equity was increased by the EUR 70 million EUR 127.1 million (73.1) comprises project loans, EUR 99.6 hybrid bond and the approximately EUR 30 million rights million (59.9) bonds, EUR 63.4 million (150.2) commercial offering. The slowdown of housing sales in Finland increased papers, EUR 50.2 million (57.8) finance lease liabilities, EUR net working capital. At the same time, the company has 5.6 million (45.1) loans from financial institutions and other released capital through more efficient invoicing, for example. liabilities, and EUR 2.0 million (21.5) pension loans. Of all Solvency was improved by measures related to the interest-bearing debt, 41% (32) was at a fixed interest rate. strengthening of the capital structure, the divestment of business operations and the improved result. 85 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Net financial costs increased in January–December and Cash flow from operations in January–December totalled amounted to EUR 37.9 million (26.8), representing 1.9% EUR -54.8 million (8.3). The cash flow includes the (1.3) of net sales. The increase was due to a EUR 7 million payment of EUR 60 million in damages related to the asphalt write-down of loan receivables related to the divestment of cartel. Lemcon Networks’ businesses, the renegotiated credit limits, increasing currency hedging costs for the rouble and valuation of interest rate derivatives. The interest expenses of the hybrid bonds are not recorded under the finance costs in the income statement; instead, their impact can be seen in the earnings per share as well as in equity. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Business segments Business segments Changes in the reporting structure in 2014 and 2015 Lemminkäinen changed its reporting structure on 1 August 2014 into three reporting segments: Infrastructure construction; Building construction, Finland; and Russian operations. The former Scandinavia business segment was integrated into the Infrastructure construction business segment. Russian operations include both building construction and infrastructure construction businesses. At the beginning of 2015, the Infrastructure construction business segment was divided into two: Paving, mineral aggregates and earthworks businesses were transferred to the new Paving business segment. Foundation engineering, civil engineering and rock engineering constitute the new Infra projects business segment. As of 1 January 2015, the reporting business segments are: Paving; Infra projects; Building construction, Finland; and Russian operations. Building construction in Sweden is reported as part of the Group’s other operations. Infrastructure construction Operating environment In Finland, infrastructure construction decreased due to weak development in building construction and cuts in road maintenance appropriations in the state budget. Underground infrastructure construction remained brisk, especially in urban growth centres. In Sweden, Norway and Denmark, road construction, including the renovation projects, maintained the demand for paving in particular. In addition, the governments of these countries are investing in the infrastructure network development and in road maintenance. In the Baltic countries, the market situation in infrastructure construction was mainly stable. The mild weather prolonged the paving season in all Lemminkäinen’s operating countries. FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 Key figures IFRS IFRS excl. NR excl. NR Net sales, EUR million 1,339.0 1,279.2 1,339.0 1,279.2 Operating profit, EUR million 38.0 -13.1 39.2 -7.4 % of net sales 2.8 -1.0 2.9 -0.6 Order book at end of period, EUR million 682.6 866.7 682.6 866.7 In January–December, net sales were EUR 1,339.0 million (1,279.2) and operating profit was EUR 38.0 million (-13.1). The operating profit includes asset write-downs worth EUR 1.2 million (5.7). The operating profit, excluding nonrecurring items, was EUR 39.2 million (-7.4). The impact of currency exchange rate changes on the euro-denominated net sales was EUR -33.2 million and on the operating profit EUR -0.7 million compared to 2013. Net sales by country were 41% from Finland, 49% from Scandinavia and 10% from the Baltic countries. Net sales by business type were 68% from paving (including road maintenance, mineral aggregates and earthworks), 21% from projects and 11% from building construction in Sweden. 86 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 In Finland, the profitability was improved by major infra projects as well as paving and mineral aggregates businesses. In Norway, the result turned clearly positive through overhead reductions and by closing down unprofitable sites and business operations, among other measures. The efficiency of paving project management and tendering process has also been improved. The segments’ operating profit includes an approximately EUR 3 million loss related to unreceived payments from the company’s customer Lappland Gold Miners that declared bankruptcy. At the end of the year, the order book for infrastructure construction was lower than in 2013: EUR 682.6 million (866.7), of which 67% attributable to 2015. The most significant decline in the order book took place in rock engineering in Finland and Sweden. Building construction, Finland Operating environment The market situation in building construction remained weak in 2014. Construction was supported by renovation, which remained stable. Only some 25,000 (28,000) new residential units were started, and the number is not expected to increase in 2015. Housing sales slowed down especially during the second half of the year as consumer demand was decreased by economic uncertainty and longer sales times of old private houses. Commercial construction was minimal, particularly outside the Helsinki metropolitan area. In 2015, the market situation in building construction is estimated to remain similar to 2014. FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 Key figures IFRS IFRS excl. NR excl. NR Net sales, EUR million 539.0 592.9 539.0 592.9 Operating profit, EUR million 9.3 5.0 13.4 19.1 % of net sales 1.7 0.8 2.5 3.2 Order book at end of period, EUR million 687.1 544.3 687.1 544.3 In January–December, net sales were EUR 539.0 million (592.9) and operating profit was EUR 9.3 million (5.0). The operating profit includes asset write-downs worth EUR 4.1 million (14.1). The operating profit, excluding non-recurring items, was EUR 13.4 million (19.1). The segment’s result was improved by residential and commercial projects in the Helsinki metropolitan area. The profitability was impaired by slowdown of housing sales and failures in individual projects such as a declined margin of approximately EUR 4 million related to an old consortium. Housing sales slowed down during the second half of 2014 and the number of reservations cancelled was higher than before. Due to the declining markets in 2014, the number of residential development start-ups targeted at consumers was slightly lower than in the previous year. The decrease in consumer demand was compensated by growing sales to investors. The number of unsold completed residential units doubled, and was 336 (164) at the end of the year. The order book of Building construction, Finland stood at EUR 687.1 million (544.3), of which 58% attributable to 2015. The order book was increased by major contracting projects such as the renovation of the Parliament Building and the Sibelius Academy in Helsinki as well as the school campus of timber to be built in Pudasjärvi with the PPP model. Lemminkäinen’s residential production (development projects and negotiated contracting) Jan–Dec 2014 Jan–Dec 2013 Change Started, units 1,410 1,191 219 of which development projects, units 979 1,058 -79 Completed, units 1,363 1,145 218 of which development projects, units 1,088 875 213 Sold, units 1,280 1,183 97 of which development projects, units 849 1,050 -201 Sales to investors, % 47 Under construction 31 Dec, units 1,362 1,211 151 of which unsold 31 Dec, units 522 557 -35 Unsold completed 31 Dec, units 336 164 172 Land bank, balance sheet value 31 Dec, EUR million 105.4 109.1 -3.7 Started in competitive contracting, units 244 159 85 87 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Russian operations Operating environment The economic uncertainty in Russia and the radical weakening of the rouble in 2014 increased mortgage interest rates and banks applied stricter loan terms in many locations. However, the economic and political uncertainty did not decrease consumer demand for housing in the so-called comfort class, where a large proportion of housing transactions are financed by the consumers themselves. Housing sales were brisk especially during the fourth quarter of the year. In infrastructure construction, several state-funded road renovation projects were started, especially on roads departing from Moscow. The outlook for 2015 continues to be uncertain. The declining oil price is slowing down the country’s economic growth and, together with the limited scope of the Russian financial markets, is impairing the general construction market situation. The increase in mortgage interest rates and the decreasing purchasing power of the middle class may reduce the demand for housing this year. FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 Key figures IFRS IFRS excl. NR excl. NR Net sales, EUR million 196.1 164.5 196.1 164.5 Operating profit, EUR million 19.7 -0.3 24.0 -0.3 % of net sales 10.1 -0.2 12.2 -0.2 Order book at end of period, EUR million 86.4 322.2 86.4 322.2 The net sales were EUR 196.1 million (164.5) and the operating profit was EUR 19.7 million (-0.3). The result includes a EUR 4.3 million write-down related to a residential development project completed in 2010. The operating profit, excluding non-recurring items, was EUR 24.0 million (-0.3). The impact of currency exchange rate changes on the euro-denominated net sales was EUR -40.0 million and on the operating profit EUR -4.3 million compared to 2013. Of the net sales, 48% came from residential development projects, 25% from infrastructure construction and 27% from building construction contracting. Profitability for 2014 was improved by residential development projects, better margins in ongoing contracts and profitable road and bridge special paving projects. Housing sales picked up towards the end of the year and the apartment price level in roubles rose. During the second half of the year, Lemminkäinen completed two residential development and construction projects in St Petersburg, comprising altogether 545 residential units as well as some individual commercial properties and parking spaces. Of the completed projects, a total of 446 residential units had been sold and recognised as revenue at the end of the year. At the end of the financial year, Lemminkäinen had one residential development project (418 residential units) under construction, with estimated completion at the end of 2015. The results for building construction contracting and infrastructure construction developed favourably in 2014, but the company recorded approximately EUR 1 million loss related to the termination of technical building services. The capital tied up in Russian operations at the end of period was EUR 61.9 million (85.6). The segment’s order book decreased clearly and stood at EUR 86.4 million (322.2) at the end of the year. The order book was decreased by the completion of two residential development projects and fewer contracting projects. Lemminkäinen’s residential development projects, Russia Jan–Dec 2014 Jan–Dec 2013 Change Started, units 0 757 -757 Completed, units 545 222 323 Sold, units 520 165 355 Under construction 31 Dec, units 418 963 -545 of which unsold, units 283 808 -525 Unsold completed 31 Dec, units 139 134 5 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Investments Investments Gross investments in 2014 amounted to EUR 30.0 million (71.2), representing 1.5% (3.5) of the company’s net sales. They were mainly replacement investments in infrastructure construction. Acquisitions increased investments in the comparison year. Lemminkäinen has imposed stricter criteria involving investments and more effective monitoring processes have been introduced. 88 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Personnel Personnel At the end of the year, Lemminkäinen employed 4,748 The number of personnel has decreased due to two personnel people (5,526), which was 778 people less than in 2013. Of reduction negotiations in Finland and similar negotiations in these, 2,070 (2,439) were white-collar workers and 2,678 other operating countries conducted in 2013 and 2014. The (3,087) were blue-collar workers. During the year, the results of the negotiations conducted in 2013 are fully visible number of white-collar workers decreased by 369 people in the number of personnel. The personnel reductions related (-15%) and that of blue-collar workers by 409 people to the negotiations conducted in 2014 have, for the most (-13%). part, been realised. Personnel by business segment, continuing operations 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Change Infrastructure construction, persons 2,925 3,266 -341 Building construction, Finland, persons 1,038 1,224 -186 Russian operations, persons 635 755 -120 Parent company, persons 150 281 -131 Group, total, persons 4,748 5,526 -778 Personnel by country, continuing operations 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Change Finland, persons 2,315 2,726 -411 Sweden, Norway, Denmark, persons 1,155 1,256 -101 Baltic countries, persons 642 738 -96 Russia, persons 635 755 -120 Other countries, persons 1 51 -50 Group, total, persons 4,748 5,526 -778 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Changes in management Changes in management During 2014, the composition of Lemminkäinen’s Executive In connection with the strategy revision, Timo Vikström left Team changed significantly. At the beginning of the year, the the company on 30 July 2014. Tiina Mikander left the members of the Executive Team were: Timo Kohtamäki, company on 1 November 2014. President and CEO; Robert Öhman, CFO; Casimir Lindholm, EVP Building construction, Finland; Harri Kailasalo, EVP At the beginning of the year 2015, the members of Infrastructure construction, Finland and the Baltic countries; Lemminkäinen’s Executive Team were (the date of Marcus Karsten, EVP Technical building services; Timo appointment): Casimir Lindholm, President and CEO Vikström, EVP Scandinavia; Maaret Heiskari, EVP Russian (1 August 2014); Ilkka Salonen, CFO (11 June 2014); Harri operations; Tiina Mikander, Chief Strategy Officer; Tiina Kailasalo, EVP Infra projects; Robert Blumberg, EVP Paving Mellas, EVP, HR, and Jouni Pekonen, EVP, Procurement. (1 January 2015), Pauli Mäkelä, EVP Building construction, Finland (1 November 2014); Maaret Heiskari, EVP Russian President and CEO Timo Kohtamäki left the company on operations; and Tania Jarret, EVP HR (1 November 2014). 2 April 2014 and CFO Robert Öhman on 7 April 2014. In connection with the divestment of the Technical building Berndt Brunow, Chairman of the Board of Directors, acted as services business segment, Marcus Karsten left the company Lemminkäinen’s interim President and CEO from 3 April to on 13 June 2014. Jouni Pekonen left the company on 31 July 2014. 9 June 2014 and Tiina Mellas on 19 June 2014. 89 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Occupational safety and environment Occupational safety and environment The goal of Lemminkäinen’s occupational safety measures is other measures. The company invests in safeguarding to create a safe working environment for all employees and biodiversity by developing post-extraction measures in its subcontractors. Lemminkäinen is committed to the shared mineral aggregate areas. Lemminkäinen constantly develops occupational safety principles of the Confederation of its production technology in order to reduce its energy Finnish Construction Industries RT, which aims to accelerate consumption and environmental impact. the construction industry’s progress towards the zeroaccident target. At the Group level, Lemminkäinen measures energy consumption figures and the environmental impact of its In 2014, Lemminkäinen continued to harmonise the rules for production facilities in Finland. Each business segment occupational safety in all of our operating countries. In monitors the indicators relevant to their business. addition, the company included the subcontractors’ site accident frequency rate in its safety statistics. More detailed information on Lemminkäinen’s occupational safety and environmental issues are presented in the Lemminkäinen minimises the environmental impact of its company’s Annual Report and on its website. operations by using natural resources as sparingly as possible and by using recycled materials in our production, among Financials › Board of Directors' report › Research and development Research and development Research and development activities at Lemminkäinen focus for example, the efficiency of business operations and quality on the utilisation of information technology in construction, assurance. Lemminkäinen’s Central Laboratory carries out environmental and energy efficiency, and service infrastructure construction R&D. The company aims to development. Lemminkäinen has also initiated a variety of constantly increase the percentage of low-temperature and developmental measures to improve operational efficiency. recycled asphalts in its production. In 2014, the Group’s research and development expenditure accounted for The Group’s business segments are each responsible for their approximately 0.5 (0.6) per cent of net sales. own research and development activities, which focus on, Financials › Board of Directors' report › Shares Shares The company has one share class. Each share carries one Trading with shares vote at a general meeting of shareholders and confers an At the end of 2014, the market capitalisation of equal right to a dividend. Lemminkäinen’s share capital is Lemminkäinen’s shares stood at EUR 220.9 million (298.2). EUR 34,042,500 and the total number of shares was The price of Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share on the 23,219,900 at the end of the financial year. In 2014, NASDAQ OMX Helsinki was EUR 15.20 (14.28) at the Lemminkäinen conducted a rights offering, which increased beginning of the 2014 and EUR 9.52 (15.20) at the end. In the number of shares by 3,569,724. The subscription price addition to the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, Lemminkäinen’s of the offer shares was EUR 8.20 per share, and the share is also traded on alternative markets. A total of company raised gross proceeds of approximately 1,268,320 shares (2,076,080) were traded during 2014, of EUR 29.3 million (net proceeds of EUR 27.3 million) through which alternative markets accounted for 14 per cent (15). the offering. (Source: Fidessa Fragmentation Index) Treasury shares At the end of 2014, Lemminkäinen owned 16,687 of its own shares. 90 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Shareholders Shareholders The company had 4,532 shareholders (4,705) at the end of Shareholder agreements 2014. Nominee-registered and non-Finnish shareholders The company is not aware of any agreements between held 13 per cent (13) of all Lemminkäinen Corporation shares shareholders that would have a significant bearing on the use and voting rights. Information on company ownership and of ownership rights or voting behaviour at general meetings division by segment and scale, major shareholders, and share of shareholders. ownership of Executive Team members and the Board of Directors is available on the company’s website, www.lemminkainen.com/Investors. Flagging notifications The company received one flagging notification in 2014 (on 22 August 2014). Lemminkäinen Corporation’s shares held by Noora Forstén decreased from 1,966,073 shares, i.e. 10.0 per cent of all shares, to 1,866,073, i.e. 9.5 per cent, decreasing below 10 per cent of all shares and votes in Lemminkäinen Corporation. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Resolutions of the AGM and administration Resolutions of the AGM and administration On 9 April 2014, Lemminkäinen Corporation's Annual The General Meeting confirmed the number of members of General Meeting adopted the Company's annual accounts the Board of Directors as six. Berndt Brunow, Noora Forstén, and consolidated financial statements for 2013 and granted Finn Johnsson, Juhani Mäkinen, Kristina Pentti-von Walzel, the members of the Board of Directors and the President and and Heikki Räty were elected as members of the Board. CEO discharge from liability. The General Meeting resolved, in PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, a firm of authorised public accordance with the Board of Directors' proposal, that no accountants, was re-elected to serve as the Company's dividend be paid for the financial year ended auditor. 31 December 2013. Lemminkäinen Corporation's Board of Directors held its The General Meeting resolved, in accordance with the Board organising meeting on 9 April 2014.The Board re-elected of Directors' proposal, to authorise the Board of Directors to Berndt Brunow as the Chairman and Juhani Mäkinen as the resolve on the repurchase of the Company's own shares. In Vice Chairman of the Board. The Board of Directors elected accordance with the authorisation, the Board of Directors from among its members Heikki Räty to serve as the may resolve to repurchase a maximum of 1,000,000 own Chairman of the Audit Committee, with Juhani Mäkinen and shares. The authorisation is effective for a period of 18 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel serving as members. Berndt months from the resolution of the General Meeting. Brunow was elected to serve as the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, with Noora Forstén and Kristina In addition the General Meeting resolved, in accordance with Pentti-von Walzel serving as members. Berndt Brunow was the Board of Directors' proposal, to authorise the Board of elected to serve as the Chairman of the HR Committee, with Directors to resolve on a share issue and/or an issue of Noora Forstén and Kristina Pentti-von Walzel serving as special rights entitling to shares referred to in Chapter 10, members. Section 1 of the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act in one or several instalments, either against payment or without payment. The number of shares to be issued, including the shares to be received based on special rights, shall not exceed 3,900,000 shares. The Board of Directors may resolve to issue either new shares or own shares possibly held by the Company. The authorisation is effective for a period of 18 months from the resolution of the General Meeting. 91 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Legal proceedings Legal proceedings Damages related to the asphalt cartel More information on the asphalt cartel, related damages and related communications can be found on the company’s On 28 November 2013, the District Court of Helsinki issued website its decisions concerning damages related to the asphalt http://www.lemminkainen.com/Lemminkainen/Investors/​ cartel. In line with the decisions, Lemminkäinen recorded Lemminkainen-as-an-investment/Asphalt-cartel-issue/. approximately EUR 66 million in expenses in its 2013 result. Of this, approximately EUR 60 million consisted of damages ordered only to Lemminkäinen, Lemminkäinen’s share of the Quotas related to the use of recycled asphalt damages ordered to it and other asphalt industry companies On 7 December 2014, the prosecutor decided to press to be paid jointly and severally, as well as interest and legal charges for an environmental offence against Lemminkäinen expenses related to the damages. This amount was paid by and two of its employees. The alleged offence is related to the company in January 2014. the quotas for the amount of recycled asphalt used in asphalt mass production, as defined in the environmental permits of Lemminkäinen has appealed against all 35 decisions, where the company’s Sammonmäki asphalt plant in Finland. The the plaintiffs’ claims were partly upheld, to the Helsinki Court prosecutor is demanding Lemminkäinen a confiscation of of Appeal. In Lemminkäinen’s opinion, there are some judicial illegal profit of EUR 3.4 million and a corporate fine of at aspects in the decisions of the District Court, where the least EUR 120,000. conclusions of the District Court differ from previous legal practices. Such judicial aspects are related to the questions Lemminkäinen and its employees consider themselves not of prescriptions and value added tax, for example. The main guilty of the charges presented. The case pertains to the oral hearing in the Court of Appeal will take place during interpretation of a regulation in the environmental permit. 2015. The Finnish state and 22 municipalities have also Crushing recycled asphalt for using it as raw material for new submitted their appeals to the Helsinki Court of Appeal. asphalt is an ecological practice. It reduces the environmental hazards of production when compared to In addition to the claims which the Helsinki District Court has asphalt made of virgin materials. Asphalt mass containing decided on in November 2013, Lemminkäinen has been recycled asphalt is of the same quality as asphalt mass made served summons regarding 21 claims against Lemminkäinen of virgin materials. and other asphalt companies for damages. The capital amount of these claims is approximately EUR 26 million. For The hearing of the case will most likely start at the District these claims, Lemminkäinen has made a provision worth Court of Tuusula in the spring of 2015. EUR 12.3 million. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Risks and uncertainties Risks and uncertainties Risk management is an essential part of Lemminkäinen’s its business operations throughout Scandinavia, the Baltic business operations. Its main target is to ensure achievement countries and Russia. However, ongoing changes in of strategic and operational targets with best possible results management and organisational structure may affect including continuity of the operations under changing Lemminkäinen's ability to implement its strategy in changing conditions. Lemminkäinen’s risk management is based on operating environment. the risk management policy approved by the Board of Directors. In Russia, the negative economic trends and prolonged political uncertainties including major escalation of sanctions Uncertainty in the global economy and financial markets may between EU and Russia could, in the worst case scenario, have a negative effect on Lemminkäinen’s operations, culminate in a standstill of housing sales, changes in the performance, financial position and sources of capital. infrastructure markets unfavourable to Lemminkäinen and/or Lemminkäinen’s business operations are sensitive to new the interruption or exits of ongoing projects. On top of this, construction cycles in Finland in particular. The company the differing political culture, legislation, its interpretation manages the risk structurally by distributing and procedures of the authorities compared to Finland and 92 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 the uncertainty of the legal system, administrative premises are usually sold to property investors in the early procedures and interpretation of law enforcement stage of a construction, thereby reducing sales risks. mechanisms as well as changes in them may result in significant risks to Lemminkäinen. In order to manage the The price fluctuation of raw materials may have an impact on risk, Lemminkäinen has increased the efficiency of its financial performance. Lemminkäinen’s biggest individual housing sales. outsourced raw material is bitumen, and its price depends on the world market price of oil. Lemminkäinen manages the Lemminkäinen’s financial performance depends largely on bitumen price risk with contractual terms and oil derivatives. successful contracting and project management, which, On top of this, unexpected changes in the weather conditions among other things, includes the correct pricing of the and business cycles can cause volatility in income project, reasonable use of resources, careful planning and generation. scheduling, ability to procure raw materials at competitive prices, cost control, management of change requests as well Lemminkäinen’s business operations are exposed to financial as efficient and timely handling of claims for damages. risks, such as liquidity, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, Lemminkäinen is continually developing its contractual as well as impairment of tangible and intangible goods. expertise and project management practices during the Management of financial risks is based on Lemminkäinen tender and implementation stage. Project monitoring treasury policy defining the operating principles and division systems and steering models are being renewed and more of responsibility in financial risk management and funding attention has been paid to the personnel’s competence activities. Lemminkäinen seeks to protect itself from development. currency exchange risks primarily through operative means and, if necessary, transaction risks are hedged with the aid of In the residential and commercial development and foreign currency loans and currency derivatives. The company construction projects, Lemminkäinen is exposed to price and does not hedge translation risk. In 2014, approximately 40% sales risks due to the full responsibility over the entire project, of Lemminkäinen’s net sales were generated in functional starting with plot acquisition. The aim is to actively manage currencies other than the euro, the major currencies being the and monitor the valuation risk related to the capital tied up in Russian rouble as well as Norwegian krone, Swedish krona unsold completed apartments and other assets. and Danish krone. Lemminkäinen evaluate new residential development projects by taking the market changes and risks into account. More information about Lemminkäinen’s risks, including a The company starts new housing construction only if a more detailed description of the company’s risk sufficient number of units have been reserved in advance. management, is presented on the company website. A more The requisite number of reserved units varies regionally. detailed account of the financial risks is also provided in the When undertaking commercial development, business notes to the annual financial statements. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Market outlook Market outlook In Finland, the outlook for new construction is still weak and as the West Metro, City Rail Loop (Pisararata) and the tram building construction is supported by renovation projects, in Tampere. The outlook for infrastructure construction will which are less dependent on the economic cycles. The be impaired by weak development in building construction general economic uncertainty and longer sales times of old and cuts in road maintenance appropriations in the state private houses will slow down housing sales to consumers. budget. Ongoing urbanisation will affect the housing market in many ways, and the focus of demand will be on small apartments In Norway, Sweden and Denmark, multi-year, state-funded in urban growth centres. The few commercial construction traffic infrastructure development plans are currently projects will also be concentrated in urban growth centres underway. These countries are also investing in the renewal and the Helsinki metropolitan area in particular. of energy production, and large-scale road and rail projects are being planned around urban growth centres over the The outlook for infrastructure construction improved slightly coming years. In addition, the private sector will most likely after the governmental programme last summer. However, continue to invest in infrastructure construction. the benefits yielded by these investments will most likely to be realised in full from 2016 onwards. The government In Russia, the outlook continues to be uncertain. The committed to promote significant traffic projects, such declining oil price and lack of investments slow down 93 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 the country’s economic growth and impairs the general In the Baltic countries, the volume of infrastructure construction market. The weakening of the rouble increases construction is estimated to decrease in 2015 but to pick up mortgage interest rates, which may also decrease the in 2016. In these countries, several road construction and demand for comfort-class apartments in the near future. renovation projects are being planned, many of them with EU Efforts to develop infrastructure are ongoing, and numerous funding. The possible launch of the Rail Baltica traffic stateand municipality-funded projects to expand and repair project would boost the infrastructure construction market road networks are currently underway across the country. situation in all of the Baltic countries. However, the decline in oil price limits state funding, which may have an impact on the volume of infra projects and their prioritisation in the coming years. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit Board of Directors’ proposal for the distribution of profit The distributable shareholders’ equity shown on the balance The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that the sheet of the parent company, Lemminkäinen Corporation, company will not pay a dividend for the financial year ended amounts to EUR 136,159,542.86 consisting of 31 December 2014, and thus retained earnings would stand EUR 90,580,653.68 in invested unrestricted equity fund, at EUR 45,578,889.18. EUR 47,951,259.89 in retained earnings from previous years and EUR -2,372,370.71 in result for the financial year. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Profit guidance for 2015 Profit guidance for 2015 Lemminkäinen estimates that its net sales will not increase Helsinki, 4 February 2015 as compared to 2014 net sales (EUR 2,044.5 million). Operating profit (IFRS) is expected to improve as compared LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATION to 2014 (EUR 36.3 million). Board of Directors 94 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Consolidated income statement (IFRS) Consolidated income statement (IFRS) EUR 1,000 Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Net sales 2 3 6 2,044,482 2,020,127 Other operating income 7 18,251 16,212 Change in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 14,487 50,063 Production for own use 1,402 1,526 Use of materials and services 1,477,516 1,545,771 Employee benefit expenses 8 29 30 39 336,964 361,738 Depreciation and amortisation 2 9 43,164 44,642 Impairment 9 1,270 Other operating expenses 10 183,951 225,654 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 11 497 562 Operating profit 2 36,255 -89,316 Finance income 12 41,285 18,155 Finance costs 12 79,194 44,928 Profit before income -1,654 -116,089 Income taxes 13 -3,346 19,885 Profit from continuing operations -5,000 -96,204 Profit from discontinued operations 14 23,130 2,705 Profit for the financial year 18,130 -93,498 Profit for the financial year attributable to Equity holders of the parent company 18,165 -93,723 Non-controlling interests -35 225 Basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent company From continuing operations 15 -0.68 -4.94 From discontinued operations 15 1.08 0.13 From profit for the year 15 0.40 -4.81 95 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (IFRS) Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (IFRS) EUR 1,000 Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Profit for the financial year 18,130 -93,498 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Defined benefit pension obligations 16 27 -3 2,404 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Translation difference 16 27 -18,559 -7,675 Cash flow hedge 16 27 59 378 Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 16 27 -15 Other comprehensive income, total -18,504 -4,909 Comprehensive income for the financial year -374 -98,407 Comprehensive income for the financial year Equity holders of the parent company -339 -98,632 Non-controlling interests -35 225 Comprehensive income attributable to equity holders of the parent company arises from Continuing operations -23,469 -101,337 Discontinued operations 23,130 2,705 96 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Consolidated statement of financial position (IFRS) Consolidated statement of financial position (IFRS) EUR 1,000 Note 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 18 181,217 201,111 Goodwill 19 53,846 80,100 Other intangible assets 19 20,182 29,234 Holdings in associates and joint ventures 11 6,916 8,831 Available-for-sale financial assets 20 3,191 3,764 Deferred tax assets 13 42,026 38,540 Other non-current receivables 21 546 904 307,923 362,484 Current assets Inventories 22 523,987 504,385 Trade and other receivables 23 290,014 391,174 Income tax receivables 1,656 3,529 Available-for-sale financial assets 24 25,118 30,010 Cash and cash equivalents 25 109,080 51,072 949,854 980,170 TOTAL ASSETS 1,257,777 1,342,654 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to owners of the parent company Share capital 27 34,043 34,043 Share premium account 27 5,675 5,675 Hedging reserve 27 -59 Invested non-restricted equity fund 27 91,448 63,763 Hybrid bond 27 138,377 69,095 Translation difference -21,702 -3,143 Retained earnings 146,360 247,807 Profit for the financial year 18,165 -93,723 412,365 323,457 Non-controlling interests 11 143 582 Total equity 412,508 324,038 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 28 139,513 61,348 Deferred tax liabilities 13 15,583 13,168 Pension obligations 29 553 867 Provisions 31 27,461 19,935 Other non-current liabilities 32 793 3,033 183,903 98,351 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 28 208,291 346,277 Provisions 31 11,134 7,229 Trade and other payables 32 440,882 564,851 Income tax liabilities 1,059 1,906 661,366 920,264 Total liabilities 845,269 1,018,615 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,257,777 1,342,654 97 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Consolidated cash flow statement (IFRS) Consolidated cash flow statement (IFRS) EUR 1,000 Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Cash flows from operating activities (including discontinued operations) Profit before taxes 21,554 -117,521 Adjustments 35 Depreciation and impairment 44,684 45,329 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures -497 -562 Finance income and costs 37,900 26,669 Other adjustments -37,609 -4,757 Cash flow before change in working capital 66,031 -50,842 Change in working capital Increase(-)/decrease(+) in trade and other receivables 8,184 -54,459 Increase(-)/decrease(+) in inventories -51,583 -18,589 Increase(+)/decrease(-) in current liabilities -52,459 156,225 Cash flow from operations before financial items and taxes -29,827 32,335 Interest paid -23,624 -25,177 Other finance costs paid -35,892 -18,346 Dividends received 615 361 Interest received 700 1,285 Other finance income received 34,942 16,304 Income tax paid -1,679 1,513 Cash flow from operating activities -54,765 8,275 Cash flows from investing activities (including discontinued operations) Purchases of property, plant and equipment -23,732 -26,025 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 15,279 15,814 Purchases of intangible assets -3,655 -15,563 Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 180 569 Investments in other assets -93,795 -92,010 Proceeds from sale of other investments 99,996 124,587 Acquired subsidiary shares less cash and cash equivalents at time of purchase -2,760 -11,849 Disposed subsidiary shares less cash and cash equivalents at time of sale 58,600 -2,265 Purchases of shares in associates and joint ventures 393 Cash flow from investing activities 50,507 -6,742 Cash flows from financing activities (including discontinued operations) Increase(-)/decrease(+) of long-term loan receivables -646 -185 Rights offering 29,272 Transaction cost from rights offering -1,984 Proceeds from short-term borrowings 199,729 490,682 Repayments of short-term borrowings -303,631 -456,614 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 300,604 301,271 Repayments of long-term borrowings -217,683 -291,437 Hybrid bond 69,283 Repayments of finance lease liabilities -12,030 -14,678 Dividends paid -143 -11,744 Cash flow from financing activities 62,771 17,296 Increase(+)/decrease(-) in cash and cash equivalents 58,513 18,829 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 51,072 34,926 Translation difference of cash and cash equivalents -505 -2,683 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of financial year 25 109,080 51,072 98 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Consolidated statement of changes in equity (IFRS) Consolidated statement of changes in equity (IFRS) Invested Parent nonTranscompany NonShare Fair restricted lation ResharecontrolShare premium Hedging value equity Hybrid differtained holders' ling Total EUR 1,000 Note capital account reserve reserve fund bond ence earnings equity interest equity Equity 1 Jan 2013 34,043 5,675 -436 15 63,607 69,095 4,532 264,861 441,391 373 441,764 Profit for the financial year -93,723 -93,723 225 -93,498 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Pension obligations 29 2,404 2,404 2,404 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Translation difference 27 -7,675 -7,675 -7,675 Cash flow hedge 27 378 378 378 Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets -15 -15 -15 Comprehensive income for the financial year 378 -15 -7,675 -91,319 -98,632 225 -98,407 Acquisition of shares of noncontrolling interest -270 -270 -270 Change in non-controlling interest -16 -16 Option to redeem shares from non-controlling interest -535 -535 -535 Direct entries, acquisition of non-controlling interest -800 -800 -800 Recognition of share-based payments 156 -808 -651 -651 Hybrid bond interest -5,285 -5,285 -5,285 Dividends paid 17 -11,762 -11,762 -11,762 Transactions with owners, total 156 -19,459 -19,303 -16 -19,318 Equity 31 Dec 2013 34,043 5,675 -59 63,763 69,095 -3,143 154,084 323,457 582 324,038 Invested Parent 99 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Invested Parent nonTranscompany NonShare Fair restricted lation ResharecontrolShare premium Hedging value equity Hybrid differtained holders' ling Total EUR 1,000 Note capital account reserve reserve fund bond ence earnings equity interest equity Equity 1 Jan 2014 34,043 5,675 -59 63,763 69,095 -3,143 154,084 323,457 582 324,038 Profit for the financial year 18,165 18,165 -35 18,130 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Pension obligations 29 -3 -3 -3 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Translation difference 27 -18,559 -18,559 -18,559 Cash flow hedge 27 59 59 59 Comprehensive income for the financial year 59 -18,559 18,161 -339 -35 -374 Share-based incentive schemes 163 163 163 Contingent shares returned to the company -403 -403 Shares returned to the company, acquisition of noncontrolling interest by share exchange in 2010 424 424 424 Rights offering 27 29,272 29,272 29,272 Transaction cost from rights offering 27 -1,587 -1,587 -1,587 Hybrid bond interest -8,307 -8,307 -8,307 Transactions with owners, total 27,684 -7,720 19,964 -403 19,561 Hybrid bond 27 69,283 69,283 69,283 Equity 31 Dec 2014 34,043 5,675 91,448 138,377 -21,702 164,525 412,365 143 412,508 100 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Accounting principles applied in the IFRS consolidated financial statements, 31 December 2014 Accounting principles applied in the IFRS consolidated financial statements, 31 December 2014 Basic information on the company 2015. Copies of the Lemminkäinen Corporation’s and the consolidated financial statements will be available on the Lemminkäinen Corporation is a public limited company company’s website at www.lemminkainen.com from week 10 established under the laws of Finland and domiciled in of 2015 onwards. Printed copies of the consolidated Helsinki. The company’s registered address is financial statements can be ordered via e-mail Salmisaarenaukio 2, 00180, Helsinki, Finland. info@lemminkainen.com, from week 11/2015 onwards. Lemminkäinen Corporation is the parent company of the Group and together with its subsidiaries comprises the Lemminkäinen Group (later “the Group” or “the company”). Principles of consolidation The Group produces building and infrastructure construction Subsidiaries mainly in Finland and other Nordic countries as well as in The consolidated financial statements include Russia and the Baltics. Lemminkäinen Corporation and those entities (subsidiaries) that are under its control. Lemminkäinen Corporation controls Basis of preparation an entity when it has power over that entity and it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its Standards (IFRS), and the IAS and IFRS standards as well as power over the entity. Subsidiaries acquired during the accounting period are included in the consolidated financial the SIC and IFRIC interpretations that were in force on 31 December 2014 have been observed in their preparation. The statements from the moment of the Group gaining control, and divested subsidiaries up until the time that the control is term ‘International Financial Reporting Standards’ refers to standards and their interpretations authorised for use in the lost. Direct acquisition costs are recognised as other European Union in accordance with the procedure prescribed operating expenses in the income statement. in EU Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 as well as in the Intra-group shareholdings are eliminated by means of the Finnish Accounting Act and the provisions laid down acquisition method. The acquisition price comprises the pursuant to the Act. The notes to the consolidated financial consideration paid, the non-controlling interest in the statements are also in accordance with Finnish accounting acquiree, and the fair value of the previously held interest. and community legislation supplemental to the IFRS The consideration paid is measured as the fair value of the regulations. assets given, liabilities assumed, and equity instruments The preparation of financial statements requires issued by the Group. Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the time of acquisition and is management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting included in the consideration paid. It is classified as either a liability or equity. Any contingent consideration classified as policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, a liability is fair valued on the reporting date of each reporting income and expense. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The areas involving management judgements, period, and the resulting gains or losses are recognised through profit or loss. A contingent consideration classified estimates and assumption are presented in paragraph Management judgements and estimates as equity is not re-measured. Non-controlling interest in the acquiree is recognised on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis The financial statements have been prepared in euros and are at either fair value or the amount corresponding to the share presented in thousands of euros in the annual report. of the net assets of the acquiree held by non-controlling Transactions are treated on the basis of original acquisition interests. The amount by which the sum of the consideration costs, with the exception of financial instruments, pension paid, the non-controlling interest in the acquiree, and the fair obligations, contingent considerations in acquisitions value of the previously held interest exceed the fair value of recognised as liability and options to redeem shares from the acquired net assets is recognised as goodwill on the non-controlling shareholders recognised as liability. balance sheet. If the total amount of consideration, the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, and the previously held The Board of Directors approved the publication of the interest is smaller than the fair value of the acquired consolidated financial statements on 4 February subsidiary’s net assets, the difference is recognised 101 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 in the statement of comprehensive income. Fixed price method the Group’s share of the profit of the joint venture symmetrical put and call option in relation to acquisition of corresponding to its ownership stake is included in the non-controlling interest is recognised at fair value in the consolidated income statement. Correspondingly, the financial liabilities. When this kind of option exists, the share Group’s share of the equity in the joint venture, including the of the non-controlling interest is not recognised in the goodwill arising from its acquisition, is recorded as the value consolidated balance sheet. of the Group’s holding in the joint venture on the consolidated balance sheet. If the Group’s share of the losses The treatment of transactions with non-controlling interests of a joint venture exceeds the investment’s carrying amount, is the same as that of transactions with the Group’s the investment is assigned a value of zero on the balance shareholders. When shares are acquired from non-controlling sheet and the excess is disregarded, unless the Group has interests, the difference between the consideration paid and obligations related to the joint venture. the carrying amount of the acquired net assets in the subsidiary is recognised in equity. Gains or losses from the Unrealised gains arising in connection with business and sale of shares to non-controlling interests are also recognised fixed asset transactions between the Group and joint in equity. When control or significant influence is lost, the ventures are eliminated in proportion to the holding. The remaining holding, if any, is measured at fair value and the eliminated gain is recognised through profit or loss as it is change in the carrying amount is recognised through profit or realised. loss. This fair value serves as the original carrying amount when the remaining holding is subsequently treated as an Associates associate, a joint venture, or financial assets. In addition, the An associate is an entity over which the company has amounts concerning said company that were previously significant influence. If the company holds, directly or recognised in other comprehensive income are treated as if indirectly, 20 per cent or more of the voting power of the the Group had directly surrendered the related assets and entity, it is presumed that the company has significant liabilities. This means that amounts previously recognised in influence, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is other comprehensive income items are recycled to profit or not the case. The company consolidates associates using the loss. equity method. The Equity method is described above in joint arrangements paragraph. Intra-group transactions; unrealised internal margins; and internal receivables, liabilities, and dividend payments are Operating segments eliminated on consolidation. The distribution of profit for the The Group comprises the following operating segments: financial year to the shareholders of the parent company and Infrastructure construction; Building construction, Finland to the non-controlling interests is presented in the income and Russian operations. statement. On the balance sheet, the non-controlling interest is included in the total equity of the Group. Reported segment information is based on internal segment reporting to the chief operating decision maker. Joint arrangements Lemminkäinen Group’s chief operating decision maker is the A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more President and CEO of Lemminkäinen Corporation. Internal parties have joint control. Joint control is the contractually segment reporting to the management covers net sales, agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists depreciation, operating profit, and as assets fixed assets, only when decisions about the relevant activities require the inventories, and trade receivables. The figures reported to the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Control is management are accurate to the nearest EUR 1,000. defined similarly as with subsidiaries. Reportable segment information is prepared according to the A joint arrangement is classified as a joint operation or a joint accounting principles applied for the consolidated financial venture. The participating parties of a joint operation have statements with the exception of discontinued operations, the rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, which are not specified in the segment information. relating to the arrangement. The company consolidates its share of the joint operation’s assets, liabilities, revenues and Intra-group transactions are priced at market prices. The cost expenses. The company’s consortiums in Finland are plus method, wherein the price of a product or service is typically classified as joint operations. determined by the addition of an appropriate profit mark-up to the costs incurred, is the main transfer pricing method The participating parties of a joint venture have the right to applied. the joint arrangement’s net assets. The company consolidates joint ventures using the equity method. In equity 102 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Presentation of the financial statements Income statements of group companies outside the euro area are translated into euros in line with the average exchange The Group presents two separate income statements: the rates for the accounting period. Items in the balance sheet consolidated income statement and the consolidated and in the statement of comprehensive income are translated statement of comprehensive income. The former includes the into euros at the exchange rates prevailing on the balance components of profit and loss and the latter starts with the sheet date. The translation differences resulting from the profit for the financial period and presents the equity changes translation of the income statement and balance sheet at that are unrelated to the shareholders. The consolidated different exchange rates and from the elimination of the statement of changes in equity itemises the transactions acquisition cost of subsidiaries outside the euro area are with shareholders. recognised in equity and the changes presented in the statement of comprehensive income. When foreign Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued subsidiaries are divested, the translation difference accrued operations in equity is recognised through profit and loss as part of Non-current assets are classified (or disposal group) as held gains or losses. for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally Goodwill arising from the acquisition of subsidiaries outside through a sale transaction and sale is highly probable. If the the euro area as well as fair value adjustments to the carrying carrying amount of non-current assets will be recovered amounts of the assets and liabilities of the foreign principally through a sale transaction rather than through subsidiaries are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign continuing use, they are measured at the lower of its carrying subsidiaries in question and are translated into euros at the amount and fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. stops/ceases from the moment the asset is classified as held for sale. Financial assets A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that Financial assets are recognised on the settlement date. The either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale. A Group classifies financial assets on initial recognition into discontinued operation represents a separate major line of the following categories: financial assets at fair value business or geographical area of operations, or is part of a cothrough profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, and ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business loans and receivables. The category is determined in or geographical area of operations. As well a subsidiary accordance with the purpose for which the financial asset acquired exclusively with a view to resale is classified as a has been acquired. Financial assets are derecognised once discontinued operation. The profit for the current and the Group has lost the contractual right to their cash flows or comparative period from discontinued operation is presented when it has substantially transferred their risks and rewards separately in the consolidated income statement. to a party outside the Group. Foreign currency items Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include all which is also the functional and presentation currency of the derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge accounting Group’s parent company. The figures relating to the profit criteria. These derivative contracts include interest rate, and financial position of group companies are initially foreign exchange and commodity derivatives. Derivatives are recognised in the functional currency of their operating carried at fair values based on market prices and generally environment. Every group company’s functional currency is accepted valuation models. Changes in the fair values are the primary currency of the economic environment in which recognised according to the nature of the derivative, either in the entity/company operates. Transactions in foreign the Group’s financial items or in other operating income or currencies are translated into the functional currency at the expenses. exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are financial assets other are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the balance than derivative contracts, that are specifically designated as sheet date. Exchange rate differences resulting from such or that are not classified in any other category. The operating activities are recorded as adjustments to the Group’s available-for-sale financial assets include property, corresponding items above the operating profit. Exchange housing-company and other shares, as well as short-term rate gains and losses related to financing are recognised as money-market investments. Available-for-sale financial finance income and costs. assets are measured at fair value. Changes in the fair 103 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 values are recognised in equity and presented in other and generally accepted valuation models. Changes in the fair comprehensive income. If a fair value cannot be reliably values are recognised according to the nature of the measured, the asset is recognised at cost less impairment, if derivative, either in the Group’s financial items or in other any. The dividends from equity instruments included in operating income or expenses. available-for-sale financial assets and the interest from fixed-income instruments are recognised under financial Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are items. capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates. When financial assets classified as available-for-sale are sold or impairment is recognised, accumulated fair value The Group has non-current and current financial liabilities, changes recognised in equity are reclassified in profit or loss and they may be interest-bearing or non-interest-bearing. either under other operating income or expenses if the asset Financial liabilities are derecognised once the Group’s is an equity instrument, or under financial items if the asset obligations in relation to liability is discharged, cancelled or is other than an equity instrument. expired. Loans and receivables Capitalisation of borrowing costs Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets The company capitalises borrowing costs that are directly with fixed or determinable payments, and are not quoted in attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an active market. Loans and receivables of the Group also a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset. A include trade and other receivables on the balance sheet. qualifying asset is one that takes a substantial period of time Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value to complete for its intended purpose. A qualifying asset may added with transaction costs and are subsequently measured be a fixed or movable asset, an inventory item or an intangible at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. asset. Cash and cash equivalents Capitalisation commences when the company first incurs Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, bankexpenditures for a qualifying asset giving rise to borrowing account balances and liquid money-market investments with costs, and when it undertakes activities that are necessary original maturities of three months or less. for preparation of the asset for its intended use or for sale. Capitalisation is suspended when effective production is Impairment of financial assets halted. Capitalisation ceases when all activities necessary to On every reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is complete the asset for its intended use or sale have been any objective evidence of impairment of the value of a carried out. financial asset or a group of financial assets. If there is objective evidence of impairment, the amount recoverable Derivative financial instruments and hedge from the financial asset, which is the fair value of the asset, is estimated and the impairment loss is recognised wherever accounting the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the balance Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. sheet on the date a derivative contract is entered into and For example, when a debtor is in significant financial subsequently re-measured at their fair value on each difficulties, any probable bankruptcy, delinquent payments, reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or payments that are more than 90 days overdue constitute or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a evidence of possible impairment of the receivables. hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. Financial liabilities The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting for certain Financial liabilities are initially recognised on the settlement variable-rate loans. The Group documents at the inception of date at fair value less transaction costs. Subsequently, all the transaction the relationship between hedging financial liabilities except derivative instruments are instruments and hedged items, as well as its risks measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate management objectives and strategy. The effectiveness of method. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss the hedging relationship is assessed at inception and then at include all derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge regular intervals at least on every reporting day. The gain or accounting criteria. These derivative contracts include loss relating to the effective portion of the eligible derivatives interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity derivatives. are deferred in hedging reserve of equity and presented in Derivatives are carried at fair values based on market prices other comprehensive income. The ineffective portion 104 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 is recognised under financial items in the income statement. When the costs incurred and recognised profits are greater The cumulative change in fair value is transferred from equity than billing based on the project’s progress, the difference is and recognised in the income statement for the periods in presented under the balance sheet item ‘trade and other which the hedged item affects the result. receivables’ as project income receivables. If the costs incurred and recognised profits are less than the billing based When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or the hedge no on the project’s progress, the difference is presented in the longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedge balance sheet item ‘accounts payable and other current accounting is ceased. Any cumulative gain or loss from the liabilities’ as received advance payments or project expense hedging instrument remains in equity until the forecasted liabilities. transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. If the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, In commercial building construction, the amount and the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is probability of lease liability commitment is estimated as a immediately transferred to the income statement within project progresses. Provision is made, when there is a buyer financial items. for the property and the management estimates that it is probable that the company will have to fulfil lease liability Derivatives that are not eligible for hedge accounting are commitments. classified as current assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognised according to the There are long-term construction projects from which nature of the derivative, either in other operating income and revenue is recognised with percentage-of-completion expenses or in the financial items. method in all segments of the company. Completed contract method Revenue recognition Revenue from building construction projects, where the buyer Revenues from goods and services sold are recognised as net does not have a contractual right to specify major structural sales less indirect taxes and discounts. If the sales elements of the building is recognised on completion in transaction contains both unconditional and contingent connection with delivery and in accordance with revenue considerations, the company examines the meeting of recognition principles of the sale of manufactured goods. revenue recognition criteria concerning both considerations Projects from which revenue is recognised on completion are separately. mostly Building construction and Russian operations segments’ own residential and commercial building Recognition of revenue from construction projects development projects. Percentage-of-completion When recognising revenue from construction projects, the company applies the percentage-of-completion method if Recognition of revenue from services Revenue recognition from services is based on the the project in question possesses the characteristics of percentage-of-completion on the reporting date. The same construction contract and the project’s outcome can be revenue recognition principles are applied as for recognition estimated reliably. Construction contracts from which of construction projects under the percentage-of-completion revenue is recognised with percentage-of-completion method. Service business exists in all segments of the method are specifically negotiated for the construction of an company. asset or a combination of assets. In the case of real estate construction, the buyer must also be able to decide on the Recognition of revenue from the sale of manufactured goods primary structural or functional characteristics of the project The company recognises revenue from the sale of before or during construction, in order for the real estate manufactured goods at the time when the significant risks construction project to be recognised using the percentageand rewards associated with product ownership are of-completion method. If the project’s outcome cannot be transferred to the buyer and the company no longer has any estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent of authority or control over the product. As a rule, this means contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable the time when the product is handed over to the customer in and costs are expensed in the period in which they incur. accordance with the agreed terms and conditions of delivery. The percentage-of-completion of a project is calculated as The fair value of revenue received, adjusted for indirect taxes, discounts given and exchange rate differences on foreign the ratio of actually incurred costs to estimated total costs. If currency sales, is presented in the income statement as net it is likely that the total costs needed for completion of a project on the order book will exceed the total revenue sales. There are sales of manufactured goods mostly in infrastructure segment. receivable from the project, the anticipated loss is immediately recognised in its entirety as an expense. Recognition of life-cycle projects Intangible assets 105 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Recognition of life-cycle projects Intangible assets In life-cycle projects, the operator – that is, the service An intangible asset is recognised in the balance sheet, when provider – builds or improves the infrastructure used for the cost of the asset can be measured reliably and it is service provision and provides operation services for said probable that the expected economic benefits that are infrastructure. The company recognises revenue from attributable to the asset will flow to the entity. Intangible construction and improvement services as well as from assets are recognised at cost less amortisation and operation services on the basis of the percentage-ofimpairment in the balance sheet. Amortisation of an completion. intangible asset is recorded from the moment the asset is available for use. Amortisations are recorded until the end of Recognition of interest and dividends the asset’s useful economic life. When all amortisations Interest income is recognised over the period of the borrowing according to plan are made, the residual value of the asset is using the effective interest rate method. Dividends are zero. Residual values and useful lives of the assets are recognised when the right to receive payment is established. reviewed at each financial year-end and, and adjusted, if necessary to reflect changes in the expected economic Non-current assets benefits. Property, plant and equipment Goodwill Property, plant and equipment are recognised on the balance Goodwill is the amount by which the acquisition cost sheet at cost less depreciation and impairment. Property, exceeds the Group’s interest in the net fair value of its plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the over their estimated useful economic lives. Land has time of acquisition. Possible non-controlling interest is indefinite useful economic life and is therefore not subject to measured either at fair value, or a value equal to the nondepreciation. Estimated useful economic lives of property, controlling owners’ proportions of the identifiable net assets plant and equipment are as follows: of the acquiree. The valuation principle is determined separately for each acquisition. Buildings and structures 10–40 years Machinery and equipment 3–10 years Goodwill is not amortised. Instead, it is regularly tested for Mineral aggregate deposits depreciation based on impairment. In the impairment testing, goodwill is allocated material depletion to cash-generating units. Goodwill is recognised on the Other property, plant and equipment 10 years financial statements at cost less impairment, if any, which is expensed on the income statement. An asset is subject to depreciation when it is available for use. Depreciation is charged over the period from the asset’s Other intangible assets introduction to use until the end of its useful economic life. Other intangible assets include IT software licence fees as The residual value and economic life of assets are reviewed in well as other licence fees and patents, including their connection with the preparation of each annual financial advance payments. Other intangible assets are recorded at statements and, if necessary, these are adjusted to reflect cost in the balance sheet and are depreciated over their any changes that may have occurred in the economic benefit useful economic lives. The estimated useful lives of expected. When all depreciation charges according to plan intangible assets are: have been made, the residual value of the asset is zero. IT software licence fees 5 years Depreciation of property, plant and equipment ceases when it Other intangible assets 5–10 years is classified as held for sale. Other capitalised expenditure Normal maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred. Significant improvements or additional investments Intangible assets include other capitalised expenditure that are capitalised and depreciated over the remaining useful are not related to property, plant and equipment and have economic life of the asset to which they pertain, provided economic effects lasting longer than one year. Other that it is likely that the company will derive future economic capitalised expenditure creates future economic benefits over benefit from the asset. Gains on the sale of property, plant their useful economic lives. The benefits can be either and equipment are presented in other operating income, and income or cost savings. losses in other operating expenses. The Group expenses the Research and development expenditure interest costs of the acquisitions of property, plant and Research expenditure is expensed as incurred. Development equipment, unless the project meets the requirements for expenditure is recognised on the balance sheet when the capitalisation of borrowing costs, in which case they are intangible asset satisfies all the following criteria: capitalised as part of the acquisition cost. 106 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Research and development phases can be separated Impairment losses related to assets other than goodwill are from each other reversed if the estimates used for determination of the recoverable amount of the asset have changed. The biggest It is technically feasible and it can be used or sold It will be completed and either used or sold permitted reversal equals the carrying amount of the asset less depreciation if impairment was not recognised in earlier It can be demonstrated that the asset will generate probable future economic benefit and that the company years. has the adequate resources to use or sell the intangible asset Leasing agreements wherein the Group is the lessee Its development expenditure can be reliably measured Leasing agreements that pertain to property, plant and equipment in which a substantial proportion of the risks and If the development expenditure does not satisfy all the above rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are capitalisation criteria, it is expensed as incurred. classified as finance leases. Finance leases are presented as assets in the balance sheet at a value equal to the fair value Grants received of the leased item on the date of the lease’s commencement Government grants received from a public-sector source are or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease recognised as income on the income statement at the same payments. Corresponding liability is presented in current and time that corresponding costs are expensed. Investment non-current borrowings. grants are deducted from the value of the asset in question. Assets leased under finance leases are depreciated over the Impairment useful economic life of the asset class or a shorter period as The carrying amounts of assets are assessed on each the life of the lease elapses. Possible impairment losses are reporting date to determinate whether there are indications of recognised as reductions of the asset in question. Annual impairment. If indications of impairment are found, the lease payments are divided into finance costs and debt recoverable amount for the asset in question is assessed. The amortisation instalments over the life of the lease so that the recoverable amount for an asset is either its fair value less same interest rate is applied to the outstanding debt in every costs to sell or, if higher, its value in use. In the measurement accounting period. of value in use, expected future cash flows are discounted to their present value with discount rates that reflect the time Leasing agreements in which the risks and rewards of value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The ownership are retained by the lessor are treated as operating Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) is used as the leases. Payments under operating leases are treated as lease discount factor. WACC takes into account the risk-free expenses, and they are expensed over the lease term. If the interest rate, the liquidity premium, the expected market rate lease agreement is not expected to yield future benefits, the of return, the industry’s beta value, country risk and the debt minimum lease payments under the contract are immediately interest rate, including the interest rate margin. These recognised as costs. components are weighted according to the fixed, average target capital structure of the sector. If it is not possible to Inventories calculate the recoverable cash flows for an individual asset, Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition cost and the recoverable amount for the cash-generating unit to which net realisable value. The cost of inventories comprises all the asset belongs is determined. An impairment loss is costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other costs recognised on the income statement if the carrying amount incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location exceeds the recoverable amount. and condition. The costs of selling are not included in the valuation of inventories at cost. Finance costs are included in Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever it the valuation of inventories at cost only when the particular may be concluded that there is a need to do so. Goodwill is project meets the requirements set for capitalisation of allocated to cash-generating units in a consistent manner. In borrowing costs. The cost of materials and supplies is the impairment tests, the recoverable amount from the assigned by using the FIFO (first-in, first-out) principle. Net business of a cash-generating unit is derived from value-inrealisable value is the estimated selling price in ordinary use calculations using cash flow forecasts based on business operations less the estimated expenditure on comprehensive profitability plans confirmed by the product completion and sales. The carrying amounts of management for a specific period as well as other justifiable separate items in inventories are not decreased when the estimates of the future outlook for the cash-generating unit completed products in which the items belong to are and its business sector. expected to be sold at a price equalling or exceeding the combined acquisition costs of the separate items. 107 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Treatment of own building developments is estimated by discounting the expected future cash flows using the same discount rate that is used for defining the Expenditure committed to own building developments is pension liability. capitalised on the balance sheet as inventories. Liabilities and prepayments related to real estates under construction Remuneration schemes are included in current liabilities. The share of loans obtained The Group has a share-based remuneration schemes. Sharethat corresponds to the unsold proportion of flats that are based rewards are measured at fair value of Lemminkäinen still under construction as well as the proportion of loans for share on the date of their being granted and expensed over completed but unsold flats is included in current interesttheir vesting and commitment periods. Matching shares are bearing liabilities. expensed over their commitment periods. The expenses of other management remuneration are recognised in the Employee benefits income statement as personnel expenses as they arise. Pension obligations The pension schemes of Lemminkäinen’s group companies Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent are generally defined contribution plans. Defined contribution plan related payments are made to pension insurance assets companies, after which the Group has no other payment A provision is made when the Group has a legal or obligations. Payments in respect of defined contribution constructive obligation based on some past event and it is plans are expensed on the income statement in the likely that exemption from responsibility would either require accounting period in which they accrue. Other pension plans a payment or would result in a loss, and that the amount of than defined contribution plans are defined benefit plans. liability can be reliably measured. Provisions have not been The company has defined benefit plans in Norway and discounted because of the minor effect of the discounting. Finland. In the case of a defined benefit plan, a pension Warranty provisions cover after completion repair costs liability is recognised to the extent that the plan gives rise to arising from warranty obligations. Warranty provisions are a pension obligation. If a defined benefit plan gives rise to a calculated on the basis of the level of warranty expenses pension surplus, it is recognised in prepayments and accrued actually incurred in earlier accounting periods and are income on the balance sheet. recognised when income from a project is recognised on the The pension costs of a defined benefit plan are measured by income statement. If the Group will receive reimbursement the projected unit credit method. The amount of pension from a subcontractor or material supplier on the basis of an liability is calculated by deducting the fair value of the assets agreement in respect of anticipated expenses, the future belonging to the pension scheme from the present value of compensation is recognised when its receipt is, in practice, the future pension obligations. The defined benefit pension beyond doubt. costs consist of employee service based expenses and are Provision is made for onerous contracts when the amount of booked to employee benefit expenses for the duration of the expenditure required by the agreement to fulfil the obligations employee service. Net interests from defined benefit plans exceeds the benefits that may be derived from it. The are booked to finance income or costs. The actuarial gains provisions made for onerous contracts do not include the and losses are recognised through the statement of losses from construction contracts. comprehensive income as a change in pension obligation or asset. Landscaping provision is made in respect of those sites where landscaping is a contractual obligation. The amount of The Finnish group companies’ pension liability is determined the provision is based on the use of ground materials. by calculating the present values of estimated future cash flows, using Eurozone high investment grade companies’ 10-year liability provision arising from residential and bond interest rates as discount rates. In Norway, where no commercial construction is determined by considering the deep markets for mentioned bonds exist, the discount rate is class of 10-year liabilities as a whole. In this case, the determined by Norwegian government bonds’ market returns. likelihood of future economic loss for one project may be The bonds used in determining the discount rates are in the small, although the entire class of these obligations is same currency as pension benefits to be paid. The chosen considered to cause an outflow of resources from the discount rate reflects the estimated average moment of company. payment of the benefits. Lease liability commitment arises, when the company has a Market values are primarily used for defining the fair value of contractual obligation to obtain tenants for premises not yet plan assets. If a market value is not available, the fair value leased in a commercial real estate under construction. The 108 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 amount and probability of lease liability commitment is Carry-forward tax losses are treated as a tax asset to the estimated as the project progresses. Provision is made, when extent that it is likely that the company will be able to utilise there is a buyer for the property and the management them in the near future. Deferred tax is not recognised in estimates that it is probable that the company will have to respect of non-tax-deductible goodwill. A deferred tax fulfil lease liability commitments. liability is only recognised in respect of the undistributed profits of subsidiaries if payment of the tax is expected to be The company recognises a provision for legal proceedings realised in the foreseeable future. when it estimates that an outflow of financial resources is likely and the amount of the outflow can be reliably Distribution of dividends estimated. The proposed dividend by the Board of Directors to the Contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from annual general meeting is not recognised as a deduction of past events and whose existence will only be confirmed by distributable equity until it has been approved by the Annual the occurrence of an uncertain future event that is not wholly General Meeting. within the control of the Group. In addition, a present obligation whose settlement is not likely to require and Hybrid bond outflow of financial resources and an obligation whose A hybrid bond is recognised in shareholders’ equity after amount cannot be measured with sufficient reliability are equity belonging to shareholders. The bond holders do not deemed contingent liabilities. No provision is made for have any rights equivalent to ordinary shareholders, and the contingent liability and it is presented in the notes of the bond does not dilute shareholders' ownership in the financial statement. company. The company has no contractual obligation to repay the loan capital or the interest on the loan. The hybrid Contingent assets usually arise from unplanned or other bond is initially recognised at fair value less transaction cost unexpected events that give rise to the possibility of an and subsequently the bond is measured at cost. If interest is inflow of economic benefits to the entity. Contingent assets paid to the hybrid bond, it is recognised directly into retained are not recognised in financial statements but it is presented earnings. in the notes of the financial statement. Treasury shares Income taxes Where the parent company of the group or any group Taxes calculated on the basis of the taxable profit or loss of company purchases the parent company’s equity share group companies for the accounting period, adjustments to capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including taxes for earlier accounting periods, and change in the any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from deferred tax liability and assets are recognised as income equity attributable to the company’s equity holders until the taxes on the consolidated income statement. The tax effect shares are cancelled. Where such ordinary shares are associated with items recognised directly in equity is subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is recognised correspondingly in equity. included in the equity attributable to the company’s equity The deferred tax is calculated from the temporary differences holders. No gain or loss is recognised in the income between taxation and accounting, with either the tax rate in statement from purchasing, selling, issuance or cancellation of company’s equity instrument. force on the balance sheet date or a known tax rate that will come into force at a later date. A deferred tax liability is not recognised in respect of a temporary difference that arises Earnings per share from the initial recognition of an asset or liability (other than Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit from a business combination) and affects neither accounting attributable to equity holders of the parent company, less income nor taxable profit at the time of transaction. A hybrid bond interest calculated on accrual basis and adjusted deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is with tax effect, by the weighted average number of ordinary likely that there will be future taxable profit against which the shares in issue during the year. Treasury shares held by the temporary difference may be utilised. The most significant company and outstanding ordinary shares that are temporary differences arise from accelerated depreciations contingently returnable are excluded from the weighted for tax purposes, the revenue recognition practice for average number of ordinary shares in issue. Diluted earnings construction projects, internal gains from sales of fixed per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average assets, finance leases, provisions, unused tax losses, number of ordinary shares in issue to assume the conversion measurements of fair value made in connection with of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. acquisitions, and pension obligations. 109 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Management judgement and estimates or obligations arising from leasing or other agreements, and the magnitude of any residual value. The use of judgement and estimates When preparing the financial statements, the company Inventories management has to make accounting estimates and Inventories are considered by comparing its cost with assumptions about the future, as well as judgement-based recoverable amounts in ordinary course of business, the sodecisions on the application of the accounting principles. called net realisable value. The net realisable value is an These estimates and decisions affect the reported amounts entity-specific value which is based on the most reliable of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the accounting evidence available at the time. Materials and other supplies period as well as the recognition of contingent items. The held for use in the production of inventories are not writtenestimates and assumptions are based on historical down below cost if the finished products in which they will knowledge and other justifiable assumptions which are be incorporated are expected to be sold at or above cost. considered to be reasonable at the time of preparing the financial statements. It is possible that actuals differ from Capitalisation of borrowing costs the estimates used in the financial statements. Information The company’s management makes estimates when on key aspects of the financial statements for which assessing whether a project fulfils the criteria of a qualifying management judgement and estimates have been necessary asset. is presented below. Financial assets Subsidiaries Judgements and estimates are used when assessing The management makes judgements when considering impairment of financial assets. The estimates are done whether an investee possesses the characteristics of a according to the company's credit policy and are based on subsidiary. An investee is considered a subsidiary, when the realised credit losses and the company's empirical knowledge investor has power over that entity and it is exposed, or has and surveys. rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through Leasing agreements where the Group is the lessee its power over the investee. The management have had to make judgements when classifying leasing agreements as either finance or operating Joint arrangements leases. The classification of leasing agreements is made in The management makes judgements when considering accordance with generally accepted standards for the whether an investee possesses the characteristics of a joint definition of finance leases, and it is based on the actual arrangement. An investee is considered a joint arrangement, content of the agreement. According to the definition of a when all entities that are a party to a joint arrangement have finance lease, essentially all of the economic risks and joint control. rewards of ownership are transferred to the lessee. The classification is always made at the lease’s inception. The The management makes judgements when classifying joint provisions of a leasing contract can be amended by arrangements to be either joint operations or joint ventures. agreement with the lessor, in which case the classification The participating parties of a joint operation have the rights may have to be revised. A change that takes place in an to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the estimation criterion – such as a change in the present value arrangement. The company consolidates its share of the joint of minimum lease payments relative to the fair value of the operation’s assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. The leased asset – does not constitute grounds for participating parties of a joint venture have the right to the reclassification. joint arrangement’s net assets. The company consolidates joint ventures using the equity method. Recognition of revenue from construction projects When recognising revenue from construction projects, the Economic lives of property, plant and equipment and company observes the percentage-of-completion method if intangible assets the project in question possesses the characteristics of The management makes estimates and judgements when construction contract and the project’s outcome can be considering and defining the useful economic lives and estimated reliably. Costs actually incurred include only those depreciation methods for productive assets. The factors costs that correspond to work already carried out. considered in the estimation of useful economic lives include Management estimates are necessary for reliable the purpose of a productive asset, the effects of wear, determination of the total costs that will be incurred for maintenance and repair stemming from use of the asset, the completion of a project. All project costs are itemised and duration of the asset’s technical usability, limitations measured as accurately as possible to facilitate 110 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 comparison with earlier values. If the management assess a are based on profitability plans approved by the business’s project to be onerous (i.e. total costs exceed total income), management for a certain period and on other justifiable the loss is immediately expensed. If the management are estimates of the prospects for the business sector and the unable to make a reliable determination of the total revenue cash-generating unit. In connection with impairment tests, from a construction project, revenue is recognised only to the the management must estimate whether the fair value of an extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be asset has decreased during the accounting period, whether recoverable and costs are expensed in the period in which significant adverse changes have occurred in the operating they incur. environment, whether it is necessary to change the discount rate applied in value-in-use calculations, and whether the Recognition of provisions carrying amount of a company’s net assets is higher than its The management estimates, based on its best knowledge, fair value. On the basis of these and possibly other indicators whether it is likely that the settlement of a present obligation both within and outside the company, the management will result in an outflow of resources embodying economic assesses whether there is any need to perform additional benefits from the Group. If such a condition exists and a impairment tests on asset items between the annual tests. A reliable estimate as to the amount and the timing of the more detailed description of the estimates and assumptions obligation can be made, then it is recognised as a provision in concerning goodwill impairment testing is given in the notes the financial statements. to the financial statements. Acquisition cost Taxes Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent Management estimate pertains to the principles for liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured recognition of deferred tax assets. The most common taxinitially at their fair values at the acquisition date. When deductible temporary difference between accounting and measuring fair value, the management use estimates based taxation are tax losses. The management must judge on their experience and, if necessary, the assistance of whether there will be sufficient taxable profit in the future for experts specialising in the balance sheet items in question. the purpose of making use of remaining tax losses. A deferred The estimates and assumptions made in accordance with tax asset arising from unused tax losses is recognised only to the management’s views are sufficiently accurate to ensure the extent that future taxable profit, against which the the correctness of cash flows associated with balance sheet unused tax losses may be utilised, is expected to be items. generated. Employee benefits New standards and interpretations In the calculation of obligations related to employee benefits, the factors requiring management estimates include the New standards and interpretations applied by the Company in expected returns on the assets of defined-benefit pension 2014 plans, the discount rate used for calculation of pension IFRS 10 consolidated financial statements -standard liabilities and pension expenses for the accounting period, the changed the criteria for classifying an investee as a future development of salary levels, the rising level of subsidiary. An investee is considered a subsidiary when a pensions, durations of employee service, and the trend of parent company controls the investee. The criteria for control inflation. are fulfilled, when the parent company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the The assumed outcome of the share-based incentive plan at investee and has the ability to affect those returns through the balance sheet date is based on management’s estimates its power over the investee. Adoption of the standard had no of the achievement of the earning criteria. The Board of impact on the figures in the company’s consolidated Directors decides on the distribution of shares to key financial statements but it affected the company’s personnel. accounting principles as described above. Impairment testing IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements -standard defines the The carrying amounts of assets are tested for impairment, accounting treatment of arrangements under the joint control whenever deemed necessary. In addition, goodwill is tested of two or more parties. According to the standard, a joint for impairment annually. Goodwill is allocated to casharrangement is either a joint operation or a joint venture. The generating units in a consistent manner. In impairment tests, participating parties of a joint operation have the rights to the the amount recoverable from a cash-generating unit’s assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the business is based on value-in-use calculations. The cash arrangement. In this case the company consolidates its share flow forecasts used for these calculations of the joint operation’s assets, liabilities, revenues 111 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 and expenses. The participating parties of a joint venture period beginning on or after 1 January 2017. An EU have the right to the joint arrangement’s net assets. The endorsement is required for the standard to become effective company consolidates joint ventures using the equity in the EU. The standard specifies how and when to recognise method. Adoption of the standard had no impact on the revenue from contracts with customers. The company figures in the company’s consolidated financial statements examines the effects of the standard to the consolidated but it affected the company’s accounting principles as financial statements. described above. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in July 2014 and There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations adopted by applies to an annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 the company for the first time for the financial year beginning January 2018. An EU endorsement is required for the on 1 January 2014 that have had an impact on the standard to become effective in the EU. The standard will company’s consolidated financial statements. affect, among other things, the recognition of credit losses from financial instruments. According to the standard, credit Standards and interpretations applied by the Company after losses are recorded based on expected losses and therefore 2014 they will be recorded earlier. In addition, the standard will A number of new standards and amendments to standards affect the classification and measurement of financial assets and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning and liabilities, but this will not have a material impact on the after 1 January 2014, and have not been applied in preparing company's consolidated financial statements. this interim report. None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not the company, except the following set out below: yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the company’s consolidated financial statements. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued in May 2014 and applies to an annual reporting 112 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 1 Adjustments concerning prior periods 2 Operating segments 3 Information by market area 4 Acquisitions 5 Seasonality of business 6 Construction projects 7 Other operating income 8 Employee benefit expenses and number of personnel 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 10 Other operating expenses 11 Investments 12 Finance income and costs 13 Taxes 14 Discontinued operations 15 Earnings per share 16 Other comprehensive income items 17 Dividends paid and proposed 18 Property, plant and equipment 19 Intangible assets 20 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets 21 Non-current receivables 22 Inventories 23 Current receivables 24 Current available-for-sale financial assets 25 Cash and cash equivalents 26 Financial assets and liabilities by category 27 Shareholders' equity 28 Interest-bearing liabilities 29 Pension obligations 30 Share-based payments 31 Provisions 32 Trade and other payables 33 Financial risk management 34 Derivative financial instruments 35 Adjustments to cash flows 36 Operating lease commitments 37 Guarantees and commitments 38 Contingent liabilities 39 Related-party transactions 113 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 1 Adjustments concerning prior periods 1 Adjustments concerning prior periods Adjustment to consolidated cash flow statement The company has adjusted figures preceding cash flows from operating activities presented in the consolidated cash flow statement. The adjustment does not have an effect on the company's consolidated income statement or statement of financial position. Neither does it affect the cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities. Impacts of the adjustments on comparison year's cash flow are shown in the table below. 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 EUR 1,000 Cash flow before adjustments Adjustments Adjusted cash flow Other adjustments -10,042 5,285 -4,757 Cash flows before change in working capital -56,127 5,285 -50,842 Financial items -18,574 -7,000 -25,574 Direct taxes paid -202 1,715 1,513 Impact of the changes in accounting principles on comparison year's segment reporting figures Lemminkäinen has changed its accounting principles for segment reporting as of 1 August 2014. According to the changed accounting principle, only continuing operations are included in the segment reporting income statement figures. As a consequence, income statement items in the company’s segment reporting complies with the consolidated financial statement’s accounting principles. The comparison periods' figures have been adjusted to comply with the new accounting principle. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 2 Operating segments 2 Operating segments Lemminkäinen's business operations were organised into five business segments on 1 January 2014. On 30 July 2014 Lemminkäinen announced that it will renew its organisational and reporting structure with its updated strategy. As of 1 August 2014 Lemminkäinen Group’s business operations are organised into three business segments: Infrastructure construction; Building construction, Finland and Russian operations. Income statement items in segment reporting comply with the consolidated financial statement’s accounting principles. Segments' assets include fixed assets, inventories as well as trade and other receivables. Infrastructure construction Infrastructure construction contains paving and mineral aggregates, earthworks and construction of transport infrastructure as well as foundation, civil and rock engineering in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and the Baltic countries. In addition, building construction in Sweden and items related to telecommunication network business are reported as part of the Infrastructure construction business segment. Building construction, Finland Building construction covers residential construction, commercial and office construction, industrial construction, property development, facility management, public-private partnership projects and renovation services in Finland. Russian operations In Russia, the company acts as a building constructor as well as an infrastructure constructor. The company concentrates on residential development mainly in St Petersburg as well as in paving and special surfaces. Unallocated items 114 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Unallocated items Unallocated items of other operations on the consolidated income statement include expenses that are not allocated to the operating segments. Unallocated assets of other operations include mainly financial assets. Operating segments Building 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Infrastructure construction, EUR 1,000 construction Finland Russian operations Other operations Eliminations Group total, IFRS Net sales 1,338,984 538,957 196,126 26,847 -56,432 2,044,482 Depreciation and impairment 36,605 259 1,884 5,686 44,434 Operating profit 37,980 9,339 19,749 -30,813 36,255 Building 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Infrastructure construction, EUR 1,000 construction Finland Russian operations Other operations Eliminations Group total, IFRS Net sales 1,279,165 592,903 164,488 35,875 -52,304 2,020,127 Depreciation and impairment 36,928 348 1,715 5,651 44,642 Operating profit -13,162 5,003 -337 -80,820 -89,316 EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Assets by operating segment Infrastructure construction 465,744 533,956 Building construction, Finland 472,197 454,619 Russian operations 101,770 152,172 Other operations 42,988 47,835 Segments, total 1,082,699 1,188,582 Technical building services 61,766 Assets not allocated to segments and Group eliminations, total 175,078 92,306 Group total, IFRS 1,257,777 1,342,654 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 3 Information by market area 3 Information by market area 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 EUR 1,000 Finland Scandinavia Russia Baltic States Other countries Total Net sales 1,073,239 644,096 195,339 127,908 3,900 2,044,482 Assets 829,954 263,692 108,003 49,050 7,078 1,257,777 Investments 12,159 12,569 2,279 2,965 7 29,979 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 EUR 1,000 Finland Scandinavia Russia Baltic States Other countries Total Net sales 1,091,149 603,982 164,399 145,340 15,258 2,020,127 Assets 863,982 261,493 159,617 52,931 4,630 1,342,654 Investments 41,892 22,668 2,374 4,151 158 71,243 Net sales is determined by customer location and the carrying amount of assets based on their geographic location. 115 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 4 Acquisitions 4 Acquisitions 2014 The company made no acquisitions in 2014. 2013 The company acquired the city of Tampere’s asphalt paving business on 2 January 2013. The goodwill recognised from the acquisition comprises of a strengthening the market position in the Pirkanmaa area. The company acquired the entire share capital of Biomaa Oy on 2 January 2013. Biomaa Oy specialises in mass stabilisation and the treatment of contaminated soil. The goodwill recognised from the acquisition comprises of special expertise in contaminated soil treatment. The acquisition includes a contingent consideration. Biomaa Oy was merged to Lemminkäinen Infra Oy on 1 May 2013. The company acquired on 2 January 2013, with a single deed, the entire share capitals of three companies: Maanrakennus Katupojat Oy, Bergqvist Oy and Kuljetus Oy Wilkman. The acquirees engage in earthwork contracting, regional development, energy network construction and transport as well as the winter and summer maintenance of roads in Southern Finland. A negative goodwill of EUR 0.1 million was recognised from the acquisition. The acquired companies were merged to Lemminkäinen Infra Oy on 1 May 2013. The company acquired 80 per cent of the share capital in a Danish company FD-Entreprise ApS on 2 May 2013. FD-Entreprise specialises in the milling of asphalt and concrete road surfaces and operates primarily in eastern Denmark. The goodwill recognised from the acquisition comprises of expanding the company's market area. The acquisition doubles Lemminkäinen's market share in road milling in Denmark and expands the company's market area to cover the entire country. The acquisition involves an option to redeem shares from non-controlling shareholders which is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet. The company acquired 75 per cent of the share capital in Swedish Landvetterkrossen AB (former Vest Kross AB) on 12 July 2013. Landvetterkrossen AB is a supplier of mineral aggregates. The acquisition involves an option to redeem shares from noncontrolling shareholders which has not been recognised as a liability in the balance sheet. The company acquired the entire share capital in LEC Consultancy JLT on 24 July 2013. The company is domiciled in the United Arab Emirates. The goodwill recognised from the acquisition comprises of special expertise of the company's personnel. 116 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Fair values recognised in consolidation of the businesses acquired in 2013 are presented in the table below. EUR 1,000 Fair values recognised in consolidation 2013 Assets Property, plant and equipment 9,081 Intangible assets 2,867 Available-for-sale financial assets 559 Inventories 885 Current receivables 5,394 Cash and cash equivalents 2,252 Assets, total 21,038 Liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 153 Interest-bearing liabilities 5,860 Other liabilities 5,304 Liabilities, total 11,317 Non-controlling interests -16 Net assets 9,737 Consideration paid in cash 10,116 Consideration recognised as liability 4,873 Total consideration 14,989 Goodwill 5,252 Goodwill recognised in balance sheet 5,396 Negative goodwill recognised during the accounting period -144 Consideration paid in cash -8,384 Cash of acquired subsidiaries 2,247 Impact on cash flow -6,137 Acquisition-related costs recorded in other operating expenses 287 On the consolidation of the acquired business operations, EUR 13.8 million was recognised in net sales and EUR 0.2 million in operating profit of 2013. Full-year net sales of the acquired business operations in 2013 amounted to EUR 15.1 million and operating profit to EUR -0.5 million. If the acquirees had been consolidated as from the beginning of 2013, consolidated net sales would have been EUR 2,219.5 million and operating profit EUR -91.5 million. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 5 Seasonality of business 5 Seasonality of business Seasonality of certain operations of the company affects the amount and timing of the company’s profits. Paving and mineral aggregates working season takes place mostly in the second and third quarters of a year to which quarters most of the revenues are recognised. Weather conditions influence the lengths of the paving and mineral aggregates working seasons, which also affects the amount and timing of the company’s profits. Other infrastructure projects, e.g., rock engineering and earthworks, are generally less seasonal in nature, but there is some seasonality in foundation engineering due to the timing of building construction projects. Revenue from own building developments is recognised, for the sold proportion, on completion which causes seasonal fluctuations to the company’s profit. The company seeks to offset this fluctuation by launching new own developed housing projects evenly throughout the year in which case the projects will be completed and revenue from them is recognised as evenly as possible throughout the year. 117 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 6 Construction projects 6 Construction projects EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Percentage-of-completion method, continuing operations Revenue recognised according to the percentage-of-completion method 1,654,052 1,705,601 Incurred costs and recognised net profits (less booked losses) of work in progress projects 1,467,033 1,150,364 Gross project-related receivables from clients 32,732 58,479 Gross project-related liabilities to clients 67,424 56,547 Service concession arrangements Lemminkäinen currently has three major ongoing life cycle projects, which are located in Kuopio, Oulu and Pudasjärvi. Kuopio Lemminkäinen PPP Oy (the service provider), signed a contract agreement with Kiinteistö Oy Kuopion koulutilat (the financier) on 14 December 2009. The project comprises of new construction and renovation works for four schools and one day-care center. The service provider is responsible for building management and maintenance for a period of 25 years. The total value of the project is EUR 93.5 million. The financier owns the current buildings and land. The service provider renovates the properties and constructs new buildings as set out in the contract agreements made with the financier. City of Kuopio will gain possession of the buildings after handover. Lemmikäinen PPP Oy manages the buildings for a period of around 25 years pursuant to the service agreement. Kuopio will serve as the contract agreement client for the sites it financed and as the representative of the financier. The contracts are fixed-price and tied to the construction cost index and reference rate. The financier pays the contract prices in installments as set out in the contract agreements. The service provider shall not have the right to use any of the properties or to organise supplementary use. City of Kuopio shall have the right to terminate the agreement with a six-month period of notice, subject to certain additional terms and conditions concerning the service provider. City of Kuopio shall have the right to terminate the agreement after the 10th and 20th years of the agreement, that is, in 2021 and 2031. The service provider shall have the right to terminate the agreement with a six-month period of notice, if the financier or the City of Kuopio neglect their payment obligations for 90 days. The construction phase is ready for all of the buildings belonging to the project. The investment phase warranty periods for all other buildings except Pohjantie School have expired and the warranty period guarantees have been returned. The investment phase of the project has proceeded according schedule, as well as cost and quality objectives. The building maintenance and upkeep period (the service period) is in progress for all of the sites. The services have been provided according to plan and no service or usability deductions have been made. Oulu Lemminkäinen PPP Oy (the service provider), signed a contract agreement with the City of Oulu (the subscriber) on 1 June 2012. The project includes the new construction of Oulun Kastelli community center, dismantling of the Tenavalinna day care center and arranging temporary spaces. The service provider is responsible for building management and maintenance for a period of 25 years. The total value of the project is EUR 86 million. City of Oulu owns the current buildings and land. The service provider will construct the new buildings as set out in the contract agreement made with the subscriber. City of Oulu will gain possession of the buildings after handover. Lemmikäinen PPP Oy will manage the buildings for a period of around 25 years pursuant to the service agreement. City of Oulu itself will serve as the contract subscriber for the sites it also finances. The contracts are fixed-price and tied to the construction cost index and reference rate. The subscriber will pay the contract prices in installments as set out in the contract agreements. The service provider has the right to arrange supplementary use of the properties according to terms pre-agreed terms as well as the right to charge fees for the supplementary use. The company has not recognised an intangible asset for the right for supplementary use because of the uncertainty related to its usability. 118 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 City of Oulu shall have the right to terminate the agreement with a six-month period of notice, subject to certain additional terms and conditions taking into consideration the interests of the service provider. The service provider shall have the right to terminate the agreement with a six-month period of notice, if the City of Oulu neglect their payment obligations for 90 days. The construction phase of the Kastelli community center began in the late spring of 2012 and the investment phase was completed in the summer of 2014. The service period begun on 1 June 2014 and will end in 2039. The project has mostly proceeded according to schedule, as well as quality and cost objectives. However, the accumulated costs for the construction work have exceeded the target level and the budgeted profit margin for the investment phase had to be cut down. Services for the maintenance and upkeep period have been implemented according to plan and no service or usability deduction have been made. Pudasjärvi Lemminkäinen PPP Oy (the service provider), signed a contract agreement with the City of Pudasjärvi (the subscriber) on 13 March 2014. The project includes the design, construction and maintanance of Pudasjärvi school campus. The school will be built of timber. The service provider is responsible for building management and maintenance for a period of 25 years, that is until 2041. The total value of the project is EUR 41 million. City of Pudasjärvi owns the land where the school is built. The service provider will construct the new buildings as set out in the contract agreement made with the subscriber. City of Pudasjärvi will gain possession of the buildings after handover. Lemmikäinen PPP Oy will manage the buildings for a period of around 25 years pursuant to the service agreement. City of Pudasjärvi itself will serve as the contract subscriber for the sites it also finances. The contracts are fixed-price and tied to the construction cost index. The subscriber will pay the contract prices in installments as set out in the contract agreements. The service provider doesn’t have the right to arrange supplementary use of the properties. The service contract is automatically terminated at the end of the contract period and neither party has the possibility to terminate the contract during the contract period unless there has been a breach of the contract. The construction phase of the Pudasjärvi School Campus began in the late spring of 2014 and the investment phase ends in the summer of 2016. The project has mostly proceeded according to schedule, as well as quality and cost objectives. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 7 Other operating income 7 Other operating income EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment* 10,413 5,222 Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 904 1,356 Rental income 1,926 1,363 Gain from hedging purchases and sales** 1,204 1,552 Grants and compensation on damages received 993 235 Negative goodwill 144 Gain on settlement of defined benefit plans 227 1,933 Others 2,584 4,407 18,251 16,212 * Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment are mainly related to equipment sales in Infrastructure construction business. In 2014 the company also sold a land area in Norway from which it recorded a gain on sale of EUR 5.3 million. **Gain from hedging purchases and sales includes realised gains and changes in fair values of commodity derivatives which are used for hedging bitumen purchases and currency derivatives which are used for hedging purchases and sales. 119 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 8 Employee benefit expenses and number of personnel 8 Employee benefit expenses and number of personnel EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Personnel expenses Wages and salaries 281,643 302,369 Share-based payments 343 950 Pension expenses, defined contribution plans 36,082 35,234 Pension expenses, defined benefit plans 5 1,383 Other personnel-related expenses 18,890 21,802 336,964 361,738 The wages and salaries of the group companies' managing directors and Board of Directors, continuing operations 4,649 3,435 Defined benefit pension expenses are explained in more detail in the note 29 and share-based payments in the note 30 and related party transactions in the note 39. 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Personnel at the end of period, continuing operations White collar 2,070 2,439 Blue collar 2,678 3,087 4,748 5,526 Personnel by business segment at the end of period, continuing operations Infrastructure construction 2,925 3,266 Building construction, Finland 1,038 1,224 Russian operations 635 755 Parent company 150 281 4,748 5,526 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Buildings and structures 1,056 1,011 Machinery and equipment 20,840 21,748 Leased machinery and equipment 13,028 12,738 Other tangible assets 1,840 2,000 36,764 37,497 Amortisation of intangible assets Intangible rights 5,312 3,693 Other capitalised expenditure 1,087 3,453 6,399 7,146 Depreciation and amortisation, total 43,164 44,642 EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Impairment Intangible rights 1,270 120 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 10 Other operating expenses 10 Other operating expenses EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 522 288 Loss on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 138 Voluntary personnel expenses 8,446 12,060 Rental expenses 31,345 32,245 Direct acquisition costs 287 Losses from hedging purchases and sales* 2,945 2,520 Damages-related legal proceedings** 6,408 65,587 Credit losses 5,957 5,256 Other expenses 128,190 107,411 183,951 225,654 * Losses from hedging purchases and sales includes realised losses and changes in fair values of commodity derivatives which are used for hedging bitumen purchases and currency derivatives which are used for hedging purchases and sales. ** The 2014 damages-related legal proceedings consist of the change in the provision related to the claims for damages related to the asphalt cartel pending a main proceeding. Most of the increase is due to new claims for damages against Lemminkäinen. The 2013 damages-related legal proceedings consist of EUR 66 million costs related District Court’s decision on the damages for the asphalt cartel. The amount includes a EUR 5.9 million provision for the claims for damages waiting for the main proceeding to begin. The table below shows the fees formed in Finland to the audit firm elected by the General Meeting. The fees have been recorded in other operating expenses. In addition to the expenses presented in the table below, expenses recorded in invested nonrestricted equity fund that reduce the gross funds collected in the rights offering, include fees to the audit firm elected by the General Meeting a total of EUR 0.4 million. EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Audit fees 179 181 Other consulting 157 184 336 366 121 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 11 Investments 11 Investments Subsidiaries Parent company shareholding, Shareholdings of Parent company book value subsidiaries, book Consolidated Parent company shareholding, Finnish GAAP, value Finnish GAAP, 31 Dec 2014 shareholding, % shareholding, % shares EUR 1,000 EUR 1,000 Lemminkäinen Talo Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 2,183,663 73,922 Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 1,338 36,711 Lemcon Networks Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 392,000 0 UAB Lemcon Vilnius, Lithuania 100.0 100.0 0 UAB Lemminkainen Lietuva, Lithuania 99.9 99.9 3,747,989 3,529 Lemminkäinen International Oy, Helsinki 100.0 5 Lemminkäinen Russia Oy, Helsinki 100.0 163 Lemminkäinen PPP Oy, Kuopio 100.0 3 ICM International Construction Management, Hungary 100.0 0 Lemminkäinen Co., Ltd, China 100.0 72 Lemminkäinen Construction (India) Private Limited, India 100.0 853 Lemcon HR Oy, Helsinki 100.0 60 OOO Lemminkäinen Invest, Russia 100.0 2,284 Lemminkäinen Polska Sp.Z O.O, Poland 100.0 1,576 Lemminkäinen Ehitus As, Estonia 100.0 3 OOO Lemminkäinen Service, Russia 100.0 13 OOO Lemminkäinen Stroy, Russia 100.0 1,151 Rekab Entreprenad Ab, Sweden 100.0 4,343 ZAO Lemminkäinen Rus, Russia 100.0 29,923 Lemcon Argentina S.R.L, Argentina 100.0 0 LEMCON Baumanagement GmbH, Germany 100.0 0 Lemcon Network Services Ltd, UK 100.0 0 Lemcon Venezuela C.A., Venezuela 100.0 0 Pasila Telecom Oy, Helsinki 100.0 0 Asfalt Remix AS, Norway 75.0 4,562 FD-Entreprice Aps, Denmark 80.0 1,526 Lemminkäinen A/S, Denmark 100.0 18,972 Lemminkäinen Industri AS, Norway 100.0 218 Lemminkäinen Eesti AS, Estonia 100.0 5,594 Lemminkäinen Norge AS, Norway 100.0 27,158 Lemminkäinen Sverige Ab, Sweden 100.0 12 Oü Järva Paas, Estonia 52.0 3 SIA Lemminkainen Latvija, Latvian 100.0 1,835 Landvetterkrossen AB, Sweden 75.0 423 OOO Lemminkäinen Dor Stroi, Russia 100.0 5,430 114,162 106,181 122 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 All the company’s subsidiaries have been included in the consolidated financial statements. Non-controlling interests in the company’s subsidiaries been recorded in relation to voting rights and ownership except for Norwegian Asfalt Remix AS. The company has a fixed price symmetrical put and call option with the non-controlling owners of Asfalt Remix AS for which reason the share of the non-controlling interest is not recognised in balance sheet. The option has been measured at fair value and recorded as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet. The amount of the liability is not material (in 2014 EUR 1.1 million). Non-controlling interest in the consolidated balance sheet totalled EUR 0.1 million (EUR 0.6 mill.) at the end of 2014, and the non-controlling interest is not material to the company. The company is not aware of any restrictions on its assets at the end of 2014. Joint ventures The Group’s joint ventures are not individually material. Shareholdings of subsidiaries, book 31 Dec 2014 Consolidated shareholding, % value Finnish GAAP, EUR 1,000 Genvej A/S, Denmark 50.0 201 Martin Haraldstad AS, Norway 50.0 680 Nordasfalt AS, Norway 50.0 525 Ullensaker Asfalt ANS, Norway 50.0 Total 1,407 EUR 1,000 2014 2013 Shares in joint ventures 1 Jan 8,202 8,859 Translation difference -580 -1,137 Decreases -632 Dividends received -608 -299 Share of the profit for the period 510 780 Shares in joint ventures 31 Dec 6,893 8,202 At the end of 2014 the company considered it had lost its share of the control over the joint venture Ullensaker Asfalt ANS after agreeing to end co-operation between the shareholders. Ullensaker Asfalt ANS was still listed in the local company register at the end of 2014, and it’s therefore presented in the list of joint ventures above. EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Total of joint ventures that are not individually material (information presented in full) Profit from continuing operations 510 780 Comprehensive income for the financial year 510 780 123 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Associates The Group’s associates are not individually material. Shareholdings of subsidiaries, book value 31 Dec 2014 Consolidated shareholding, % Finnish GAAP, EUR 1,000 Finavo Oy, Helsinki 47.5 1 Vuokatin Betoni Oy, Sotkamo 33.1 13 Total 14 EUR 1,000 2014 2013 Shares in associates 1 Jan 629 848 Decreases -593 0 Share of the profit for the period -13 -218 Shares in associates 31 Dec 24 629 EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Total of associates that are not individually material (information presented in full) Profit from continuing operations -13 -218 Comprehensive income for the financial year -13 -218 The company divested its share in NHK Rakennus Oy during 2014. Finavo Oy is a real estate rental operator. The company has given a EUR 14.4 million loan guarantee for the real estate shares owned by Finavo Oy. Due to the loan guarantee the company’s liabilities in in Finavo Oy exceed the amount recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. Other shares and holdings Parent company shareholding, book value Finnish GAAP, Shareholdings of subsidiaries, book 31 Dec 2014 EUR 1,000 value Finnish GAAP, EUR 1,000 Total Housing shares 248 248 Property shares 755 1,065 1,821 Others 356 766 1,123 1,360 1,831 3,191 The company’s other shares and holdings are recorded as non-current available-for-sale financial assets in the balance sheet. Changes in other shares and holdings are presented in the note 20. 124 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 12 Finance income and costs 12 Finance income and costs EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Finance income Interest income from loans and receivables 537 986 Interest income from available-for-sale financial assets 49 147 Dividend income from available-for-sale financial assets 7 62 Foreign exchange rate gains 40,604 16,285 Gains on the change in fair value of interest rate derivatives 575 Other finance income 89 101 41,285 18,155 Finance costs Interest expenses for financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost 16,334 17,936 Foreign exchange rate losses 47,750 21,654 Losses on the change in fair value of interest rate derivatives 1,175 63 Other finance costs 13,934 5,275 79,194 44,928 Finance income and costs, total -37,909 -26,773 Exchange rate differences recognised in the income statement EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Exchange rate differences on sales -80 1,271 Exchange rate differences on purchases -2 -3,305 Exchange rate differences on hedging purchases and sales 329 -273 Exchange rate differences on financial items -7,147 -5,369 Exchange rates differences, total -6,900 -7,677 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 13 Taxes 13 Taxes Income taxes EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Income taxes on normal business operations -2,859 -2,820 Income taxes in respect of prior years 815 -1,338 Deferred taxes -1,302 24,043 -3,346 19,885 Reconciliation of taxes in the income statement and taxes calculated at the Finnish tax rate Profit before income taxes -1,654 -116,089 Taxes calculated on the above at the Finnish tax rate 331 28,442 Differing tax rates of foreign subsidiaries -353 1,631 Tax-exempt income in income statement 511 1,275 Non-deductible expenses in income statement -5,174 -2,512 Deductible non-income statement items 107 200 Taxable non-income statement items -6 -2 Use of unrecognised tax losses 40 77 Tax losses for the financial year for which no deferred tax asset was recognised -22 -7 Effect of change in the corporate tax rate -4,345 Other items 404 -3,536 Taxes for the previous financial year 815 -1,338 Taxes in the income statement, total -3,346 19,885 125 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Deferred taxes Recognised in Transactions Recognised other with owners Acquisitions, Translation in income comprehensive of the parent divestments EUR 1,000 1 Jan 2014 difference statement* income company and mergers 31 Dec 2014 Deferred tax asset Tax losses 37,715 -1,815 1,757 -145 37,512 Pension benefits 348 -4 -193 0 150 Provisions 6,267 -930 1,468 6,804 Financial instruments 15 -2,474 -15 2,474 Property, plant and equipment 1,803 0 -282 1,521 Intangible assets 22 -22 Temporary difference from revenue recognition of construction projects 5,874 -1,923 -917 576 3,610 Other temporary differences 936 -132 2,353 -994 2,163 Deferred tax asset, gross 52,981 -4,805 1,689 -15 2,474 -562 51,761 Offsetting -14,440 3,392 1,299 15 -9,735 Deferred tax asset, net 38,540 -1,413 2,987 0 2,474 -562 42,026 Recognised in Transactions Recognised other with owners Acquisitions, Translation in income comprehensive of the parent divestments EUR 1,000 1 Jan 2014 difference statement* income company and mergers 31 Dec 2014 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 4,025 -80 -1,001 2,944 Financial instruments 441 0 544 985 Accelerated depreciations 10,956 12 298 -237 11,028 Temporary difference from revenue recognition of construction projects 9,727 -4,375 2,518 -3 7,867 Other temporary differences 2,461 -354 715 -328 2,494 Deferred tax liabilities, gross 27,609 -4,797 3,074 -568 25,318 Offsetting -14,440 3,392 1,299 15 -9,735 Deferred tax asset, net 13,168 -1,404 4,373 15 -568 15,583 * Includes the effect of discontinued operations Recognised in Transactions 126 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Recognised in Transactions Recognised other with owners Acquisitions, Translation in income comprehensive of the parent divestments EUR 1,000 1 Jan 2013 difference statement* income company and mergers 31 Dec 2013 Deferred tax asset Tax losses 19,350 -1,914 20,280 0 37,715 Pension benefits 1,447 -164 -22 -913 348 Provisions 3,350 -275 3,192 6,267 Financial instruments 142 -1,715 -127 1,715 15 Property, plant and equipment 1,776 0 27 1,803 Intangible assets 22 22 Temporary difference from revenue recognition of construction projects 1,755 -496 4,615 5,874 Other temporary differences 734 13 842 -653 936 Deferred tax asset, gross 28,576 -2,836 27,219 -1,040 1,715 -653 52,981 Offsetting -5,100 950 -10,417 127 -14,440 Deferred tax asset, net 23,475 -1,886 16,802 -913 1,715 -653 38,540 Recognised in Transactions Recognised other with owners Acquisitions, Translation in income comprehensive of the parent divestments EUR 1,000 1 Jan 2013 difference statement* income company and mergers 31 Dec 2013 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 4,288 -258 -647 642 4,025 Available-for-sale financial assets 5 -5 Financial instruments 441 441 Accelerated depreciations 13,560 -207 -2,397 10,956 Temporary difference from revenue recognition of construction projects 8,806 -1,003 1,923 9,727 Other temporary differences 3,172 -312 154 -552 2,461 Deferred tax liabilities, gross 30,271 -1,780 -967 -5 90 27,609 Offsetting -5,100 950 -10,417 127 -14,440 Deferred tax asset, net 25,171 -830 -11,384 122 90 13,168 * Includes the effect of discontinued operations The company has recorded the deferred tax asset from tax losses to the amount it considers, based on its profit forecasts, to be utilisable in the future. The amount of tax losses has increased especially due to non-recurring items, which are not expected to reoccur in the future. In 2013, the amount of tax losses in Finland was increased by the damages that the District Court ordered Lemminkäinen to pay related to the asphalt cartel. At the end of 2014, tax losses in the Group's Finnish companies totalled EUR 23.1 million (EUR 19.5 mill.) and they can be carried forward for 10 years. The amount of tax losses in the Group's Norwegian companies stood at EUR 12.1 million (EUR 14.6 mill.) at the end of 2014, and they can be carried forward indefinitely. The amount of the company’s tax losses, from which deferred tax asset has not been recorded, is not significant. No deferred tax liability is recognised in respect of the undistributed profits of foreign subsidiaries because the funds are permanently invested in operations abroad. 127 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 14 Discontinued operations 14 Discontinued operations 2014 Lemminkäinen announced on 14 May 2014 that it has divested its Technical building services business by selling the entire share capital of Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy. The transaction was completed on 13 June 2014 and the total purchase price is EUR 55.4 million. The company recorded a pre-tax gain on sale of EUR 23.6 million to the second quarter of 2014. The company classified Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy as discontinued operation at the time of sale. The comparative consolidated income statement information for the financial period 2013 have been adjusted correspondingly. The financial position for the year 2013 include all assets and liabilities attributable to the discontinued operations. EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Profit from the discontinued operations Income 77,403 198,388 Expenses 77,815 199,820 Profit before taxes -412 -1,432 Taxes 55 4,138 Profit for the financial period -358 2,705 Pre-tax gain on sales of the businesses 23,621 Taxes -133 Gain on sale after taxes 23,488 Profit for the period from discontinued operations 23,130 2,705 EUR 1,000 2014 Cash flows from discontinued operations Cash flow from operating activities -3,882 Cash flow from investing activities -91 Cash flow from financing activities 4,342 Cash flows total 369 EUR 1,000 2014 The impact of the sale on Group's financial position Cash consideration received 55,364 Transferred assets and liabilities -29,115 Other related items -2,629 Gain on sale 23,621 2013 At the end of 2013 the company did not have any discontinued operations or assets classified as held-for-sale. 128 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 15 Earnings per share 15 Earnings per share 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Weighted average number of shares, shares* 21,362,255 20,670,876 Contingent shares, shares -16,896 -35,869 Treasury shares, shares -16,687 -34,915 Weighted average number of shares in issue, shares 21,328,672 20,600,092 Diluted weighted average number of shares, shares 21,328,672 20,600,092 Instruments that could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future, but were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they are antidilutive for the periods presented. Dilutive shares of share based incentive and commitment plans, shares 33,779 35,869 Profit for the year attributable to the ordinary equity holders, continuing operations, EUR 1,000 -4,965 -96,429 Interest of the hybrid bond calculated on accrual basis less tax, EUR 1,000 -9,566 -5,285 Profit for the year for the purpose of calculating earnings per share, continuing operations, EUR 1,000 -14,531 -101,714 Basic earnings per share, continuing operations, EUR -0.68 -4.94 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations, EUR -0.68 -4.94 Profit for the year attributable to the ordinary equity holders, discontinued operations, EUR 1,000 23,130 2,705 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations, EUR 1.08 0.13 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations, EUR 1.08 0.13 Profit for the year attributable to the ordinary equity holders, EUR 1,000 18,165 -93,723 Interest of the hybrid bond calculated on accrual basis less tax, EUR 1,000 -9,566 -5,285 Profit for the year for the purpose of calculating earnings per share, EUR 1,000 8,599 -99,008 Basic earnings per share, EUR 0.40 -4.81 Diluted earnings per share, EUR 0.40 -4.81 *The amount for 2013 includes a retrospective adjustment due to the rights issue in 2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 16 Other comprehensive income items 16 Other comprehensive income items EUR 1,000 Before taxes Taxes After taxes 2014 Translation difference -18,559 -18,559 Cash flow hedges 74 -15 59 Defined benefit pension obligations -3 0 -3 -18,489 -15 -18,504 2013 Translation difference -7,675 -7,675 Cash flow hedges 504 -127 378 Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets -20 5 -15 Defined benefit pension obligations 3,318 -913 2,404 -3,874 -1,035 -4,909 129 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 17 Dividends paid and proposed 17 Dividends paid and proposed 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Dividend paid during the financial year Per share for the previous year, EUR 0.00 0.60 In total for the previous year, EUR 1,000 0 11,762 Proposed for approval by the AGM Per share for the financial year, EUR 0.00 0.00 In total for the financial year, EUR 1,000 0 0 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 18 Property, plant and equipment 18 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and Machinery and Other tangible Advance payments EUR 1,000 Land structures equipment assets and work in progress Total Acquisition cost, 1 Jan 2014 13,698 39,182 352,739 42,016 4,748 452,383 Translation difference -76 -270 -10,740 -868 -184 -12,138 Increases 1,608 1,157 16,965 2,258 5,852 27,840 Disposals -159 -993 -24,008 -1,562 -26 -26,748 Discontinued operations -3,704 -4 -3,708 Transfers between items 219 337 7,203 -146 -7,613 Acquisition cost, 31 Dec 2014 15,290 39,413 338,455 41,694 2,778 437,629 Accumulated depreciation, 1 Jan 2014 -28,266 -202,764 -20,242 -251,272 Translation difference 187 6,442 407 7,036 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 858 19,304 1,273 21,435 Accumulated depreciation on discontinued operations 3,302 3,302 Transfers between items -8 196 -240 -52 Depreciation for the financial year -1,056 -33,868 -1,840 -36,764 Depreciation for the financial year from discontinued operations -96 -96 Accumulated depreciation, 31 Dec 2014 -28,286 -207,484 -20,643 -256,412 Carrying amount, 31 Dec 2014 15,290 11,127 130,971 21,051 2,778 181,217 Carrying amount, 1 Jan 2014 13,698 10,916 149,975 21,773 4,748 201,111 Buildings and Machinery and Other tangible Advance payments 130 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Buildings and Machinery and Other tangible Advance payments EUR 1,000 Land structures equipment assets and work in progress Total Acquisition cost, 1 Jan 2013 12,908 37,254 339,822 42,671 4,542 437,197 Translation difference -156 -428 -10,813 -1,486 1 -12,883 Increases 1,099 782 35,185 2,909 6,256 46,231 Increases from acquired businesses 1 20 9,212 3 9,236 Disposals -82 -247 -24,620 -2,448 -27,397 Transfers between items -71 1,803 3,953 366 -6,051 Acquisition cost, 31 Dec 2013 13,698 39,182 352,739 42,016 4,748 452,383 Accumulated depreciation, 1 Jan 2013 -26,180 -190,743 -19,807 -236,730 Translation difference 233 5,978 685 6,896 Accumulated depreciation on increases -177 -177 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 245 15,045 1,248 16,539 Transfers between items -1,554 1,922 -368 Depreciation for the financial year -1,011 -34,486 -2,000 -37,497 Depreciation for the financial year from discontinued operations -303 -303 Accumulated depreciation, 31 Dec 2013 -28,266 -202,764 -20,242 -251,272 Carrying amount, 31 Dec 2013 13,698 10,916 149,975 21,773 4,748 201,111 Carrying amount, 1 Jan 2013 12,908 11,074 149,079 22,864 4,542 200,466 The Group has no capitalised interest expenses in fixed assets. EUR 1,000 2014 2013 Assets acquired under finance lease agreement are included in machinery and equipment as follows: Acquisition cost, 1 Jan 109,759 106,685 Translation difference -2,021 -3,387 Increases 5,332 16,492 Disposals -7,349 -10,031 Acquisition cost, 31 Dec 105,722 109,759 Accumulated depreciation, 31 Dec -56,223 -52,320 Carrying amount, 31 Dec 49,499 57,439 131 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 19 Intangible assets 19 Intangible assets Other capitalised Advance EUR 1,000 Goodwill Intagible rights expenditure payments Total Acquisition cost, 1 Jan 2014 80,100 23,779 18,362 7,911 130,153 Translation difference -952 -161 -471 -1,585 Increases 146 1 5,089 5,236 Disposals -593 -2,471 -3,107 -6,171 Discontinued operations -25,302 -3,761 -1,337 -30,400 Transfers between items 11,994 -2,641 -9,352 Acquisition cost, 31 Dec 2014 53,846 31,404 11,443 541 97,234 Accumulated amortisation and impairment, 1 Jan 2014 -9,192 -11,627 -20,819 Translation difference 54 303 357 Accumulated amortisation on disposals 509 2,462 2,971 Discontinued operations 1,296 759 2,055 Transfers between items -601 653 52 Amortisation for the financial year from continuing operations -5,312 -1,087 -6,399 Amortisation for the financial year from discontinued operations -112 -41 -153 Impairment -1,270 -1,270 Accumulated amortisation and impairment, 31 Dec 2014 -14,628 -8,579 -23,206 Carrying amount, 31 Dec 2014 53,846 16,776 2,864 541 74,027 Carrying amount, 1 Jan 2014 80,100 14,588 6,735 7,911 109,334 Other capitalised Advance EUR 1,000 Goodwill Intagible rights expenditure payments Total Acquisition cost, 1 Jan 2013 77,043 11,653 18,053 10,934 117,684 Translation difference -1,813 -18 -795 -2,626 Increases 660 425 7,810 8,895 Increases from acquired businesses 5,396 2,173 678 8,247 Disposals -526 -378 -1,144 -2,048 Transfers between items 9,689 -9,689 Acquisition cost, 31 Dec 2013 80,100 23,779 18,362 7,911 130,153 Accumulated amortisation and impairment, 1 Jan 2013 -5,536 -8,433 -13,969 Translation difference 6 399 405 Accumulated depreciation on increases -50 -50 Accumulated amortisation on disposals 324 324 Amortisation for the financial year from continuing operations -3,894 -3,251 -7,146 Amortisation for the financial year from discontinued operations -91 -292 -383 Accumulated amortisation and impairment, 31 Dec 2013 -9,192 -11,627 -20,819 Carrying amount, 31 Dec 2013 80,100 14,588 6,735 7,911 109,334 Carrying amount, 1 Jan 2013 77,043 6,117 9,620 10,934 103,714 132 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 At the end of 2014, other capitalised expenditure included EUR 9.5 million (EUR 9.2 mill.) and advance payments EUR 0.4 million (EUR 5.5 mill.) capitalised computer software development costs. The company recorded an impairment of EUR 1.2 million to infrastructure construction segment’s intangible assets in 2014. The impairment was recorded to a land use right located in Sweden which was initially measured at fair value in connection to an acquisition of a subsidiary. The fair value of the land use right has been measured based on its value in use. Goodwill At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit from synergies arising from the business combination. The company’s business was organised into four operating segments at the beginning of 2014 and later into three operating segments at the beginning August. In connection with the reorganisation at the beginning of the year the company reallocated the goodwill previously subject to Baltic Rim region paving and mineral aggregates operations (common to segment in the table) to country level. In addition, the goodwill decreased by EUR 25.2 million due to the divestment of the company technical building services business during 2014. Goodwill by segment Other Nordic Baltic states Market areas, Discount rate, % EUR 1,000 Finland countries and Russia total (pre-tax WACC) 31 Dec 2014 Infrastructure construction 6,158 34,024 6,880 47,062 9.4 * Building construction, Finland 6,196 6,196 8.6 Russian operations 587 587 17.6 12,354 34,024 7,467 53,846 Other Nordic Baltic states Other Market areas, **Common Discount rate, % EUR 1,000 Finland countries and Russia countries total to segment Total (pre-tax WACC) 31 Dec 2013 International operations 17,066 1,909 139 19,114 23,469 42,583 8.3 * Building construction 6,196 6,196 6,196 6.7 Infrastructure construction 6,158 6,158 6,158 7.1 Technical building services 25,164 25,164 25,164 7.1 37,518 17,066 1,909 139 56,632 23,469 80,100 * Country-specific sales-weighted average ** The goodwill reported in the ”Common to segment” column has arisen from the asphalt business acquisitions in Denmark and Norway. It is allocated to the International Operations' Baltic Rim region paving and mineral aggregates cash generating unit. This goodwill has been tested for impairment at the level of the whole International Operations' Baltic Rim region paving and mineral aggregates cash generating unit. In addition, the goodwill allocated to each business area has been tested separately for each country. Goodwill impairment tests Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever there are indications of possible impairment. The tests are carried out as value-in-use calculations of individual businesses in accordance with the smallest cash-generating unit principle. In impairment testing the discounted present value of the recoverable cash flows of each cash-generating unit is compared with the carrying amount of the unit in question. If the present value is lower than the carrying amount, the difference is recognised through profit or loss as an expense in the current year. The goodwill impairment tests carried out during the third quarter of 2014, showed that the present values of the future cash flows exceed the carrying amounts in all business units. The company carried out a goodwill re-testing for Finland’s Building Construction at end of 2014. Based on the tests, there was no need for impairment of goodwill in 2014. Forecasts and key assumptions used in goodwill impairment testing Cash generating units’ cash flow forecasts are prepared for a four year planning period based on management estimates based on actual past performance. Main assumptions used in the preparation of the cash flow forecasts are the growth of the market in question, the company’s profitability development as well as measures which the company has committed to. 133 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Main assumptions in the goodwill impairment testing are long term growth and discount rate. Cash flow forecasts beyond the four year (five years in 2013) planning period are based on the assumption of 1 percent annual growth which was lower than European Central Bank's target inflation rate over medium term in effect at the time of the impairment testing. Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC), calculated for each individual unit, is used as the discount factor. WACC takes into account risk-free interest rate, illiquidity premium, expected market rate of return, the industry’s beta value, country risk and the debt interest rate including interest rate margin. These components are weighted according to average target capital structure of the sector. Pre-tax WACC is determined separately for each tested unit. Sensitivity analysis In connection with the impairment tests, sensitivity analyses are made to determine how possible changes in key assumptions of the unit-specific impairment tests would affect the results of those tests. The key assumptions affecting the present value of cash flows are the development of market and competitive conditions, and the discount factor. In the sensitivity analyses the calculation variables affecting these assumptions are varied and the effects of the changes on the margin between the carrying value and present value of the cash flows are examined. The majority of the company’s goodwill is subject to the Infrastructure construction operating segment. Sensitivity analysis prepared in 2014 show that reasonable and ordinary variation to key assumptions used in the testing would not cause a need for impairment in the Infrastructure construction operating segment. Neither does the goodwill subject to other Nordic countries, the Baltics or the Russia operations include a risk of impairment, according to the sensitivity analysis. The most significant risk for impairment of goodwill arises from the Building construction, Finland -operating segment where the unit’s recoverable cash flow exceeds the unit’s carrying amount by EUR 0.0 million. The pronounced risk is a result of the weak general economic situation in Finland that appears in the demand for housing and commercial construction. Sensitivity analysis show that an increase in the discount rate or decrease in the long term annual growth rate would cause an impairment of goodwill in the Building construction, Finland -operating segment. Figures describing the goodwill impairment risk of units subject to impairment testing by business segment are presented below. Building Infrastructure construction, EUR 1,000 construction Finland Russian operations 2014 Goodwill allocated to the business sector, total 47,062 6,196 587 Ratio of present value to carrying amount * 3.63 1.00 1.34 Goodwill impairment if annual growth over the long term were 1 percentage point lower 0 6,196 0 long term were 2 percentage points lower 0 6,196 0 Goodwill impairment if the discount rate were half a percentage point higher 0 6,196 0 were one percentage point higher 0 6,196 0 International Building Infrastructure Technical building EUR 1,000 operations construction construction services 2013 Goodwill allocated to the business sector, total 42,583 6,196 6,158 25,164 Ratio of present value to carrying amount * 3.79 1.50 3.81 1.96 Goodwill impairment if annual growth over the long term were 1 percentage point lower 0 0 879 0 long term were 2 percentage points lower 0 0 879 0 Goodwill impairment if the discount rate were half a percentage point higher 0 0 879 0 were one percentage point higher 0 0 879 0 * Net-sales-weighted average of the business sector’s cash-generating units subject to impairment testing. Ratio less than one would result in an impairment. 134 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 20 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets 20 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets EUR 1,000 2014 2013 Balance sheet value, 1 Jan 3,764 5,971 Translation difference 0 0 Additions 10 4 Disposals -583 -2,211 Balance sheet value, 31 Dec 3,191 3,764 Available-for-sale financial assets include several different unquoted shares. The value of one individual investment is not significant in relation to the total of all other investments. The fair value of unquoted shares could not be reliably determined, thus they are presented at cost less possible impairments. Shares included in the financial assets available-for-sale are itemised in note 11 under the heading other shares and holdings. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 21 Non-current receivables 21 Non-current receivables EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Interest-bearing Loan receivables 19 19 Non-interest-bearing Trade receivables 513 259 Other receivables 13 625 527 884 Non-current receivables, total 546 904 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 22 Inventories 22 Inventories EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Materials and supplies 39,135 38,304 Building plots and real estate 118,223 126,362 Housing under construction 167,688 171,350 Commercial property under construction 7,929 11,072 Other work in progress 27,719 33,496 Advance payments 18,704 13,985 Completed apartments 96,007 55,393 Completed commercial property 21,078 21,588 Products and goods 27,505 32,834 523,987 504,385 Collateral notes for uncompleted properties included in inventories are used as collateral security for the debts of companies included in inventories to the value of EUR 128.6 million (EUR 119.3 mill.). In 2014, the company recognised EUR 8.3 million (EUR 19.3 mill.) non-sales related write-downs of inventory as expense, of which EUR 4.1 million was related to Building construction, Finland –operating segment’s activated project development costs, EUR 3.0 million to an own developed housing project in Russia and EUR 1.1 million to Infrastructure construction segment’s mineral aggregate reserves in Finland. 135 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 23 Current receivables 23 Current receivables EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Interest-bearing Loan receivables 541 1,279 Non-interest-bearing Trade receivables 143,226 214,893 Project income receivables 72,417 98,611 Accrued interest 2 99 Personnel expenses 2,928 2,947 Other prepayments and accrued income 37,260 35,597 Derivative assets 7,109 1,881 Receivables from real estate companies under construction 3,208 7,506 Other receivables 23,323 28,361 289,473 389,894 Current receivables, total 290,014 391,174 In 2014, a net amount of trade receivable credit losses from continuing operations were EUR 5.1 million (EUR 5.3 mill.). Credit losses from other current receivables were EUR 7.8 million of which EUR 7.0 million are recognised in finance costs. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 24 Current available-for-sale financial assets 24 Current available-for-sale financial assets EUR 1,000 2014 2013 Balance sheet value, 1 Jan 30,010 59,020 Additions 93,858 Decreases -98,750 -29,011 Balance sheet value, 31 Dec 25,118 30,010 Available-for-sale financial assets include short term investments in bank deposits. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 25 Cash and cash equivalents 25 Cash and cash equivalents EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Cash in hand and at banks 109,080 51,072 Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand and liquid deposits with solvent banks with original maturities of three months or less. 136 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 26 Financial assets and liabilities by category 26 Financial assets and liabilities by category Financial assets / Financial Derivatives liabilities recognised Loans and Available-forliabilities subject to at fair value through other sale financial recognised at hedge Carrying EUR 1,000 profit and loss receivables assets amortised cost accounting amount Fair value 31 Dec 2014 Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 3,191 3,191 3,191 Other non-current receivables 546 546 318 Current financial assets Trade and other receivables 282,905 282,905 282,905 Derivative assets 7,109 7,109 7,109 Available-for-sale financial assets 25,118 25,118 25,118 Cash and cash equivalents 109,080 109,080 109,080 Financial assets total 7,109 392,530 28,309 427,948 427,720 Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 139,513 139,513 139,366 Other non-current liabilities 793 793 793 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 208,291 208,291 208,291 Trade payables and other financial liabilities* 273,358 273,358 273,358 Derivative liabilities 4,158 4,158 4,158 Financial liabilities total 4,158 621,955 626,113 625,966 Financial assets / Financial Derivatives liabilities recognised Loans and Available-forliabilities subject to at fair value through other sale financial recognised at hedge Carrying EUR 1,000 profit and loss receivables assets amortised cost accounting amount Fair value 31 Dec 2013 Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 3,764 3,764 3,764 Other non-current receivables 904 904 857 Current financial assets Trade and other receivables 389,293 389,293 389,293 Derivative assets 1,881 1,881 1,881 Available-for-sale financial assets 30,010 30,010 30,010 Cash and cash equivalents 51,072 51,072 51,072 Financial assets total 1,881 441,268 33,774 476,923 476,876 Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 61,348 61,348 61,305 Other non-current liabilities 3,033 3,033 3,033 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 346,277 346,277 347,115 Trade payables and other financial liabilities* 386,608 386,608 386,608 Derivative liabilities 2,006 74 2,079 2,079 Financial liabilities total 2,006 797,267 74 799,346 800,140 * Trade payables and other financial liabilities do not include statutory obligations or prepayments received, as these are not classified as financial liabilities under IFRS. 137 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Fair value measurement Other non-current receivables includes trade receivables and other interest-free receivables. Fair values are based on future cash flows discounted using risk free market yields plus appropriate credit spreads. The used discount rates vary between 3.6–19.3 per cent (0.6–4.8%). The carrying amount of current trade and other receivables is equal to their fair value due to their short maturity. The fair value of the bond included in non-current interest-bearing financial liabilities is based on the market price and the fair value of other non-current financial liabilities is based on future cash flows discounted using a market yield plus appropriate credit spread for the Group at the reporting date. The used discount rates vary between and 2.2–4.8 per cent (2.3–3.2%). The carrying amount of current financial liabilities is assumed to be close to their fair value due to their short maturity. A fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value The Group has categorised financial instruments recognised at fair value by using a three-level fair value hierarchy. Financial instruments within Level 1 of the hierarchy are traded in active markets hence prices are obtained directly from the efficient markets. Fair values of instruments within Level 2 are based on observable market inputs and generally accepted valuation methods. Fair values within Level 3 are not based on observable market data but on quotations provided by brokers and market valuation reports. EUR 1,000 Level 2 Level 3 Total 31 Dec 2014 Available-for-sale financial assets Equity instruments 3,191 3,191 Money market investments 25,118 25,118 Derivative instruments Derivative assets 7,015 94 7,109 Derivative liabilities 2,321 1,838 4,158 EUR 1,000 Level 2 Level 3 Total 31 Dec 2013 Available-for-sale financial assets Equity instruments 3,764 3,764 Money market investments 30,010 30,010 Derivative instruments Derivative assets 1,858 23 1,881 Derivative liabilities 862 1,217 2,079 138 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Level 3 reconciliation statement The table below presents the changes in Level 3 financial instruments for the financial year. Financial instruments recognised at fair value Financial instruments recognised at fair value EUR 1,000 through profit or loss through other comprehensive income Opening balance 1 Jan 2014 -1,194 3,764 Additions 10 Disposals -583 Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss, total -549 Fair values 31 Dec 2014 -1,743 3,191 Gains and losses on level 3 financial instruments held at the end of the accounting period In other operating income and expenses -1,743 Financial instruments recognised at fair value Financial instruments recognised at fair value EUR 1,000 through profit or loss through other comprehensive income Opening balance 1 Jan 2013 -563 5,971 Additions 4 Disposals -2,211 Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss, total -631 Fair values 31 Dec 2013 -1,194 3,764 Gains and losses on level 3 financial instruments held at the end of the accounting period In other operating income and expenses -1,194 139 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 27 Shareholders' equity 27 Shareholders' equity Shares and share capital Lemminkäinen Corporation has one share class. On 31 December 2014, the company had a total of 23,219,900 (19,650,176) shares and 16,687 (34,915) treasury shares. The increase of the total number of shares was due to the rights offering held in 2014. In the offering 3,569,724 new shares were subscribed. All issued shares are fully paid up. The shares do not have a nominal value. Share premium account Share premiums are recognised in the share premium account. Hedging reserve Hedging reserve includes the effective portion of the fair value changes of interest rate derivatives designated for hedge accounting. Cash flow hedging is applied for hedging interest rate risk. During 2014, a fair value change of interest rate derivatives EUR -0.1 milllion before deferred taxes has been removed from the hedging reserve into the income statement (in 2013 EUR 0.5 mill. recognised in hedging reserve). Hedging instruments have matured and hedge accounting terminated during the reporting period. An amount of EUR -0.1 million (EUR -0.5 mill.) has been recognised in interest expences in profit and loss during the financial year arising from cash flow hedging. Invested unrestricted equity fund Invested unrestricted equity fund includes the subscription prices of shares to the extent that they are not entered into share capital on the basis of a separate decision. The company arranged a rights offering in 2014 and as a result, the gross proceeds deducted by the transactions costs less taxes, a total of EUR 27.7 million, were recognised in the invested unrestricted equity fund. Hybrid bond eligible for equity classification Shareholders' equity includes two EUR 70 million hybrid bonds, one issued in 2012 and the other in 2014. The bonds have no maturity dates but the company has the right to redeem the hybrid bonds after four years of the issue date. The bonds are unsecured and in a lower priority than the company's other debt obligations. A holder of Hybrid bond notes does not possess any of the rights of a shareholder, and the bond does not dilute shareholders' holdings in the company. The annual coupon rate of the bond issued in 2012 is 10% and the annual coupon rate of the bond issued in 2014 is 8.75%. Translation differences Translation differences include the differences arising from the translation of the Group’s foreign entities’ non-Euro denominated financial statements into Euros. In previous years the Group hedged the net investment in foreign entities and hedging gains and losses from hedge instruments are also included in the translation differences, provided they qualified for hedge accounting. The Group has not applied hedge accounting for hedging the net investment in foreign entities during the reporting period. At the end of 2014 the translation difference amounted to EUR -21.7 million (EUR -3.1 mill.). The change of the translation difference was EUR -18.6 million during 2014. The impact of Russian exchange rate changes on the translation difference was a total of EUR -15.8 million and the impact of Norwegian exchange rate changes was a total of EUR -2.7 million. The change includes EUR 0.9 million related to termination of control or joint control which has been recognised in the income statement. 140 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 28 Interest-bearing liabilities 28 Interest-bearing liabilities EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Non-current Borrowings from financial institutions 2,122 15,136 Pension loans 1,956 Finance lease liabilities 36,750 43,542 Bonds 99,647 Other non-current liabilities 994 715 139,513 61,348 Current Borrowings from financial institutions 1,193 9,016 Pension loans 1,956 19,555 Finance lease liabilities 13,420 14,254 Bonds 59,931 Chequing accounts 363 17,261 Commercial papers 63,365 150,205 Liabilities of housing companies under construction 127,057 73,115 Other current liabilities 939 2,939 208,291 346,277 Most of the liabilities are drawn in the debtors functional currency. Finance lease liabilities EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Finance lease liabilities and interest on them is due as follows In one year or earlier 14,790 15,958 Over one year, but less than five years 36,535 39,028 Over five years 2,184 7,462 53,509 62,448 Maturity of present value of minimum leases In one year or earlier 13,420 14,254 Over one year, but less than five years 34,614 36,283 Over five years 2,136 7,259 50,170 57,796 Accumulated future finance costs from finance lease liabilities 3,340 4,652 141 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 29 Pension obligations 29 Pension obligations The company has in its operating countries several defined contribution pension plans which are subject to local regulation and practices. The company’s one most significant pension plan is the Finnish Emplyees Pensions Act (TyEL), in which the benefits are determined directly on the basis of the level of the beneficiary’s earnings level. TyEL pension plan is mainly arranged through pension insurance companies and it is treated as a defined contribution plan. At the end of 2014, the company had defined benefit pension plans in Finland and Norway. All plans at the year-end 2014 were final salary defined benefit plans, and they supplement the statutory pensions or enable retirement before the statutory retirement age. The company’s two defined benefit pension plans in Norway were terminated during 2014 from which the company recognised a curtailment gain of EUR 0.2 million which was booked to other operating income. In 2013, some of the company’s defined benefit plans were converted to defined contribution plans in Norway. All of the plans’ obligations, EUR 12.4 million, were settled. In addition, the company recognised a curtailment gain of EUR 1.9 million, which was booked to other operating income. Three persons left the Finnish plan in 2013, which was treated as a partial settlement of the obligation, and it had no effect on the company’s income statement. 31 Dec 2015 EUR 1,000 (forecast) 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Recognised in the balance sheet Present value of funded obligations 576 614 969 Fair value of plan assets -68 -61 -102 Total amount recognised in the balance sheet 508 553 867 of which in Finland 499 504 490 of which in Norway 10 49 376 Estimated amount of defined benefit plan payments in Lemminkäinen Group during 2015 is EUR 0.0 million. Estimates and forecasts may vary from actual figures. EUR 1,000 Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets Total 1 Jan 2014 969 -102 867 Current service cost 5 5 Net interest 22 -3 19 Settlements -41 41 Curtailments -227 -227 -241 38 -203 Remeasurements Return on plan assets 13 13 (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions -159 -159 Experience (gains)/losses 149 149 -10 13 3 Exchange differences -11 0 -11 Employer contributions -23 -23 Benefit payments -14 14 Business combinations and disposals -79 -79 31 Dec 2014 614 -61 553 EUR 1,000 Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets Total 142 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 EUR 1,000 Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets Total 1 Jan 2013 19,032 -13,816 5,216 Current service cost 1,383 1,383 Net interest 393 -226 167 Settlements -12,434 12,434 Curtailments -1,933 -1,933 -12,591 12,208 -383 Remeasurements Return on plan assets 27 27 Change in demographic assumptions 1,101 1,101 (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions -4,479 586 -3,892 Experience (gains)/losses -554 -554 -3,931 614 -3,318 Exchange differences -1,158 824 -334 Employer contributions -314 -314 Benefit payments -382 382 31 Dec 2013 969 -102 867 The company's defined benefit pension obligations do not include minimum funding requirements. 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2013 Finland Norway Finland Norway Actuarial assumptions Discount rate, % 2.5 3.0 3.3 4.1 Inflation rate, % 2.0 1.8 2.0 1.8 Expected rate of salary increases, % 1.0 3.0 1.0 3.3 Future pension increases, % 2.1 2.3 2.1 0.6 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2013 Finland Norway Finland Norway Life expextancy of plan members Male age 65 (current life expectancy), years 19.0 20.6 19.0 20.6 Female age 65 (current life expectancy), years 24.7 23.5 24.7 23.5 Male age 45 (at age 65), years 20.6 22.8 20.6 22.8 Female age 45 (at age 65), years 26.4 26.0 26.4 26.0 Defined benefit plans’ assets consist entirely of qualifying insurance policies and are fair valued on the accounting date. These assets do not include investments to Lemminkäinen or to real estate or other assets used by the company. The expected return on the plan assets is an estimate of a life insurance company's future long term total rebate. Plan participants at the end of period 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Active 6 12 Inactive not in pay status / Deferred 9 9 Inactive in pay status / Pensioners 91 95 Total number of participants 106 116 143 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 The effect of a 0.5 percentage point change in the most significant actuarial assumptions to the amount of defined benefit pension obligations is presented in the tables below. 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2013 Finland Norway Finland Norway 0.5% increase in the principal assumption will impact the liability as follows Discount rate -4.76% -0.33% -4.49% -3.32% Inflation rate 55.41% 4.98% Expected rate of salary increases 0.24% 0.01% 0.17% 0.01% 0.5% decrease in the principal assumption will impact the liability as follows Discount rate 5.22% 0.33% 4.30% 3.32% Inflation rate -35.66% -4.74% Expected rate of salary increases -0.24% -0.01% -0.17% -0.01% The above analyses are based on a 0.5 percentage point change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit pension obligation the same method has been applied as when measuring the defined benefit pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet. 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Plan assets and liabilities for the past five years Defined benefit obligation 614 969 19,032 21,674 21,776 Fair value of plan assets -61 -102 -13,816 -13,376 -15,961 553 867 5,216 8,298 5,815 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 30 Share-based payments 30 Share-based payments Performance-based reward Years 2010–2012 Lemminkäinen had a share-based incentive plan comprising three one-year earning periods: the calendar years 2010, 2011 and 2012. The Board of Directors decided on the earning criteria for each period as well as on the targets to be established at the beginning of each earning period. In 2012, the earning criteria for long-term incentives were the targets set for the Group’s equity ratio and return on investment. The reward was paid partly in company shares and partly in cash. The proportion paid in cash covered the taxes and tax-related costs arising from the reward. The shares may not be transferred during the commitment period which ends two years after the earning period ends. Years 2013–2015 At the end of 2012, the Board of Directors of Lemminkäinen Corporation decided on a new share-based incentive plan for the Group’s key personnel. The plan includes three one-year earning periods, calendar years 2013, 2014 and 2015. The company’s Board of Directors will decide on the earning criteria and the targets to be set at the beginning of each earning period. The potential performance-based reward for an earning period will be paid out in company shares and cash. The proportion to be paid in cash will cover the taxes and tax-related costs arising from the reward. The shares may not be transferred during the commitment period of approximately two years. If a key person’s employment or service contract ends during the commitment period, they will generally have to return any reward shares to the company without compensation. 144 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Conditional reward As part of the plan the above mentioned key personnel has the opportunity to receive conditional reward, ie matching shares, on the basis of their share ownership and continued employment or service contract. In order to receive the conditional reward, a key person must already own or acquire a specified number of company shares, or a percentage thereof. The number and date are set by the Board of Directors. In this case, the key person will be granted, as a reward, one share for each share acquired, as long as their employment or service contract remains valid and they retain ownership of these shares until the conditional reward is paid. The earning period for the conditional reward is the calendar years 2013–2015. Information concerning share-based incentive plans are presented below: Conditional reward Performance-based reward 2014 2013 2014 2013 2012 Grant date 13 Feb 2014 6 Feb 2013 7 Feb 2014 7 Feb 2013 9 Feb 2012 Earning period start date 1 Jan 2014 1 Jan 2013 1 Jan 2014 1 Jan 2013 1 Jan 2012 Earning period end date 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Commitment period end date 30 Apr 2017 30 Apr 2016 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Share ownership Share ownership Vesting conditions requirement requirement EBIT, ROI Equity ratio, ROI Equity ratio, ROI Payment method Cash & Equity Cash & Equity Cash & Equity Cash & Equity Cash & Equity Share price at grant date, EUR 13.41 15.80 13,83 15.85 20.20 Fair value of share at grant date, EUR * 12.81 15.03 13.31 15.26 19.70 Amount of granted shares during period, maximum 259,730 205,591 75,076 Changes in number of granted shares, maximum -90,898 -3,449 2,433 Number of granted shares at the end of period, maximum 168,832 202,142 77,509 Number of shares earned at the end of period ** 16,883 0 42,630 Matching shares subscribed at grant year 860 16,036 Number of plan participants at end of period 1 15 49 43 40 Assumed fulfilment of earning criteria, % 10.0 0.0 60.0 Estimated number of shares returned prior to the end of commitment period, % 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 * The fair value of share at grant date is the share’s grant date value less estimated dividend payments during the earning period. ** Number of shares earned in 2014 is an estimate. The accrued expenses from the share based incentive plans recognised in the income statement in 2014 were a total of EUR 0.3 million (EUR 1.0 mill.). The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of share-based incentive plan at the end of 2014 was EUR 0.1 million (EUR 0.9 mill.). The company estimates that expenses to be recognised in 2015 from incentive plans realised before 2015 will be approximately EUR 0.2 million. Actual amount may differ from the estimated amount. 145 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 31 Provisions 31 Provisions 10 year Lease Warranty liability Environmental commitment Litigation Other Total Total EUR 1,000 provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Provisions, 1 Jan 7,089 8,657 3,196 1,476 5,900 847 27,164 22,341 Translation differences -121 -175 -18 -314 -492 Increases in provisions 11,088 593 457 3,924 6,408 6 22,477 15,083 Expensed provisions -6,126 -615 -594 -1,851 -829 -10,016 -9,764 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries -718 -718 -4 Provisions, 31 Dec 2014 11,212 8,635 2,884 3,549 12,308 6 38,594 Provisions, 31 Dec 2013 7,089 8,657 3,196 1,476 5,900 847 27,164 10 year Lease Warranty liability Environmental commitment Litigation Other Total Total EUR 1,000 provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Provisions categorised as Long-term 1,159 7,554 2,884 3,549 12,308 6 27,461 19,935 Short-term 10,053 1,081 11,134 7,229 11,212 8,635 2,884 3,549 12,308 6 38,594 27,164 Warranty provisions cover after completion repair costs arising from warranty obligations. Provisions related to housing construction are expected to be used within one year after the provision is made. Warranty provisions related to other construction projects are mainly used in 1–2 years after the provision is made. 10 year liability provision related to housing and commercial construction is determined as a whole for all the projects including such liabilities. Environmental provisions are mainly related to a site's landscaping obligations. The expected time for using landscaping provisions depends on the use of the site, because in most cases the landscaping work starts after the use of the site ceases. In addition, environmental provisions cover other provisions related to environmental obligations. Lease liability commitment arises, when the company has a contractual obligation to obtain tenants for premises not yet leased in a commercial real estate under construction. Provisions for lease commitments are expected to be used in 1–3 years after the provision is made. Litigation provision is recognised for the asphalt cartel related claims for damages pending in the District Court of Helsinki, with 21 municipalities as plaintiffs. The court proceedings of these actions are expected to start in the District Court during 2016 at the earliest, and are expected to last 1–3 years. The amount of provision is estimated on the basis of the decisions given by Helsinki district court on 28th November 2013. 146 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 32 Trade and other payables 32 Trade and other payables EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Non-current Other non-current liabilities 793 3,033 Trade payables and other current liabilities Advance payments received 140,855 140,989 Liabilities to owners of housing under construction 4,506 13,427 Trade payables 89,220 139,780 Project expense liabilities 59,484 42,659 VAT 22,511 35,175 Accrued interest 4,282 1,180 Accrued personnel expenses 58,162 83,121 Other accrued liabilities 16,400 16,927 Derivative liabilities 4,158 2,079 Other current liabilities* 41,304 89,515 440,882 564,851 Non-current and current trade payables and other liabilities, total 441,675 567,884 * Other current liabilities at the end of 2013 include EUR 59.7 million of payables associated with the asphal cartel related legal proceedings. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 33 Financial risk management 33 Financial risk management In its business operations, Lemminkäinen Group is exposed to financial risks, mainly funding, liquidity, foreign exchange rate, interest rate and credit risks. The aim of the Group's financial risk management is to reduce uncertainty concerning the possible impacts that changes in fair values on the financial markets could have on the Group's result, cash flow and value. The management of financial risks is based on principles of the treasury policy approved by the Board of Directors. The treasury policy defines the principles and division of responsibilities with regard to financial activities and the management of financial risk. The policy is reviewed and if necessary updated at least annually. Execution of the treasury policy is the responsibility of the Group Treasury, which is mainly responsible for the management of financial risks and handles the Group's treasury activities on a centralised basis. The Group's treasury policy defines the division of responsibilities between the Group Treasury and business units in each subarea. The group companies are responsible for providing the Group Treasury with up-to-date and accurate information on treasury-related matters concerning their business operations. The Group Treasury serves as an internal bank and co-ordinates, directs and supports the group companies in treasury matters such that the Group's financial needs are met and its financial risks are managed effectively in line with the treasury policy. Funding and liquidity risk The Group seeks to ensure the availability of funding, optimise the use of liquid assets in funding its business operations and to minimise interest and other fiance costs. The Group Treasury is responsible for managing the Group's overall liquidity and ensuring that adequate credit lines and a sufficient number of different funding sources are available. It also ensures that the maturity profile of the Group's loans and credit facilities is spread sufficiently evenly over coming years as set out in the treasury policy. The maturity schedule of the interest-bearing liabilities, as per the Group’s accounting, is front-loaded. The reason for this is the EUR 127.1 million (EUR 73.1 mill.) liabilities of housing and commercial property companies. These liabilities mainly consist of non-current loans of housing companies under constraction which are recorded under current interest-bearing liabilities, and will be transferred to the buyers of the co-op shares when the units are handed over. Regarding unsold housing units, the Group will bear the liability by paying financial consideration for the units in question during a long loan period. The Group's available financing sources and liquid assets are sufficient to cover the obligations arising from current interest-bearing liabilities. 147 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 According to the treasury policy, the Group's liquidity reserve shall at all times match the Group's total liquidity requirement, and it must be accessible within five banking days without any additional charges being incurred. The Group's total liquidity requirement consists of the liquidity requirement of day-to-day operations, risk premium needs and the strategic liquidity requirement. The Group's liquidity management is based on monthly forecasts of funding requirements and daily cash flow forecasting. The Group's excess liquidity is managed by means of internal transactions and cash pools. Due to the nature of the Group's business operations, seasonal borrowing is of great importance. The effect of seasonal variation on short-term liquidity needs is controlled by using a commercial paper programme, committed credit limits and bank overdraft facilities. The total amount of the Group's commercial paper programme is EUR 300 million (EUR 300 mill.), of which EUR 63.4 million (EUR 150.2 mill.) was in use at 31 December 2014. Lemminkäinen has a EUR 185 million, three-year syndicated revolving credit facility. The credit facility is binding and unsecured, and its maturres in March 2016. At the end of the year, the Group had unused committed credit facilities amounting to EUR 185.0 million (EUR 175.0 mill.) and overdraft limits amounting to EUR 33.2 million (EUR 44.0 mill.). The amount of liquid assets at 31 December 2014 was EUR 134.2 million (EUR 81.1 mill.). Contractual cash flows of financial liabilities and derivative instruments EUR 1,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020– Total 31 Dec 2014 Interest-bearing liabilities 218,072 23,629 17,900 14,537 113,269 2,172 389,578 Interest rate derivatives 319 320 319 162 1,119 Forward foreign exchange contracts Cash flows payable 77,180 77,180 Cash flows receivable -81,905 -81,905 Commodity derivatives Cash flows payable 1,335 505 1,840 Cash flows receivable -87 -87 Other financial liabilities 179,856 69 23 559 23 120 180,649 Trade payables 89,220 89,220 Financial guarantees given 14,413 1,519 254 16,186 498,402 26,041 18,242 15,258 113,292 2,546 673,780 EUR 1,000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019– Total 31 Dec 2013 Interest-bearing liabilities 352,436 18,912 23,433 8,972 5,656 7,535 416,945 Interest rate derivatives 346 247 248 247 118 1,206 Forward foreign exchange contracts Cash flows payable 106,015 106,015 Cash flows receivable -106,552 -106,552 Commodity derivatives Cash flows payable 593 97 321 1,011 Cash flows receivable -14 -9 -23 Other financial liabilities 245,861 2,279 535 248,675 Trade payables 139,568 139,568 Financial guarantees given 17,413 1,519 254 19,186 755,664 21,526 26,056 9,219 5,774 7,790 826,029 148 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Foreign exchange rate risk The aim of foreign exchange rate risk management is to reduce uncertainty concerning the possible impacts that changes in exchange rates could have on the future values of cash flows, business receivables and liabilities, and other balance sheet items. Exchange rate risk mainly consists of translation risk and transaction risk. Translation risk consists of foreign exchange rate differences arising from the translation of the income statements and balance sheets of foreign group companies into the Group’s functional currency. Translation risk recorded in accounting is caused by equity investments in foreign entities and their retained earnings, the effects of which are recorded under translation differences in shareholders’ equity. Lemminkäinen Group has foreign net investments in several currencies. The key currencies in which the Group was exposed to translation risk in 2014 were the Russian rouble and the Norwegian krone. It is likely that the most significant translation risk is associated to these currencies in the future, too. The change in translation differences in 2014 was EUR -18.6 million, of which EUR -15.8 million was attributable to the Russian rouble and EUR -2.7 million to the Norwegian krone. Reportable translation risk is also caused by the reporting period’s income statement, the impact of which can be seen, among others, directly in the Group’s reportable net sales and operating profit in euros. In 2014, the impact of exchange rate changes on the Group’s net sales was EUR -73.2 million, of which EUR -40.0 million was attributable to the Russian rouble and EUR -19.7 million to the Norwegian krone, and their impact on the operating profit was EUR -5.0 million, of which EUR -4.3 million was attributable to the Russian rouble and EUR -0.6 million to the Norwegian krone. In accordance with the treasury policy, Lemminkäinen Group protects itself from translation risks primarily by keeping equity investments in foreign entities at an appropriately low level, and thus does not use financial instruments to hedge the translation risks. Transaction risk consists of cash flows in foreign currencies from operational and financial activities. The Group seeks to hedge business currency risks primarily by operative means. The remaining transaction risk is hedged by using instruments such as foreign currency loans and foreign currency derivatives. The group companies are responsible for identifying, reporting, forecasting and hedging their transaction risk positions internally. The Group Treasury is responsible for hedging the Group's risk positions as external transactions in accordance with the treasury policy. The general rule is that the major net positions, forecasted and known, for the 12 months following the review date are hedged, with a hedging ratio ranging from 25–100 per cent and emphasising the first six months. The key currencies in which the Group was exposed to transaction risk in 2014 were Russian rouble and Swedish krona. These transaction risk positions were mainly due to sales, procurements, receivables and liabilities. In 2014 the Group did not apply hedge accounting to transaction risk hedging. Sensitivity analysis of transaction risk The following assumptions have been made when calculating the sensitivity caused by changes in exchange rates: the exchange rate change is assumed to be +/– 10% the position includes financial assets and liabilities denominated in Swedish kronas and Russian roubles the position does not include forecasted future cash flows taxes are excluded in sensitivity analysis +/10% impact on 149 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 +/10% impact on EUR 1,000 Transaction position profit or loss 31 Dec 2014 EUR/SEK 369 -34 / +41 EUR/RUB 264 -24 / +29 +/10% impact on EUR 1,000 Transaction position profit or loss 31 Dec 2013 EUR/SEK -2,432 +221 / -270 EUR/RUB -6,432 +585 / -715 Interest rate risk The aim of Lemminkäinen Group's interest rate risk management is to minimise changes affecting the result, cash flows and value of the Group due to interest rate fluctuations. The Group Treasury manages and monitors the interest rate position. The Group's interest rate risk primarily comprises fixed-rate and variable-rate loan and leasing agreements, interest-bearing financial receivables and interest rate derivatives. Interest rate changes affect items in the income statement and balance sheet. The interest rate risk is decreased by setting the Group's average period of interest fixing term to the same as the interest rate sensitivity of its business. The interest rate sensitivity position of the Group's business is estimated to be about 15 months. The treasury policy thus defines the Group's average interest fixing term as 12–18 months. The Group aims to keep 40–65 per cent of its liabilities per currency hedged. The Group can have both variable and fixed-rate long-term borrowings. The ratio of fixed and variable-rate borrowings can be changed by using interest rate derivatives. In 2014, the Group has used interest rate swaps for managing interest rate risks. Part of the interest rate swaps were used for hedge accounting and a hedging result of those derivatives have been recognised in interest expenses. There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded from hedge accounting during the financial year. Hedging instruments assigned to hedge accounting have matured and hedge accounting terminated during the reporting period. Interest rate fluctuations in 2014 did not have any unusual effect on the Group's business, but a significant rise in the level of interest rates may have a detrimental effect on the demand for housing. Sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk The following assumptions are made when calculating the sensitivity caused by a change in the level of interest rates: the interest rate change is assumed to be 1 percentage point the position includes variable-rate financial liabilities, variable-rate financial receivables and interest rate derivatives all factors other than the change in interest rates remain constant taxes have not been taken into account when calculating sensitivity Impact on Impact on Impact on other Impact on other Interest rate risk profit or profit or comprehensive comprehensive EUR 1,000 position loss (+1%) loss (-1%) income (+1%) income (-1%) 31 Dec 2014 Variable-rate liabilities -182,901 -1,829 1,829 Variable-rate receivables 134,547 1,345 -1,345 Interest rate derivatives 40,000 1,295 -1,358 -8,354 812 -875 150 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Impact on Impact on Impact on other Impact on other Interest rate risk profit or profit or comprehensive comprehensive EUR 1,000 position loss (+1%) loss (-1%) income (+1%) income (-1%) 31 Dec 2013 Variable-rate liabilities -172,028 -1,720 1,720 Variable-rate receivables 81,845 818 -818 Interest rate derivatives 47,180 1,606 -1,699 9 -9 -43,003 704 -798 9 -9 Commodity price risk The Group's paving operations are exposed to bitumen price risk. The price of bitumen is determined by the world market price of oil in practise. The Group protects itself against the bitumen price risk with fixed purchase prices, price clauses in sales agreements and derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied. By the closing date, the group companies had used bitumen derivatives to hedge, in total, 11,000 MT (58,933 MT) of bitumen purchases. Credit risk Credit risks arise when a counterparty is unable to meet its contractual obligations, casusing the other party to suffer a financial loss. Lemminkäinen has defined a credit policy for customer receivables that aims to boost profitable sales by identifying credit risks in advance and controlling them. The credit policy sets the minimum requirements concerning trade credit and collections for Lemminkäinen Group. The Group's credit control function defines credit risks and the business units are responsible for managing them. Most of the Group's business is based on established and trustworthy customer relationships and on contractual terms generally observed in the industry. The Group is exposed to credit risk mainly through the Group's trade receivables and receivables associated with deposits and receivables. The maximum amount of credit risk is the combined total of the balance sheet values of the aforementioned items. The amounts and due dates of the Group's trade receivables are presented in the table below. The Group does not have any significant credit risk concentrations as trade receivables are distributed among many different customers in a number of market areas. The business unit that made the contract actively monitors the receivables situation. If the business units renegotiate the terms of the receivables, they must do so in accordance with the requirements of the Group's credit policy. The risk of credit losses can be reduced by means of guarantees, mainly bank guarantees and bank deposits. In addition, Lemminkäinen uses factoring arrangements which also mitigates the credit risk. Lemminkäinen's credit losses have been minimal in relation to the scale of its operations. The main risks are associated with business in Russia. As a general rule, construction projects in Russia are only undertaken against receipt of advance payments. If, in exceptional situations, a credit risk is taken, the amount permitted is always proportional to the expected margin on the project in question. Receiveables transferred for legally enforceable collection are recognised as credit losses. The Group is exposed to counterparty risk when investing liquid assets and using derivative instruments. Liquid assets are invested in short-term bank deposits, certificates of deposit issued by solvent partner banks, and commercial papers issued by corporations with a good credit rating. The Group Treasury is responsible for the management of the Group's counterparty and credit risks related to cash, financial investments and financial transactions. The treasury policy specifies the approved counterparties and their criteria. At the end of 2014, the counterparty risk was considered to be low. Ageing analysis of trade receivables EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Not due 108,711 171,472 Past due 1–30 days 22,331 19,698 Past due 31–60 days 3,184 8,023 Past due 61–90 days 3,383 7,070 Past due over 90 days 6,131 8,889 143,740 215,152 151 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Management of capital and the capital structure Capital means the equity and interest-bearing liabilities shown on Lemminkäinen's consolidated balance sheet. Lemminkäinen Group's capital management ensures cost-effectively that all of the Group's business sectors maintain their business viability at a competitive level in all cyclical conditions, that risk-carrying capacity is adequate, for example, in construction contracts, and that the company is able to service its borrowings and pay a good dividend. The amount of the Group's interest-bearing liabilities is affected by factors such as scale of operations, seasonal changes in production, acquisitions, investments in or the sale of production equipment, buildings and land, and possible equity related arrangements. The company continuously monitors especially the amount of debt, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, and the equity ratio. The company also follows the development of equity by means of the return on investment. A long-term average in excess of 18 per cent is regarded as a good return. The return on investment in 2014 was 13.5 per cent (-9.4%). We may from time to time seek to repurchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases and/or exchanges for equity securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. The amounts involved may be material. We may decide to hold, cancel or sell such repurchased debt. Possible subsequent sales of repurchased debt may be made against cash or other compensation or in exchange for equity securities and such sales may be executed as open market offers, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Repurchases or exchanges of outstanding debt or subsequent sales or exchanges of repurchased debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Some of the Group's financial arrangements include two financial covenants, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and the equity ratio, which are monitored quarterly and calculated as an average of four previous quarters, which are monitored quarterly and calculated as an average of four previous quarters. The terms of the net debt/EBITDA covenant were not met in the first quarter. Consequently, the company started negotiations with certain lenders, which were completed on 21 May 2014. Due to the negotiations, the company has committed to strengthening its balance sheet with approximately EUR 100 million, among other measures. In the third quarter, the company conducted a rights offering. With the offering, the company raised gross proceeds of EUR 29.3 million (net proceeds of EUR 27.3 million). In addition, the company will divest non-core assets and operations by EUR 70 million by the end of September 2015. At the end of 2014, the company had carried out divestments amounting to EUR 21.5 million. The company will not pay any dividends for 2014 without the consent of certain lenders. Furthermore, in the second quarter the company agreed with its lenders on changes to the net debt to EBITDA covenant for the second and third quarters of 2014. At the end of the year, the company met its covenants. In addition, the company has taken several other measures to strengthen its balance sheet and to improve its financial position. In the first quarter, the company issued a EUR 70 million hybrid bond. In the second quarter, the company divested its technical building services business for EUR 55.4 million and used the inbound cash flow from the divestment for repayment of current liabilities. In addition, the company issued a EUR 100 million unsecured senior five-year bond in June 2014. The EUR 100 million bond issued by the company was used for refinancing the EUR 60 million bond that matured in October 2014. The bond carries a fixed annual coupon at the rate of 7.375 per cent payable semi-annually. The terms and conditions of the bond include two financial incurrence-based covenants: an equity ratio and net debt to EBITDA. If the equity ratio covenant is not met, the company is restricted from making certain payments, including repurchases of its own shares and redemption of hybrid bonds. If the net debt to EBITDA covenant is not met, the company is restricted in its ability to raise additional debt. The Group's equity includes two EUR 70 million hybrid bonds with no maturity date. The first of these was issued in March 2012 and the second in March 2014. These hybrid bonds are classified as equity instrument but the bond holders do not have any rights of a shareholders, and the bond does not dilute shareholders' ownership in the company. The hybrid bonds are unsecured and junior to all other borrowings of the company. The bond have no maturity date but company has the right to redeem them at it's own discretion after four years of the issuance date. EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 152 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Interest-bearing liabilities 347,804 407,626 Liquid assets 134,197 81,081 Interest-bearing net debt 213,607 326,544 Equity, total 412,508 324,038 Equity ratio, % 37.1 27.3 Gearing, % 51.8 100.8 Return on investment, % 13.5 -9.4 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 34 Derivative financial instruments 34 Derivative financial instruments Fair value, Fair value, Fair value, EUR 1,000 Nominal value positive negative net 31 Dec 2014 Foreign exchange derivatives 77,179 7,015 -1,305 5,710 Interest rate derivatives 40,000 -1,045 -1,045 Commodity derivatives 2,659 87 -1,838 -1,750 119,838 7,102 -4,188 2,915 Fair value, Fair value, Fair value, EUR 1,000 Nominal value positive negative net 31 Dec 2013 Foreign exchange derivatives 106,009 1,640 -726 914 Interest rate derivatives 47,180 216 -180 36 Commodity derivatives 24,407 23 -1,217 -1,194 177,597 1,879 -2,123 -244 The fair value of derivative instruments is the gain or loss arising from the settlement of the contract at the market price prevailing on the reporting date. Hedge accounting has not been applied to all derivative instruments. Nevertheless, these derivative instruments have been utilised for hedging purposes. The derivatives are used in order to reduce business risks and to hedge balance-sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the fair value of non-hedge accounted derivatives are recognised through profit or loss in accordance with their nature either in financial items or as other operating income and expenses. Financial derivatives are subject to master netting or similar arrangements which are enforceable in some circumstances. According to these arrangements above mentioned derivative assets and derivative liabilities could be settled on a net basis. Netting arrangements are enforceable according to typical negligence events or other events of default as the general terms for derivative transactions applies. These items are recognised on gross basis in the balance sheet. Net figures would have been EUR 1.4 million (EUR 0.8 mill.) smaller than the figures presented in the table. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 35 Adjustments to cash flows 35 Adjustments to cash flows EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Depreciation and impairment of goodwill 44,684 45,329 Share of the profits of associates and joint ventures -497 -562 Finance income and costs recognised in the income statement 37,900 26,669 Change in provisions 12,468 5,315 Change in pension obligations -285 -3,763 Credit losses on trade receivables 6,035 5,331 Gain and loss on the sale of fixed assets as well as other non-payment income and expenses -36,406 -4,450 Translation differences -19,421 -7,189 44,477 66,679 153 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 36 Operating lease commitments 36 Operating lease commitments EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Minimum leases of irrevocable lease contracts within One year or less 9,387 12,337 Over one year, but less than five years 21,242 26,116 Over five years 12,103 6,005 42,732 44,458 Minimum leases of irrevocable lease contracts include operating lease commitments due within One year or less 3,503 5,144 Over one year, but less than five years 6,352 5,978 Over five years 329 562 10,185 11,684 Irrevocable lease commitments include mainly leases of real estates and machinery. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 37 Guarantees and commitments 37 Guarantees and commitments EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Pledged deposits For own commitments 316 17 Guarantees On behalf of associates and joint ventures 14,356 17,356 On behalf of consortiums and real estate companies 1,831 1,831 16,186 19,186 Investment commitments 2,084 7,738 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 38 Contingent liabilities 38 Contingent liabilities Litigation On 28 November 2013, the District Court of Helsinki issued its decisions concerning damages related to the asphalt cartel. In line with the decisions, Lemminkäinen recorded approximately EUR 66 million in expenses in its 2013 result. Of this, approximately EUR 60 million consisted of damages ordered only to Lemminkäinen, Lemminkäinen’s share of the damages ordered to it and other asphalt industry companies to be paid jointly and severally, as well as interest and legal expenses related to the damages. This amount was paid by the company in January 2014. Lemminkäinen has appealed against all 35 decisions, where the plaintiffs’ claims were upheld, to the Helsinki Court of Appeal. In Lemminkäinen’s opinion, there are some judicial aspects in the decisions, where the conclusions of the District Court differ from previous legal practices. Such judicial aspects are related to the questions of prescriptions and value added tax, for example. The main oral hearing in the Court of Appeal will take place during 2015. The Finnish state and 22 municipalities have also submitted their appeals to the Helsinki Court of Appeal. In addition to the claims decided on by the District Court in November 2013, 21 claims against Lemminkäinen and other asphalt industry companies for damages are waiting for the main proceeding to begin. These damages amount to a total of approximately EUR 26 million and the company has made a EUR 12.3 million provision for them. In addition, the company has several other individual legal proceedings related to business operations, the outcome of which is uncertain. The company estimates that these legal proceedings will not have a material impact on the company’s financial position. 154 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 39 Related-party transactions 39 Related-party transactions Lemminkäinen Group's related parties comprise associates and joint ventures as well as members of the key management personnel including their related parties. Members of the key management personnel comprise the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, the Executive Team and the Head of Internal Audit. Transactions with related parties EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Sales of goods and services To associates and joint ventures 1,878 2,948 To key management personnel and their related parties 380 125 2,258 3,074 Purchases of goods and services From associates and joint ventures 15,748 11,275 EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Balance of purchases/sales of goods and services Trade receivables From associates and joint ventures 13 28 From key management personnel and their related parties 80 125 93 153 Trade payables To associates and joint ventures 241 212 EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Loan receibables from associates and joint ventures 154 Related-party transactions with associates and joint ventures are mainly asphalt works and mineral aggregate deliveries. Sales to a key management personnel and their related parties include one sale of a non-current asset at market price and one sale of construction service at a market price. A list of investments in subsidiaries and associates and joint ventures is presented in Note 11. Remuneration of key management personnel On the basis of a proposal submitted by the HR Committee, the company’s Board of Directors decides on the basic salary and fringe benefits as well as on both short-term and long-term remuneration of the President and CEO and of the Executive Team. The Board of Directors decides annually both short and long-term indicators for management remuneration and the target values for the indicators which are designed to support achievement of the strategic goals. On the basis of the President and CEO’s proposal, The Board of Directors decides on the amount of fees and whether the indicator-based goals have been reached. According to management remuneration policy approved by the Board of Directors, the remuneration of the President and CEO, members of the Group's Executive Team and other management personnel consists of a fixed basic salary, fringe benefits, other benefits, annual short-term incentives (performance-based pay) as well as long-term share based incentive plans and pension plans. Costs related to remuneration of key management personnel are presented in the table below. The figures in the table are presented separately for each President and CEO of the Group and as a total for other key management personnel. In 2014, the company booked social security costs of EUR 0.9 million (EUR 0.8 mill.) from key management personnel’s salaries, fees and other short-term employee benefits. The social security costs are not included in the table’s figures below. The table’s figures are calculated on accrual basis and the performance and share-based rewards included in the figures are based on a year-end estimate. The figures do not include the Chief Financial Officer’s service fee from the time period between 1 April and 30 June 2014. EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 155 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Short-term employee benefits 2,779 2,622 Timo Kohtamäki 168 511 Bernd Brunow (President & CEO term)* 170 Casimir Lindholm (President & CEO term) 297 Key management personnel other than the President & CEO 2,145 2,110 Post-employment benefits 758 835 Timo Kohtamäki 330 337 Casimir Lindholm (President & CEO term) 75 Key management personnel other than the President & CEO 354 498 Share-based payments 128 428 Timo Kohtamäki 33 128 Casimir Lindholm (President & CEO term) 5 Key management personnel other than the President & CEO 91 300 Termination benefits 2,003 Timo Kohtamäki 1,084 Key management personnel other than the President & CEO ** 919 Other long term benefits 6 Key management personnel other than the President & CEO 6 Remuneration of key management personnel, total 5,669 3,891 *Includes fees paid for Board work during the CEO period as well as fees for working as a President and CEO **Does not include share based payments or costs of additional pension plans for the term of notice Short-term employee benefits A fixed basic salary refers to a person's monthly salary, which is determined by the requirements of the position as well as the performance and experience of the person holding the position. In addition to the use of a company car and mobile phone and a meal benefit, management personnel have extended insurance cover for accidents and travel in their leisure time. The total salary covers fixed basic salary and fringe benefits. The amount of the management's performance-related reward is earned by exceeding financial and operational profit targets specified at the beginning of the year. Lemminkäinen's management is divided into four performance-related reward groups which define the maximum performance-related reward percentage for each person. Defining a person's reward group is based on organisation level as well as the requirements and operational influence of the position. In 2014 the level of performancerelated reward of the management was based on profit before taxes and reaching goals related efficiency improvement measures and other development targets. Performance-related rewards of the Executive Vice Presidents of the business segments, who are members of the Group's Executive Team were also based on the operating profits of each segment. Achieving targets set on performance-related rewards were assessed semi-annually. The maximum performance bonus payable to the President and CEO was 80 per cent of the annual salary and 60 per cent for other members of the Group Executive Team. Lemminkäinen Corporation’s General Meeting elects each year the members to serve on the company’s Board of Directors and decides on their fees. The fees are paid fully in cash. The term of office of the Board members lasts until the end of the first Annual General Meeting held after their election. The members of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors do not belong to the share-based incentive plan, and they are not employees of Lemminkäinen. The 2014 Annual General Meeting decided that the Chairman would be paid a fee of EUR 10,000 per month (EUR 10,000) and the Board members would each receive a fee of EUR 3,000 per month (EUR 3,000). The Board members also receive an attendance fee of EUR 500 per meeting (EUR 500). The Chairman of the Audit Committee is paid an attendance fee of EUR 1,000 (EUR 1,000) and the members of the Audit Committee EUR 500 (EUR 500) for each meeting of the Committee. Board members living outside Finland receive an extra EUR 1,000 to their attendance fees. 156 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Post-employment benefits From the beginning of 2010 the additional pension plan of the President and CEO and the members of Executive Team is based on cash basis and earning a paid-up policy. The amount of payment is defined as percentages of the annual salary. The President and CEO and oher members of the Executive Team are, according to the old policy, entitled to retire at the age of 60 or according to the policy valid since 15.9.2011 at the age of 63. The amount of the President and CEO’s defined contribution pension benefit equals 20 per cent of his annual fixed salary. Other long term benefits Other long term benefits expenses arose from service year awards and anniversary gifts to related-party personnel. The awards and gifts comply with the Group’s HR practices. Termination benefits Term of notice for the Lemminkäinen’s President and CEO agreement and for other members of the Executive Team is six months. If the company dismisses the President and CEO agreement, the President and CEO is entitled to an absolute severance pay equal to 12 months cash salary at the time of the agreement's termination. For other members of the Executive Team the equivalent severance pay equals to six months cash salary at the time of the agreement’s termination. Severance pay in Timo Kohtamäki’s President and CEO agreement equalled 18 month cash salary. Share-based payments The share-based incentive plan for the Group's key personnel comprises of performance-based and conditional rewards. Performance based reward comprises of three earning periods, which are calendar years 2013, 2014 and 2015. The company's Board of Directors decides on the earning criteria and the targets to be set at the beginning of each period. Performance based compensation targets for 2014 were related to the company’s return on investment and equity ratio. In addition to the performance-based reward, the key personnel also have the opportunity to receive a conditional reward based on share ownership and a continuation of their employment or service contract. The conditional reward seeks to encourage the Group’s key personnel to increase their holding in the company. The earning period for the conditional reward is the calendar years 2013–2015. Share-based payments are described in more detail in the Note 30. 157 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Parent company income statement (FAS) Parent company income statement (FAS) EUR 1,000 Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Net sales 1 35,911 42,487 Production for own use 598 904 Other operating income 2 12,402 67 Materials and services 3 3,694 234 Personnel expenses 4 21,724 21,721 Depreciation 5 6,269 6,845 Other operating expenses 6 30,462 27,611 Operating profit/loss -13,237 -12,953 Finance income and costs 7 -10,132 -8,516 Profit/loss before extraordinary items -23,369 -21,468 Extraordinary items 8 15,812 -64,381 Profit before taxes -7,558 -85,849 Direct taxes 9 5,185 17,461 Profit for the financial year -2,372 -68,389 158 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Parent company balance sheet (FAS) Parent company balance sheet (FAS) EUR 1,000 Note 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 ASSETS Non-current assets 10 Intangible assets 14,225 19,312 Tangible assets 14,474 15,337 Holdings in group companies 114,162 159,565 Other investments 1,360 1,676 144,220 195,891 Current assets 11 Non-current receivables 1,700 Deferred tax asset 21,296 16,125 Current receivables 272,146 327,405 Financial securities 25,118 30,010 Cash in hand and at banks 93,749 28,358 412,309 403,598 556,529 599,489 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders' equity 12 Share capital 34,043 34,043 Share premium account 5,675 5,675 Invested non-restricted equity fund -59 Fair value reserve 90,581 61,309 Retained earnings 47,951 116,340 Profit for the financial year -2,372 -68,389 175,877 148,919 Provisions 13 Other provinsions 12,308 5,900 Liabilities 14 Non-current liabilities 238,024 81,050 Current liabilities 130,320 363,620 368,344 444,670 556,529 599,489 159 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Cash flows from operating activities Profit/loss before extraordinary items -23,369 -21,468 Adjustments Depreciation and impairment 6,269 6,845 Finance income and costs 10,132 8,516 Other adjustments -12,514 -39 Cash flow before change in working capital -19,483 -6,146 Change in working capital Increase(-)/decrease(+) in trade and other receivables 1,173 -22,818 Increase(+)/decrease(-) in current liabilities -51,108 -2,148 Cash flow from operations before financial items and taxes -69,418 -31,112 Interest and other finance costs paid -51,716 -31,648 Dividends received 12,400 55 Interest and other finance income received 57,061 26,345 Income tax paid 1 -8 Cash flow from operating activities -51,672 -36,367 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of tangible and intangible assets -5,142 -8,672 Proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets 1,580 77 Investments in other assets -10 Proceeds from sale of other investments 1,233 Return on invested capital 2,932 Disposed subsidiary shares 53,864 Cash flow from investing activities 54,458 -8,594 Cash flows from financing activities Increase(-)/decrease(+) of long-term loan receivables 1,700 Share issue for cash consideration 29,272 Group contributions received 1,206 19,400 Change in Group receivables/liabilities 42,975 -5,281 Proceeds from short-term borrowings 127,982 270,621 Repayments of short-term borrowings -304,315 -246,975 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 368,893 300,000 Repayments of long-term borrowings -210,000 -290,000 Dividends paid -11,755 Cash flow from financing activities 57,712 36,010 Increase(+)/decrease(-) in cash and equivalents 60,498 -8,951 Cash and cash equivalents at begining of financial year 58,368 67,320 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of financial year 118,866 58,368 160 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Parent company's accounting principles, 31 Dec 2014 Parent company’s accounting principles, 31 Dec 2014 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s financial statements are The Company has applied cash flow hedge accounting to prepared in accordance with Finnish accounting standards some variable-rate loans. The change in fair value of the (FAS). interest rate swap agreements used as hedging instrument is recognised in the fair value reserve in equity as the hedging Foreign currency items relationship is effective. The ineffective portion of the change Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are in fair value is recognised in financial items in the income translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates statement. Changes in fair value accumulated in equity are prevailing on the date of the transaction. Receivables and transferred from equity and recognised in financial items for liabilities are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the accounting period in which the hedged item affects the the balance sheet date. result. Fair value changes from derivative financial instruments Financial securities which are not used for hedge accounting are recognised in Financial securities are measured at fair value and the financial items in the income statement. Fair value changes changes in fair values are recognised in fair value reserve in are presented on section 6 of the notes to the financial equity. Fair values are calculated by discounting future cash statements. flows to present value. When financial securities are sold, accumulated fair value changes are transferred from fair Valuation and depreciation of fixed assets value reserve to financial items in the income statement. Fixed assets are shown on the balance sheet at their original acquisition costs less planned depreciation over their Derivative financial instruments and hedge expected economic lifetimes. In addition, the values of some accounting land, buildings and shareholdings include revaluations, The derivatives are used in order to reduce business risks and against which no depreciation is charged. The depreciation to hedge balance sheet items denominated in foreign periods are as follows: currencies. Derivative financial instruments are measured at Buildings and structures 10–40 years fair value. Machinery and equipment 4–10 years Foreign exchange derivatives are used to hedge against Other fixed assets 3–10 years changes in forecasted foreign currency-denominated cash flows and changes in value of receivables and liabilities in Pension liability foreign currencies. The company has used foreign exchange The pension security of employees, inclusive of additional forward contracts which are re-measured at the balance benefits, is covered by policies taken out from a pension sheet date by using the foreign exchange forward rates insurance company. prevailing on the balance sheet date. Interest rate derivatives are used to hedge against changes Research and development expenses affecting the result, balance sheet and cash flows due to R&D expenditure is expensed in the year during which it interest rate fluctuations. The company has used interest occurs. rate swaps which are re-measured by discounting the contractual future cash flows to the present value. Direct taxes Taxes calculated on the basis of the result for the financial year, adjustments to the taxes of earlier financial years, and the change in the deferred tax liability and asset are recorded as direct taxes on the income statement. 161 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) 1 Net sales by market area 2 Other operating income 3 Materials and services 4 Personnel, management and Board members 5 Depreciation 6 Audit fees 7 Finance income and costs 8 Extraordinary items 9 Direct taxes 10 Non-current assets 11 Current assets 12 Shareholders' equity 13 Provisions 14 Liabilities 15 Guarantees and commitments 162 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 1 Net sales by market area 1 Net sales by market area EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Finland 31,920 42,419 Scandinavia 1,045 68 Baltic countries 331 0 Russia 2,615 0 35,911 42,487 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 2 Other operating income 2 Other operating income EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Gain on sale of fixed assets 12,042 55 Others 360 12 12,402 67 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 3 Materials and services 3 Materials and services EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Raw materials and consumables 2,390 196 External services 1,304 38 3,694 234 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 4 Personnel, management and board members 4 Personnel, management and board members EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Personnel expenses Salaries, wages and emoluments 17,624 16,956 Pension expenses 3,314 3,920 Other staff costs 786 845 21,724 21,721 Management salaries and emoluments Board Members and the President and CEO 2,009 844 Average number of employees Salaried employees 234 303 Pension commitments concerning Board Members and the President and CEO The retirement age of the President and CEO of Lemminkäinen Corporation is 63 years. 163 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 5 Depreciation 5 Depreciation EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Intangible rights 5,081 3,502 Other capitalised expenditure 298 2,445 Buildings 784 770 Machinery and equipment 44 67 Other tangible assets 62 62 6,269 6,845 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 6 Audit fees 6 Audit fees EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Audit fees 111 119 Tax councelling 14 Other consulting 102 88 213 220 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 7 Finance income and costs 7 Finance income and costs EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Dividend income From group companies 12,400 From others 55 12,400 55 Other interest and finance income From group companies 15,747 15,524 From others 40,135 16,952 55,882 32,477 Interest expenses and other finance costs To group companies -663 -1,378 To others -77,751 -39,669 -78,414 -41,047 Net finance income/costs -10,132 -8,516 Finance income and costs include: Exchange gains and losses (net) -5,372 -4,908 Change in fair value of currency derivatives (net) 4,796 1,197 Change in fair value of interest rate derivatives (net) -1,175 517 Gains and losses from hedge accounting (net) -72 -503 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 8 Extraordinary items 8 Extraordinary items EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Extraordinary incomes, Group contributions 22,220 1,206 Extraordinary expenses, damages related to legal proceedings -6,408 -65,587 15,812 -64,381 164 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 9 Direct taxes 9 Direct taxes EUR 1,000 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Income taxes in respect of previous years 0 -1 Change in the deferred tax liability 5,186 17,461 5,185 17,461 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 10 Non-current assets 10 Non-current assets Intangible assets Advance Other capitalised payments and EUR 1,000 Intangible rights expenditure work in progress Total Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2014 18,019 7,713 7,380 33,111 Increases 4,678 19 382 5,080 Decreases -2,798 -2,707 -2,566 -8,071 Transfers between items 4,080 575 -4,655 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2014 23,979 5,600 541 30,120 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 1 Jan 2014 -6,619 -7,180 -13,799 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and tranfers 611 2,672 3,283 Amortisation for the financial year -5,081 -298 -5,379 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 31 Dec 2014 -11,089 -4,806 -15,895 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2014 12,890 794 541 14,225 Advance Other capitalised payments and EUR 1,000 Intangible rights expenditure work in progress Total Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2013 7,912 7,713 9,258 24,883 Increases 2,209 6,101 8,310 Decreases -81 -81 Transfers between items 7,980 -7,980 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2013 18,019 7,713 7,380 33,111 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 1 Jan 2013 -3,194 -4,735 -7,929 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and tranfers 77 77 Amortisation for the financial year -3,502 -2,445 -5,947 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 31 Dec 2013 -6,619 -7,180 -13,799 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2013 11,400 532 7,380 19,312 165 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Property, plant and equipment Advance Building and Machinery and Other tangible payments and EUR 1,000 Land structures equipment assets work in progress Total Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2014 2,947 18,566 947 1,323 361 24,145 Increases 62 62 Decreases -463 -463 Transfers between items 361 -361 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2014 2,947 18,989 484 1,323 23,744 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 Jan 2014 -12,360 -817 -1,050 -14,227 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and tranfers 428 428 Depreciation for the financial year -784 -44 -62 -890 Accumulated depreciation 31 Dec 2014 -13,144 -434 -1,112 -14,690 Revaluations 3,087 2,333 5,420 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2014 6,034 8,178 50 211 14,474 Advance Building and Machinery and Other tangible payments and EUR 1,000 Land structures equipment assets work in progress Total Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2013 2,947 18,608 957 1,323 23,835 Increases 361 361 Decreases 42 9 52 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2013 2,947 18,566 947 1,323 361 24,145 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 Jan 2013 -11,632 -760 -989 -13,381 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and tranfers 42 9 52 Depreciation for the financial year -770 -67 -62 -898 Accumulated depreciation 31 Dec 2013 -12,360 -817 -1,050 -14,227 Revaluations 3,087 2,333 5,420 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2013 6,034 8,539 130 273 361 15,337 Investments Holdings in group Shares in real Other shares and Shares in housing EUR 1,000 companies estate holdings companies Total Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2014 159,565 793 556 250 161,165 Increases 10 10 Disposals -43,018 -38 -210 -79 -43,344 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2014 116,547 755 356 172 117,831 Impairment -2,386 -2,386 Accumulated impairment 31 Dec 2014 -2,386 -2,386 Revaluations 76 76 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2014 114,162 755 356 248 115,522 Holdings in group Shares in real Other shares and Shares in housing EUR 1,000 companies estate holdings companies Total Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2013 159,565 793 556 250 161,165 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2013 159,565 793 556 250 161,165 Revaluations 76 76 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2013 159,565 793 556 327 161,241 166 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 11 Current assets 11 Current assets EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Non-current receivables Loan receivables from group companies 1,700 1,700 Deferred tax asset From accruals and temporary differences 22,395 21,099 Impact of change in tax rate -3,875 22,395 17,224 Deferred tax liability From revaluations 1,099 1,347 Change in tax rate -247 1,099 1,099 Deferred tax asset(+) and liability(-), total 21,296 16,125 Current receivables Receivables from parties outside the Group Trade receivables 279 258 Loan receivables 413 Other receivables 10,066 3,444 Accrued receivables 3,399 1,577 13,743 5,692 Receivables from group companies Trade receivables 6,642 4,350 Other receivables 249,349 302,932 Accrued receivables 2,412 14,431 258,403 321,713 Current receivables, total 272,146 327,405 Items included in accrued receivables Accrued interest 28 6,345 Taxes 3 5 Deferred personnel expenses 942 344 Others 4,838 9,313 5,811 16,008 167 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 12 Shareholders's equity 12 Shareholders's equity EUR 1,000 2014 2013 Share capital 1 Jan 34,043 34,043 Share capital 31 Dec 34,043 34,043 Share premium account 1 Jan 5,675 5,675 Share premium account 31 Dec 5,675 5,675 Invested non-restricted equity fund 1 Jan 61,309 61,309 Increases 29,272 0 Invested non-restricted equity fund 31 Dec 90,581 61,309 Fair value reserve 1 Jan -59 -421 Change in fair value of hedging instruments 74 504 Change in fair value of financial securities -20 Transfer to deferred tax liability -15 -122 Fair value reserve 31 Dec -59 Retained earnings 1 Jan 47,951 128,102 Dividends paid -11,762 Retained earnings 31 Dec 47,951 116,340 Profit for the financial year -2,372 -68,389 Shareholders' equity, total 175,877 148,919 Distributable funds 31 Dec 136,160 109,260 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 13 Provisions 13 Provisions EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Litigation provision 12,308 5,900 168 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 14 Liabilities 14 Liabilities EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Non-current liabilities Liabilities to parties outside the Group Loans from financial institutions 10,000 Pension loans 1,956 Bonds 99,647 Hybrid bond 138,377 69,095 238,024 81,050 Current liabilities Liabilities to parties outside the Group Loans from financial institutions 5,751 Pension loans 1,956 19,555 Bonds 59,931 Commercial papers 63,365 150,205 Trade payables 629 1,530 Other liabilities 9,910 66,755 Accrued liabilities 15,325 6,563 91,184 310,291 Liabilities to group companies Trade payables 36 184 Other liabilities 39,100 52,980 Accrued liabilities 0 165 39,136 53,329 Items included in accrued liabilities Accrued interests 7,461 2,925 Accrued personnel expenses 4,780 3,013 Others 3,083 790 15,325 6,728 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 15 Guarantees and commitments 15 Guarantees and commitments EUR 1,000 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Guarantees On behalf of group companies 407,697 438,185 On behalf of associates and joint ventures 14,356 17,356 On behalf of consortiums and real estate companies 1,831 1,831 423,884 457,371 In addition, Lemminkäinen Corporation has set one guarantee without maximum amount on behalf of its subsidiary. Lease liabilities Payable next year 4,888 7,906 Payable in subsequent years 24,579 19,127 29,468 27,034 Derivative contracts Forward foreign exchange contracts Nominal value 77,179 113,435 Fair value 5,710 852 Interest rate swap contracts Nominal value 40,000 45,751 Fair value -1,045 41 169 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Financial indicators (IFRS) Financial indicators (IFRS) EUR mill. 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010* Net sales 2,044.5 2,020.1 2,267.6 2,183.9 1,829.6 Operations outside Finland 971.2 929.0 897.3 780.3 543.5 % of net sales 47.5 46.0 39.6 35.7 29.7 Operating profit 36.3 -89.3 50.4 44.0 29.6 % of net sales 1.8 -4.4 2.2 2.0 1.6 Profit before taxes -1.7 -116.1 29.1 25.0 7.6 % of net sales -0.1 -5.7 1.3 1.1 0.4 Profit for the financial year attributable to the equity holders of the parent company 18.2 -93.7 43.9 34.7 0.3 % of net sales 0.9 -4.6 1.9 1.6 0.0 Non-current assets 307.9 362.5 343.8 351.0 315.1 Inventories 524.0 504.4 494.4 448.5 376.0 Financial assets 425.9 475.8 465.3 443.3 370.9 Equity 412.5 324.0 441.8 348.7 325.2 Non-controlling interest 0.1 0.6 0.4 1.7 5.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 347.8 407.6 371.2 431.6 375.5 Interest-free liabilities 497.5 611.0 490.6 460.7 356.2 Balance sheet total 1,257.8 1,342.7 1,303.5 1,242.8 1,062.0 Return on equity, %** 4.9 -24.4 11.1 10.5 0.4 Return on investment, %** 13.5 -9.4 10.8 10.8 7.0 Equity ratio, % 37.1 27.3 37.2 30.8 35.0 Gearing, % 51.8 100.8 62.8 114.5 105.7 Interest-bearing net liabilities 213.6 326.5 277.3 401.2 349.2 Gross investments 30.0 71.2 64.5 84.0 59.6 % of net sales 1.5 3.5 2.8 3.8 3.3 Order book 31 Dec continuing operations 1,456.1 1,733.2 1,336.1 1,289.3 1,083.6 Personnel at the end of period, continuing operations 4,748 5,526 5,833 5,751 5,234 The effects of changes in accounting principles to the financial indicators have been adjusted for the period when the new accounting principle became applicable as well as for the preceding accounting period. Correspondingly, discontinued operations have been adjusted from the income statement items for the accounting period in which they are classified as discontinued operations, as well as for the preceding accounting period. *The figures include the assets held for sale and related liabilities. **Includes the effect of discontinued operations 170 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Share-related financial indicators (IFRS) Share-related financial indicators (IFRS) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Basic earnings per share (EPS), EUR* 0.40 -4.81 1.94 1.68 0.01 Diluted earnings per share (EPS), EUR* 0.40 -4.81 1.93 1.68 0.01 Equity per share, EUR* 19.33 15.70 21.45 16.87 16.32 Dividend per share, EUR 0.00** 0.00 0.60 0.50 0.50 Dividend per earnings, % 0.0 0.0 26.9 28.3 over 100 Effective dividend yield, % 0.0 0.0 4.2 2.7 1.9 Price per earnings (P/E)* 23.6 -3.2 7.4 11.1 1,734.7 Share price, EUR average 12.61 15.57 16.48 22.86 24.73 lowest 9.50 13.74 13.95 17.08 21.21 highest 15.89 16.97 20.50 27.37 30.00 at end of financial year 9.52 15.20 14.28 18.72 26.00 Market capitalisation at year end, EUR mill. 220.9 298.2 280.6 367.8 510.8 Share trading (OMX Helsinki), 1,000 shares 1,096 1,758 992 3,367 4,172 % of shares issued 4.7 8.9 5.0 17.1 21.2 Weighted average number of shares, 1,000* 21,329 20,600 20,582 20,665 19,932 Number of shares at end of period, 1,000 23,220 19,650 19,650 19,645 19,645 Number of treasury shares 16,687 34,915 509 The effects of changes in accounting principles to the financial indicators have been adjusted for the period when the new accounting principle became applicable as well as for the preceding accounting period. Correspondingly, discontinued operations have been adjusted from the income statement items for the accounting period in which they are classified as discontinued operations, as well as for the preceding accounting period. * Figures for 2010–2013 include a retrospective adjustment due to the effect of the rights offering in 2014 on the the weighted average number of shares ** Board of Directors’ proposal to the AGM 171 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Calculation of key ratios Calculation of key ratios RETURN ON INVESTMENT, % Profit before income taxes + finance costs x 100 Total equity (average) + interest-bearing liabilities (average) RETURN ON EQUITY, % Profit for the financial period x 100 Total equity (average) EQUITY RATIO, % Total equity x 100 Balance sheet total advances received GEARING, % Interest-bearing liabilities cash and other liquid assets x 100 Total equity INTEREST-BEARING NET DEBT Interest-bearing debt cash and other liquid assets BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE Profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent company accrual basis interest of the hybrid bond adjusted with tax effect Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent company accrual basis interest of the hybrid bond adjusted with tax effect Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue + dilutive potential ordinary shares EQUITY PER SHARE Equity attributable to owners of the parent company Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue DIVIDEND PER SHARE Dividend for the financial period Total number of shares treasury shares DIVIDEND PER EARNINGS, % Dividend for the financial period x 100 Profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent company EFFECTIVE DIVIDEND YIELD, % Dividend per share x 100 Share price at the end of the period PRICE PER EARNINGS (P/E) Share price at the end of the period Basic earnings per share MARKET CAPITALISATION Number of shares in issue x share price at the end of the period 172 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit The distributable shareholders’ equity shown on the balance sheet of the parent company, Lemminkäinen Corporation, amounts to EUR 136,159,542.86 consisting of EUR 90,580,653.68 in invested unrestricted equity fund, EUR 47,951,259.89 in retained earnings from previous years and EUR -2,372,370.71 in result for the financial year. The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that the company will not pay a dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2014, and thus retained earnings would stand at EUR 45,578,889.18. Helsinki, 4 February 2015 Berndt Brunow Juhani Mäkinen Noora Forstén Finn Johnsson Kristina Pentti-von Walzel Heikki Räty Casimir Lindholm President & CEO 173 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financials › Auditor's report Auditor’s Report (Translation from the Finnish Original) An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial To the Annual General Meeting of Lemminkäinen Oyj statements and the report of the Board of Directors. The We have audited the accounting records, the financial procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, statements, the report of the Board of Directors and the including the assessment of the risks of material administration of Lemminkäinen Oyj for the year ended misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those 31 December, 2014. The financial statements comprise the risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control consolidated statement of financial position, income relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement and report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair of changes in equity and statement of cash flows, and notes view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate to the consolidated financial statements, as well as the in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal flow statement and notes to the financial statements. control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the Responsibility of the Board of Directors and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation Managing Director of the financial statements and the report of the Board of The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are Directors. responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit adopted by the EU, as well as for the preparation of financial opinion. statements and the report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements regulations governing the preparation of the financial In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a statements and the report of the Board of Directors in true and fair view of the financial position, financial Finland. The Board of Directors is responsible for the performance, and cash flows of the group in accordance with appropriate arrangement of the control of the company’s International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as accounts and finances, and the Managing Director shall see adopted by the EU. to it that the accounts of the company are in compliance with the law and that its financial affairs have been arranged Opinion on the Company’s Financial Statements and in a reliable manner. the Report of the Board of Directors Auditor’s Responsibility In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors give a true and fair view of both the Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial consolidated and the parent company’s financial statements, on the consolidated financial statements and on performance and financial position in accordance with the the report of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The laws and regulations governing the preparation of the Auditing Act requires that we comply with the requirements financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors of professional ethics. We conducted our audit in accordance in Finland. The information in the report of the Board of with good auditing practice in Finland. Good auditing Directors is consistent with the information in the financial practice requires that we plan and perform the audit to obtain statements. reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors are free Helsinki, 16 February 2015 from material misstatement, and whether the members of the Board of Directors of the parent company or the PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Managing Director are guilty of an act or negligence which Authorised Public Accountants may result in liability in damages towards the company or whether they have violated the Limited Liability Companies Kim Karhu Act or the articles of association of the company. Authorised Public Accountant 174 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Investor information › Shares and shareholders Shares and shareholders Lemminkäinen has one series of shares (LEM1S). Each share Shareholders carries one vote at a general meeting of shareholders and At the end of the financial year, the company had 4,532 confers an equal right to a dividend. shareholders (4,705). Holders of nominee-registered shares and non-Finnish shareholders held 13 per cent (13) of all Share capital and amount of shares Lemminkäinen Corporation shares and voting rights. Lemminkäinen’s share capital remained unchanged, and amounted to EUR 34,042,500 million. Due to the rights Flagging notifications issue in autumn 2014, the number of Lemminkäinen's Lemminkäinen received one flagging notification during shares rose to 23,219,900 shares (19,650,176). 2014. Shares held by Noora Forstén decreased from 1,966,073 shares, i.e. 10.0 per cent of all shares, to Share price and trading volume 1,866,073, i.e. 9.5 per cent, dropping below 10 per cent of all The price of Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share on NASDAQ shares and votes in Lemminkäinen Corporation. OMX Helsinki was EUR 15.20 (14.28) at the beginning of the year and EUR 9.52 (15.20) on the last trading day in Treasury shares 2014. The highest share price quoted was EUR 15.89 in At the end of 2014, Lemminkäinen owned 16,687 of its own January and the lowest EUR 9.50 in December. The average shares, which have been returned to the company as part of trading price in 2014 was EUR 12.61 (15.57). At the end of its share-based incentive scheme. 2014, the market capitalisation of Lemminkäinen’s shares stood at EUR 220.9 million (298.2). In addition to the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd., Lemminkäinen’s share is also traded on alternative markets. The total trading volume in 2014 totalled 1,268,320 (2,076,080). Of this amount, 14 per cent (15) of trading took place in alternative markets. (Source: Fidessa Fragmentation Index, http://fragmentation.fidessa.com.) Rights issue Lemminkäinen carried out a rights issue in 2014. The shareholders were offered one freely transferable subscription right in the form of a book-entry for each share they owned. Every eleven (11) subscription rights entitled their holder to subscribe for two (2) new shares at the subscription price of EUR 8.20 per share. Lemminkäinen raised gross proceeds of EUR 29.3 million through the offering, which was oversubscribed by 27.5 per cent. The number of total shares rose from 19,650,176 shares to 23,219,900 shares. Management and Board of Director’s shareholdings 175 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Management and Board of Director’s shareholdings No. of shares on No. of shares on 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Board of Directors 2,983,553 2,612,733 President and CEO 500 17,475 Group management, excluding the President and CEO 13,458 22,653 Management and Board of Directors shareholdings, total 2,997,511 2,652,861 % of all shares 13% 14% Lemminkäinen's share (LEM1S) Listing: NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Listing date: 1 June, 1995 Trading currency: EUR Segment: Mid cap Sector: Industrials Trading code: LEM1S ISIN code: FI0009900336 Reuters ID: LEM1S.HE Bloomberg ID: LEM1S FH Earnings per share, dividend Equity per share, EUR per share 25 EUR 2010: over 100% % 5 50 20 0 0 15 10 -5 -50 10 11 12 13 14* 5 Earnings per share, EUR Dividend per share, EUR 0 The profit for the financial year distributed to shareholders as 10 11 12* 13* 14 dividends, % *Figures for 2010-2013 include a retrospective adjustment due to the effect of the rights offering in 2014 on the weighted average number of shares *The Board of Directors proposes that no dividend will be paid for 2014. Figures for 2010-2013 include a retrospective adjustment due to the effect of the rights offering in 2014 on the weighted average number of shares 176 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Market capitalisation, EUR Number of shareholders million no. % 6,000 15 600 4,000 10 400 2,000 5 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 200 Number of shareholders The share of foreign and nominee registered shares 0 10 11 12 13 14 Investor information › Information for shareholders and investors Information for shareholders and investors 2015 Annual General Meeting When registering, shareholders should provide their name, personal identification number, address and telephone Lemminkäinen Corporation’s 2015 Annual General Meeting number, as well as the name and personal identification will be held at 3 p.m. on Wednesday, 25 March 2015, at the number of any assistant. Notices of intention to attend must Varma auditorium, Salmisaarenranta 11, Helsinki. be received before the registration deadline. Any instruments of proxy must also be submitted with the registration. The Right to participate Notification of Annual General Meeting can be read in full on Each shareholder who is recorded on 13 March 2015 in the the Company’s website at www.lemminkainen.com. Company’s shareholder register (maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd) has the right to participate in the Annual General Meeting. A shareholder whose shares are registered in his/her Dividend policy and dividend for the year personal Finnish book-entry account is registered in the 2014 Company’s shareholder register. In accordance with Lemminkäinen’s dividend policy, the company seeks to pay its shareholders a dividend of at least A shareholder whose shares are nominee registered and who 40 per cent of the profit for the financial year. wishes to participate in the Annual General Meeting and exercise his right to vote must be entered in the company’s Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors will propose to the AGM shareholder register by 20 March 2015 at 10:00 a.m. in order that no dividend for the 2014 financial year will be paid. to participate in the meeting. Registration Registration for the Annual General Meeting begins on 5 February 2015 and ends on 20 March 2015. Registration is possible: online at www.lemminkainen.com by phone +358 2071 53378 by mail to Lemminkäinen Corporation, Pirjo Favorin, P.O. Box 169, 00181 Helsinki, Finland 177 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Financial reporting 2015 5 February 2015 2014 Financial Statements bulletin week 10 Annual Report 2014 29 April 2015 Interim Report, 1 January–31 March 2015 29 July 2015 Interim Report, 1 January–30 June 2015 30 October 2015 Interim Report, 1 January–30 September 2015 must be objective and simultaneously disclosed to all market Lemminkäinen holds a Finnish-language briefing for analysts participants. The Company answers questions from analysts and the media in connection with the publication of the and investors by phone and email, as well as by holding Interim Reports and The Financial Statements bulletin at its meetings with investors. Head Office in Helsinki. Prior to the Financial Statements bulletin and each Interim Investment research According to the information available to the Company, the Report, Lemminkäinen follows a so-called silent period. following banks and brokerage firms have made investment During this period, Lemminkäinen does not comment on the analyses of Lemminkäinen in 2014: Carnegie Securities, financial situation or future outlook of the Group and does Danske Bank, Evli Bank, Inderes Oy and Pohjola Bank. not meet with representatives of the capital markets or Contact information for these analysts is provided on financial media. Lemminkäinen’s website at www.lemminkainen.com/investors. Ordering publications and releases The Company publishes its financial reports, stock exchange releases and press releases in both Finnish and English. All Contact information Lemminkäinen Corporation releases can be ordered directly to email at Lemminkäinen’s Investor Relations website, www.lemminkainen.com/investors. P.O. Box 169, 00180 Helsinki, Finland investor@lemminkainen.com Investor relations Lemminkäinen’s investor relations seek to support the Ms. Katri Sundström correct valuation of the Company’s share by providing capital Head of Investor Relations markets with current information on the Company’s Tel. +358 2071 54813 / +358 400 976 333 business, strategy and financial position. The information katri.sundstrom@lemminkainen.com Shareholders on 31 Dec 2014 178 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014 Shareholders on 31 Dec 2014 Number of shares % of all shares 1. Pnt Group Oy 4,341,948 18.7% 2. Heikki Pentti Estate 2,253,698 9.7% 3. Noora Forstén 2,209,721 9.5% 4. Olavi Pentti 2,020,285 8.7% 5. Varma 1,091,677 4.7% 6. Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 756,580 3.3% 7. Timo Pentti 756,580 3.3% 8. Eva Pentti-Kortman 751,234 3.2% 9. Mandatum Life 521,132 2.2% 10. Wipunen varainhallinta Oy 355,000 1.5% 11. Mariatorp Oy 355,000 1.5% 12. Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 319,743 1.4% 13. Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 319,527 1.4% 14. Fennia Life Insurance Company Ltd 215,000 0.9% 15. Laakkonen Mikko Kalervo 189,797 0.8% 15 largest total 16,456,922 70.9% Other owners 3,956,725 17.0% Nominee registered total 2,806,253 12.1% All shares total 23,219,900 100.0% Lemminkäinen received a flagging notification on 2 April 2012, according to which Peab Invest AS, a wholly owned subsidiary of Peab AB, ownership in Lemminkäinen’s share rose to 10.6 per cent of all Lemminkäinen’s shares and votes. Lemminkäinen has not after this received a flagging notification from Peab regarding the changes in their ownership. The shares are in nominee-registered account, where the shareholdings are not public. 179 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2014
