Sustainable Development Report 2014 ACC Limited Contents 1.0 Foreword 02 4.0 Our Roadmap 4.1 Journey So Far 72 2.0 Organisation and Strategy 4.2 The Road Ahead 73 2.1 Organisation Profile 06 2.2 Financial Highlights 08 5.0 Annexures 2.3 Corporate Governance 10 2.4 About the Report 15 5.1 Assurance Statement 76 2.5 Strategy and Stakeholder Engagement 17 5.2 GRI G4 Content Index 79 2.6 Risks and Opportunities 20 5.3 UN Global Compact Linkage 96 5.4 Corporate Memberships 97 5.5 Awards in 2014 99 3.0 Materiality Aspects 5.6 Glossary 101 3.1 Compliances 24 3.2 Employee Well-being 26 3.3 Occupational Health and Safety 32 3.4 Products and Services 35 3.5 Energy 37 3.6 Effluents and Waste 41 3.7 Responsible Selling and Customer Care 42 3.8 Anti-Corruption 47 3.9 Water 49 3.10 Emissions 51 3.11 Materials 54 3.12 Supply Chain 56 3.13 Economic Performance 59 3.14 Biodiversity 61 3.15 Public Policy 63 3.16 Local and Indigenous Communities 65 About Us ACC Limited is among India’s foremost manufacturers of Cement and Ready Mixed Concrete with a countrywide spread of factories and sales offices. ACC was established in 1936 and is acknowledged as a pioneer and trendsetter in cement and concrete. The quality of its products and customer services make ACC the most preferred brand in the Indian cement industry. ACC has undertaken social volunteering practices almost from its inception, its earliest initiatives in community development dating back to the 1940’s, while the first formal Village Welfare Scheme was launched in 1952. The communities living around most of its cement plants comprise the weakest sections of rural and tribal India with little access to basic amenities. Together with its countrywide network of employees and associates, ACC has always stepped forward to assist the authorities in times of national disasters to provide immediate life-saving emergency relief as well as more valuable longterm responses. Among the first companies in India to include environment protection as a corporate commitment, it is recognized for best practices in environment management at its plants and mines. ACC has joined hands with its industry peers to develop and adopt a technological roadmap for effective action against climate change via a transition path that pursues continued contributions towards a halving of global CO2 emissions by 2050. Over the years the company has been felicitated several times for its community development achievements, crisis relief assistance, fair business practices and sustainable development by eminent bodies such as CII, FICCI, Council for Fair Business Practices and PHD Chamber. In the last two consecutive years, ACC was ranked as India’s Most Admired Company in the cement sector by Fortune India and Hay Group India. The report is prepared “In accordance” with the “Comprehensive” option of GRI G4 Guidelines and is externally assured by M/s Emergent Ventures India 1.0 | Foreword I am pleased to share highlights of our were continued to maintain the highest sustainability performance in 2014 in each safety standards in all our operations. pillar of the triple bottom line framework. However, we report with sadness that the company suffered the loss of four On the ECONOMIC Macro-environment: Although 2014 invaluable lives during the year. No harm anywhere to anyone associated with ACC sustainability began on a lackluster note with sluggish remains the company’s top priority. The industrial production, the economy picked front, we up to end the year with growth of ~5 per “Surakhsha Laher” programme initiated in the previous year was continued with the remain deeply cent from 4.7 per cent in the preceding year, while inflation slowed down. The launch of its second and third waves. These included measures to build leadership committed to new government that came in place in mid 2014 ushered in perceptible improvement and line ownership, improve bottom up communication, engage more closely maintain our in the overall business sentiment in with operators, contractors’ employees best-in-class the country, particularly with regard to accelerating the pace of infrastructure and other third party personnel and the implementation of safety initiatives with status while development. a view to close gaps identified in audit assessments. Special efforts were made enriching our Performance Highlights: In 2014, the company’s consolidated income rose to ensure that contractors were aligned with the company’s objectives to ensure people and by 5 per cent while consolidated profit ‘Zero Harm’. Emergency Medical Response after tax was up by 6.6 per cent. Selling safety processes prices of cement improved by 4 per cent. capabilities at our plants & mines were further improved. The Company’s Logistics and building a Our range of premium cement products and customer excellence activities Safety Improvement Programme won acclaim from Holcim as Regional Award green supply gained ground. Individual House Builders continued to be the largest customer Winner for South Asia. The programme chain. segment in cement and hence enjoyed has various ongoing interventions such as imparting defensive driving training to a high focus. The thrust on logistics drivers, vehicle inspection, and segregation excellence was also maintained. of pedestrian and vehicular traffic inside Ready Mixed Concrete business performed plants. well during the year with a focus on sale CSR: ACC’s welfare and development of value added products that widened our schemes continued to benefit the customer footprint and helped register community around the company’s plants further improvement in profitability. We and mines through activities including take pride that ACC Concrete has been health care, education, vocational supplier to many new landmark projects in guidance, sustainable livelihoods, and the country including major infrastructure projects such as expressways, metro rail, women’s empowerment. Sanitation airports, stadia, large townships and other received enhanced attention with support iconic structures. from Holcim. Knowledge building also received special attention. Consistent with Jamul Project: The Jamul Project in previous levels of commitment we spent Chhattisgarh, comprising a new state` 27.45 crore on CSR in 2014 meeting of-the-art clinkering line of capacity 2.79 the“2% of net profit recommendation million tonnes per annum is expected to for CSR expenditure prescribed in the be commissioned in December 2015; the Companies Act 2013”. new grinding facility of 1.10 million tonnes at Jamul will be commissioned in early ENVIRONMENT 2016. The new grinding unit of 1.35 million Environment & Energy: Efforts to achieve tonnes at Sindri, which is part of this our on-going commitments of the project, will be ready in early 2016. Low Carbon Technology Roadmap for the Indian Cement Industry under the PEOPLE umbrella of the Cement Sustainability Safety: Rigorous and concerted efforts Initiative (CSI) in India continued to yield 02 Sustainable Development Report 2014 positive results. CO2 emissions per tonne of & process changes as well as fuel mix in India Holcim through two locally cement fell to 526 Kg CO2/tonne of cement optimization with more Pet coke and listed subsidiary companies (namely, ACC from 538 Kg CO2/tonne of cement in the alternative fuels. Limited and Ambuja Cements Limited) previous year which is one of the lowest in and Lafarge S. A. through its subsidiary industry. Amidst this, we welcome the positive companies. CCI approved the merger impacts of two policy shifts. The first is application, subject to compliance with We achieved further reduction in thermal government’s intention to build highways certain conditions including a package of and electrical energy and in specific with concrete. This augurs well for cement asset divestments comprising one cement water consumption. A Sustainability and ready mixed concrete industries, both plant and one grinding unit of Lafarge in Development road map was developed of which have under-utilized capacities Eastern India. In India, CCI’s final approval for the period 2014-2017 with a spotlight in the country. It also makes technofor the merger is pending subject to these on reducing CO2 emissions, thermal economic sense as concrete is a more divestments. and electrical energy intensity and durable road-building material besides water consumption. The road map also having a lower carbon footprint than Change of Guard: In August 2014, I addresses the enhancement of the thermal bitumen. The other is introduction of took over the baton from Mr Kuldip substitution rate through increased use of Composite cements, the standards for Kaura who had been CEO & Managing non-fossil fuels. which are still at a draft stage awaiting Director of the company since 2010. His formal acceptance. This new grade of tenure at ACC was particularly notable AFR: Our Alternative Fuels and Resources for the Institutionalizing Excellence cement will enable the industry to blend (AFR) programme has now come under programme that led to several innovative fly ash and slag simultaneously and thus the umbrella of Holcim’s Geocycle banner. initiatives. I have immense respect for produce green cement with low carbon In addition to our existing co-processing this organization and all that it stands footprint. initiatives, new waste pre-processing for. While strengthening our customer platforms were commissioned at Wadi ORGANISATION excellence initiatives, I am also committed and Kymore which serve to enhance the to take the company’s sustainability Awards: ACC was felicitated with a co-processing capability in these plants. agenda forward to maintain our position bouquet of awards conferred by reputable This will help us increase the use of of best-in-class. institutions for achievements in areas alternative fuels through the co-processing as diverse as safety, manufacturing of hazardous and non hazardous Outlook: In 2015, we foresee a modest but excellence, environment management industrial wastes, municipal solid wastes steady revival of the Indian economy with and communications. Of these I single and bio-mass. improving trends in all sectors particularly out two. For the second consecutive year, in infrastructure, housing and construction Policy: Significant policy changes and ACC was ranked first among “India’s Most sectors. This is likely to have a positive other factors impacted our business with Admired Companies” in Cement Sector impact on demand for cement. We hope regard to environmental performance and in the Fortune India Hay Group Survey. to benefit from this growth in future with costs. Certain regulatory changes relating The company’s Annual Report for 2013 the increased capacity available to us post to renewal of mines and deemed mining won the Gold Shield from the Institute Jamul project. We also aim to keep a strong rights, led to limestone mining operations of Chartered Accountants of India for focus on cost reduction and customer being temporarily suspended at two of our “Excellence in Financial Reporting”, the excellence initiatives to notch an improved plants in the latter part of the year. This country’s highest honour in this category. performance and remain focused on impacted clinker production necessitating communities, CSR, energy efficiency & purchases and stock transfers at higher Holcim in Transition: In April 2014, our promoter group Holcim Limited and continue our efforts in these areas. On cost. Inadequate supply of fly ash due to the sustainability front, we remain deeply under-utilization of power plants was Lafarge S.A. announced their intention to combine the two companies through committed to maintain our best-in-class another constraint on account of which status while enriching our safety and the production of low carbon fly ash based a merger of equals to create the most advanced company in the global building people processes, and building a green blended cements was restricted; without supply chain. As always we are grateful to this constraint, we could have further materials industry. As an important receive the valuable feedback, suggestions improved our CO2 emissions performance. next step in the merger process, it was and support of our stakeholders. necessary to obtain regulatory clearances The New Environment Rules being in various jurisdictions around the world. contemplated in August 2014 have some Accordingly, Holcim and Lafarge made challenging standards for particulate an application before the Competition and gaseous emissions. However, we are Commission of India (CCI) in July 2014 well prepared to address these changes seeking approval for the proposed merger Harish Badami by making necessary capex investments of the two groups which are both active CEO & Managing Director Sustainable Development Report 2014 03 Organisation and Strategy 2.1 Organisation Profile 2.2 Financial Highlights 2.3 Corporate Governance 2.4 About the Report 2.5 Strategy and Stakeholder Engagement 2.6 Risks and Opportunities Sustainable Development Report 2014 05 2.1 | Organisational Profile A Strong Foundation and Managing Director, Mr Kuldip Kaura, was succeeded by Mr Harish This is a company born out of an Badami. In 2014 the structure comprised unparalleled merger of ten cement three autonomous geographical A strong companies in 1936. Two published regions north, east and southwest books chronicle the founding and focus on growth of ‘The Associated Cement each of which was assigned distinct profit accountability and decentralised sustainable Companies Limited’ (renamed as ACC decision-making. Limited in 2006) up to its seventy-fifth development year. ACC’s founders were large business Iconic Brand and an urge for groups of repute that practiced high ACC is recognized as the cement that standards of governance. The ownership conservation of structure changed significantly in was used to build some of the country’s natural 1999 when the Tata Group exited as finest masterpieces, among the most enduring of which are Mumbai’s promoters and were succeeded by resources is Gujarat Ambuja Cement Limited. In Marine Drive and the massive Bhakra Dam. Yet it is also the most preferred assimilated into 2005, ACC came to be associated with brand of cement used to construct all phases of our the Holcim Group of Switzerland. ACC is a subsidiary of Holcim (India) Private homes for the masses of India in its cities, towns and villages. Millions value chain from Limited and an ultimate subsidiary of of both modest and plush homes prospecting for Holcim Limited which held 50.3 % of the company’s equity at the close of 2014. dotted across the country stand as solid testimony to the iconic status of raw materials ACC as a people’s brand, based on the and mining Pan India Reach trust it has earned from generations of satisfied customers. Individual right up to sales The registered and corporate office is located in the iconic Cement House in Home Builders across the country and distribution Mumbai. A network of 17 cement plants, contribute a predominant share of the company’s sales through its vast trade 50 Ready Mixed Concrete plants, 21 network. The company also caters to sales offices, a large technical services the cement and concrete requirements campus with a learning academy, a bulk of the large growing market segment handling terminal and numerous zonal comprising institutional, commercial offices add up to give the company a and infrastructural projects. nationwide footprint. The ACC family is equally vast, made up of a 9000 strong Setting Trends workforce and around 9000 dealers who reach out to lakhs of customers through ACC built India’s first indigenous nearly 50,000 retailers. ACC’s operations cement plant at Chaibasa in Jharkhand are confined to India, which is in itself in 1947 and years later in its platinum the world’s second largest market for jubilee year, the company proudly cement. commissioned the world’s largest plant at Wadi in Karnataka. A large expansion project in eastern India is even now Leadership under way. The company was first in ACC is a professionally managed India to launch commercial distribution Company with a majority of its Directors of Bulk cement and Ready Mixed being Independent Directors. August Concrete, two value added solutions 2014 saw a change of guard in ACC that have changed the pace of large when outgoing Chief Executive Officer construction projects in the country. ACC 06 Sustainable Development Report 2014 led the industry in producing Portland two technical institutes for students manufacturing of Holcim’s South Asian Slag Cement and Portland Pozzolana from remote places. Notable among group companies. Cement, both environment-friendly other contributions are two treatment blended cements that gainfully utilize centres for patients of HIV/AIDS. Geocycle industrial wastes from steel plants The company has followed a robust and from thermal power stations. Techport programme for the use of Alternative Its innovative efforts in research and Fuels and Resources (AFR) which utilizes This is the successor of a group that product development continue to make wastes industrial, municipal and was established in our Thane campus several breakthroughs in cement and in 2006 as a centre of excellence to agricultural wastes. This is recognized concrete. provide a range of technical services as an activity that can contribute and solutions under one roof to ACC significantly to the cause of climate A Green Agenda Limited and its group company Ambuja change mitigation and sustainability. In A strong focus on sustainable Cements Limited. The role of Techport 2014 this activity was integrated with was enhanced during the year to make that of Ambuja Cements Limited and development and an urge for it the Regional Manufacturing Support housed under the Geocycle banner of conservation of natural resources Organization (RMSO) in Holcim’s Holcim. is assimilated into all phases of our value chain from prospecting for raw global network catering to Holcim group companies in India, Sri Lanka AALA materials and mining right up to sales and distribution. The company has set and Bangladesh. In this new set-up, The ACC-ACL Leadership Academy for itself challenging standards in safety, Techport is now accountable for driving (AALA) located in ACC Thane quality, energy efficiency, clean mining, technical standards and performance complex integrates the learning and emissions control and environment for Holcim plants in South Asia, sharing development initiatives of ACC and management. ACC offers solutions for responsibility for manufacturing Ambuja Cements Limited. In addition to waste management to several industrial performance and successful CAPEX Technical Training, the centre pursues organizations and corporations through implementation. In doing so, it training, Workforce Development, co-processing of wastes in its cement leverages some of the best practices, Leadership Development, Procurement kilns. strengths and achievements in and Sales & Marketing. A Social Volunteer The company has a long tradition of practicing a range of social volunteering activities, forging partnerships with the communities around its operations to improve their living standards. These include welfare and development schemes in rural health, adult literacy, primary education, vocational guidance, livelihood creation, irrigation, animal husbandry, cottage industries and women’s empowerment. Well-managed schools at all ACC plants that are open to children from the neighbouring communities are often considered the best in the district. The company has adopted seven government-run technical schools and the operation of Sustainable Development Report 2014 07 2.2 | Financial Highlights SALES VOLUME & GROWTH NET SALES, OPERATING EBITDA & OPERATING EBITDA MARGIN 25 23.73 24.11 23.93 24.21 20 14000 40 21.29 17 11481 35 12000 11130 10889 Op.EBITDA Margin (%) 20 14 30 10000 9430 Million Tonnes Growth (%) 11.5 11 25 15 8000 7710 24 8 ` Crore 20 20 6000 20 10 5 13 15 15 2 4000 10 1.6 (0.7) 1.2 5 1812 1921 2196 2000 1629 1507 (1) -1 5 0 -4 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sales Volume Growth Net Sales Op. EBITDA Op. EBITDA Margin Profit Before Tax & Profit After Tax Capital Employed & Return on Capital Employed 1800 10000 60 Return on Capital Employed 9000 8771 1600 1540 8221 8367 1461 1451 8063 50 8000 7355 1400 1325 1227 7000 40 ` Crore ` Crore 1200 1168 1120 1061 1096 1135 6000 30 1000 5000 4000 20 18 21 20 800 3000 13 600 11 10 2000 400 1000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 PBT PAT Capital Employed ROCE Net Worth & Return on Net Worth Dividend Per Share, Earning Per Share and Dividend Payout Ratio* 10000 40 100 65 90 60 Dividend payout ratio(%) 9000 35 Return on Net Worth (%) 8236 80 55 71 53 51 55 8000 7825 30 51 7383 70 62 50 7192 60 58 ` per share 60 57 ` Crore 7000 6469 25 45 50 6000 20 40 40 18 40 34 30.50 28 30 30 35 17 14 14 30 5000 15 14 20 30 4000 10 25 10 3000 5 0 20 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Net Worth RONW EPS DPS Dividend Payout Ratio *Dividend payout ratio is calculated without considering dividend distribution tax 08 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Net Cash Generated from Operations Cement Production & capacity utilisation 2200 25 24.12 23.86 24.24 100 23.46 2000 1935 95 Capacity utilisation (%) 1800 21.14 90 Million Tonnes 1571 1577 1600 20 85 ` Crore 1400 1332 81 78 78 80 1200 79 1056 77 75 1000 15 800 70 600 65 400 10 60 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Cement Production Utilisation Net Fixed Assets & Employees at the year end & Asset Turnover Ratio Turnover Per employee 8000 7513 3.0 10500 2.00 7000 6548 6573 6175 6324 2.5 10000 9769 1.75 9658 No. of Employees 6000 Asset turnover ratio 9500 1.50 5000 2.0 ` Crore ` Crore 9031 9071 1.7 8971 4000 1.8 9000 1.25 1.2 1.2 3000 1.4 1.5 1.5 8500 1.0 1.1 1.00 2000 1.2 0.9 1.0 8000 0.75 1000 0 0.5 7500 0.50 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Net Fixed Asset Asset Turnover Ratio Employees Turnover per employee Book value per share value added STATEMENT 500 450 450 439 416 400 375 385 393 400 350 345 307 350 299 300 ` per share 300 ` Crore 250 250 200 200 150 150 100 100 63 50 50 12 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Source: ACC Annual Report 2014 pg nos. 14 15 Sustainable Development Report 2014 09 2.3 | Corporate Governance Since its incorporation in 1936, ACC Governance & Organization has been imbued with a corporate Structure philosophy based on sound business ACC is professionally managed and ethics, fair dealings with all its Years before stakeholders and the good values of its overall functions are supervised by its Board of Directors. Day to day Corporate care for society and the environment. management of the company is Governance Over the years, it has come to be respected in the industry for its entrusted to the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director (CEO&MD). Since guidelines exemplary conduct characterized by a 2006, the organization structure has became professional style of Management and a principled process of demonstrating followed an arrangement of autonomous geographical regions which comprised applicable to corporate citizenship. In addition, the North, East and South-West regions listed companies, Company has fostered an enduring sense of belonging among its each led by a chief executive with profit accountability and decentralised ACC’s Board employees and associates who decision-making on most matters. foresaw the need recognize the equal opportunities the company provides to everyone, The three pillars of sustainability are overseen by different executives who to establish regardless of differences. report directly to the Chief Executive committees to All this was possible because of the Officer. (A new organization structure came to be adopted in April 2015.) address key issues vision of its founders and early leaders concerning its who put in place transparent systems Chief Executive Officer and Managing for effective strategic planning, sound Director: The Chief Executive Officer own conduct and financial and risk management, welland Managing Director (CEO & MD) is in the integrity of organized people development and overall control and responsible for the stakeholder engagement. Years before day-to-day working of the Company. the company’s Corporate Governance guidelines He gives strategic directions, lays internal control became applicable to listed companies down policy guidelines and ensures ACC’s Board foresaw the need to implementation of the decisions of systems. establish committees to address key the Board of Directors and its various issues concerning its own conduct and committees. The regional chief the integrity of the company’s internal executives and all major functional control systems. heads namely, procurement, projects, Our Vision To be one of the most respected companies in India; recognized for challenging conventions and delivering on our promises. 10 Sustainable Development Report 2014 finance, human resources, OH&S, Director Plant: Each cement plant and only whole-time executive Director. The environment, CSR, Legal, Secretarial & grinding unit is headed by a Director role, responsibility and accountability of Compliance, Commercial and Corporate Plant who is responsible for operation the Board of Directors are well defined Communications report directly to the and maintenance and all other functions and they enjoy the unfettered freedom CEO & MD with clear segregation of relating to day-to-day management to express their views on all matters duties. of the plant, including local issues and placed before them for deliberation and compliances as applicable. The Director consideration. The Directors are selected Executive Committee (ExCo): At the Plant reports to the Chief Executive of based on a judgment of their expertise corporate level, the CEO & MD is his respective Region. in areas of relevance to the company supported by the Executive Committee and their ability to advise on matters (ExCo) made up of the regional chief Concrete Business: This business, led of organizational strategy or those executives and corporate functional concerning economic, environment by a Chief Executive, functions as an heads who assist the CEO & MD in and social aspects. The Board sets high autonomous division and is supervised overseeing implementation of key standards for corporate behaviour and by the Chief Commercial Officer. It business processes and day-to-day ensures compliance with laws and is also organized into four different operations of the company within regions that oversee the operations of regulations. the strategic policies as laid down concrete plants and sales of concrete. by the Board. The ExCo deals with Committees of Directors annual planning & budgeting, monthly performance reviews, discussion and BOARD OF DIRECTORS As on February 3, 2015 resolution of important business issues and serves as an effective platform Mr N. S. Sekhsaria Mr Aidan Lynam for brainstorming, ideation and Chairman consultation where targets are set and Mr Sushil Kumar Roongta discussed. Various business challenges Mr Bernard Terver Mr Ashwin Dani are also discussed and decisions Deputy Chairman taken within the framework of the Mr Farrokh K. Kavarana Mr Harish Badami strategic policies laid down by the Mr Vijay Kumar Sharma CEO & MD Board. Mr Bernard Fontana Mr Arunkumar Ramanlal Gandhi Chief Executives at Regions: Each region Mr Shailesh Haribhakti Mrs Falguni Nayar is managed by a Chief Executive who is responsible for the overall business and for day-to-day management of operations within the regions. He is Board of Directors The Board has constituted committees supported by a Director Sales and a to allow it a more focused view of some Director Logistics who look after sales Made up of eminent professionals seven facets of business. These are and logistics functions respectively of known integrity and repute, ACC’s Board of Directors strives to achieve the Audit Committee, Stakeholders’ within the region. Each region has Sales Units with Area Offices with clearly high standards of corporate governance. Relationship Committee, Nomination defined territories. Each region also The Chairman of the Board of Directors and Remuneration Committee, Risk has regional heads for the functions is an Independent Director. A majority Management Committee, Corporate of finance, customer services, human comprises Independent Directors and Social Responsibility Committee, resources and CSR. These individuals there is an Independent lady Director Compliance Committee and Capex have dotted line reporting to the as required under the Companies Act, Committee. Each of these Committees respective corporate functional heads 2013. The Chief Executive Officer and has its own specific mandate and as well. Managing Director of the company is the terms of reference. ACC’s Stakeholders’ Sustainable Development Report 2014 11 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee The “Shareholders’/Investors’ Grievance Committee” was renamed by the Board as the “Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee” in compliance with provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Agreement. The three member Committee specifically addresses and safeguards the interest of investors, conducts review and redressal of all complaints and grievances faced by investors and holders of securities including in matters such as issue of duplicate share certificates, transfer/ transmission of shares and to approve and monitor dematerialization of shares. Nomination and Remuneration Committee Earlier in existence as the “Compensation Committee”, it was renamed thus in compliance with Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013. Its terms of reference inter alia include identifying and selecting candidates for Relationship Committee was set up of monitoring financial reporting appointment as Directors, Independent in 1962 as the Share Committee, and processes, reviewing the Company’s Directors, Key Managerial Personnel was later renamed as Shareholders’/ established systems and processes for and other senior management positions Investors’ Grievance Committee. The internal financial controls, governance and their succession planning. The five Audit Committee was constituted as far and reviewing the Company’s statutory member committee formulates and back as 1986 while the Nomination and and internal audit activities. Its terms reviews the requisite policies for such Remuneration Committee was founded of reference conform to guidelines selection and appointment and also in 1993. of the Listing Agreement with Stock reviews the performance of Directors Exchanges read with the Companies and senior management employees Audit Committee Act, 2013. The Committee has a self based on criteria approved by the Board. Five directors with financial knowledge assessment process. The subject of It also reviews the overall remuneration make up the Audit Committee of the sustainability is not formally placed of the Board of Directors and Senior company, four of who are Independent before the Audit Committee as an Management. Directors. Its chairman is an essential input to assess the company’s Independent Director. The Committee performance except in the event of The remuneration of senior acts as a link between statutory any major compliance issues which management would be aligned directly auditors, internal auditors and the Board would be brought to the attention of or indirectly with Key Result Areas of Directors. The committee assists the the Compliance Committee and/or the (KRA) related to environmental and Board in fulfilling its responsibilities Board. social objectives. The Directors receive 12 Sustainable Development Report 2014 remuneration as per relevant provisions Competition Law, Corporate Laws and potential conflict with the company’s of The Companies Act. The remuneration other applicable statutes, rules and interests. is approved by the Board based on the regulations. The committee assesses recommendation of the Nomination & the legal environment in which the Internal Audit Remuneration Committee and is subject Company operates with a view to ACC has a robust Internal Audit process. to the approval of the shareholders. understand the implications of major The Internal Audit department is Details of this are also mentioned in the legislative and regulatory developments empowered to function independent of Annual Report for the information of and their interpretation by the Courts the executive management. The Chief shareholders and others. of law that may significantly affect Internal Auditor reports directly to the the Company. The team also monitors Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Corporate Social Responsibility the status of significant legal cases Board of Directors. (CSR) Committee filed by and against the Company. Any major compliance issue concerning Internal Controls This committee with four Directors sustainability would be brought to the formulates and reviews the CSR Policy so The Internal Control System is attention of the Compliance Committee as to indicate activities to be undertaken commensurate with the size, scale and/or the Board. by the Company as specified in Schedule and complexity of the Company’s VII of the Companies Act, 2013. It operations. There is a formal system Capex Committee monitors the progress and provides of internal control testing which guidance on various CSR activities The Capex Committee was constituted examines the effectiveness of process undertaken by the Company. to review the technical and financial design and operational effectiveness viability of large projects and in to ensure the reliability of financial particular the Jamul Project which is and operational information and all Risk Management Committee now nearing completion. It is not a statutory and regulatory compliances. This Committee was constituted in mandatory committee and meets only A strong monitoring and reporting April 2014. It puts in place a robust risk to examine proposals involving major process enables a high order of financial management process that identifies, capital expenditure. discipline and accountability. Its monitors, reviews and minimizes business processes are performed on risks while also identifying business Related Party Transactions SAP-ERP and SAP-HR platforms. Similarly opportunities on an annual basis. This there are sound controls for other Committee’s main duties are to assist The company has a policy concerning functions. the Board in assessing the different Related Party Transactions which is types of risk including those which approved by the Board and uploaded Corporate Policies may relate to aspects of sustainability on the Company’s website. We have Essential to our approach to good to which the company is exposed, as a manual with Standard Operating governance are well-stated codes and Procedures that helps identify, well as to oversee risk management policies that guide management and track, monitor and deal with such as performed by the executive employees to demonstrate conduct transactions. Accordingly all Related management and ensure it is in line of a manner that is aligned with Party Transactions are referred for goals of the company and that of our with local legal requirements and SEBI approval to the Audit Committee and promoter group. We have in place guidelines. The committee has four the Board. All related party transactions policies for key focus areas beginning members, two of who are independent. entered into during the financial year with an umbrella policy on Sustainable 2014 were verified to be on an arm’s Development and other areas such as Compliance Committee length basis and in the ordinary course Energy, Environment, Corporate and The Compliance Committee, a nonof business. No materially significant Social Responsibility which have been mandatory initiative, plays an important related party transactions were reviewed and signed by the CEO & MD. role in ensuring zero tolerance to any made with either the Directors, Key These are reproduced here. In addition form of non compliance. It reviews Managerial Personnel or with any other to these we also have policies for other compliance with the provisions of designated persons that may have a areas such as Occupational Health and Sustainable Development Report 2014 13 Safety (OH&S), Alternative Fuels and and targets in a manner that motivates and mining operations, CAPEX, progress Resources (AFR) and Quality among employees to make efforts to achieve of the Jamul expansion project, coal others. these targets and thus ensure good blocks, AFR and Corporate Governance sustainable practices. matters. Managing Sustainability In 2014 several issues relating to Details of the company’s Corporate The sustainability function is overseen sustainability were reported to Governance practices, structure and by the CEO & MD who is a member the Board through the respective policies are available on its website at of the Board. Any major compliance committees or functional heads and www.acclimited.com/newsite/cg.asp issues relating to sustainability would acted upon based on the advice received. be brought to the attention of the These included matters relating to the Compliance Committee and/or the Competition Law, CSR, Mining leases Board. The company has developed and adopted well-defined policies for key areas of business particularly those defining its sustainable development agenda. The policies are reviewed to reflect enhancements in contemporary practices and conduct. They are made widely visible internally to employees and to the external public and stakeholders. A Sustainable Development Council (SD Council) headed by the CEO & MD, with representatives from key functions, drives the corporate sustainability agenda and reviews its implementation. SD Council members directly engage with key stakeholders in their respective functions and share the stakeholders’ concerns on sustainability issues with the SD Council from time to time. A core group of this council monitors progress and advises the council on overall target setting and reporting, including review of the annual sustainable development report. Plants also have local level councils to monitor implementation of their sustainability goals. Responsibilities of various processes including material aspects are clearly assigned to specific functional departments. In most cases these are further integrated into the company’s performance management system spilling into individual job descriptions 14 Sustainable Development Report 2014 2.4 | About the Report This is the company’s 8th annual stakeholders to identify their major Sustainable Development report, the interests and concerns with regard fifth in print, reviewing performance to key aspects of our sustainability in the calendar year 2014 (January to We note with December) which is also the reporting process. We have retained those insights as remaining valid in respect pride that last period for the company’s financial year. of this reporting process as well. While year we were We note with pride that last year we reporting on issues or aspects identified as being material to the company, among the first were among the first Indian companies we refer specifically to the series of Indian companies to publish its Sustainable Development Report for 2013 based on the then activities performed in the course of sourcing, producing and delivering to publish its newly introduced GRI G4 guidelines. products and services to customers Sustainable This report, is also based on GRI G4 guidelines but “in accordance” with the and stakeholders. Thus our value chain comprises of suppliers, mines, Development Comprehensive option, the highest level cement and concrete plants, captive Report for 2013 for such reports. power plants, logistics, marketing and based on the The report covers all operations of the distribution channels and corporate, regional and sales offices. then newly company including our mines, cement and Ready Mixed Concrete plants. ACC introduced GRI has five subsidiary companies which are Aspect Boundaries: Of the sixteen issues identified as material aspects, G4 guidelines not covered in the scope of this report and which together have no significant five aspects are largely internal. These include compliances, employee wellfinancial impact on the company’s being, OH&S, water and bio-diversity. operations. These include Bulk Cement Four aspects namely, Responsible Corporation (India) Limited (BCCI), which selling and Customer care, supply chain, comprises a bulk cement terminal at public policy and Local & Indigenous Kalamboli near Mumbai. BCCI handled communities are largely external. The about 1 million tonnes of cement in boundaries of the remaining aspects are 2014 which was distributed in the both internal and external. Mumbai region. ACC Mineral Resources Limited (AMRL) was established to pursue the development of coal blocks The sequence of chapters in this report but the activity had to be suspended in now specifically includes individual 2014 following their cancellation by the chapters on each of the key material Supreme Court. A detailed account of aspects that were identified and this can be found on pages 29 and 36 prioritized by our stakeholders in the of the Annual Report 2014. The three sustainability materiality analysis other subsidiaries viz. Lucky Minmat conducted last year as comprising Limited, National Limestone Company issues of material concern for the Private Limited and Singhania Minerals organization. This format offers the Private Limited, are limestone deposit opportunity to provide special focus to companies and were not operational these material aspects in terms of the during the year. opportunities and risks they pose and the actions we are taking in relation to In the last exercise, we undertook a them. We feel this format also helps comprehensive engagement with sustainability reporting to transition Sustainable Development Report 2014 15 from “in accordance” Core towards “in structure, ownership or its supply chain. except where specifically so indicated. accordance” Comprehensive. The report is designed by Wyatt In the Foreword and first chapter viz. The report has been developed and Communications and printed at New Organisation Profile of this report, drafted in-house by a team from the Thacker’s Press, Mumbai on recyclable we have mentioned certain changes company’s Environment & Energy paper. concerning a change in leadership Conservation Cell (EECC) and Corporate position and the role of Techport Communications Department (CCD). No This report is externally assured by M/s and Geocycle. The Foreword explains consultant or external advisory service Emergent Ventures India. developments on the merger of our was engaged for the purpose. Input and promoter Holcim Limited with Lafarge Data collation was undertaken primarily It has been our endeavour to provide S.A. at the global level. Other than these by EECC while CCD was involved in information that is as accurate as there were no other significant changes developing, editing and producing the possible to make our disclosures reliable during the reporting period that affected finished report. All images, tables and and transparent and thus enhance the the size and scale of the organization, its charts have been internally sourced, value of our reporting. Employee Wellbeing Compliance High Responsible Selling and Customer Care Water Effluents and Waste Energy Products & Services Market presence O-OH & S Materials Anti-Corruption Emissions ACC’s Internal Priorities Economic Performance Bio Diversity Supply Chain Local and Indigenous Communities Public Policy Customer care Grievance Mechanisms Diversity & Equality Human Rights Policies within ACC Training & Education Favourable Labour Practices and Relations with Management Child / Forced and Compulsory Labour Low High ACC’s Stakeholder Priorities 16 Sustainable Development Report 2014 2.5 | Strategy and Stakeholder Engagement Our Impact mineral intensive. Large quantities of limestone are mined, pulverized India’s cement industry is the world’s and burnt at high temperatures in a second largest. It is also among the most colossal rotating kiln to be converted Our approach to valuable and largest organized industrial into clinker, an intermediate product. sectors in the country which makes defining our sizeable contributions to the national This is then ground with gypsum to sustainability economy by way of taxes, duties and make cement Ordinary Portland Cement or inter-ground with Fly Ash or slag royalties. Apart from the construction agenda has industry, it impacts many other sectors to make blended cements. Coal is the been pragmatic being a large user of Indian railways and most commonly used fuel to source thermal energy. Most of the electricity as it recognizes the road transport system. Cement and concrete industries offers direct and requirement of our cement plants is the integral indirect employment to a large number generated by captive coal-based thermal power stations. role played by of people. stakeholder Cement and concrete together have a While both cement and concrete involve participation in it considerable environmental impact. Concrete, the most widely used extractive processes, what sets them apart from other building materials is building material, is composed of the often proved fact that concrete has cement, water and mineral aggregates the lowest average embodied carbon together with certain additives and and energy as compared to most other steel reinforcements. Concrete is building materials. Concrete is likely believed to be the world’s second to remain as the most viable building most consumed product per capita material, with no comparable substitute after water. Cement production is a visible on the near horizon. India’s continuous process that is energy and cement industry is in the forefront CHANNEL Employees TRADE UNIONS CUSTOMERS PARTNERS GLOBAL VENDORS SHAREHOLDERS INFLUENCERS PARTNERS LOCAL REGULATORY EMPLOYEES’ GOVERNMENT COMMUNITY AUTHORITIES FAMILIES AROUND PLANT SOCIAL CONSULTANTS & WORKERS / COMPETITORS INDUSTRY ADVISORS NGO’S NATIONAL GLOBAL FUTURE MEDIA COMMUNITY COMMUNITY STAKEHOLDERS Sustainable Development Report 2014 17 among its global peers in terms of the Line framework. The commitment energy resources, improving clinker proactive role it plays in reducing its to the cause is strengthened by factor, reduction of CO2 emissions, carbon footprint. On its part, ACC vies fixing accountability to functions attaining higher levels of energy for the distinction of being best-in-class and individuals through a process efficiency, pushing for higher usage on all three dimensions of the triple of breaking down company level of Alternative Fuels and Resources to bottom line framework. goals related to sustainability into increase the thermal substitution rate departmental and individual targets for and promoting greener technologies like Our Stakeholders managerial staff. The material issues waste heat recovery and wind energy. were revisited in 2013-2014 whilst The term ACC Parivar is common preparing the last report and also form On the social front, the safety of our parlance in the company to refer to all the basis of this reporting cycle. employees and all our stakeholders is those who feel a sense of belonging to it. Being a leading member of the among the primary pursuits along with Our overall approach is to make the endeavour to improve the quality cement and concrete industry we have simultaneous and steady progress on all of life for the communities around our a pan-India footprint, reaching out to a three dimensions of the Triple Bottom very large population of stakeholders of operations. Line. On the economic front our primary diverse ilk across the country. Nearest to pursuits are achieving organization us is of course our workforce comprising Our Engagement improvements through initiatives permanent employees, contract and in the area of customer excellence We engage closely with stakeholders third party workers and trade unions. and measures in better financial in all key pillars of management. ACC’s The community that lives in the vicinity management. workforce remains motivated. Effective of our plants and mines is important to engagement with them means regular us as are our customers. Each year the Among environmental objectives, our and meaningful interactions with company touches the lives of lakhs of thrust continues to be on practicing employees at all levels and with trade Indians who purchase our cement and strict conservation of mineral and unions. concrete through the company’s vast network of dealers and retailers. Our Approach to Sustainability Over the last several years we have progressively embedded Sustainability into the company’s business agenda beginning with the organizational vision. Our approach to defining our sustainability agenda has been pragmatic as it recognizes the integral role played by stakeholder participation in it. We began the process by adopting the principle of materiality wherein we identified issues seen as critical because of their direct financial impact on the organization as well as from their environmental and social impacts. The company’s performance management system is also itself arranged to address the larger requirements of attaining a good balance in the Triple Bottom 18 Sustainable Development Report 2014 As explained heretofore, in preparing an important role in our value chain realign and transform the organization our Sustainable Development and contribute substantially to our through engagement with principal Report 2013 we had conducted a ultimate success in achieving customer stakeholder groups. In doing so, we seek comprehensive engagement with a satisfaction. We interact actively to be recognized as a leading champion wide selection of our key stakeholders with Industry, Trade Associations and of sustainable development not only that led to a joint prioritization of Government. in the cement industry but on a wider domain. issues material to the organization. The principles of that engagement with We recognize that communication is an Employees key stakeholders were described in important aspect of engagement. We detail in Chapter 2.4 of our Sustainable communicate what we do directly to We have a rich practice of engaging with Development Report 2013. our key stakeholders, using direct and employees in several different ways indirect reporting systems that inform using multiple channels and platforms on a wide range of topics concerning the Our CSR agenda is supported by them of what they need. Simultaneously organization and its environment. Plant the cooperation of Community we seek feedback and suggestions to workers meet with local management Advisory Panels that are made up help us make continuous improvements at gate meetings where OH&S and of representatives from within local in the quality of our services. The aim manufacturing best practices are communities who take ownership of sustainability reporting is to build a shared. The intranet portal has an in identifying, implementing and strong chain of accountability within interactive section that encourages open evaluating development schemes and the organisation. Securing external discussion on any issue. The measures. Wherever needed, we seek assurance further helps enhance CEO & MD conducts interactive the participation of NGOs to enrich the accountability. webcasts. In addition, employee quality of our delivery systems. volunteering is encouraged particularly The success of our business strategy in the fields of education, cleanliness Vendors, dealers and retailers play has been in how we have been able to and plantation. Sustainable Development Report 2014 19 2.6 | Risks and Opportunities The company has a sound mechanism in Climate change risks place to address and manage business Climate change is seen as being quite risks. The Business Risk Management likely to have direct and indirect (BRM) framework helps identify, Among the manage, monitor and mitigate risks. impacts on the business of cement and concrete. Among the most important most important Risks are identified, discussed and in this regard would involve regulations monitored centrally by top management in this regard at the Corporate level as well as at that in turn could pose direct and indirect influences on emission levels, would involve regional levels. The process also includes manufacturing process, technology, the identification of opportunities that regulations that may arise in this context. The Board is use of raw materials, fuel and product specifications. Other risks could be in turn could pose kept apprised of risks and opportunities. physical ones such as relating to the A Risk Management Committee of direct and indirect the Board was constituted in April availability of natural resources such as water. Estimating the overall financial influences on 2014, pursuant to the requirement of impact of climate change can be Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement. emission levels, Details of this Committee and its terms complex although we have attempted to make estimates in different manufacturing of reference are available on pages 77-78 of the Annual Report 2014. This contexts. Some of these risks and the process, committee is kept apprised on an annual opportunities they present as also the financial impacts are variously described technology, use basis of matters relating to key business risks identified in this chapter. Minutes in the relevant chapters on material of raw materials, of the Risk Management Committee are aspects that follow. fuel and product sent to the Board. Risks involving major financial impacts are also reported to Projects Risks specifications. the Board. Project management is critical for cement companies. Cement Some of the significant business risks manufacture is highly capital intensive that have been identified pertain to in nature. Expansion is necessary for the areas of energy and fuels, project a company to maintain its market management, competition, compliance share, especially in an industry that and Occupational Health and Safety. enjoys good prospects for growth. The These risks are discussed in detail at compound annual growth rate (CAGR) different levels in the organization in cement over the next five years is together with appropriate solutions expected to be of the order of 7 per cent. and actions for their mitigation. The It is worth noting that the gestation framework uses different risk models period of cement projects is quite long; to help in identifying risks, their trends, in the execution of large projects which exposure and an analysis of their are highly capital intensive in nature, potential impacts at an overall Company there could be exposure to time and level as also for the individual business cost overruns. To mitigate these risks, segments of Cement and Ready Mixed the Company has strengthened its Concrete. All these are then integrated project management team as well as and compiled into a detailed annual its project accounting and governance business plan indicating specific action framework. For large project sites a points. The key business risks identified separate organization structure has by the Company and its mitigation plans been put in place with defined roles and are described here. accountability. 20 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Competition Risks of Occupational Health & Safety has pet coke, waste heat recovery for captive been accorded line responsibility and power generation and the use of wind Cement industry continues to witness accountability. In view of its high energy. We note that this is a slow and the entry of several new players priority, there is usually no limit to gradual process. including foreign cement producers financial allocations on safety oriented while many of the existing players projects. Non Compliance risks adopt inorganic growth strategies. This makes the industry a highly competitive As a responsible organization, we Energy RiskS business. Increased competition are mindful that it is mandatory and manifests itself through increased Cement production is an energy non-negotiable to ensure compliance pressures particularly on all aspects and resource intensive continuous with various laws and regulations of sales and marketing, sourcing and process that requires consistent supply relevant to us relating to environment costs of critical raw materials and on of thermal and electrical energy. management, labour matters, availability and remuneration of skilled Energy forms a large chunk of total product requirements, health & safety production costs with coal being the manpower. To mitigate these risks, the and competition law. Shortfalls in main fuel for kiln operations as well Company has been leveraging on its compliance can involve considerable as for captive power generation. In expertise, experience and its created financial and other risks besides loss order to secure regular supply of coal, capacities to increase market share, of reputation. Complying with a wide the company had been pursuing the enhance brand equity/visibility and gamut of laws in a frequently changing development of its own coal blocks till enlarge product portfolio and service regulatory regime is a daunting their allocation was cancelled by the offerings. It would also leverage on responsibility that is challenging, Hon’ble Supreme Court in September its Infrastructure, Commercial and requires resources and calls for regular 2014. Apart from measures to improve Institutional Sales team to offer value to training and awareness programmes efficiency parameters, the company is large customers. for our executives. We are guided also addressing these risks in several in this respect by the Business Risk OH & S Risks ways including by increasing the use of Management mechanism that we have alternative fuels and resources through in place together with the advice of the India’s cement industry is labour co-processing in order to enhance Compliance Committee. intensive. The cement manufacturing thermal substitution of coal, the use of process by itself has significant impacts on safety and health matters. Hence the safety of employees and workers assumes overriding importance to the company. In the last five years the company has strengthened its approach to tackling this risk in ways involving high levels of engagement with employees and workmen through continuous and intensive training programmes at all Plants and mines. The coverage of safety has been extended in the supply chain to include the logistics function with warehouses, distribution points and sales offices. The overarching aim is to inculcate a strong and spontaneous safety culture among all employees and stakeholder groups in the supply chain. The subject Sustainable Development Report 2014 21 Materiality Aspects 3.1 Compliances 3.2 Employee Well-being 3.3 Occupational Health and Safety 3.4 Products and Services 3.5 Energy 3.6 Effluents and Waste 3.7 Responsible Selling and Customer Care 3.8 Anti-Corruption 3.9 Water 3.10 Emissions 3.11 Materials 3.12 Supply Chain 3.13 Economic Performance 3.14 Biodiversity 3.15 Public Policy 3.16 Local and Indigenous Communities Sustainable Development Report 2014 23 3.1 | Compliances Compliance is important to us India against ACC and other cement as an essential safeguard of the manufacturers is described in detail on invaluable corporate reputation page 39 paragraph 28 of the Board’s we have earned over decades of Report & MDA in the Annual Report As a responsible conducting business with integrity 2014. organization, we and in a fair manner. As a responsible organization, we are deeply conscious Limestone Mining: Mining operations are deeply that compliance with all applicable at two of our cement plants were conscious that laws and regulations including those temporarily suspended during the latter pertaining to environmental, labour, part of the year as a result of certain compliance with product liability, health & safety and regulatory changes relating to renewal all applicable competition law matters, is mandatory and non-negotiable, besides involving of mines and deemed mining rights. This impacted clinker production at these laws and considerable financial and other risks. plants and necessitated purchase of regulations is Accordingly all senior executives and management staff are made aware of clinker and stock transfers from longer leads which in turn increased the cost of mandatory and the demands of applicable laws and production. These developments have non-negotiable, regulations. been reported in detail in the Board’s Report and MDA of our Annual Report besides involving The company’s leadership ensures that 2014 on pages 29-30. considerable all operations at our plants (cement, mines, captive power & Ready Mixed Fair Competition: Through the Value financial and Concrete) and by the organization as Creation in Competitive Environment other risks a whole meets internal performance parameters that are invariably more (VCCE) programme, we organized training sessions to build awareness stringent than statutory requirements. among relevant employees for Compliance with norms and regulations conducting business in a fair manner is monitored and reviewed in periodical and upholding the interests of meetings of top management. consumers. The accompanying chart During the year under review there was captures various initiatives and no incidence of significant monetary programmes in the area of VCCE fines or non-monetary sanctions or conducted in 2014. disputes with regard to above referred laws and regulations. Legal Training : The Legal Department organizes Legal Training every alternate No cases were brought against the year at Plants. These conducted by Veda company through the invocation of Legal Resources Private Ltd, Coimbatore. any national or international dispute The duration of the training program mechanisms. in each plant is two days, during which applicable statutes, rules and There are no significant material regulations falling under various heads orders passed by Regulators or Courts are covered. These include industrial which would impact the Company relations; contracts; commercial laws, and its future operations. The status finance and tax; environmental health of the matter relating to the case and safety related laws, local and concerning the complaint filed before municipal laws; mining laws; relevant the Competition Commission of India electricity laws governing the operation (CCI) by the Builders Association of of captive power plants. 24 Sustainable Development Report 2014 VCCE (Value Creation in Competitive Environment) Programme 2014 VCCE Initiative Status Implementation of Dawn Th The status of the VCCE Program FCT and Dawn Raid Guidelines, Fair Raid Guidelines presentation were made in the Competition Training (FCT) Regions to address Relevant employees in October Face-to-Face Training and November 2014. Program covering FCD and VCiP Manuals. Fair Competition Reviews As a part of the VCCE Program, ACC conducted (FCR) Fair Competition Reviews (FCR) bi-annually, using the services of our solicitors M/s Amarchand Mangaldas who conducted interviews with the regional Chief Executives, Director (Sales), SU Heads and one Area Officer/In-Charge from each Region. Fair Competition Review The last Fair Competition Review Report dated Report (FCRR) September 20, 2014, was submitted by M/s Amarchand Mangaldas to Holcim Regional Legal Counsels as instructed by Corporate Legal. FCT e-Learning Tool Test FCT e-Learning Tool was circulated to Relevant Employees who were imparted face-to-face Fair Competition Training in 2013 and to those remaining in 2014. They were required to access the tool through the ACC Hub. Of 803 designated employees, 609 employees participated have submitted the Fair Competition Compliance Certification to the Legal Department. The legal training covered relevant Legal Actions : There are five pending employees from all cement plants on instances of legal actions taken against a department-wise basis considering the company for Anti-Competitive the nature of assignments, roles and Behaviour and monopoly practices. The responsibilities of the employees. The company has presented its defence training programme had to be put on before the relevant authorities to ‘hold’ for two months due to certain explain its stance in respect of the case. corrective measures that had to be taken It may be noted that we have not made by the Trainers as advised by us. Thus any financial provisions in our books for 13 out of 15 plants could be completed fines and penalties based on the advice during the year with training for the of our auditors that we have a strong remaining two being re-scheduled to case in our favour. early 2015. In all we had 47 participants from 13 Plants. Sustainable Development Report 2014 25 3.2 | Employee Well-being Key Initiatives company prepares itself to meet the challenges of growth in the cement Our endeavor is to become a “Great industry. We will need to be ready with Place to Work For” in the eyes of employees, who are skilled, able to multi The HR Excellence employees and other stakeholders. task, face stiff competition and ensure With this in mind, we started journey which various people-oriented initiatives higher productivity. Thus, our focus for 2014 was to build a competitive was started in to seek increased engagement and workforce across levels and functions. satisfaction among people. The HR 2012 as part of Excellence journey which was started ACC’s large workforce is made up the companywide in 2012 as part of the companywide almost equally of Management Staff ‘Institutionalizing ‘Institutionalizing Excellence’ programme has since become a new comprising professionals in various disciplines assisted by a dedicated Excellence’ way of working at all Plants. workforce of shopfloor and office programme has We have foreseen the importance associates making a total of 9,071 people. The table below provide details since become of having a skilled and motivated of the break-up of employees by age and a new way of workforce in coming years as the gender. working at all Age Group (years) Male Female Total Plants Less than 30 1751 195 1946 30-50 3777 117 3894 More than 50 3166 65 3231 Total 8695 376 9071 The company has enjoyed some stability of attrition as compared to its peers. The in the numbers of its workforce in the overall employee turnover ratio during last few years, with relatively low rates the year was 4 per cent. Employee Turnover 2014 (Age yrs) Male Female Less than 30 years 150 34 30-50 years 158 3 More than 50 years 98 3 Attritions during the year were partly whom were young employees as evident met through fresh recruitment, most of in the numbers below. New Hires 2014 (Age yrs) Male Female Less than 30 years 108 7 30-50 years 58 3 More than 50 years 7 0 26 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Employee benefits and welfare Women employees are entitled to avail after reaching the age of 60 years. maternity leave of sixteen weeks taken Retirement benefits for full-time The total employee benefits expense either continuously or in two tranches of employees comprise amounts received in the year 2014 was ` 747 crores eight weeks each prior to and post the under leave encashment, provident representing about 6.4 per cent of expected date of delivery. The leave of fund scheme, Officers’ Superannuation revenue from operations. The ratio absence does not in any way prejudice Fund, gratuity, additional gratuity as of the annual total compensation for their career and service interests. We per entitlements, as also any amounts the organization’s chief executives have not had any instance of a woman due under the National Pension Scheme in 2014 to the median annual total employee not returning to work after where the employee had opted to be a compensation for all other employees her maternity leave. The facility of such member. All permanent employees are was 91. The ratio of the percentage entitled to the afore-mentioned benefits leave is not open to men. increase in annual total compensation as per the company’s policies. All for the organization’s chief executives to retirements schemes are in compliance All senior management employees are the median annual total compensation with statutory requirements. The hired locally, that is, within the country. for all employees in the same year employee receives advance notice of In fact a predominant share of shopfloor was 1.8. It may be noted here that the retirement one year ahead of the date and office associates non-management year 2014 saw a transition with a new of retirement. This is meant to alert the staff at most of our operations is drawn CEO&MD assuming office in August. employee to make necessary plans for from the host community itself or The ratios indicated here are based on retirement. While no specific training from its vicinity. Our remuneration is the total remuneration received by both is imparted to enhance prospects consistently higher than the stipulated individuals. of the employee’s post-retirement minimum wage levels at all locations. employability, there is a practice of The ratio of the standard entry level The company has several schemes providing advice on health and on wage compared to the local minimum that provide for the general welfare of investing the retirement benefits wage is 2.88:1. full-time employees and their families. gainfully. These cover education, healthcare, Retirement retirement benefits, loans and financial The company provides for all these assistance. Employees in our cement As per the company’s policy, an retirement benefits during the course plants are provided furnished and employee retires on superannuation of employment of each permanent unfurnished accommodation within our townships, based on their entitlement. ACC townships have excellent schools which are often the best in the district and provide subsidized education for children of employees. Each township has a well-equipped health care centre with qualified medical staff and facilities. Employees are eligible to apply for loans and financial assistance for various purposes such as marriage, education, purchase of assets and residential premises. Temporary and part-time employees do not receive retirement benefits, medical insurance, leave; loan subsidies and certain perquisites and allowances. Sustainable Development Report 2014 27 employee and these dues are settled annually with Self Target-Setting by Learning & Development accordingly as applicable. A detailed the employee. The online PMS sheet is The ACC-ACL Leadership Academy explanation is provided in paragraph xv divided into three parts .i.e.; Business (AALA) located in the ACC Thane titled Employee Benefits on page 132 of Bucket, Safety Bucket and Individual complex is an effort in seeking our Annual Report 2014. Bucket. KPIs and Targets for the first synergies in learning from the two buckets are uploaded centrally integration of the learning and People Processes based on role profiles. Individual KPIs are development initiatives of ACC and entered by employees themselves; these The company has clearly stated its sister company Ambuja Cements are reviewed online by the immediate guidelines for all major people processes Limited. AALA conducts technical manager and reviewer, checked and such as recruitment, separation, career training as well as training in Workforce then accepted for implementation. advancement, performance appraisal, Development, Leadership Development, There is a mid-term performance review professional and employee ethics Procurement and Sales & Marketing. between the appraiser and employee. At and code of conduct. Above all the Courtesy AALA, we have a robust the year end, the employee is required company’s people policies and processes Learning and Development architecture to undertake a self-appraisal and a enshrine equal opportunities to all that provides development solutions Development Dialogue discussion and non-discrimination with regard to for each level of employees, including which are reviewed by the appraiser gender, caste, creed, ideology or other ‘First Time Manager’ skills. With and reviewer for performance opinion, whether social, political or business growth in mind, the training against KPIs and the employee’s religious. Consequently ACC employees agenda pursued by the company in the developmental needs which form key belong to different ethnic, cultural and last three years has revolved around inputs for learning and development religious backgrounds from all parts of building capability and leadership skills in the ensuing year. All permanent the country. to make the organization ‘future ready’. employees undergo appraisal and career development reviews. Accordingly a structured framework Our Human resource management was created to develop people across system provides due processes for all cadres so that they are aligned to The PMS in ACC is comprehensive and employee consultation and participation changing business requirements and designed to provide ample opportunities in organizational development and better able to drive growth initiatives. to reward good performance, develop policy formulation. At our plants and In addition, there are on-boarding and motivate others and retain good mines, there are recognized trade talent within the Company through centers and on-the-job training for unions affiliated to various central trade Performance Linked Incentives, Letters of fresh graduates and graduate engineer union bodies. About 60% of permanent Appreciation, Special Increments, Instant trainees. Due emphasis is also given employees are members of recognized awards, Promotions, Nominations to to upgrade the skills of Shop Floor employee associations. external training programmes in India Associates, who constitute a major part and abroad, public felicitation and of our workforce. During the year the company did not appreciation. Employees who display receive any complaints relating to child functional expertise, competence and The following tables indicate the labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, aptitude are deputed to receive Train the average hours of training per year per sexual harassment, human rights abuse Trainer facilitation and thus leveraged to employee by gender and training in or discriminatory employment. become Trainers themselves. different functional areas. Performance Management System Average Training Category ACC’s Performance Management (Hours Per person per year) System (PMS) works on-line through Management Staff 58 hours the intranet portal called “Accelerate” to which all Management Staff are Non-management staff 53 hours given access. The PMS process begins 28 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Average hours of training per year per Male Female employee Technical skills 8.44 11.35 Health and safety 10.90 7.22 Management 18.96 11.66 Non-Technical skills 4.19 6.06 Sustainability 0.12 0.04 All management staff are required to 1. Understanding the challenges study the company’s code of conduct prevalent in the cement market & as a matter of self-training. While the difficulties faced by our current there is no specific training on Human Sales force Rights related issues, certain aspects 2. Developing a functional competency are covered in the code of conduct and framework & validation of the same during orientation of new recruits. by Functional Head. Security personnel also undergo specific training relevant to their scope of work. Channel Strategy and Development While certain aspects of human rights Influencer Management and form part of this training, the subject Business Development of human rights is not specifically (New customer) addressed. Customer Management (existing customers) Sustainability is also seen as an important subject in respect of training. Promotion Management 3. Skill Gap Analysis of targeted Managerial personnel from relevant Pricing Strategy employees ,with clear denotation functions are deputed to attend selected of skill levels through colour-coding training programmes conducted by Business Planning, Forecasting and as shown below (RED : Competency reputed organisations such as CII and Financial Acumen Gap exists ; YELLOW: Competency TERI on different aspects of sustainable People Skills & Communication is as per expected levels; GREEN development. Members of the SD : Competency is above expected Council and its core group also attend Product Knowledge levels) such programmes. Name Channel Strategy and Influencer Management Building a capable Sales and Development and Business Marketing Team: Development We launched the “Competency Mapping (new customer) & Development Plan for Sales force” with an objective to identify critical Amit 1 0 functional skill gaps in the existing sales force and enhance their competence Sunil 0 2.0 through planned development interventions that would enable them to Akash -1 0 handle and overcome tough competition in the market. This initiative comprised Pratik 0 1 of the following steps: Sustainable Development Report 2014 29 4. Creating a individual roadmap for Competency Development based on identified Building capability of entry level Competency gaps of targeted employees artisans: • We have upgraded SMTI curriculum Key Milestones achieved: to Swiss/ German VET Model 1. The initiative was first launched in the South Region, wherein 78 employees (from • This is a two year residential course Sales & Customer Services) have undergone the Functional Skill Gap Analysis. 21 with mix of in-plant training and CSOs have already been covered in a program on “Product knowledge” at Regional theory. Office Bangalore. • In order to adapt it to international standards, we consulted VDZ for various options to improve our technical capability institute. • The Institute has been revamped in terms of hostel facilities, library and workshop Building Shopfloor Capability Engage: Focused Group Discussions with workmen to understand current We launched a “Workmen Development engagement issues Program” to bring our Shopfloor Associates into the fold of the Excellence Involve: Involve all the technically journey and make them more capable skilled Workmen and Supervisors in and multi-skilled. This programme was improvement projects. Identify Coaches meant to improve skill sets and mindset / Facilitators to support the projects of Shopfloor Associates using the simple model shown here. Upskill: • Training on problem solving and QC tools • Mindsets and behaviors workshops • Vocational training based on skill Engage gap analysis Basic, Advance & Expert Results Workmen Development Total: 2857 SFAs Details Mindset FGD WS Technical Skills In sk Up ill vo Target 2857 2857 2018 2288 in g lve Covered 1236 1617 839 742 30 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Learning by Doing Projects: • The concept of project-based learning @ ACC is to encourage onIn 2014 we focused on developing the-job learning for employees across people through “Learning by Doing” various levels. and deploying employees on projects. Here is an overview of this initiative. • Create platforms to see their work/ listen to them • Involvement of employees in small IE, improvement projects • Celebrating and encouraging good projects through rewards Total Number of Total Number of Total Number of Sr No. Region Projects completed Forums conducted Projects in H1 in H1 in H1 1 North 249 167 37 2 East 209 112 72 3 West 131 44 21 4 South 323 133 29 Sustainable Development Report 2014 31 3.3 | Occupational Health and Safety OH&S Vision Our vision for Occupational Health & OUR OH&S VISION Safety is an all-embracing one “No We recognize harm to anyone associated with “NO HARM ANYWHERE ACC”. OH&S is an essential part of our our stakeholders sustainability agenda. TO ANYONE ASSOCIATED WITH ACC” in this respect We recognize our stakeholders in to comprise this respect to comprise Employees, “NO HARM” means: No fatalities Employees, Contractors, Transporters and all visitors No disabling Injuries Contractors, to our site. We engage with these groups through frequent and regular No Lost Time Injuries Transporters and meetings, Toolbox talks, Briefings and No Medical treatment Injuries No First Aid Injuries all visitors to our Training programmes. At our plants, gate meetings are conducted by No Occupational Illness site members of the leadership team on the 1st of every month with the aim “ANYONE” means: to engage with all stakeholders and Employees impart messages of safety awareness Contractors personnel on site and preparedness and ongoing safety Ready-mix drivers on job initiatives of the company. On their part Third party contractors on site employees and contractors’ personnel Visitors to ACC site on site participate in safety meetings with enthusiasm. 32 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Safety Committees company. Contractors are also invited to participate in safety committee There are formal joint managementmeetings held every month. worker health and safety committees at every plant which typically cover Contractors are provided with induction the entire workforce representatives training and are also involved in in the plant. The topics covered tool box talks before the start of work. in formal agreements with trade The concerns raised during the joint unions include personal protective meeting of management and equipment (PPE) and the adherence to workers are recorded and acted safety rules and requirements of the upon. Employee Employee Employee Third Employee Lost Time Fatality Contractor Lost Fatalities Party Lost Time Injury rates fatalities Working (Nos.) Fatalities Injury Frequency Days Rate 0.049 1 (Employees 0 3 11 0.5 911 only) Suraksha Laher initiatives ownership structure was reviewed and facilities, rest rooms, availability of further enhanced to improve visible drinking water etc. A second programme Suraksha Laher 2 and Suraksha Laher 3 leadership. Suraksha Laher 3 revisited saw that tools used by contractors initiatives were launched as a follow-up the implementation of some important were safe. The process of screening of to the Surakhsha Laher initiative which fatality prevention elements (FPEs) such contractors was made more stringent to was launched in the previous year. as working at heights, isolation and ensure they are at all times aligned with Suraksha Laher 2 was meant to give lockout with a view to close the gaps the corporate OH&S vision of ensuring a special focus to fatality prevention identified during audit assessments. ‘Zero Harm’. by building line ownership, raising OH&S competencies and creating Contractor Safety Logistics Safety forums to enhance communication. The Management “Suraksha Samvad” forum was set up In the last few years, logistics safety to improve bottom-up communication. During the year the company set has been included in the company’s This is a sort of safety dialogue in up Communities of Practices (CoP) safety agenda in a significant way to which all concerns related to the and Centres of Excellence to address ensure safety within plant premises work area are noted. These are then specific safety issues. Contractor as well as on the road. Accordingly suitably addressed with appropriate Safety Management (CSM) was singled we implemented various planned actions by plant management. This out as an important pillar of safety. interventions viz. Defensive Driving programme succeeded in engaging With regard to contractor safety, two training for drivers, vehicle inspection all levels of Shop Floor Associates key areas of focus were identified at plants, segregation of pedestrian (SFA) and the company’s contractors and appropriately addressed. These and vehicular traffic inside plants, a in the identification and closure of included Facility Management for the campaign for seat belt usage aimed hazards. Another major contribution contractors’ employees and Equipment, at truck drivers, installation of GPS in of Suraksha Laher 2 was the OH&S Tools & Material Management. The dedicated trucks in a phased manner Leadership Training Program aimed at former was addressed by providing for journey monitoring. MoUs were improving OH&S capabilities of Middle adequate welfare facilities for contract signed with on logistics safety with Management level employees. The Zone labour such as washrooms with bathing our authorized road transporters, Sustainable Development Report 2014 33 engagement sessions with truck drivers and felicitating safe drivers. A programme for improving safety in cement warehouses was initiated. ACC was felicitated as Holcim’s Regional Award Winner for South Asia/ASEAN in recognition of its Logistics Safety Improvement Programme. Occupational Health In 2014, the Emergency Medical Response (EMR) capabilities in mines were further improved. Each mine site now has an ALS ambulance, stretchers, Automated External Defibrillator (AEDs) units and proper first aid facilities. At each plant we have also ensured that more than half of the shift supervisors have been trained in basic life support techniques. A total of 2000 shift supervisors received such training. The company’s OH&S aided by our medical officers conducted routine programmes highlighting health risk factors among employees and their families. During the year under review, there were no instances of workers identified with high incidence or high risk of Dated: 15th September 2014 diseases related to their occupation. Safety in the workplace is every person’s responsibility. Every Manager carries the extra responsibility to ensure all employees including contract employees are fully trained in working safely and responsibly at all times. Harish Badami CEO & Managing Director 34 Sustainable Development Report 2014 3.4 | Products and Services ACC principally supplies Portland Reinforced ConcreteCode of Practice Cement in bags and bulk and Ready (Third Revision), (Reaffirmed 2005) and Mixed Concrete to markets across most IS 4926: 2003, Ready-Mixed Concreteof India. All products of the company Code of Practice (Second Revision), 2003. We take pride are sold under the overall umbrella None of the products manufactured by in offering the brand name ACC. The brand name us is either banned or disputed. ACC is synonymous with cement and best quality and enjoys a high level of equity in the Cement packaging in our Indian market mainly because of the We manufacture four types of cements high quality standards we maintain range of cement and the service provided to customers for general construction viz. 43 Grade Ordinary Portland Cement, 53 Grade and Ready Mixed by an extensive network of about 9000 dealers that makes ACC cement Ordinary Portland Cement, Portland Concrete. For us available countrywide through a chain Pozzolana Cement and Portland Slag Cement. These are packed in 50 quality implies of over 50,000 sales outlets. ACC leads the industry in the manufacture of kilogram bags made of polypropylene exceeding environment-friendly blended cements (PP). base statutory namely Portland Slag Cement and Portland Pozzolana Cement that utilize Apart from these generic products, we standards or the industrial wastes such as slag from steel also offer ‘Premium’ products that are supplied in better quality packaging specifications plants and fly ash from thermal power stations. The role of blended cements viz. Paper bags, Laminated PP bags and sought by the in reducing CO2 emissions, and ACC’s Ad Star Bags. These premium products, meant for certain recommended customer leadership in promoting these cements is well recognized by environmentalists. applications, are generally superior in terms of performance parameters such as early strength and durability. An important aim of our customercentric approach is to enrich the The largest group of customers we serve customer experience and to enhance are end consumers made up mainly customer value. We take pride in of individual home builders across the offering the best quality and packaging country. We also serve other groups in our range of Cement and Ready that comprise industrial, infrastructure Mixed Concrete. For us quality implies exceeding base statutory standards or the specifications sought by the Premium Products customer. The varieties of cement ACC F2R manufactured by us comply with our Premium PSC Cement own internal norms which are more stringent than the requirements of the ACC Plus+ relevant Bureau of Indian Standards Premium PPC Cement namely in respect of 43 Grade Ordinary ACC Concrete+ Portland Cement (IS 81121989), Premium PPC Cement 53 Grade Ordinary Portland Cement (IS 12269-1987), Portland Pozzolana ACC Coastal+ Cement (IS 1489-Part 1) and Portland Premium PSC Cement Slag Cement (IS 455-1989). In the ACC Gold concrete business we are guided by two Premium PPC Cement codes namely IS 456: 2000, Plain and Sustainable Development Report 2014 35 and commercial projects and entities vast and competent cement sales Bulk cement and Ready Mixed Cement that use cement as raw material such network. also demonstrate a higher degree of as concrete product makers and Ready environment-friendliness. Mixed Concrete plants. Environmental impact Economic Impact of Cement Earlier in this report we have ACC’s countrywide network of dealers explained the environmental impact The cement industry is known to and retailers, our channel partners, of cement and concrete in the sense foster several positive impacts on the plays a vital role in reaching out to that while both involve extractive economy and society. Per capita cement customers to achieve the successful processes, concrete is proven to have consumption is often regarded as an sale of our cement and provide primary lower average embodied carbon and indicator of economic and human customer care and service. Channel energy as compared to most other development. A cement plant is partners contribute over 80 per cent of building materials. We reiterate that typically a powerful engine that drives the sales of our cement business. They for the present nature and order of economic and social development in are in turn serviced and managed by construction activity today, concrete its neighbourhood. Cement industry an energetic sales force located in sales is likely to remain as the most viable offers vast employment opportunities, offices, area offices and districts. Sales building material. It is a matter of both direct and indirect to the host to key customers from consumers that pride that the Indian cement industry communities where it is located comprise industrial, infrastructure and has a lower carbon footprint than its and to the larger workforce. Cement commercial (ICI) and other large buyers peers in the world while ACC has been and concrete give rise to numerous are managed directly by a specially acknowledged as being among the ancillary businesses, in addition to the designated sales team. Customer Service most sustainable companies in India. multifarious partnership opportunities teams in our regional and sales offices Within the different varieties of cement, available in its entire value chain. in turn assist us in providing technical blended cements contribute the lowest Cement is a leading contributor to assistance and information to others in specific emissions of CO2. Blended the national and state exchequer as the supply chain comprising masons, cements utilize slag and Fly Ash that well as to municipal and local bodies. contractors, architects, and engineers. are essentially waste pollutants from It is also a source of revenue to public the steel industry and thermal power utilities and undertakings such as power Ready Mixed Concrete stations. The quantity consumed of companies and railways. ACC has made The concrete business has blossomed these materials is reported in chapter valuable contributions in nation building in the last few years team, developing 3.11. ACC has been an industry leader and continues to do so in supplying customer oriented value-added products with a predominant share of its total quality building materials necessary and services, enhancing quality and production comprising of blended for the growth of India’s housing and successfully widening its customer cement. Value-added products such as infrastructure development sectors. base. The concrete product range now includes a wide range of one-stop solutions for customers comprising as many as nineteen products for different applications, all tailored to meet specific customer requirements from small basic requirements up to higher grades of concrete to build the country’s tallest structures. The Ready Mixed Concrete team manages most of its sales directly to buyers and end-users without the use of intermediaries. But unusually for a typical B2B genus, the team has also sought to make forays into the retail segment by leveraging the company’s 36 Sustainable Development Report 2014 3.5 | Energy Cement manufacture is an energy benchmark and evaluate opportunities intensive process with power and fuel to achieve energy improvement across accounting for around 20 per cent the manufacturing process as well as of our total expenditure. Hence we logistics activities. Overall the company Overall the keep a constant focus on minimizing achieved a reduction of 0.52 per cent in company and optimizing energy consumption. During the year, many energy specific thermal energy and a reduction of 0.53 per cent in specific electrical achieved a conservation initiatives involving energy during 2014 as compared to reduction of process optimization, as well as equipment up gradation were carried the preceding year. Details of energy consumption are captured in the 0.52 per cent in out across ACC plants. Communities of following table. specific thermal Excellence (CoE) worked continuously to energy and a Cement Manufacturing Units reduction of Energy Consumption Unit 2014 2013 2012 0.53 per cent Coal + Pet Coke consumption in Kiln TJ 45,466 46,577 46,933 in specific Diesel Oil consumption in Kiln Alternative Fossil fuels* consumed TJ 55 62 52 TJ 634 603 164 electrical energy in Kiln Alternative Bio-mass consumed in during 2014 as Kiln TJ 216 342 396 compared to the Diesel Oil consumption for Onsite vehicle movement TJ 434 474 563 preceding year Fuels for drying of raw materials TJ 1,288 1,398 1,124 Coal for onsite power generation TJ 20,342 21,831 24,602 Diesel Oil consumption for Onsite TJ 15 78 32 power generation Biomass for Onsite Power TJ 116 136 42 generation Specific power consumption upto KWH / Tonne 70.69 71.21 73.39 and including clinker production of Clinker KWH / Specific power consumption upto Tonne of 81.45 81.78 85.37 and including cement grinding Cementitious Material KWH / Specific power consumption Tonne of including cement grinding, colony, 83.70 83.92 87.75 Cementitious auxiliaries Material KWH / Specific total power consumption Tonne of including cement grinding, colony, 86.02 86.08 90.01 Cementitious auxiliaries & packing Material Specific thermal energy GJ / Tonne of 3.05 3.066 3.076 consumption Clinker MWH / Electricity Energy Purchased 637,696 544,201 606,200 Annum Energy consumption outside the TJ 7504 8657 8708 organization** * As per WBCSD protocol, alternative fossil fuel comprises waste oil, waste tyres, plastics, solvents, impregnated saw dust etc. ** Considered diesel as fuel consumed in transportation and calculated from Scope 3 emissions, Specific energy consumption includes only energy inside the organisation Sustainable Development Report 2014 37 Ready MixED Concrete Units Energy Consumption Unit 2014 2013 Diesel consumption in RMX unit TJ 33 34 MWH / Electricity Energy Purchased 2947 3780 Annum Energy consumption outside the organization* TJ 352 175 * Considered diesel as fuel consumed in transportation and calculated from Scope 3 Emissions Awards In a record feat of three times in a row, the Thondebhavi plant in Karnataka was awarded a Merit certificate for Energy conservation for 2013-14 by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) of the Government of India. The Kudithini plant also in Karnataka was adjudged as ‘Excellent Energy Efficient unit’ by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) while Jamul, Lakheri, Bargarh and Thondebhavi Plants were shortlisted as Energy Efficient plants. 38 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Energy Conservation Measures Plans and schemes to achieve energy conservation and efficiency were undertaken in all significant areas of the cement manufacturing process and in our captive power plants. Some of the major activities in energy conservation are listed below: Annual Plant Energy Conservation Projects Savings (TJ) Replaced existing Grid Rotot Resistance (GRR) controls by installation of Medium Voltage Variable Speed Drive 3.54 (VSD) for Bag House Fan Line-2 Recuperation efficiency improvement by Horse shoe modification in cooler 41.48 Replaced Line-1 preheater fan with energy efficient fan 5.05 Kymore Kiln-2 Kiln string fan efficiency improvement by impeller cone modification 0.41 Replacement of 225kw De-watering pump with 110kw De-watering pump & motor 0.96 Auto Control of common header pressure of Boiler Feed Pumps (BFPs) 0.43 Cooler compartment modification with Control Flow Grate (CFG) to Reduced Fall Through (RFT) conversion in 7.83 both Kiln 1 & Kiln 2 Installation of VSD for Calciner Compressor, Forced Draft fans, bag filter fans, CPP pumps and CPP cooling tower 3.15 Jamul (total 12 nos) Installed 2 Nos Automatic Power Factor Controller (APFC) panels to improve power factor 1.35 Wadi Installation of APFC panels for improving power factor 0.03 II Installation of Slip Power Recovery System (SPRS) in Raw mill 2 Fan. 0.07 Replacement of Vertical Mill Pre-grinder (AVMP) 5 Separator fan with efficient fan. 1.17 Gagal Conversion of Pneumatic to mechanical feeding of dry fly ash 4.02 First chamber shortening of Cement Mill-3 & Replacement of Double wave liner with UVL Liner 7.23 Installation of Mist cooling system in place of existing mechanical cooling tower of Cement Mill. 0.31 Tikaria Modification in water circulation line of Pre-grinder (PG) circuit to stop the complete cooling tower along with 0.83 circulation pump of PG circuit. Installation of new (derated) Positive Displacement (PD) blower in kiln coal firing Blower with modification of 1.56 Chaibasa pipe line Installation of VSD in calciner firing Blower with modification of pipeline 1.33 Reduction of specific energy of RVRM by changing Roller liner and Table liner 2.38 Commissioning Energy Efficient Blower for coal firing blower 1.67 Bargarh Commissioning of VSD for separator vent bag filter in cement mill 3, Horizontal Press Grinder (HPGR) 2 fan 1.56 Commissioning of VSD for cooling water pumps & cooling water fans 2.3 Automation of Hydrocyclone for Ball Mill throughput improvement 2.8 Madukkarai Boiler Feed Pump conversion from Medium Voltage (MV) drive to Low Voltage (LV) Drive and installation of 0.49 VSD Replacement of reciprocating compressor with Screw compressors for Instrument air and as conveying 0.58 Commissioned Rotascale for Fly Ash feeding system 0.47 Medium Voltage Variable Frequency Drive (MVVFD) for Raw Mill 2 Fan 4.47 Reguarding of grinding media in CM 6 5.7 Lakheri VSD for Calciner Firing & Kiln Firing PD Blower 0.57 Improvement in Separator efficiency by replacing its blades 0.72 Rota scale in calciner coal firing 2.97 Arresting radiation losses by replacing damaged brick lines, dip tube in calciner preheater 1.66 Sustainable Development Report 2014 39 Green power Waste Heat Recovery We have three wind energy farms located in Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Maharashtra. A Waste Heat Recovery System (WHRS) During the year, these stations cumulatively generated 32.5 Million Units of green at Gagal, which became fully operational power. in the beginning of the year, produced 46.64 Million kWh of electrical energy and helped enhance the plant’s energy Wind Power Generated (in Million kWh) 2014 2013 2012 security by reducing its dependence on Tamil Nadu 17.70 18.12 24.20 costlier grid power. Rajasthan 11.53 11.02 14.63 Maharashtra 3.26 3.39 3.50 The wind energy plants units helped the company meet all of its Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO) Non-Solar for the Madukkarai Plant in Tamil Nadu and the Lakheri Plant in Rajasthan. In Maharashtra we were issued renewable energy certificates (RECs) besides meeting the needs of the Thane complex and part of the requirement of the bulk cement terminal in Kalamboli. Our products are meant for acting as a binding material in construction and as an application for external finish. Thus reduction of energy requirement of products and services is not applicable. 40 Sustainable Development Report 2014 3.6 | Effluents and Waste The process of cement manufacture treated in sewage treatment plants and does not generate any significant reused wherever possible. We do not effluent or wastes. As such the process discharge any process effluent outside does not involve the use of water or our premises and our operations do The only liquids as a direct input. As described not affect any water bodies and related significant elsewhere in this report, we have a robust practice of co-processing wastes habitats. generation of from other industries as alternative fuels Though the main process of cement effluent is of the in our kilns. manufacture yields no waste, there is an incidence of waste generated in domestic kind in However, water is consumed in indirect operations such as maintenance and our residential applications such as cooling equipment and material, in dust suppression, and housekeeping. Details of these wastes segregated into hazardous and noncolonies for horticulture and gardening in plant, hazardous are indicated in the table mines and residential townships. Most alongside. Of this, the hazardous of our plants are equipped with closed waste is mostly sold to authorized circuit cooling water systems that recyclers or co-processed in our maintain the consumption of fresh cement kilns wherever we have water to minimal levels. authorization to do so. Non-hazardous waste is sold to third party recyclers. The only significant generation of We do not handle any hazardous waste effluent is of the domestic kind in our listed under Basel convention Annex I, II, residential colonies. This effluent is III & VIII. Hazardous Waste Details Unit 2014 2013 2012 Waste Oil Litres 211,673 136,312 108,848 Grease Kgs Nil 4,160 16,950 Non Hazardous Waste Steel Scrap1 Tonnes 17,900 14,486 11,077 Others2 Tonnes 6,397 2,579 5,559 Fliter Bags Nos 75,730 41,377 33,063 Note: 1. Steel Scrap includes castings, waste steel, MS drums, wrapper scrap, iron scrap, grinding balls, HC lining plate, table liner, HC grinding media, etc. 2. Others includes waste cement bags, conveyor belts, wood, copper, plastic bags, electrical cables, empty glass bottles, aluminum, tyre, paper, PVC drums, HDPE wrapper, etc. We have a spill management system in place to minimize the impact in event of any spills. However there were no significant spills recorded during the year. Most of the used bags out of the bagged cement sold by us to customers is invariably put to other use by the end user either by recycling the used bags for other reuse on construction sites, or reconditioned for other use such as roof thatching material or just disposed as scrap. We have not found it viable to make any effort to reclaim this used packaging material. Sustainable Development Report 2014 41 3.7 | Responsible Selling and Customer Care Customer Excellence Customer commitments Our Group Vision for Customer Three fundamental commitments Excellence is “to be the most customer ensure that we remain focused on the The Group Vision focused company with the highest customer in everything we do: customer loyalty in our industry; to is translated into a create more value for our customers • We are easy to do business with detailed Customer and higher and sustainable returns for • We keep our promises our company”. We refer here to external Charter that is customers. Earlier in this report we have • We create value captured into a identified External Customers primarily The customer is seen as representing small pocket-sized as end-users of our products, the large majority of them being individual home the most valued among our stakeholders. The charter requires booklet which is builders followed by B2B customers. that the customer must see and carried by each The next tier of customers is the group of channel partners our dealers and experience value in everything we do to fulfill his or her needs at every one of our sales retailers. We also include influencer stage, in every transaction and in every force groups among customers these are masons, contractors, engineers and interface. architects. Our Philosophy The Group Vision is translated into The Customer excellence philosophy is a detailed Customer Charter that is simple and enunciated in three simple captured into a small pocket-sized objectives: booklet which is carried by each one of • Consistently meet highest product our sales force. The charter addresses quality standards the Commitments towards External • Consistently serve, support and Customers, Philosophy, Behaviour, seek feedback from end-consumer Policies and Processes that must be demonstrated by the organization, • Consistently develop and upskill particularly those in sales, logistics, our channel partners and production and other core functions. influencers 42 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our Behaviour different ways. With a product like ours our sales team are effective in managing it is also vital that we offer the adequate customer transactions, queries and The foremost behaviour we must technical support. other interactions. The unique and demonstrate and achieve is to provide informative 5Ps survey conducted by a safe and secure environment which Superior Query Handling & frontline personnel is a method to ensures zero harm to customers and Measurement Tools obtain feedback from end-consumers the communities we deal with, beyond on their expectations and experience the boundaries of our plants and Elaborate practices of conducting with our product, packaging, pricing, establishments. Equally important is customer satisfaction and measurement the commitment to imbibe a customer promotion and placement. Information surveys and other tools used to engage centric approach by ensuring we give derived from this process is compiled with customers and assess their the customer three offerings: and processed using a tool called “Net perceptions help obtain invaluable Promoter Score” which segregates • Superior products decision-oriented feedback. All frontline customers in three categories i.e., sales personnel are required to “Detractors, Passives and Promoters”. • Superior logistics participate in “A day with the Customer” Analysis of their responses suggests the • Superior service at a retail counter where they observe measures needed to convert customers in-store consumer behavior from the into the category of Promoters. We Our customer-centric approach is moment a customer enters till the use NPS to measure channel partners’ designed to enrich the customer actual purchase is concluded. This gives satisfaction and obtain feedback on experience, enhance customer value and insights into the buying process. their experience and perceptions across ultimately embody the brand ACC. Robust Customer relationship all operational parameters. The NPS management (CRM) systems used by score we clocked in 2014 was 52. The next significant element in customer excellence is the need to develop and support the business of our Channel Partners. Our success depends on what we do to enable their growth Clean Bag project and productivity. ACC’s vast network Our Clean Bag project is based of dealers and retailers, our channel partners, contributes over eighty per on the belief that cement bags cent of our business and plays an equally create an enduring impression vital role in the continued success of our in the customer’s mind. We brand equity. define a “Clean” bag as one that not only looks appealing but Enrich Customer Experience also carries the correct weight, It is our endeavour to work in a manner is dust free and sturdy enough such that the customer perceives value to withstand multiple handling in all that we do to fulfil his needs in without any unseemly damage every interface with us. It is this that creates a special customer experience in the journey to the end user. which we strive to enhance. Again, It is a tough task that involves a our customer denotes every partner host of improvements from the in our supply chain right up to the end plant to the customer. A clean user. The customer-centric approach bag signifies concern for all is designed to enrich the customer stakeholders. experience and enhance customer value. We reach out to engage with them in Sustainable Development Report 2014 43 Complaint Handling them. In this regard assessments were carried out to evaluate health and safety There is a multi-nodal system for logging impacts in the areas of raw material Pioneers in Promoting and handling complaint with provision sourcing, production, packaging, Affordable Habitats for targeted cycle closure. We track the distribution, sales and marketing. The resolution of issues and complaints Being pioneers in cement and assessments indicated that we do through Loop closures through the concrete, we have from our very have systems and procedures in place Customer Complaint System. beginning nurtured a passion to to comply with safety requirements improve promote and introduce and rectify violations. Also we have Technical & Customer Services best construction practices in consequence management policy in the country. Our participation to We engage with each group of place to address violations if any. this end has been direct by way customers, supply chain members of delivering quality products and influencers to impart product Green Building Centres and indirectly by supporting the knowledge and appropriate skill These are in fact hubs located in smaller greater cause of nation-building development. Individual Home Builders towns or semi-urban clusters that and helping the masses to achieve are offered Technical Services by our promote and sell low cost building a better quality of life. In the Customer Service teams from basic visits materials, components and accessories early years civil engineers of our to give knowledge to more customized that are made locally by local people division, Concrete Association and fee-based services like site mix of India, vigourously promoted concrete design, concrete testing at site using simple technologies which may low cost construction design and site supervision. We conduct regular be either indigenous to the region or suggestions, methods and best Consumer Camps and family level transferred to local entrepreneurs. In practices for the benefit of meets for the customers in addition other words, these centres promote customers in the hinterlands to distributing product literature construction activity which is affordable outside metropolitan India. This and informative pamphlets on good and environment-friendly in nature was followed up with publications construction practices. In 2014, our sales and should not be confused to suggest like The Indian Concrete Journal offices interacted with 3000 individuals anything concerning green labels or and other literature distributed by in family meets while 30,000 attended certification. us. Our technical service personnel our consumer camps. Our Customer ACC Green Building Centres have been demonstrated best construction Service teams also connect with our response to filling the wide gap that practices including conservation construction engineers and contractors exists in the hinterlands of the country, of cement and other building through a mix of engagements such particularly in rural India, relating to materials. as technical training programmes, the consistent availability of building seminars and plant visits. In 2014, materials, skilled manpower, knowA vast number of people in we conducted such training for 8000 how and good construction techniques semi-urban and rural India are persons while 500 persons made visits that are affordable, eco-friendly and still homeless or living in inferior to our cement plants. structures of uncertain quality sustainable. In addition these centres and durability. This is both a social create livelihoods in several trades, Product Responsibility well-being and welfare issue as provide opportunities to open numerous also one that poses an incalculable As responsible manufacturers we see it localised businesses, generate avenues burden on economic development. as being obligatory to ensure that our to develop micro-entrepreneurships products are safe at every stage of their and engage with local communities In 2011, we signed an MoU with use and life-cycle. Cement and concrete in forging partnerships with local and the Industrial Design Centre of IIT and the raw materials associated with other bodies interested in pursuing Bombay to facilitate a research them do not by and large have any a common cause. Finally it helps in safety or health hazards associated with growing the market for cement, thus 44 Sustainable Development Report 2014 opening up a new customer segment. • share guidelines, tips and designs The centres provide a range of needs for use and application of a range study on Sustainable Construction hitherto not available in these places in of building components such as fly and affordable habitats that was the same measure: ash bricks, roofing, tiles and other expected to suggest innovative affordable products approaches to construction • easy-to-make and easy-to-use technology and appropriate locally produced and affordable Overall ACC Green Building Centres designs suitable to Indian habitats. construction products serve as “one-stop shops” for affordable The final report recommended • know-how and training to make and housing and construction solutions. designs for affordable houses use these products The first few centres opened in 2013 in in urban and semi-urban/rural select locations in the states of Uttar • testing facilities to monitor product contexts. Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, quality and Rajasthan. More centres were The company did not pursue actual • promote Do-It-Yourself business opened in 2014, bringing the total to 13 pilot construction as there were with machinery and equipment to by year-end. The company has plans to reservations about the scalability enable locals and end-users to make establish seventeen more centres and resources involved. Instead these products locally by themselves in 2015. the study generated ideas for more practical possibilities such as engaging with a larger group of stakeholders in smaller towns to explore the efficacy of a hub & spoke model in which individual structural components of houses (beams, roofs, tiles, windows and doors) are manufactured at one centre that makes pre-assembled and prefabricated elements that are then distributed to customers through networks of vendors. It was felt that such a model would be more impactful as it creates opportunities for microentrepreneurship and other livelihoods as also encourage the use of local materials and local techniques. Our role was envisaged to be that of guide, consultant and facilitator with partnerships with like-minded organisations in training, developing local talent, quality assurance and testing. Sustainable Development Report 2014 45 A notable development in this regard that is ‘manned’ by a team of capable other women. The Alwar and other has been the singular role played by women led by a remarkable woman who centres have also impressed women’s self-help groups in managing together promote the sale of green and executives from Holcim’s CSR and and promoting Green Building Centres. affordable building materials such as Sustainable construction streams The first such experience was in Alwar, bricks, blocks, tiles and house building who have seen how this concept can Rajasthan. The Alwar Green Building components. The centre has become a be applied elsewhere in the developing centre is managed by a women’s SHG benchmark and role model to inspire world. OUR CUSTOMER CHARTER Desirable behavior Our customer needs Description /Customer commitment Measurement Tool Zero Harm A Safe & Secure No compromise on safety of self, employees, • Safety Moment and environment channel, contractors, customers & the Briefing communities with whom we interact • Safety reports Customer Centric • Quality Products/ • Our products/packaging will exceed BIS • 5P’s feedback survey Approach Packaging standards and/or meet agreed customer • NPS specifications • On-time & In-Full • Loop closures for Delivery • We promise to deliver on time & in full complaint through CCS • Query Handling and • Multi-nodal complaint logging and handling (Customer Complaint Issue Resolution system and targeted cycle closure in place “System) • Easy ACCESS Develop and Support • Professional Behavior • Prompt, Professional and Transparent • NPS the business of our behavior of our officers leading to highest • Transparency in our • Easy ACCESS Channel Partners satisfaction dealings • Number of channel • Channel development through training • Channel Up-skilling & training programs Training Grow Business, Margin Handle and engage consumers/influencers Skill development Product knowledge Technical expertise & Service offerings Enrich Customer Value creation • Continue to develop & market • New Product Experience through Demonstrably demonstrably differentiated products in Development Differentiated Products & Cement and Concrete • Customer Service Best Services • Offer Value Based Services to address Practices different needs of consumers • Continuously provide knowledge sharing platform to create awareness about products, services and new construction technologies 46 Sustainable Development Report 2014 3.8 | Anti-Corruption The company prides itself in maintaining communications. Refresher training high standards of business dealings programmes are held on a regular and employee conduct which form the basis in these areas. Management staff bulwark of its corporate governance covered by the Code of Business Conduct The company’s leading directly to shape the company’s and Ethics and the ABCD are required rules and code reputation. The company’s rules and to submit a certificate of compliance on a periodic basis. The coverage in this of conduct make code of conduct make it emphatically clear that there is zero tolerance for regard of relevant personnel was near it emphatically corruption of any kind. This is essential 100 per cent. clear that there to ensure fair dealings with all our stakeholders. Donations: The company’s Code of is zero tolerance Conduct with specific reference to Anti-Bribery and Corruption Directives for corruption Our Stakeholders has a clear policy on Donations which of any kind. The Legal Department engages with all units, departments and functions stipulates that “ACC only makes This is essential of the company to offer advice in charitable donations that are legal and ethical under local laws and practices to ensure fair different kinds of situations with legal implications providing them support in and that are in accordance with the dealings with all litigation and documentation as well Community Plan of the Company.” The policy further debars employees from our stakeholders as advice and training on Legal matters and VCCE. Through these interventions making any contributions to political parties or individuals in order to secure the company seeks to instill a high level political or commercial influence. of awareness among employees for matters concerning Legal Compliance There is a safeguard in respect of trading and discouraging Anti Competitive in the company’s securities by way behaviour. of a “Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading”. This requires Code of Business Conduct and compliance of members of the Board Ethics and designated employees in certain A Code of Business Conduct and sensitive functions. Ethics approved by the Board of Directors, including an Anti-Bribery and We have a Helpline specifically Corruption Directive (ABCD), is made addressing issues concerning ethics and applicable to members of the Board corruption. It works round the clock and and all management staff alike. The encourages anyone associated with the code describes the desired conduct in company with a grievance relating to respect of all business dealings with matters of ethics to report them particular reference to matters relating to conflicts of interest, bribery and Fraud Risk Management corruption, integrity of accounting and Over the years, the company has financial reporting, fair competition, fostered a culture of integrity based corporate social responsibility, concern on unhindered and forthright for occupational health and safety, communication and disclosure. It is the sustainable development practices, company’s resolve that all employees the use of licensed software, email have access to the resources and and internet connectivity and external information at all times necessary to Sustainable Development Report 2014 47 enable the right decision each time. periodically assesses corruption-related validation by external auditors. The In 2009 a “Whistle Blower Policy” was risks through regular internal checks, Board’s Audit Committee also reviews instituted in ACC by the name “Fraud based on a well-structured approach the adequacy and efficacy of our internal Risk Management” (FRM) policy and to the subject of risk assessment. control systems in this regard. a Fraud Risk Management committee Vital inputs in this assessment are was constituted with a view to create identification of all potential areas of The Company recieved 83 complaints a fearless environment that would fraud risk, the probability of occurrence under the Fraud Risk Management embolden employees, associates and of frauds and their likely impact on Response mechanism, out of which others who work on our behalf to the organisation, its business and 47 were resolved and the balance 36 know their rights and responsibilities relationships with stakeholders. This complaints are under various stages of to report any instance they may process comes up for close scrutiny and investigation and completion. experience or come across of unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or transgression of the Company’s Code of Business Conduct & Ethics or the local laws. The committee reviews all complaints and investigations and takes appropriate action in respect of all cases concerning suspected fraud, financial misdemeanour or misconduct that are brought to its notice via channels such as e-mail, Helpline or in writing. The FRM policy is available for reference by any stakeholder on the company’s website, www.acclimited.com. In 2011, in a significant move, the company decided to outsource management of all communication channels of the FRM system (Email, Toll Free Phone, Post Box and Fax) to an external agency to ensure confidentiality independent of the company. The system assures complainants that their identity will be kept strictly confidential. The FRM function is handled by a team of professionals who are specially trained in compliance matters. The FRM policy was meant to make it widely known to all that ACC is a company that maintains the highest ethical standards and whose management has an approach for “Zero Tolerance to Fraud, Corruption and Bribery”. Corruption-related Risks The Internal Audit Department 48 Sustainable Development Report 2014 3.9 | Water We aim to make all our plants attain the recycle of waste water and Zero Process Waste Water Discharge maximizing its reuse, stopping the status, wherever possible and viable, leakage and overflow of domestic water using aggressive water conservation in plant and colony and minimizing the Water measures. We subscribe to the view blow down of cooling tower in captive consumption that water conservation is not only power plants. at some of our about saving water but goes beyond that to involve changing the way people The water management initiative also plants is already think about water use and developing includes the installation of Effluent self-sustaining a new way of doing business where water conservation takes centre stage Treatment Plants (ETP) and Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) in all ACC plants. based on supply in planning. Accordingly we encourage of harvested sharing and adopting best practices, as well as rewarding innovation. To strengthen the drive for reducing specific water consumption, the rain water company has initiated the installation throughout the In order to pursue continuous improvement in our overall water of automated water measurement systems to capture meaningful year. At some of performance and to address waterinformation about water performance our locations we related risks, the company has adopted relating to water withdrawal and water the following two water conservation consumption. This will help identify the share harvested strategies: potential areas of water conservation, rain water areas of leakages and ways to improve (1) the treatment, recycling and reuse water performance. with the local of waste water thus reducing fresh communities water intensity by reducing the Water consumption at some of our for use in their demand for water in process and non-process needs plants is already self-sustaining based on supply of harvested rain water domestic and (2) the adoption of rain water harvesting throughout the year. At some of our agricultural in all plants, mines, colonies, community areas. locations we share harvested rain water with the local communities for purposes use in their domestic and agricultural Other initiatives taken under water purposes. During the year 2014, no management include the recycling of water sources were significantly water filter plant backwash, increasing affected by our water withdrawal. Sustainable Development Report 2014 49 Quantity of water withdrawn for our cement manufacturing CASE STUDY Source of Water* Unit 2014 2013 2012 ACC Thondebhavi Reduces Process Water Consumption Surface Water Million M3 6.15 7.92 8.18 ACC Thondebhavi Cement Works, the youngest plant in the ACC family, has Harvested Rain Water Million M3 8.46 7.08 8.16 the most modern technology in place. The process parameters here have Municipal Water Supplies Million M3 0.043 0.09 0.05 been optimized further to eliminate the use of water in the grinding process. The Vertical Rolling Mill (VRM) Ground Water Million M3 1.16 1.57 1.34 at Thondebhavi is the only one from * Partial quantities are based on meter reading where available while the rest is calculated based on the pump capacity and Loesche that does not require much running hours water in the process of grinding clinker. Specific water consumption Quantity of water recycled & reused from our cement manufacturing of the plant has drastically decreased due to this initiative. Our efforts in this Water Treated and Reused* Unit 2014 2013 2012 regard have been well appreciated and felicitated. Total Quantity of Water Treated % 8.25 11.91 13.15 and Reused Annually Total Quantity of Water Treated and Million M3 1.30 1.98 2.33 Specific Water Consumption Reused Annually (lts/tonne of cement) * Calculated based on the pump capacity and running hours 246 43 29.7 25 2011 2012 2013 2014 50 Sustainable Development Report 2014 3.10 | Emissions We are very conscious of the fact that bound targets of the Low Carbon the cement industry is among the Technology Roadmap for the Indian biggest emitters of carbon dioxide Cement Industry leading to the years (CO2), a greenhouse gas that has a upto 2050. We have been critical role in climate change. We have monitoring been monitoring carbon dioxide (CO2) The Technology Roadmap identifies carbon dioxide emissions closely for over a decade and have been participants in the Carbon five key levers that can contribute to reduction in CO2 emissions: (CO2) emissions Disclosure Project CDP since 2010. a) Alternative Fuel and Raw Materials closely for over As an essential partner of the Cement (AFR); a decade and Sustainability Initiative (CSI) in India b) thermal and electrical energy have been which is a member-led programme of the World Business Council for efficiency; c) clinker substitution; participants Sustainable Development (WBCSD), d) waste heat recovery (WHR); and in the Carbon ACC honours its commitment to make continued efforts to achieve the time e) newer technologies. Disclosure Project CDP since 2010 Sustainable Development Report 2014 51 ACC continued to show improvements served to promote the use of renewable As a result of various initiatives, we on all these CO2 levers. An increase in energy. were able to reduce ACC’s overall the use of alternative materials has led specific net CO2 emissions excluding to a corresponding increase in thermal Earlier our Bargarh plant in Odisha onsite power generation down to substitution rate. We have an onwas chosen as a pilot site for a detailed 526 Kg CO2/Tonne of cement in 2014 going thrust on improving the clinker energy audit to be carried out as part from 538 Kg CO2/tonne of cement in the factor through increased production of of the Technology Roadmap. The first previous year. During the year 2014, ACC blended cements which enables clinker phase was completed in the previous realized 8,43,190 CERs for substitution. We have controlled the year while the second phase of the its Blended Cement Project under consumption of specific thermal and initiative was concluded in 2014. Most Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) electrical energy. Our wind energy farms of the recommendations arising out of the United Nations Framework remained active through the year and of this study were implemented and Convention on Climate Change we launched a new power plant based shared across other plants which helped (UNFCCC). on waste heat recovery at Gagal, both control specific energy as well as CO2 of which emissions. Scope wise CO2 emissions CO2 Emissions (Tonnes) Cement RMX 2014 2013 2014 2013 Scope-1* 14705732 15143788 2468 2655 Scope-2** 622877 508805 2888 2671 Scope-3*** 855583 641504 26078 12989 * Includes CO2 emissions from captive power plant and calculated using WBCSD CO2 protocol ** Calculated by using CM Emission factor CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector V10 Dec 2014 by Central Electricity Authority *** Calculated based on assumptions & approximation used to club vehicles to the distance brackets. Categories of Employee commute, transportation of heavy machineries installed in different plants, business travel and courier emissions have not been considered The following table shows CO2 in the areas of thermal and electrical emissions reduction achieved due to the energy and on account of clinker factor implementation of various measures improvement. Overall CO2 Reductions Achieved (Scope 1 & 2) Parameter Unit 2014 2013 2012 Tonnes of On Account of Thermal Savings1 23359 30077 65260 CO2 Tonnes of On Account of Electrical Savings2 2680 94923 13804 CO2 On Account of Clinker Factor Tonnes of Nil 6903 200872 Improvement3 CO2 Note: (1) CO2 emission reductions on account of thermal energy is calculated by using simple mathematical equation. (2) CM Emission Factor (CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector V 10 Dec 2014 by Central Electricity Authority) was used for calculating the CO2 emissions on account of electrical savings. (3) CO2 emission reductions on account of clinker factor improvement is calculated by using the thumb rule that for 1% improvement in clinker factor there is reduction of 7.5 Kg CO2 / Tonne of Cement 52 Sustainable Development Report 2014 We implemented various initiatives and all operations to control fugitive measures to improve the environmental emissions by installing dust extraction performance of our plants and and dust suppression systems wherever surroundings. ACC reduced specific possible. kiln stack dust emissions per ton of cement by ~23 per cent as compared ACC’s Kiln stacks dust emissions with last year. This was possible as a and Continuous Ambient Air Quality result of the up-gradation of various air Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) data was pollution control equipment and regular uploaded on the websites of the Central maintenance. Apart from that, various Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and some measures were implemented across State Pollution Control Boards. Emissions* Unit 2014 2013 2012 NOx gm / Tonne of Clinker 1663.91 1873.31 1772.86 gm / Tonne of Cement 1044.05 1218.98 1136.05 Tonnes 25304.29 29079.78 27393.77 SO2 gm / Tonne of Clinker 196.71 163.7 111.39 gm / Tonne of Cement 123.43 106.52 71.38 Tonnes 2991.49 2541.22 1721.24 Dust gm / Tonne of Clinker 41.66 52.25 64.92 gm / Tonne of Cement 26.14 34 41.6 Tonnes 633.59 811.02 1003.11 * The emissions reported are based on Kiln stacks only The manufacturing process of Cement emission monitoring systems, water and Ready Mixed Concrete does not monitoring systems, dust suppression involve the emission of any ozone systems, rainwater harvesting systems, depleting substances. green belt development, environmental training and awareness, road sweeping Environment Protection machines etc. Expenditures We have invested in various No formal grievance had been filed environment protection activities such about environmental impacts through as air pollution control equipments, upgrievance mechanisms during the gradation of pollution control measures, reporting period. Details Unit 2014 2013 2012 Environmental ` 1114 1575 1476.49 Expenditure In Million Whenever new regulations/compliance and advocacy efforts are also made as requirements are foreseen, financial found appropriate. There is an internal provisions are made to address those mechanism to review compliances from compliance issues. Continued lobbying time to time. Sustainable Development Report 2014 53 3.11 | Materials Cement Production users. With the support of our strong internal R&D team, we implement The major raw material in the cement various measures to conserve natural production process is limestone which resources by way of utilizing low quality With the is sourced from captive limestone mines limestone, by improving the clinker at each of our cement plants. Other raw support of our materials used in cement include iron factor and by using alternative raw materials in the manufacturing process. strong internal ore, bauxite, laterite and gypsum which All these efforts have helped us reduce are sourced externally. Most cement R&D team, we in India is delivered in bags of 50 kg the ecological footprint and carbon footprint of our cement business and implement each and sold through trade channels. thus lead us on the journey towards various measures A smaller share is sold in bulk to large making green cement. to conserve The material consumed by us in the manufacture of all varieties of cement in the last natural resources three years is as shown below: by way of utilizing Raw Material (million tonne) 2014 2013 2012 low quality Limestone 20.84 22.13 22.07 limestone, by Gypsum 1.19 1.16 1.18 Alternative raw materials 0.16 0.14 0.24 improving the Slag 2.84 2.79 2.44 clinker factor Fly Ash 4.40 4.38 4.35 and by using Additives 0.014 0.016 0.017 alternative raw Others (bauxite, iron ore etc.) 2.30 1.56 1.50 Lubricating oil (Tonnes) 488 488 813 materials in the Grease (Tonnes) 201 176 226 manufacturing Weight of bags consumed (Tonnes) 32149 30292 31969 process % recycled material used 23.29 22.72 22.09 Concrete Production distances and duration. Concrete by itself is a blend of cement, water, Ready Mixed Concrete is manufactured aggregates and certain additives. The in a batching plant according to a materials consumed in Ready Mixed predetermined mix and then delivered Concrete operations in the last two in transit mixers within range of certain years were as below: Raw Material (Tonnes) 2014 2013 Cement 402445 445201 Slag 31456 21924 Fly Ash 108975 99998 Additives 5197 4983 Lubricating Oil 34.78 11.99 Grease 8.89 6.6 54 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Use of Recycled / Waste Materials Quality audits are regularly conducted process quality parameters, reduction in by our Quality & Product Development power & thermal energy consumption, ACC is acknowledged as a pioneer in (Q&PD) team at all ACC Plants to reduction in diesel and lube oil the gainful use of slag and Fly Ash to make superior blended cements. Going evaluate quality parameters at each consumption, consistency in the weight beyond this, the company has in the stage of the manufacturing process of cement bags, reducing the coefficient last several years had a noteworthy from mining to packing. Analysis data of variation of cement compressive practice of using various other recycled made available by the Laboratory strengths etc. The total validated and waste materials as Alternative information management system savings from these projects in 2014 on Fuels & Resources (AFR) and has been (LIMS), now commissioned and used an annualized basis was around ` 63 offering total solutions for waste in all ACC Plants, enables better crores though many of the projects had management through co-processing control of variances and thereby intangible benefits. Each year the project of wastes in its cement kilns. These achieving consistency of desired leaders for this exercise are trained include industrial, municipal and quality parameters. At each stage of by the Mahindra Institute of Quality, agricultural wastes. In 2014 this practice production, bringing in consistency in Nashik in the areas of statistical process was brought under Holcim’s global operations results in consistency of control methodology and the use of Geocycle banner. We gainfully utilize the performance of the manufactured problem solving tools to achieve considerable quantities of wastes from product in applications. This also results the objective of the developmental a wide range of industries. This includes in reduction in consumption of natural Projects. wastes such as red mud, ETP sludge, resources like limestone, iron ore, iron sludges, mill scale etc. Our role as bauxite, laterite and gypsum. Laboratory In recent years product development a waste manager of hazardous and information (LIMS) facilitates effective efforts of Q&PD has helped in the non-hazardous industrial, agricultural quality management at each stage of launch of special high performance and municipal wastes is already being production. premium brands like F2R, Concrete+, recognized by pollution control boards, Coastal+, ACC Plus+ and ACC Gold for regulatory bodies and industrial waste Quality Control & Product specific market segments for application generators. This practice is identified Development in certain specific climatic conditions as an important lever in reducing CO2 The consistency of process quality to achieve improved performance and emissions. It helps conserve natural parameters is monitored at each durability of products. Currently work energy and mineral resources that are otherwise utilized in the manufacture plant by Q&PD at every stage of the is under way to develop products for a of cement. It also supports the production process using the method dry mix mortar for tile fixing application environment by reducing pollution of Statistical Process Control (SPC) and and other application Oriented dry mix and cutting the amount of wastes Cpk values of the Process Capability Mortars . otherwise going to landfills or Index. This helps reduce process incinerators. variability and improve consistency of ACC’s in-house Q&PD team the Product quality while benefiting by has developed cement additive Resource Efficiency way of conserving natural raw Materials combinations which have been and reduction in power and energy successfully rolled out to all ACC Plants. We have aspired to move towards consumption. The use of these in-house developed greater resource efficiency through cement additives in grinding of Portland continuous improvements in our existing system and processes. This has Under this initiative, sectional Pozzolana Cement (PPC) and Portland been an important goal for the company developmental projects are taken Slag Cement (PSC) have enabled which received focused attention since up each year by engineers from substantial reduction in the Clinker 2012 as part of the ‘Institutionalizing process, production, maintenance and factor of these varieties which reduced Excellence’ programme and through quality functions from each plant. from about 62 per cent to 59 per cent other initiatives such as ‘Innovate to These projects relate to achieving in PPC and from about 42 per cent to Excel’ and implementing state of the art several benefits namely process 38 per cent in PSC across ACC in the last technologies. improvements, reducing variability in two years. Sustainable Development Report 2014 55 3.12 | Supply Chain The supply chain process of a Health and Safety (OH&S) which are manufacturing company constitutes a included in the Purchase Orders/ major part of its operating cost. Apart Agreements. We encourage our from being a prominent cost centre, our suppliers to take up “Self-Assessment” Procurement supply chain operations involve many based on a checklist integrating SA8000, and supply key internal and external stakeholders environmental management and legal operations who are affected by the company. Procurement and supply operations compliance requirements. About 600 existing suppliers (about 5.3% of all involve a large involve a large group of multi-disciplined suppliers) have been screened through group of multipersonnel. It is thus important to ensure efficiency and transparency in our this process. (Further breakdown of the analysis of the results of the screening disciplined operations. of these 600 suppliers are not shared personnel. It is Our corporate and plant procurement in this report.) In cases where suppliers are not able to meet these minimum thus important department ensures that it assesses requirements, we engage in a dialogue to ensure and contracts suppliers whose practices comply with the criteria of SA8000 with them and adopt mechanisms to help improve our suppliers’ standards. efficiency and and ISO 14000 standards. We have In cases of persistent non-compliance transparency in clauses pertaining to Corporate Social or obvious violation, we decide to Responsibility (CSR) and Occupational terminate these relationships. our operations Amount spent in Details Nos. engaged (INR Crores) Total no. of suppliers 11314 11067.84 Indian suppliers (Local) 11220 10232.17 International suppliers 94 835.67 Our operations are well connected with Contractual Agreement of the Manufacturing Units and Sales Units Compliance spread across the country. We have local All our Purchase Orders and Supply procurement teams in place to take or Service Agreements incorporate care of everyday purchases. The Central different clauses related to Safety, Procurement Organisation (CPO) located Environment Management and at the Head Office engages in high value Corporate Social Responsibility. We purchase of various commodities such have started the implementation of as Coal, Raw Materials (Gypsum, Iron Sustainable Procurement through the Ore and Bauxite etc.), Capex Items, Steel Supplier Code of Conduct which is and various other essential Services. meant to provide a clear summary of Most of the requirements for above ACC’s expectations from suppliers in categories from Individual Units are all procurement dealings. Transparency directed to CPO and purchases are and accountability have to be strictly carried out centrally. adhered to in all procurement activities. 56 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Suppliers are expected to adhere to The typical steps involved in supplier selection are as follows: nine listed standards in addition to complying with local and national laws and regulations. Communication of the Supplier Code of Conduct Communication of company’s expectations and terms of engagement to existing and potential suppliers • Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) • Working Conditions Supplier prioritization Risk assessment • Freedom of Association and Identification of potential Continuous evaluation of Non-retaliation high-risk suppliers based risk exposure through self• Forced Labour on Operating Companies’ assessment, fact finding or judgment of local conditions verification • Child Labour • Non-Discrimination Risk mitigation Scorecard • Environmental Regulatory Compliance Supplier development or Continuous performance• Management of Environmental replacement, as determined tracking of the management Impacts by Operating Companies of SD related risks by our suppliers. • Bribery and Corruption Respecting Human Rights At ACC, we are highly conscious of Environmental principles in Suppliers and Vendors respecting human rights. At our Procurement We have a vendor base of more operations as well as in our supply Contractual agreement of Compliance: than 11,000 suppliers spread across chain we have ensured all measures the country including reputed All agreements with Suppliers, towards the same. Respecting the rights manufacturers and trusted brand such as purchase orders, purchase of women, preventing child labour or names, usually the leading 3-4 vendors agreements, service agreements and any other forms of forced labour and of their particular industry segment who frame agreements have to refer to the non-discrimination are among the areas are technically and financially sound Supplier’s compliance with SA8000, of focus for us. We have put in place and have the intrinsic capacity to supply systems and measures for ensuring environmental management and legal material of desired quality and on time. that the labour engaged by all our compliance requirements. With its For our vendor base, we prefer vendors vendors/contractors is governed by signature or order confirmation, the who demonstrate good corporate the Contract Labour (R&A) Act and supplier accepts and agrees to adhere citizenship and promote sustainable mechanisms to report any grievance to these requirements. In the reporting development. The vendors meet our of human rights violation. During the period, more than 5% of our new requirements as per our specifications last year, no cases of human rights suppliers have been screened using and supply the required materials on violation (viz. incidences of child labour, environmental criteria. This was done time. forced or compulsory labour, overtime on the basis of self-declarations by without pay etc.) were recorded in our suppliers. We treat our vendors as business operations. associates. All of them are treated Sustainable Development Report 2014 57 with respect and dignity. Adequate While preference is given to vendors care is taken to ensure transparency who demonstrate good governance in procurement processes. Our and sustainability practices, we are still procurement policy has a clearly defined presently in a preliminary stage of such code of practice for procurement assessments and our procedures do conduct and encourages fair and open not incorporate systems for rewarding competition in markets. or incentivizing good performance in this regard. Our standard agreements We engage with our suppliers to build incorporate clauses that seek to allow synergy and long term relationships us to audit suppliers and their products with them. To ensure that our suppliers & services, though not specifically for understand and comply with our social criteria. The impact of termination requirements, we conduct trainings of vendors on any account would be for them on aspects of ethic, antiassessed on a case-to-case basis. corruption and anti-bribery. These sessions, each of which covers close to 50 suppliers, are conducted for high-risk high-spend suppliers across all our areas of operation at regional level. In the last year we conducted 6 such training sessions. There are regular interactions with vendors through telephone, virtual conferences, e-mail or in person as and when required. During the year under review, the key concerns identified were regarding quality, quantity and sometimes the payments issue. We have a Supplier Relationship Helpdesk that takes up matters with the concerned plants as soon as possible and resolves it. In 2014, Holcim engaged a Global Consultant PICS, to assist in the qualification of existing Vendors and new Vendors in various aspects pertaining to OH & S, HR, Legal, Environmental & Ethical Issues as defined in our Supplier Code of Conduct. It is proposed to implement the same in 2015 and we expect to cover 5 per cent Vendors who fall in the high-risk highspend category and account for 50 per cent of procurement by value (excluding Government Spend) to be assessed for sustainable practices. 58 Sustainable Development Report 2014 3.13 | Economic Performance Vision of Value Creation Our Group vision inspires us to be a customer-centric organization Our Vision To this end the following the guiding principles of a “To be a Customer Charter that requires us to company seeks to remain focused on the customer and ‘VALUE CREATOR’ and ensure that all demonstrate value in everything we do ‘BUSINESS PARTNER’ for our customers by way of superior operations are products, superior logistics and superior by providing analytical geared towards service. We are also motivated by a insights & support to achieving high conviction that shareholders comprise among our most important group of business and to achieve overall excellence in levels of operating stakeholders. Critical in addressing the Finance & Controlling” performance needs of both these groups is how we formulate and implement a strategy with cost that creates value for shareholders and competitiveness investors as well as value for our clients. To this end the company seeks to ensure Financial management plays an while building for that all operations are geared towards instrumental role in providing essential growth by achieving high levels of operating performance with cost competitiveness information that indicates how enhancing its while building for growth by enhancing business is performing, information on adherence to budgets, variance analysis asset base. This its asset base. This forms an important and information for cost control. The dimension of enhancing overall forms an corporate reputation. Simultaneously function offers valuable insights to facilitate strategic decision-making, important the company also strives to create identify benchmarks and opportunities value for its other stakeholder groups dimension of by pursuing plans that have a positive where synergies can be sought with the overall business plan. The function enhancing overall impact on the environmental and social also makes an essential contribution to dimensions of the Triple Bottom Line corporate framework which together to make a the risk management process to help identify and monitor risks. reputation balanced approach to sustainable. The finance function is well organized Details of economic value generated and to offer clear role descriptions and distributed are presented in Chapter 2.2 deliverables. Over the past few years, the along with performance highlights of function has followed an aspirational the organization. blueprint for transformation with significant change management Financial Organisation efforts to help it meet various The finance function harmonises and transitions and complexities in terms of integrates the company’s place within operations, policies and procedures and its global context in the Holcim group. technologies. As a result it has shifted to Its primary role is financial transaction acquire a proactive culture that enables accounting, its management and reporting in quicker time and support reporting as also ensuring various business with an enhanced ability to compliances through control systems. raise real time alerts. Sustainable Development Report 2014 59 Financial Reporting conditions attached to them will be The Customer Charter sets three simple complied, and grant/subsidy will be objectives for us to follow: The Annual Report at ACC is serious received. Government grants and • Consistently meet highest product business. The company’s Annual Report subsidies receivable against an expense quality standards for 2013 received the prestigious Gold are deducted from such expense and Shield from the Institute of Chartered • Consistently serve, support and seek subsidy/grant receivable against a Accountants of India which brought feedback from end-consumer specific fixed asset is deducted from cost with it the accolade of “Excellence in • Consistently develop and upskill our of the relevant fixed asset. Other than Financial Reporting”. ACC’s Annual channel partners and influencers this, the company did not receive any Report for 2008 had also won the Gold. financial assistance from government Continuing this tradition, the report Foremost in the charter is the demand during the year. for 2014 is recognized as a benchmark. that we provide a safe and secure It was completed in a record time of environment which ensures zero harm Enhancing Customer Value just less than 18 days and meets most to customers and the communities we of the new requirements prescribed Our major customers comprise deal with, beyond the boundaries of our in the Companies Act 2013. It seeks to individual home builders and small users plants and establishments. be complete and unabridged without followed by industrial, infrastructure seeking recourse to exemptions and commercial projects and units Customer centric approach from disclosures available in relevant such as concrete batching plants and This is a philosophy that is designed sections of the Companies Act. The concrete product makers who use to enrich the customer experience entire report, its style of presentation, cement as raw material. A vast network and enhance customer value at every introductory profile, illustrations and of channel and supply chain partners stage, in every transaction, in every the map of ACC’s network were lauded supported by other groups like masons, interface. In adopting this approach we by the company’s shareholders at the contractors, architects, and engineers are required to demonstrate value in 78th Annual General Meeting. Several together help us to reach out and service everything we do for our customers by companies requested the company for our end consumers. way offering Superior products, Superior assistance and guidance in bringing out logistics and Superior service. such a publication. We follow a group Customer Charter that leads us towards becoming more Capital Expenditure Financial assistance customer-centric. The charter demands that we remain focused on the customer The company is responsive to the needs In 2014, financial incentives and of making adequate provisions to in everything we do such that we can subsidies amounted to: earmark resources for incurring capital demonstrate that: Amount expenditure for business growth as • We are easy to do business with ` (Cr.) well as investments needed to cut GHG • We keep our promises emissions and mitigate the impact of Sales Tax subsidy, being 96.91 capital in nature • We create value climate change. Excise duty exemption, 260.00 being capital in nature Royalty Incentive 25.00 80IA Power 70.00 80IA rail 59.31 80IC 0.51 As such government grants and subsidies are recognized when there is reasonable assurance that the 60 Sustainable Development Report 2014 3.14 | Biodiversity The long standing expertise we have accumulated over the years in mining and geology has given us a deep appreciation and respect for the variety There is an of life on the planet. We understand incidence of four how vital it is to have sound practices of mines rehabilitation and protecting species valuable ecosystems and biodiversity. that fall in the There is an incidence of four species IUCN Red List that fall in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species and national of Threatened conservation list species that have Species and habitats in areas affected by our organization’s operation. national conservation list As such we do not have mining leases, active mining sites and plants that are species that have located in close proximity to areas that habitats in areas are protected or have high biodiversity value. This is corroborated by a affected by our biodiversity risk assessment carried out organization’s at all our mines during the year which confirmed that there was minimal operation impact on biodiversity as a result of our operations and also that none of our mining sites adjoins a protected area or one of high biodiversity value. All our mining operations are carried out as per the mining plans dully approved by Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM). Alongside regular mining operations, quarry rehabilitation is accorded utmost priority and practiced vigourously throughout the active life of the mine with various measures in environmental our operations. Each of our mining sites and biodiversity conservation. has a time-bound rehabilitation plan for implementation in a phased manner. Our impacts are largely those resulting from mining operations which include In 2014 we took up membership of two the erosion of top soil, damage to biodiversity networks viz. the Indian trees and vegetation, noise and dust Business Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI) pollution. We have comprehensive of Confederation of Indian Industry plans that address all these issues at our (CII) and the Leaders for Nature (LfN) plants and mines. Going beyond this, initiative of the International Union we also take active steps to create and for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). We enhance the green belt in and around have indicated our agreement with Sustainable Development Report 2014 61 Biodiversity related activities at a few ACC plants Kymore: 28500 saplings of energy and ornamental varieties were planted in the township, mines and surrounding villages bringing the total plantation since its inception to 6.24 lakh saplings. Kymore Green Hills Project: Kymore continued to plant saplings in this project jointly with Madhya Pradesh State Forest Department bringing the cumulative number up to 1.0 Lakh saplings. Expected survival rate reported is about 40%. Narmada River Bank Plantation: Kymore Works planted 5000 saplings of fruits trees at a cost of ` 10.2 lakhs on the river banks at Ghughara Water Fall near the famed Bheda Ghat in Jabalpur in September 2014 under the direction of the Chairman, Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board, Bhopal. Damodhar: 1000 trees were planted by employees on World Environment Day. Kudithini: 2000 trees planted their charters and are in the process Afforestation, tree plantation and green around the campus. of implementing some associated belt development are taken seriously initiatives. at all of our cement plants. We have a Thondebhavi: Two thirds of the long tradition of engaging employees, total land area of 120 acres owned Several capacity building programs their families, our associates and local by ACC in this location has been were organized at all manufacturing communities in participating in widecultivated exclusively for green belt locations to generate awareness about spread tree plantation programmes. development. This serves as a green biodiversity and sensitize employees Such programmes are extended to cover cover around the plant that protects and others about the importance of areas in the vicinity of our plants for the the habitat. biodiversity conservation. Several benefit of the local community. Each of biodiversity conservation programmes our plants and mines proudly showcases have also been initiated and its own unique effort in this respect. In implemented across all the Company’s 2014, an estimated 1 lakh trees were plants and mines. planted in this way. 62 Sustainable Development Report 2014 3.15 | Public Policy As a large manufacturer of cement Concrete Roads and concrete with a countrywide Five years ago we joined hands with the footprint, we take public positions on Cement Division of the Confederation several areas of interest not only at ...we take public times to serve our own interests but of Indian Industry (CII) to promote cement concrete as superior material positions on also to serve our industry, stakeholders for building roads and to share the several areas of and the general public at large. Our viewpoints are expressed in different rich experiences of central and state interest not only ways as appropriate to the cause and to governments, corporations and municipalities and rural road authorities. at times to serve the stakeholders involved. These may be through comments and articles in Since then we have held regular our own interests print media, public seminars organized seminars and awareness programmes in state capitals where we also invited but also to serve by trade associations and chambers of commerce and face-to-face meetings other stakeholders. Most of these events our industry, with stakeholders. In all these instances were successful. Ultimately the efforts proved to be very satisfying when the stakeholders and we represent ourselves and do not engage lobbyists. Here is a selection of central government announced that the general public some causes where we do step out to be cement would be the preferred material at large heard. for all future road projects. Good concrete practices Waste Management and Alternative Fuels We share our expertise in the realm of cement and concrete technology ACC leads its peers in the promotion of by efforts to spread awareness of best co-processing industrial, agricultural practices in the application of concrete and municipal waste in cement and construction among masons, kilns. These wastes serve as effective contractors and engineers. This is done alternatives to fossil fuels/raw materials through lectures, seminars, mason and in the process co-processing is training meets and coverage in trade demonstrated as a superior and more publications and the Indian Concrete environment-friendly means of waste Journal. disposal. Our efforts at lobbying and Sustainable Development Report 2014 63 promotion in this regard are undertaken bodies such as CII, FICCI, other chambers in accordance with policies of the and trade bodies. Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, central and state Other Causes pollution control boards and other ACC is often invited to lend its voice regulatory bodies. We interact closely on themes of wide interest such as with the India chapter of the Cement sustainable development, sustainable Sustainability Initiative (CSI), NGOs construction, Green buildings Affordable and activists. CII, FICCI and Bombay and low cost construction, CSR and Chamber of Commerce & Industry community development. We champion (BCCI) are other platforms that often the cause of Sustainable construction. invite us to participate in matters We regularly play an advocacy role on concerning sustainability. We interact public causes such as health and safety. with waste generators to present the case for co-processing of wastes, thus Political Contributions offering them a safe and viable means of waste disposal. From time to time our ACC has had a history of being apolitical representatives speak at trade and other at all times at the Central and state industry platforms and write articles in levels. The company does not offer trade and national media. All of this is support of any kind, whether financial an on-going effort. or non-financial, direct or indirect, to promote political causes Climate Change We play an active role in highlighting the effects of climate change and mitigating those impacts in close association with the India chapter of the Cement Sustainability Initiative. We willingly participate in all initiatives in this respect of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, central and state pollution control boards and other regulatory bodies. We also work closely on energy optimization and other issues with the Bureau of Energy Efficiency of the Government of India. CII, FCCI and BCCI are very active in promoting climate change mitigation and we participate whole-heartedly in these events. Government policies on Taxation We share our views of the impact of taxation and other aspects of government policy with government as also via platforms offered by industry 64 Sustainable Development Report 2014 3.16 | Local and Indigenous Communities Local communities represent the most issues such as dust, water, noise, human vulnerable section of our stakeholders. rights etc. These are brought to the Many of them were the original owners attention of plant management and of the land now in our possession. acted on suitably. The rural They are the host communities in the communities vicinity of our cement plants and mines, Community engagement is vital to most of which are located in remote social development. The Community around many and backward rural regions. The rural Advisory Panel (CAP) are specially of our plants communities around many of our plants selected representatives from the local comprise the comprise the underprivileged sections of rural India with limited access to community, local bodies, Government, NGOs and opinion leaders; the CAP underprivileged basic amenities. Tribal people also thus ensures greater involvement and sections of form part of our neighbourhood. We have a long history of undertaking a takes ownership of the project. The CAP participates in identifying needs of rural India range of activities meant to raise the local development, support in project with limited quality of life and living conditions of the underprivileged and weaker formulation and monitoring of the projects implemented. access to basic sections in the vicinity of all our plants amenities. Tribal and mines. As neighbours we recognize the inter-dependence in our roles and We engage with the community to enhance literacy, provide primary people also relationships. We see their aspirations education and preventive healthcare form part of our to achieve a better quality of life and the role we can easily play in making this and assist in improving the community environment with proper facilities neighbourhood possible. to create sanitation and village development. We also engage with The company actively assists them in them in creating sustainable livelihoods identifying prioritizing and meeting and impart vocational guidance with their developmental aspirations through skill-sets to enhance their employability periodic needs assessment surveys. and income generation. ACC’s CSR A detailed action plan is developed in initiatives focus on holistic development consultation with the local communities of host communities and create social, that addresses the needs assessed in environmental, and economic value for surveys. The implementation of these the society. plans is then continuously monitored to ensure that they respond to the In 2014, ACC’s community development needs expressed by the communities. initiatives reached out to nearly half a We engage with them through our million people living in over 150 CSR Plant Coordinators, specially villages around our cement plants appointed Community Advisory Panels, with a variety of schemes. ACC spent a like-minded NGOs and local bodies. total of ` 27.45 crore on CSR We assess their needs and grievances activities in 2014. This represents through structured and site-specific 2.018 per cent of the company’s net Impact Assessments (conducted profit in the last three years. Wherever once in three years) and Stakeholder possible, ACC availed the opportunity Engagement Surveys, conducted of working in partnership with annually at all locations. The site-specific Government, NGOs and academic impact assessments include various institutions in the area. Sustainable Development Report 2014 65 A. PROVIDING EDUCATION FOR In 2014 the company supported Promoting Health SOCIETY’S FUTURE 504 meritorious students from Health being one of the prime weaker sections of the community; concerns of the community and critical The company’s initiatives in respect through grant of scholarships for for general well being of company of education benefited 29,161 children continuing their education. Support is stakeholders, significant initiatives in neighborhood communities. ACC also provided to poor learners by way were undertaken in this domain. ACC’s has established schools at all its of coaching classes. Technology aided health initiatives mainly focus on locations, where children of employees Education initiatives such as smart preventive health of the community. and those from surrounding classes, interactive kiosks, implemented Active awareness campaigns are communities are provided good at several ACC locations for enhancing undertaken to enhance communities quality education. Management of quality of learning benefitted school understanding about various disease these schools is outsourced to reputed children. The company continued prevention and healthy ways of living. educationists like the DAV or the best to support seven Government-run Regular preventive health support to locally available institution, thereby Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) the community is reached out through ensuring that the schools maintain under a Public Private Partnership health camps and mobile health vans. high standards of education. Since scheme (PPP) in a joint initiative Most of these plant sites are situated most plants are situated in remote with the Ministry of Labour and in remote parts of the country, with hinterlands, the ACC schools are at Employment, Government of India. little access to adequate healthcare and once the most accessible and invariably The company’s support focuses on medical services. The company supports among the best in the region. The enhancing the skills and employability the local administration in promoting schools are supported by providing of the students passing out of national health campaigns on important funds and infrastructure for initial these institutes by upgrading the issues such as malaria, prevention and construction, meeting a part of the quality of education offered immunization and DOTS. In addition to teachers’ salaries and upgradation there. regular support to the ACC hospitals, activities. Apart from an ongoing subsidy support to schools with which support was also extended to various ACC runs two technical training government Primary Health Care centers ACC has an agreement, support is also institutes of its own, both of which and Community Health Care centers. extended to other government schools enjoy considerable repute as centres Our health and nutrition initiatives in the vicinity. Meritorious students providing technical training. The benefited more than 1 lakh people. from weaker sections of the community Sumant Moolgaokar Technical Institute are encouraged through the grant of (SMTI) at Kymore was first established in Special initiatives in healthcare scholarships. 1949 to train young men in specialized and nutrition are taken for women trades to become artisans, foremen and children in coordination with 29,161 students received quality and first line supervisors. It had its Health authorities. Communities are education in the plants’ neighborhood own independent curriculum and mobilized to participate in programmes schools while about 504 meritorious certification. Since 2008 the institute for immunisation, anti natal care, students from weaker sections of works with a revised objective of post natal care and birth spacing society were awarded scholarships so complementing the education received that they could continue with their methods. IFA tablets were provided by engineering diploma trained education. Smart classes and interactive to prevent anemia among pregnant candidates. kiosks were offered to children in 26 mothers and adolescent girls. Other rural schools in a bid to keep pace with support activities included health and B. SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE modern methods of learning available accidental insurance for SHG members COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT in city schools. The “ACC ki Ladli” Project and drivers in the company’s supply was successful in ensuring that more The thrust in this respect is promoting chain, subsidized ambulance facility to than 750 girl children were able to health, women’ empowerment and villagers for their emergency needs and renew education. creating livelihoods. subsidized hospitalization of villagers. 66 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Support to Anganwadis generating schemes for local women the formation of 486 Self Help Groups Anganwadis are an integral part of groups. Women SHG are imparted (SHGs) and in their strengthening the “Integrated Child Development relevant training in their selected through structured training activities. Scheme” (ICDS) that plays a vital role in livelihoods and supported in the rural areas for overall development of establishment of micro-enterprises. C. BUILDING INFRASTRUCTURE FOR children as well as support to pregnant Members of these SHGs were provided LIVEABLE NEIGHBOURHOODS and lactating mothers. ACC provided training for group cohesiveness, ACC plays a vital role in facilitating support to 134 Anganwadis that are book-keeping, product development, the creation and maintenance of serving our host communities. This marketing of the products, market basic infrastructure around all its has led to better supply and use of linkages, bank linkages and exposure to operations such as roads, safe drinking government’s medicine supplies which best practices in SHG functioning;. Some water, deepening of ponds, repairs has direct impact on infant mortality of these groups have initiated their own to schools, anganwadi and other and maternal mortality. Support to 134 micro enterprises. community amenities. Company “anganwadi centers” meant that ~8,000 makes every possible effort to make children could get access to better ACC AHEAD (Association for Health, these basic necessities available to our health and nutrition. Education and Development), the neighborhood communities. volunteering wing of the company’s HIV/AIDS ladies clubs at all plants, set up in 2008, ACC was among the first companies continued to support social volunteering Wherever needed, NGO partners join in the corporate sector in India and community programmes with in to ensure quality execution of the establish to treatment centres to special emphasis on empowering projects. Efforts are also taken to bring combat the national scourge of HIV/ women. The group has been successful benefits of government schemes for the AIDS, recognized as being of India’s in creating livelihood opportunities for welfare of village communities. Each major public health issue. In 2007 we numerous community women in the plant contributed in creation of water set up two Anti Retroviral Treatment areas of tailoring, embroidery, knitting, harvesting structures and installation centres for patients of HIV/AIDS in two making masala, pickles, fancy bags, of hand pumps for drinking water, states suffering the country’s highest gloves and in making disposable cups excavation of ponds and water bodies prevalence of the disease. The company and plates. for irrigation and other water uses. established the ACC Ayushman Trust at Wadi in Karnataka and the ACC CMC Livelihood and Employability Sanitation Trust for Infectious Diseases (ACTFID) ACC believes in empowerment of people Special initiatives to promote sanitation at Vellore in Tamil Nadu in association and assisting them in sustainability among neighboring communities were with Christian Medical College. of their livelihood, as that will make undertaken. Construction of household the community self reliant and toilets contributed as a step in During the year, centres for awareness, increase their self respect. Under its strengthening rural sanitation. We have prevention and treatment of Sexually employability initiatives, company actively participated in forums on Public Transmitted Infections (STI) were supported placement linked training Health & Education to join the national established at Gagal in Himachal of youth from poor families in the host effort in this regard. The Company has Pradesh and Tikaria in Uttar Pradesh. In community. developed four affordable prototypes all 3042 HIV/AIDS affected persons were of toilets through the Green Building supported through counselling, testing A total of 4405 unemployed youth Centres. We have also led the Sanitation and treatment through Anti Retroviral received skill development training Committee of the Confederation of Therapy (ART) and STI Centers. programmes in partnership with Indian Industry (CII) to promote the specialized NGOs, which helped sanitation initiative of Government Women’s empowerment them get job placements in various of India. In coming years we aim to A variety of initiatives is pursued to manufacturing and service sector contribute significantly in this promote skill building and income enterprises. The Company supported important area Sustainable Development Report 2014 67 Snapshot of Community Development Initiatives in 2014 Total number of villages covered 154 Total population covered 457359 Total number of children reached through education initiatives 29161 Number of schools reached through education initiatives 114 Number of meritorious students supported with scholarships 504 Number of schools with 100% sanitation 169 Number of schools introduced to e-learning initiatives 26 Number of schools provided with internet connection 5 Number of teachers and teaching assistants trained 127 Number of libraries operationalised in community schools 50 Number of Household Sanitation Units constructed 540 Number of villages supported through initiatives for achieving Nirmal Gram status 19 Number of people benefitted through drinking water initiatives 57686 Number of people benefitted through excavation of ponds 17510 Number of Borewells repaired and recharged 362 Number of Rain Water Harvesting structures created 89 Number of youth benefitted through placement linked employability programs 4405 Number of women having membership of NABARD ‘A’ level rated SHGS 4355 Number of SHGs brought at NABARD’s ‘A’ level rating 410 Number of new SHGs formed 486 Number of Anganwadi centres Supported 134 Number of Children benefitted through ACC supported Anganwadis 7986 Number of General and Special Health Camps conducted 287 A detailed report of our CSR activities is available on page 43 in Annexure A to the company’s Annual Report for 2014. 68 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Sustainable Development Report 2014 69 Our Roadmap The report is prepared “In accordance” with GRI G4 Guidelines – Comprehensive option and is externally assured by M/s Emergent Ventures India 4.1 Journey So Far 4.2 The Road Ahead Sustainable Development Report 2014 71 4.1 | Journey So Far Our performance with regard to the goals we had set for ourselves in respect of Sustainable Development can be summed up simply as “On the right track”. Target 2017 Current Status CO2 Reduce specific CO2 emissions by 35% as We have reduced specific CO2 emissions compared to 1990 to 526 kg CO2/Tonne of cement in 2014 which around 32% Thermal Substitution Rate To achieve Thermal Substitution Rate of We have achieved 2.46 % of thermal 10% substitution rate in 2014 Water Reduce specific water consumption for We have reduced specific water manufacturing of cement by 10% as consumption by 17% in 2014 for compared to 2012 manufacturing of cement as compared to 2012 Specific Total Energy Intensity (MTOE per Tonne of Cement) To reduce by 3% as compared to 2013 Reduced by 1.35 % CSR To continue to improve our CSR footprint Our various CSR initiatives impacted Focus on inclusive business projects like nearly 0.5 million people during 2014 sanitation etc. 72 Sustainable Development Report 2014 4.2 | The Road Ahead We expect the organization will face a There are strong signs that the national busy season with transitions of different economy will follow a distinctive kinds in the coming months and year. upward trend, though initially at a The most imminent of these is the modest pace. Encouraged by this While the global global merger of our parent company we also see better days ahead for merger may Holcim Limited with Lafarge S.A. which was completed in mid-July 2015. While the construction sector, for the cement industry and for ourselves. have little or the global merger may have little or no With additional capacity close to no structural structural impact on our organization, the post merger scenario may well materialization, we feel better equipped to participate in this impact on our require internal alignments that will growth. organization, become necessary within the larger group. This may lead to shifts in some We aim to continue with efforts to the post merger of our focus areas. Beyond that we maintain leadership status in respect scenario may also foresee increased alignments with our sister company Ambuja Cements of our environmental performance. We are mindful of the Environment well require Limited in terms of seeking greater (Protection) (Fifth Amendment) Rules, internal synergies and economies of scale in some functional areas. 2014 announced in August 2014 which introduced certain new alignments that emission standards for the cement will become We do not expect these transitions to impact our thrust on any aspect of industry. necessary within sustainable development. On this front On the people front our prime attention the larger group. we will continue to mirror Holcim’s Sustainable Development Ambitions will be on the safety of our employees and all those associated with us. We This may lead to 2030. In fact it is quite possible that we will also continue our tryst with host shifts in some of may see heightened importance in this area. As of now we will be guided by communities with ongoing initiatives to upgrade their quality of life. our focus areas. the on-going sustainability road-map we have already charted for ourselves Above all, we retain the aspirations for the years leading to 2017. Beyond expressed in our Corporate Vision that we are mindful of the Long-term statement, “To be one of the most Technology Roadmap of the Cement respected companies in India; Sustainability Initiative which we have recognized for challenging pledged to follow in the years leading conventions and delivering on our to 2030. promises” Area Target 2017 CO2 To reduce specific CO2 emissions by 35% as compared to 1990 Thermal Substitution To achieve Thermal Substitution Rate of 10% Rate Water To reduce specific water consumption for manufacturing of cement by 10% as compared to 2012 Specific Total Energy To reduce by 3% as compared to 2013 Intensity (Metric Tonne of Oil Equivalent (MTOE) per Tonne of Cement) CSR To Continue to improve our CSR footprint Focus on inclusive business projects like sanitation etc. Sustainable Development Report 2014 73 Annexures 5.1 Assurance Statement 5.2 GRI G4 Content Index 5.3 UN Global Compact Linkage 5.4 Corporate Memberships 5.5 Awards received in 2014 5.6 Glossary Sustainable Development Report 2014 75 5.1 | Assurance Statement 76 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Sustainable Development Report 2014 77 78 Sustainable Development Report 2014 5.2 | GRI G4 In Accordance “Comprehensive” Content Index General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Statement from the most Yes G4-1 senior decision-maker of 2-3 1. Foreword Fully (pgs 76-78) the organization Description of key 2.6 Risk and Yes G4-2 impacts, risks, and 20-21 Fully Opportunities (pgs 76-78) opportunities Name of the 2.1 Organisation Yes G4-3 6-7 Fully organization. Profile (pgs 76-78) Primary brands, products, 3.4 Products and Yes G4-4 35-36 Fully and/or services. Services (pgs 76-78) Location of organization's 2.1 Organisation Yes G4-5 6-7 Fully headquarters. Profile (pgs 76-78) Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 2.1 Organisation Yes G4-6 major operations or that 6-7 Fully Profile (pgs76-78) are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Nature of ownership and 2.1 Organisation Yes G4-7 6-7 Fully legal form. Profile (pgs 76-78) Markets served (including geographic breakdown, 2.1 Organisation Yes G4-8 sectors served, and 6-7 Fully Profile (pgs 76-78) types of customers/ beneficiaries). 6-7, Scale of the reporting 2.1 Organisation Yes G4-9 Back Fully organization. Profile (pgs76-78) Cover Total workforce by employment type, 3.2 Employee Yes G4-10 employment contract, 26-31 Fully Well -being (pgs76-78) and region, broken down by gender. Percentage of employees 3.2 Employee Yes G4-11 covered by collective 26-31 Fully Well -being (pgs76-78) bargaining agreements. Organization’s supply 3.12 Supply Yes G4-12 56-58 Fully chain. Chain (pgs 76-78) Significant changes during the reporting 2.1 Organisation Yes G4-13 6-7 Fully period regarding size, Profile (pgs76-78) structure, or ownership. Explanation of whether and how the precaution2.6 Risks and Yes G4-14 ary approach or principle 20-21 Fully Opportunities (pgs 76-78) is addressed by the organization. Sustainable Development Report 2014 79 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 2.1 Organisation Yes G4-15 principles, or other 6-7 Fully Profile (pgs 76-78) initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has 5.4 Corporate Yes G4-16 positions in governance 97-98 Fully Memberships (pgs 76-78) bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. All entities included in the organization’s 2.2 Financial Yes G4-17 consolidated financial 8-9 Fully Highlights (pgs 76-78) statements or equivalent documents. Process for defining 2.4 About the Yes G4-18 15-16 Fully report content. Report (pgs 76-78) Identify all the material 3 Materiality Yes G4-19 aspects in the process for 23 Fully Aspects (pgs 76-78) defining report content Report the Aspect 2.4 About the Yes G4-20 Boundary within the 15-16 Fully Report (pgs 76-78) organization Report the Aspect 2.4 About the Yes G4-21 Boundary outside the 15-16 Fully Report (pgs 76-78) organization Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided No Yes G4-22 -in earlier reports, and restatements (pgs 76-78) the reasons for such restatement Significant changes from previous reporting periods in 2.4 About the Yes G4-23 15-16 Fully the scope, boundary, or Report (pgs 76-78) measurement methods applied in the report. 80 Sustainable Development Report 2014 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) List of stakeholder 2.5 Strategy & Yes G4-24 groups engaged by the 17-19 Stakeholder Fully (pgs 76-78) organization. Engagement Basis for identification 2.5 Strategy & and selection of Yes G4-25 17-19 Stakeholder Fully stakeholders with whom (pgs 76-78) Engagement to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, 2.5 Strategy & Yes G4-26 including frequency of 17-19 Stakeholder Fully (pgs 76-78) engagement by type and Engagement by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 3 Materiality Yes G4-27 the organization has 23 Fully Aspects (pgs 76-78) responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Reporting period (e.g., 2.4 About the Yes G4-28 fiscal/calendar year) for 15-16 Fully Report (pgs 76-78) information provided. Date of most recent 2.4 About the Yes G4-29 15-16 Fully previous report (if any). Report (pgs 76-78) Reporting cycle (annual, 2.4 About the Yes G4-30 15-16 Fully biennial, etc.) Report (pgs 76-78) Contact point for Yes G4-31 questions regarding the 104 Feedback Form Fully (pgs 76-78) report or its contents. Table identifying the 5.2 GRI G4 Yes G4-32 location of the Standard 79-95 Fully Content Index (pgs 76-78) Disclosures in the report. Policy and current practice with regard 2.4 About the Yes G4-33 15-16 Fully to seeking external Report (pgs 76-78) assurance for the report. Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-34 governance body 10-14 Fully Governance (pgs 76-78) responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Sustainable Development Report 2014 81 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental 2.3 Corporate Yes G4 35 and social topics from the 10-14 Fully Governance (pgs 76-78) highest governance body to senior executives and other employees Report whether the organization has appointed an executivelevel position or positions with responsibility for 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-36 10-14 Fully Economic, Environmental Governance (pgs 76-78) and Social topics and whether the post holders report directly to the highest governance body Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-37 highest governance 10-14 Fully Governance (pgs 76-78) body on economic, environmental and social topics Report composition of 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-38 the highest governance 10-14 Fully Governance (pgs 76-78) body Report whether the chair of the highest 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-39 10-14 Fully governance body is also Governance (pgs 76-78) an executive officer Report the nomination and selection process for the highest governance body and criteria used for nominating including: -Whether and how 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-40 10-14 Fully expertise and experience Governance (pgs 76-78) relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered -Whether and how stakeholders are involved Report process for the highest governance body 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-41 to ensure conflicts of 10-14 Fully Governance (pgs 76-78) interest are avoided and managed 82 Sustainable Development Report 2014 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval and updating of the organization’s 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-42 10-14 Fully purpose, value or mission Governance (pgs 76-78) statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest 3.2 Employee Yes G4-43 governance body’s 26-30 Fully Well-being (pgs 76-78) collective knowledge of Economic ,Environmental and Social topics Process for evaluation of the highest governance body's performance wrt governance of economic, environmental and social topics (report frequency 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-44 10-14 Fully and if the assessment Governance (pgs 76-78) is self or independent) Report action taken in response to evaluation of performance of highest governance body Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities. Include the body’s role 2.6 Risks and 20-21 in implementation Opportunities, Yes G4-45 & 10Fully of a due diligence 2.3 Corporate (pgs 76-78) 14 process Report whether Governance stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of above mentioned impacts, risks and opportunities G4-46 Report the highest 20-21 2.6 Risks and Fully Yes governance body’s & 10Opportunities, (pgs 76-78) role in reviewing the 14 2.3 Corporate effectiveness of the Governance organization’s risk management process for economic, environmental and social topics Sustainable Development Report 2014 83 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Report the frequency of the highest governance 2.6 Risks and 20-21 body’s review of Opportunities, Yes G4-47 & 10Fully economic, environmental 2.3 Corporate (pgs 76-78) 14 and social impacts, risks Governance and opportunities Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-48 10-14 Fully organization’s Governance (pgs 76-78) sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered Report the process for communicating critical 2.6 Risks and Yes G4-49 20-21 Fully concerns to the highest Opportunities (pgs 76-78) governance body Report the nature and total number of concerns that were communicated 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-50 to the highest 10-14 Fully Governance (pgs 76-78) governance body and the mechanisms used to address and resolve them Report remuneration policies for the highest governance body. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-51 policy relate to the 10-14 Fully Governance (pgs 76-78) highest governance body's and senior executive's economic, environmental and social objectives Report the process for determining the remuneration. 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-52 10-14 Fully Report relationship Governance (pgs 76-78) with remuneration consultants (if applicable) Report how stakeholders’ view are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-53 10-14 Fully including the results of Governance (pgs 76-78) votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable 84 Sustainable Development Report 2014 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highestpaid individual in each country to significant 3.2 Employee Yes G4-54 26-30 Fully operations to the Well-being (pgs 76-78) median annual total compensation for all employees (Excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Report the ratio of % increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highestpaid individual in each country to significant 3.2 Employee Yes G4-55 26-30 Fully operations to the Well-being (pgs 76-78) median annual total compensation for all employees (Excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Report the ratio of the increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highestpaid individual in each 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-56 10-14 Fully country of significant Governance (pgs 76-78) operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees. 2.2 Financial Generic Disclosures on Highlights, Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 59-60 Fully 3.13 Economic (pgs 76-78) Economic Performance Performance 2.2 Financial Direct economic 8-9, Highlights, Yes G4-EC1 value generated and Fully 59-60 3.13 Economic (pgs 76-78) distributed Performance Financial implications and other risks and 2.6 Risks and Yes G4-EC2 opportunities for the 20-21 Fully Opportunities (pgs 76-78) organization's activities due to climate change Coverage of the 3.2 Employee Yes G4-EC3 organization's defined 26-30 Fully Well-being (pgs 76-78) benefit plan obligations 2.2 Financial Financial assistance 8-9, Highlights, Yes G4-EC4 received from Fully 59-60 3.13 Economic (pgs 76-78) government Performance Sustainable Development Report 2014 85 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 3.2 Employee Yes G4-EC5 26-30 Fully local minimum wage at Well-being (pgs 76-78) significnt locations of operation. Proportion of senior management hired from 3.2 Employee Yes G4-EC6 the local community at 26-30 Fully Well-being (pgs 76-78) significant locations of operation. Generic Disclosures on 3.16 Local and Management Approach Yes G4-DMA 65-69 Indigenous Fully Indirect Economic (pgs 76-78) Communities Impacts Development and 3.16 Local and impact of infrastructure Yes G4-EC7 65-69 Indigenous Fully investments and services (pgs 76-78) Communities supported Significant indirect 3.16 Local and economic impacts, Yes G4-EC8 65-69 Indigenous Fully including the extent of (pgs 76-78) Communities impacts Generic Disclosures on 3.12 Supply Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 56-58 Fully Chain (pgs 76-78) Procurement Practices Proportion of spending on local suppliers at 3.12 Supply Yes G4-EC9 56-58 Fully significant locations of Chain (pgs 76-78) operation Generic Disclosures on Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 54-55 3.11 Materials Fully (pgs 76-78) Materials Materials used by weight Yes G4-EN1 54-55 3.11 Materials Fully or volume (pgs 76-78) Percentage of materials Yes G4-EN2 used that are recycled 54-55 3.11 Materials Fully (pgs 76-78) input materials Generic Disclosures on Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 37-40 3.5 Energy Fully (pgs 76-78) Energy Energy consumption Yes G4-EN3 37-40 3.5 Energy Fully within the organization (pgs 76-78) Energy Consumption Yes G4-EN4 37-40 3.5 Energy Fully outside the organisation (pgs 76-78) Yes G4-EN5 Energy intensity 37-40 3.5 Energy Fully (pgs 76-78) Reduction of energy Yes G4-EN6 37-40 3.5 Energy Fully consumption (pgs 76-78) 86 Sustainable Development Report 2014 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Reduction of Energy Not Yes G4-EN7 Requirement of product 37-40 3.5 Energy Applicable (pgs 76-78) and services Generic Disclosures on Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 49-50 3.9 Water Fully (pgs 76-78) Water Total water withdrawal Yes G4-EN8 49-50 3.9 Water Fully by source (pgs 76-78) Water Sources Yes G4-EN9 significantly affected by 49-50 3.9 Water Fully (pgs 76-78) withdrawal Percentage and total Yes G4-EN10 volume of water recycled 49-50 3.9 Water Fully (pgs 76-78) and reused Generic Disclosures on Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 61-62 3.14 Biodiversity Fully (pgs 76-78) Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Yes G4-EN11 61-62 3.14 Biodiversity Fully areas and areas of high (pgs 76-78) biodiversity value outside protected areas Direct and indirect Yes G4-EN12 61-62 3.14 Biodiversity Fully impacts on biodiversity (pgs 76-78) Habitats protected or Yes G4-EN13 61-62 3.14 Biodiversity Fully restored (pgs 76-78) Total number of IUCN Red list species and Yes G4-EN14 national conservation list 61-62 3.14 Biodiversity Fully (pgs 76-78) species with habitats in affected areas Generic Disclosures on Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 51-53 3.10 Emissions Fully (pgs 76-78) Emissions Direct greenhouse gas Yes G4-EN15 (GHG) emissions (Scope 51-53 3.10 Emissions Fully (pgs 76-78) 1) Energy indirect Yes G4-EN16 greenhouse gas (GHG) 51-53 3.10 Emissions Fully (pgs 76-78) emissions (Scope 2) Other indirect Yes G4-EN17 greenhouse gas (GHG) 51-53 3.10 Emissions Fully (pgs 76-78) emissions (Scope 3) Greenhouse gas (GHG) Yes G4-EN18 51-53 3.10 Emissions Fully emissions intensity (pgs 76-78) Reduction of greenhouse Yes G4-EN19 51-53 3.10 Emissions Fully gas (GHG) emissions (pgs 76-78) Sustainable Development Report 2014 87 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Emissions of ozoneNo ODS are Yes G4-EN20 depleting substances 51-53 3.10 Emissions emitted (pgs 76-78) (ODS) NOX, SOX, and other Yes G4-EN21 51-53 3.10 Emissions Fully significant air emissions (pgs 76-78) Generic Disclosures on 3.6 Effluents Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 41 Fully and Waste (pgs 76-78) Effluents and Waste Total water discharge by 3.6 Effluents Yes G4-EN22 41 Fully quality and destination and Waste (pgs 76-78) Total weight of waste by 3.6 Effluents Yes G4-EN23 41 Fully type and disposal method and Waste (pgs 76-78) Total number and volume 3.6 Effluents Yes G4-EN24 41 Fully of significant spills and Waste (pgs 76-78) Weight of transported, exported and treated waste deemed 3.6 Effluents Yes G4-EN25 to be hazardous 41 Fully and Waste (pgs 76-78) and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identify the size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related 3.6 Effluents Yes G4-EN26 41 Fully habitats significantly and Waste (pgs 76-78) affected by the organisation's discharges of water and run-offs Generic Disclosures on 3.4 Products and Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 35-36 Fully Services (pgs 76-78) Products and Services Extent of impact mitigation of 3.4 Products and Yes G4-EN27 35-36 Fully environmental impacts of Services (pgs 76-78) products and services Percentage of products 3.6 Effluents Yes G4-EN28 sold and their packaging 41 Fully and Waste (pgs 76-78) material reclaimed Generic Disclosures on Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 24-25 3.1 Compliances Fully (pgs 76-78) Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonYes G4-EN29 monetary sanctions for 24-25 3.1 Compliances Fully (pgs 76-78) non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 88 Sustainable Development Report 2014 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Generic Disclosures on 3 Materiality Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 23 Aspects (pgs 76-78) Overall Total environmental Yes G4-EN31 protection expenditures 51-53 3.10 Emissions Fully (pgs 76-78) and investments by type Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 3.12 Supply Yes G4-DMA 56-58 Fully Supplier Environment Chain (pgs 76-78) Assessment Percentage of new suppliers that were 3.12 Supply Yes G4-EN32 56-58 Fully screened using Chain (pgs 76-78) environmental criteria Significant and actual negative Environmental 3.12 Supply Yes G4-EN33 56-58 Fully impacts in the supply Chain (pgs 76-78) chain and actions taken Generic Disclosures on 3.2 Employee Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 26-30 Fully Well-being (pgs 76-78) Employment Total number and rates of new employee hires 3.2 Employee Yes G4-LA1 and employee turnover 26-30 Fuly Well-being (pgs 76-78) by age, group, gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 3.2 Employee Yes G4-LA2 27-31 Fully temporary or part-time Well-being (pgs 76-78) employees, by significant locations of operation Return to work and 3.2 Employee Yes G4-LA3 retention rates after 27-31 Fully Well-being (pgs 76-78) parental leave, by gender Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 3.2 Employee Yes G4-DMA 26-30 Fully Labour/Management Well-being (pgs 76-78) Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including 3.2 Employee Yes G4-LA4 27-31 Fully whether these are Well-being (pgs 76-78) specified in collective agreements Generic Disclosures on 3.3 Occupational Management Approach Yes G4-DMA 32-34 Health and Fully Occupational Health and (pgs 76-78) Safety Safety Sustainable Development Report 2014 89 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Percentages of total workforce represented in formal join managementworker health and safety 3.2 Employee Yes G4-LA5 26-30 Fully committees that help Well-being (pgs 76-78) monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs. Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 3.3 Occupational Yes G4-LA6 absenteeism, and total 32-34 Health and Fully (pgs 76-78) number of work-related Safety fatalities, by region and by gender Workers with high 3.3 Occupational incidence or high risk of Yes G4-LA7 32-34 Health and Fully diseases related to their (pgs 76-78) Safety occupation Health and safety 3.3 Occupational topics covered in formal Yes G4-LA8 32-34 Health and Fully agreements with trade (pgs 76-78) Safety unions Generic Disclosures on 3.2 Employee Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 27-31 Fully Well-being (pgs 76-78) Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee by 3.2 Employee Yes G4-LA9 27-31 Fully gender, and by employee Well-being (pgs 76-78) category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 3.2 Employee Yes G4-LA10 27-31 Fully employability of Well-being (pgs 76-78) employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 3.2 Employee Yes G4-LA11 27-31 Fully development reviews, by Well-being (pgs 76-78) gender and by employee category Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 3.12 Supply Yes G4-DMA 56-58 Fully Supplier Assessment for Chain (pgs 76-78) Labour Practices Percentage of new suppliers that were 3.12 Supply Yes G4-LA14 56-58 Fully screened using labor Chain (pgs 76-78) practices criteria 90 Sustainable Development Report 2014 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Significant actual and potential negative 3.12 Supply Yes G4-LA15 impacts for labor 56-58 Fully Chain (pgs 76-78) practices in the supply chain and actions taken Generic Disclosures on 3.12 Supply Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 56-58 Fully Chain (pgs 76-78) Child Labour Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that 3.12 Supply Yes G4-HR1 56-58 Fully include human Chain (pgs 76-78) rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total Hours of employee trainings on human rights policies or procedures concerning 3.2 Employee Yes G4-HR2 aspects of human rights 27-31 Fully Well-being (pgs 76-78) that are relevant to operations including the percentage of employees trained Total number of incidents 3.2 Employee Yes G4-HR3 of discrimination and 27-31 Fully Well-being (pgs 76-78) corrective actions taken Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association 3.12 Supply Yes G4-HR4 and collective bargaining 56-58 Fully Chain (pgs 76-78) may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, 3.2 Employee Yes G4-HR5 27-31 Fully and measures taken Well-being (pgs 76-78) to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 3.12 Supply Yes G4-DMA 56-58 Fully Forced or Compulsory Chain (pgs 76-78) Labour Sustainable Development Report 2014 91 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 3.12 Supply Yes G4-HR6 compulsory labor, and 56-58 Fully Chain (pgs 76-78) measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's 3.2 Employee Yes G4-HR7 27-31 Fully human rights policies Well-being (pgs 76-78) or procedures that are relevant to operations Total number of incidents of violations involving 3.2 Employee Yes G4-HR8 27-31 Fully rights of indigenous Well-being (pgs 76-78) peoples and actions Total number and percentage of operations 3.2 Employee Yes G4-HR9 that have been subject to 27-31 Fully Well-being (pgs 76-78) human rights reviews or impact assessments Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 3.12 Supply Yes G4-DMA 56-58 Fully Supplier Human Rights Chain (pgs 76-78) Assessment Percentage of new suppliers that were 3.12 Supply Yes G4-HR10 56-58 Fully screened using human Chain (pgs 76-78) rights criteria Significant actual and potential negative 3.12 Supply Yes G4-HR11 human right impacts 56-58 Fully Chain (pgs 76-78) in the supply chain and actions taken Number of Grievances about Human rights 3.2 Employee Yes G4-HR12 impacts filed and 27-31 Fully Well-being (pgs 76-78) resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Generic Disclosures on 3.16 Local and Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 65-69 Indigenous Fully (pgs 76-78) Local Communities Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local 3.16 Local and Yes G4-SO1 community engagement, 65-69 Indigenous Fully (pgs 76-78) impact assessments, and Communities development programs 92 Sustainable Development Report 2014 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Operations with significant actual and 3.16 Local and Yes G4-SO2 potential negative 65-69 Indigenous Fully (pgs 76-78) impacts on local Communities communities Generic Disclosures on 3.8 AntiYes G4-DMA Management Approach 47-48 Fully Corruption (pgs 76-78) Anti Corruption Total number and percentage of operations 3.8 AntiYes G4-SO3 assessed for risks related 47-48 Fully Corruption (pgs 76-78) to corruption and the significant risks identified Communication and training on anti3.8 AntiYes G4-SO4 47-48 Fully corruption policies and Corruption (pgs 76-78) procedures Confirmed incidents of 3.8 AntiYes G4-SO5 corruption and actions 47-48 Fully Corruption (pgs 76-78) taken Generic Disclosures on 3.15 Public Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 63-64 Fully Policy (pgs 76-78) Public Policy 2.2 Financial Total value of political 8-9,59Highlights, Yes G4-SO6 contributions by country Fully 60 3.13 Economic (pgs 76-78) and recipient/beneficiary Performance Total number of legal actions for anticompetive behavior, Yes G4-SO7 24-25 3.1 Compliances Fully anti-trust and monoply (pgs 76-78) practices and their outcomes Generic Disclosures on Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 24-25 3.1 Compliances Fully (pgs 76-78) Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Yes G4-SO8 24-25 3.1 Compliances Fully sanctions for non(pgs 76-78) compliance with laws and regulations Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 3.12 Supply Yes G4-DMA 56-58 Fully Supplier Assessments for Chain (pgs 76-78) Impact on Society Percentage of new suppliers that were 3.12 Supply Yes G4-SO9 56-58 Fully screened using criteria for Chain (pgs 76-78) impacts on society Sustainable Development Report 2014 93 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Significant actual and potential impacts on 3.12 Supply Yes G4-SO10 56-58 Fully society in the supply Chain (pgs 76-78) chain and actions taken Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 3.4 Products and Yes G4-DMA 35-36 Fully Customer Health and services (pgs 76-78) Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories for which 3.4 Products and Yes G4-PR1 35-36 Fully health and safety services (pgs 76-78) impacts are assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the 3.4 Products and Yes G4-PR2 35-36 Fully health and safety impacts services (pgs 76-78) of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 3.4 Products and Yes G4-DMA 35-36 Fully Product and Service services (pgs 76-78) Labeling Type of Product and Service information required by the organisation procedures for product and service 3.4 Products and Yes G4-PR3 information and labeling 35-36 Fully services (pgs 76-78) and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 3.4 Products and Yes G4-PR4 codes concerning product 35-36 Fully services (pgs 76-78) and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Results of surveys 3.7 Responsible Yes G4-PR5 measuring customer 42-46 Selling and Fully (pgs 76-78) satisfaction Customer Care Sale of banned or 3.4 Products and Yes G4-PR6 35-36 Fully disputed products services (pgs 76-78) 94 Sustainable Development Report 2014 General Standard Page Cross Whether External Standard Disclosure Title Number Reference of reported Fully Assurance Disclosure (or Link) Report or Partially Sections (Reasons for omissions if any) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing 3.4 Products and Yes G4-PR7 35-36 Fully communications, services (pgs 76-78) including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type and outcome Generic Disclosures on 3.7 Responsible Yes G4-DMA Management Approach 42-46 Selling and Fully (pgs 76-78) Customer Privacy Customer Care Total number of substantiated complaints 3.7 Responsible Yes G4-PR8 regarding breaches of 42-46 Selling and Fully (pgs 76-78) customer privacy and Customer Care losses of customer data Generic Disclosures on 2.3 Corporate Yes G4-DMA 10-14 Fully Management Approach Governance (pgs 76-78) Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with 3.4 Products and Yes G4-PR9 laws and regulations 35-36 Fully services (pgs 76-78) concerning the provision and use of products and services Sustainable Development Report 2014 95 5.3 | UN Global Compact Linkage ACC signed the United Nations Global Compact in 2006. The table below lists the ten principles of the UNGC and indicates the relevant chapter of this report where the organisation’s activity with respect to each principle is addressed. To that extent, this table and the report also serve as a Communication on Progress (COP) required to be disclosed by signatories of the UNGC. Serial No. Principle Chapter Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Internationally proclaimed human rights; and 3.2, 3.12 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 3.2, 3.12 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater 3.11, 3.5, 3.9, 3.14, environmental responsibility; and 3.10, 3.6, 3.4 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all 3.8 its forms, including extortion and bribery. 96 Sustainable Development Report 2014 5.4 | Corporate Memberships Name of the Issues of our interest Benefits to the business due to Organization addressed during the year this membership National Safety 1. Quarterly newsletter on 1. Learnings from the technical Council (NSC) Safety, safety posters papers of safety chronicle on topics of interest 2. Concessional rates offered for to us. participating in the trainings 2. Specialized safety 3. Concessional rates in trainings at plants. application fees for safety awards British Safety Monthly Safety Guidebook Substantial reduction on BSC Council (BSC) on technical safety issues, Trainings, qualification, advisory Safety Management and audits; Discount on BSC Magazine and theme, Publications posters on safety issues which are useful to our business. Bombay Chamber Awards, Exposure in This is a premier institution and its of Commerce & OH&S and AFR membership assists for espousing Industry the cause/s of the Industry before Indian Merchants' Awards and seminars the State Govt. and other fora Chamber and is also useful for projecting ACC’s Corporate Image. These are Mumbai based well established chambers having multiple activities and initiatives. They have separate committees representing different functions and Company could nominate its executives. Council for Awards To support the cause of fair Fair Business business practices Practices The Institute Company Affairs The membership is beneficial of Company because we receive important Secretaries of publications/jourmals on various India centre matters relating to Corporate laws for Research & and they also conduct workshops/ Training seminars on Company Law Bombay First Visibility as a leading Aimed at orderly development of organization in Mumbai the city by generating involvement and interaction of various stratas of society Employers’ Issue of common interest. Employee related issues Federation of India Bombay Is a premier association of Management Management Association Sustainable Development Report 2014 97 Name of the Issues of our interest Benefits to the business due to Organization addressed during the year this membership Confederation of Seminars and Conference A premier institution that assists Indian Industry on Cement and Concrete in espousing causes of Industry (CII) before State/Central Govts. and other platforms. Useful in promoting concrete roads and advancing Corporate Image. Federation of Seminars and Conferences A premier institution that assists Indian Chambers on industry related issues in espousing causes of Industry of Commerce & before State/Central Govts. Industry (FICCI) and other platforms. Useful for projecting ACC's Corporate Image. PHDCCI, Delhi Awards, use of venue Common platform for members to take up various issues Indian Roads Promotion of concrete Platform for promoting the use of Congress roads concrete roads Indian Geological Issues related to mining Latest development in the field of Congress Geology Federation of Issues related to mining Interface between Government Indian Mineral and mining companies. Industries Regular feedback on recent amendments in law/policy The Energy Issues related to Important platform to address & Resources Sustainable Development issues relating to sustainable Institute (TERI) development and promote Business Council leadership in environmental for Sustainable management, social responsibility, Development and economic performance Swiss Indian As part of a Swiss group Useful platform for information Chamber of Commerce, India Indian Green Issues relating to Green Useful platform for information Buildings Council Buildings & Sustainability 98 Sustainable Development Report 2014 5.5 | Awards in 2014 • ACC ranked as India’s Most Admired • 15th National Award for Excellence Company in the Cement Sector in the in Energy Management by CII to ACC Fortune Hay Group India survey Kudithini Excellent Energy Efficient Unit and to ACC Jamul, Bargarh, • ACC wins 5th CII National Lakheri and Thondebhavi for Energy HR Excellence award 2014, Efficient Units. Commendation Certificate. • National Safety Council, India, • ACC wins Trusted Brand Award from Safety Award for 2013 to ACC Reader’s Digest Damodhar • ACC wins EPC World Awards 2014 • CSR Impact Award 2014 to ACC for “Outstanding Company in the Lakheri by Indian Institute of Cement sector”, in the Construction Corporate Affairs category. • National Energy Conservation • Public Relations Society of India Award 2013: Certificate of Merit in Award to CSR Newsletter, the Cement Sector from Bureau of Together for Communities and Energy Efficiency, Government of Green Building Materials Centres India to ACC Thondebhavi as the best project in Sustainable Development • First Prize in Energy Conservation and Innovation in Energy Conservation • ACC wins Smart Green Initiative to ACC Jamul by New Management Award at Green Cities Forum 2014 Association and National Institute of Technology • CII-ITC Sustainability Award for Excellence in Environment • Golden Peacock Environment Management to ACC Thondebhavi. Management Award-2014 to ACC Gagal from Institute of • India Manufacturing Excellence Directors Award 2014, Platinum category to ACC Lakheri, Gold to ACC Gagal • CII GreenCo Rating Gold to ACC by Frost & Sullivan and Economic Kymore and Silver to Kudithini at Times GreenCo Summit 2014 by Confederation of Indian • National Energy Conservation Award Industry 2014: Certificate of Merit in Cement Sector to ACC Thondebhavi from • First Pt. Madan Mohan Malviya Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Govt. of Award to ACC Gagal for Best CSR India. Practices in Education, 2014 • Safety Award from Directorate of • Golden Peacock National Quality Industrial Safety & Health & National Award 2014 to ACC Thondebhavi Safety Council, Tamil Nadu chapter to from Institute of Directors, ACC Madukkarai India Sustainable Development Report 2014 99 • Green Manufacturing Excellence Award 2014 to ACC Chanda, Lakheri, Sindri, Tikaria and Wadi in Challengers category by Frost & Sullivan • Green Manufacturing Safety Excellence & Believers Award to ACC Lakheri and first runner up to ACC Wadi by Frost & Sullivan. • Earth Care Awards instituted by JSW Foundation and The Times of India to ACC Kymore for Excellence in Climate Change Mitigation & Adaptation in category ‘Green House Gases Emission Reduction in Industries’ • Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) CSR Corporate Citizen award to ACC Thondebhavi for exemplary innovation in promoting CSR • Confederation of Indian Industry (Southern Region) Award to ACC Kudithini in appreciation of efforts rendered in Environment Health and Safety Practices and Policies for 2013 • Karnataka State Safety Award first prize to ACC Kudithini from Government of Karnataka 100 Sustainable Development Report 2014 5.6 | Glossary Absolute Gross Emissions Total Business Risk Management Process amount of CO2 emissions from cement (BRM) A process in ACC to help production activities identify various risks and opportunities associated with our business. Absolute Net Emissions Gross CO2 emissions minus credits for indirect Captive Power Plants (CPP) Power savings such as by use of alternative plants including Generation Sets, waste materials as fuel. normally established by an industry to meet its own power requirements. ACC AHEAD Association for Health, Education and Development, a social Carbon Footprint The total set of volunteering initiative of members of greenhouse gas emissions caused by an ACC’s Ladies Clubs and spouses of ACC organization. employees Castor A type of tree which produces ACC Cement Technology Institute the castor bean that yields castor oil. (ACTI) the company’s institute in This oil is one of hard oils, where the Chhattisgarh which offers specialized oil content in the seed is relatively technical training to young engineering high. Castor oil’s numerous chemical graduates. derivatives are “renewable sources, biodegradable and eco-friendly. Alternative Fuels and Resources (AFR) Inputs derived from waste streams CDM Clean Development Mechanism, contributing energy and/or resource a flexible scheme provided in the recovery Kyoto Protocol that assists countries and business entities in achieving Bag House Air pollution control compliance with their quantified equipment that removes particulates emission limitation and reduction from flue gas released in manufacturing processes commitments. Biodiversity Refers to the variety of life Cement a building material made by on earth the different animals, plants grinding calcined limestone and clay and micro-organisms, their genes and to a fine powder. It acts as a binding the ecosystems of which they are a part. agent when mixed with sand, gravel or crushed stone and water to make Biodiesel It is a domestically concrete. produced, renewable fuel that can be manufactured from vegetable oils, Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) animal fats, or recycled restaurant a global group of 24 major cement grease for use in diesel vehicles. producers set up under the World Business Council for Sustainable Blended Cement Hydraulic cements Development for the pursuit of issues consisting essentially of an intimate concerning sustainable development in and uniform blend of ordinary Portland the cement sector. cement with either slag or fly ash CEMS Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems Sustainable Development Report 2014 101 CER Certified Emission Reduction, a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Employee Lost Time Injury Frequency type of tradable carbon credit issued In a wider context the term indicates Rate refers to the rate of occurrence in lieu of emission reduction achieved the commitment of business to of workplace incidents that result in an by projects qualifying under the Clean contribute to sustainable development, employee’s inability to work the next Development Mechanism (CDM) working with various stakeholders full work day. Calculated as the number like employees, their families, the of lost-time injuries within a given CII Confederation of Indian Industry, local community and society at accounting period relative to the total a non-government, not-for-profit, large to improve their quality of life. number of hours worked in the same industry-led and industry-managed We generally use this term to refer accounting period. organization that facilitates dialogue specifically to community development with industry and government and engagements. Employee Lost Working days Those days on which, because of occupational Clinker An intermediate product in Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) injury or illness, the employee was away cement manufacture that is produced A statutory organisation under from work or limited to restricted work by sintering and fast-cooling ground the Ministry of Environment and activity. limestone Forests responsible for maintaining national standards under a variety of Environmental Impact Assessment environmental laws, in consultation (EIA) An assessment of the possible Clinker Factor The percentage of clinker with zonal offices, and local impacts that a proposed project may in cement governments. have on the environment, consisting of the environmental, social and economic Community Advisory Panel (CAP) A Critical Incident An incident aspects. group of persons selected to represent (Independent of the outcome eg: the target community whose views Near Miss, FAI, MTI, LTI) which had the FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of are considered as being representative potential to cause serious injuries (single Commerce and Industry, an association of the community in matters concerning fatality, multiple fatalities) or to cause of business organizations in India its social needs and development substantial property damage or loss schemes (eg: fire, explosions, geotechnical or Fly Ash Waste particulate residue from structural failures). thermal power plants or incineration Community Needs Assessment plants A systematic process to acquire Dolochar A waste material generated an accurate understanding of a in sponge iron industry used as a Focus Group A form of qualitative community’s needs and priorities in substitute fuel for coal used in captive research, which involves interviews and the context of its economic and social power plants. interaction with a representative sample development of community or population segment DRT the company’s Disaster Response Concrete A building material produced Team Fossil Fuels Non-renewable carbonby mixing cement, water and aggregates based fuels like coal and oil etc comprising sand and gravel or crushed Eco-Efficiency Reduction in the resource stone. intensity of production, i.e. the input of Fraud Risk Management (FRM) Policy materials, natural resources and energy The policy under which reviews are done Co-processing The act of adapting an compared with the output: essentially, and appropriate actions are taken in existing industrial process in a single doing more with less. cases of suspected fraud or misconduct combined operation, whereby certain in the company. so-called ‘waste’ materials may be put Employee Lost Time Injury A workto use as alternative fuel or raw material related injury after which the injured Geocycle The brand name under which in cement kilns, dryers and captive person cannot work for at least one full Holcim offers sustainable solutions for power plants shift/full working day. waste management. 102 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) An Kiln Large rotating cylindrical industrial Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) International framework recommended oven used in the manufacture of cement Cement made by inter-grinding clinker for reporting progress against clinker. In this report, “kiln” always refers and gypsum. Sustainable Development. In May 2013, to a rotary kiln. A cement kiln is believed GRI released the fourth generation of its to be among the largest moving Order Execution Time (OET) The total Guidelines G4. This report is based on machines. time taken to execute an order. G4 guidelines. Limestone A sedimentary rock Perform Achieve Trade (PAT) Scheme GPS Global Positioning System composed of calcium carbonate used as A trading scheme aimed to reduce the main input in cement manufacture. Green Building A Building which uses energy consumption in industries less water, optimizes energy efficiency, across India using market oriented Material Aspects those aspect or conserves natural resources, generates mechanisms. The scheme is designed subjects that reflect the organization’s less waste and provides healthier and implemented by the Bureau of significant economic, environmental spaces for occupants, as compared to a Energy Efficiency (BEE), under the and social impacts; or substantively conventional building. Ministry of Power, India. influence the assessments and decisions Greenhouse Gases Gases that of stakeholders. Profit After Tax (PAT) It is the net profit absorb and emit radiation within the Materiality Topics or aspects and earned by the company after deducting thermal infrared range of the earth’s indicators that reflect the organization’s all expenses like interest, depreciation atmosphere. significant economic, environmental, and tax. Human Development Index (HDI) A and social impacts or that would composite statistic of life expectancy, substantially influence the assessment Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) education, and income indices used to and decisions of stakeholders. According Protective clothing, helmets, goggles, rank countries into four tiers of human to GRI guidelines, Materiality is the or other garments or equipment development. threshold at which an issue or indicator designed to protect the wearer’s body becomes sufficiently important that it from injury. IUCN The International Union for should be reported. Conservation of Nature, an international Pet Coke Petroleum coke which is a organisation working for natural Mother Mortality Rate (MMR) Maternal carbon solid derived from oil refinery resource conservation. mortality ratio is the number of coker units or other cracking processes. women who die during pregnancy and Industrial Training Institute (ITI) childbirth, per 100,000 live births. Government-run Training institutes Portland Pozzolana Cement (PPC) which provide post-school technical Cement produced by inter-grinding a MT Metric Tonne training. pozzolanic material such as fly-ash with clinker and gypsum. MW Megawatt, a unit of power equal Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) The to one million watts death rate during the first year of a Portland Slag Cement (PSC) Cement child’s life. produced by inter-grinding slag with NOx A generic term for Nitrogen oxides, usually refers to it as an air clinker and gypsum. INR The Indian rupee also denoted as Rs. or ` pollutant. Public-Private Partnership (PPP) A Jatropha A genus of plants and trees Occupational Health and Safety government service or private business whose fruit and seeds contain oil (OH&S) Policies and activities to venture which is funded and operated which serves as a replacement of fossil promote and secure the health and through a partnership of government fuels. They are amenable to bio-diesel safety of employees, subcontractors, and one or more private sector production. third parties and visitors. companies. Sustainable Development Report 2014 103 Radio Frequency Identification Device Stakeholder Dialogue A structured way TJ TeraJoule, a measurement of energy (RFID) The wireless non-contact use of to solicit feedback from a company’s equivalent to one trillion (1012) joules. radio-frequency electromagnetic fields stakeholders, typically by inviting to transfer data, for the purposes of them to comment on specific issues or Triple Bottom Line A business automatically identifying and tracking problems. accounting framework that incorporates tags attached to objects. three dimensions of an organisation’s Stakeholder Engagement The process performance: social, environmental Rain Water Harvesting (RWH) by which an organization involves its and financial. TBL dimensions are also Techniques used for collecting and stakeholders, that is, the people who commonly called the three Ps: people, storing, and using rainwater may be affected by its decisions or can planet and profit. influence the implementation of its Ready Mixed Concrete (RMX) Concrete decisions. UN Global Compact (UNGC) A UN that is specifically manufactured for initiative to encourage global businesses delivery to the construction site in a SES Stakeholder Engagement Surveys to adopt ten principles covering Human freshly mixed and plastic or unhardened Rights, Labour Standards, Environment state. RMX is the acronym we use at SOT Safety Observation Tour and Anti-corruption. ACC. Sumant Moolgaokar Technical Institute United Nations Framework Convention Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO) (SMTI) An institute established by on Climate Change (UNFCCC) An The obligation imposed by law on ACC in 1949 to train young people in international environmental treaty some entities to either buy electricity specialized trades to become artisans, whose objective is to stabilize generated by specified ‘green’ sources, foremen and first line supervisors. greenhouse gas concentrations in or buy, in lieu of that, ‘renewable energy the atmosphere at a level that would certificates (RECs)’ from the market. Sustainable Construction Building in prevent dangerous interference with the a way that is socially, economically, climate system by humans. SA8000 It is an auditable certification environmentally, functionally and standard that encourages organizations aesthetically balanced to meet today’s Vertical Roller Mill (VRM) Vertical roller to develop, maintain, and apply socially needs and to provide and conserve mill is a type of grinding machine used acceptable practices in the workplace. resources for future generations. to grind materials into extremely fine powder. In cement plants a VRM is now Selfhelp Group (SHG) A villageSustainable Development Development recognized as standard energy efficient based voluntary support group usually that meets the needs of the present equipment to grind clinker into cement. composed of 10-20 local women or men without compromising the ability of who come together to address a shared future generations to meet their own Waste Heat Recovery Generating power cause or objective. needs. SD is the acronym we use at ACC. by utilizing waste heat from preheater and cooler gases. Slag A non-metallic product consisting Sustainability Reporting the practice essentially of glass containing silicates, of measuring, disclosing, and being World Business Council for Sustainable alumino-silicates of lime and other accountable to internal and external Development (WBCSD) A CEO-led bases. It is obtained as a waste bystakeholders for organizational organization of forward-thinking product in the manufacture of pig performance towards the goal of companies that galvanizes the global iron in a blast furnace or electric sustainable development business community to create a furnace. sustainable future for business, society TERI The Energy & Resources Institute, and the environment. SO2 The chemical term for sulphur a global think tank and research dioxide, usually understood to be an institute that works in the areas of air pollutant that plays a critical role in energy, environment and sustainable global warming. development Stakeholder Individuals or groups Thermal Substitution Rate (TSR) The whose actions significantly affect or amount of energy used from alternative We welcome your feedback and suggestions. Please write to : can be affected by an organization’s fuels as a percentage of the total energy narayanarao.kapilavai@acclimited.com activities, products or services. consumed in the process. 104 Sustainable Development Report 2014 Himachal A National Pradesh Punjab 6 Footprint 7 Uttarakhand 20 Haryana 25 15 26 Uttar Pradesh 27 Rajasthan 11 Bihar 10 13 Jharkhand Gujarat 5 Madhya Pradesh West Bengal Chhattisgarh 19 3 2 Maharashtra Odisha 1 Regional Ofﬁces 8 19. Eastern Region (Kolkata) 4 23 20. Northern Region (New Delhi) 24 Telangana 16 21. Western Region (Thane) 21 22. Southern Region (Bengaluru) 17 Goa 18 TECHPORT, Thane (Maharashtra) Karnataka Andhra Pradesh 9 Training Centres 14 ACC ACL Leadership Academy, Thane ACC Cement Technology Institute, Jamul 22 Sumant Moolgaokar Technical Institute, Kymore ACC School for Technical Skill Development, Wadi Tamil Nadu 12 Ready Mixed Concrete (RMX) Plants Kerala Corporate Ofﬁce Sales Units 1. Mumbai (Maharashtra) ACC Help Centres Cement Plants Subsidiary Companies 2. Bargarh (Odisha) 23. ACC Mineral Resources Limited 3. Chaibasa (Jharkhand) 11. Lakheri (Rajasthan) (Maharashtra) 4. Chanda (Maharashtra) 12. Madukkarai (TN) 24. Bulk Cement Corporation (India) Limited 5. Damodhar (West Bengal) 13. Sindri (Jharkhand) (Maharashtra) 6. Gagal I (HP) 14. Thondebhavi (Karnataka) 25. Lucky Minmat Limited (Rajasthan) 7. Gagal II (HP) 15. Tikaria (UP) 26. National Limestone Company Pvt. Ltd. 8. Jamul (Chhattisgarh) 16. Vizag (AP) (Rajasthan) 9. Kudithini (Karnataka) 17. Wadi I (Karnataka) 27. Singhania Minerals Pvt. Ltd. 10. Kymore (MP) 18. Wadi II (Karnataka) (Madhya Pradesh) This map is as of February 3, 2015. It is illustrative and not drawn to scale. Andaman, Nicobar and Lakshadweep islands are not shown. WYATT COMMUNICATIONS (info@wyatt.co.in) ACC Limited Registered Office Cement House 121, Maharshi Karve Road Mumbai 400 020, India. www.acclimited.com
