Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC | Annual Report 2013/14 The cover of this integrated report features the word Varige (tribe) in Sinhala calligraphy, die-cut and embedded with ola leaf. Ola leaf manuscripts created from Palmyra or Talipot palm leaves were among the first materials used to record and share a wealth of learning on diverse subjects from religion and culture to economics, technology and art. At DIMO we are proud of our deeply embedded ‘tribal’ culture the source of our shared beliefs and common experience where knowledge is pooled and ongoing learning is inclusive, evolutionary and continuous. Var . ri . ga Variga is a Sinhala word meaning tribe or clan a group defined mainly on the basis of familial lineage. It is an old Sinhala expression that describes a community bound by kinship and strong bonds to its origins. At DIMO we take pride in the fact that for seventy five exciting years, we have served our many stakeholders across the island and beyond with the same world-class quality and value that we offer today; an enduring testament to the strength of our heritage, the vision of our leadership and the passion of our people the DIMO tribe. t hp f FLk;g rq;fpypapd; mbg;gilapy; kdpj tHf;f $l;lj;jpid Fwpg;gpl gad;gLk; rpq;fsr; nrhy;. jkpopy; Fyk; my;yJ Nfhj;jpuk; vd miof;fg;gLk;. www.dimolanka.com Contents Highlights of the Year 2013-14 8 Financial Statements Our fourth integrated annual report 10 Financial Calendar 108 Grit to greatness 11 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 109 Executive Management Reviews Statement of Directors’ A message from the Responsibilities for Financial Chairman/Managing Director 14 Statements 112 A review of operations Independent Auditors’ Report 113 from the Chief Executive Officer 18 Section 1 Group Structure 21 Consolidated Financial Statements 114 Profiles of Leadership Section 2 The Board of Directors 24 Corporate Information 120 Group Management Committee 28 Section 3 Basis of Preparation 121 Value Creation Report Value Creation Report 32 Section 4 Sustainability Performance Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 124 Objectives in 2013/14 78 Section 5 Governance & Risk Management Other Disclosures 156 Enterprise Governance 82 Appendices Risk Management 95 Share Information 160 Committee Reports 102 Independent Assurance Statement Responsibility Statement of on Non-Financial Reporting 163 Chairman/Managing Director Ten Year Summery 167 and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 105 Awards Accolades 168 Notice of Meeting 169 Form of proxy enclosed Online references: The HTML version of the entire Annual Report 2013/14 can be read at www.dimolanka.com/annual-report-html/ The Chairman’s statement can be viewed at www.dimolanka.com/investors/financial-reports/chairman-statement The Sustainability performance 2013/14 can be read at www.dimolanka.com/sustainability/sustainability-performance Corporate Governance Disclosures can be read at www.dimolanka.com/investors/stewardship About us Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC is a publicly held company listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange, with business interests in a range of major industry segments. The company has grown organically to become the solid yet diversified conglomerate it is today. Our portfolio now includes classic automobile brand names Mercedes, Chrysler and Jeep and TATA while Bosch, MTU, Komatsu, Siemens, Michelin, Osram and Mahindra & Mahindra are each leaders in their respective segments and partnerships we have cherished for many years. Over the past few decades we have entered several diverse industry sectors as part of our quest to build our company into an engine of value creation, serving thousands of stakeholders across the island. Today DIMO is truly a global yet local company, with a history of seventy-five eventful years, marked by many significant milestones, one of which was our recent award for Best Corporate Citizen 2013. While a spirit of teamwork has contributed much to our success, we believe that our deeply embedded ‘tribal’ culture has powerfully engaged every member of our corporate family, reflecting in the vision of our leadership, the loyalty of our stakeholders and the passion of our people the DIMO tribe. Our aspiration To be the corporate role model that inspires and touches the life of every Sri Lankan, every day. Our purpose To create value responsibly. Our values Responsible: To be a responsible corporate citizen. To act with responsibility towards all our stakeholders and the environment. Righteous: To stand for righteousness with resolve. Responsive: To be approachable and responsive to every stakeholder we serve. Reliable: To be reliable and trustworthy, whatever we undertake to do. Respectful: To always treat people with dignity and respect. Resilient: To be resilient in adversity. Traditionally, the town crier or ‘Anda bera kararaya’ would travel from village to village to announce the local news. Var . ri . ga Vith . th . i Introductory statements prefacing our fourth integrated annual report Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Highlights of the Year 2013-14 A summary of our key performance indicators for the year under review 44.34 88% 10 61.1% EPS (Rs.) Customer Dividend per Employee satisfaction share (Rs.) satisfaction index index Aspect Key Performance Area Measure 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Monetised Shareholder return Market capitalisation (Rs. Mn) 4,483 4,483 8,718 12,920 3,696 Capital Return on equity (%) 5.06 6.03 36.13 50.51 11.20 Earnings per share (Rs.) 44.34 51.16 303.87 239.03 27.97 Price earnings ratio (times) 11.39 9.87 3.20 6.20 15.20 Dividend per share (Rs.) 10.00 10.00 40.00 61.00 7.00 Shareholders’ funds (Rs. mn) 7,917 7,631 7,465 4,201 2,200 at the year end Customer Customer convenience No. of customer interaction points 60 52 40 25 19 Customer satisfaction Average customer satisfaction 85.8 85.50 89.20 85.60 82.60 index (%) Employee Employee satisfaction Employee turnover ratio (%) 17.1 21.81 21.10 19.30 14.20 No. of employees in service for 487 489 428 386 372 over 5 years Employee satisfaction Employee satisfaction index (%) 61.10 53.46 62.70 54.00 54.00 Employee knowledge Total no. of training hours 19,895 24,336 18,106 11,107 8,936 and skills development 8 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 43.3 77 Community 5,768 3,245 No. of development Total carbon Tax paid to principals investments footprint (Tons) Government (Rs. Mn) (Rs. Mn) Aspect Key Performance Area Measure 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Business Relationship with No. of principals 77 81 78 72 63 Partner principals Length of the longest relationship 75 74 73 72 71 (years) Society Investing in Community development 43.3 50.8 51.1 30.0 5.9 community investments (Rs. mn) Community investments as 0.21 0.19 0.14 0.10 0.10 percentage of turnover (%) Development of youth No. of vocational trainees enrolled 255 154 168 148 N/A Environment Combating climate Total carbon footprint (Tons) 5,768 6,312 6,779 3,192 2,604 change Carbon footprint tCO2 e per Rs. 1 0.2773 0.2218 0.1674 0.1064 0.2472 mn of Group net turnover Value Creation Financial value shared Tax paid to Government (Rs. mn) 3,245 2,972 6,062 5,571 1,520 Activities with the government Portfolio Non-auto segment turnover as a 26.59 17.00 12.40 19.47 35.16 diversification percentage of total turnover 9 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Welcome to our fourth integrated annual report Here we describe the context and framework of our reporting. This is the Company’s fourth The Company is one of the 107 formulated based on material aspects integrated report. This report is companies that participate in the identified. The test of materiality organized around DIMO’s value pilot program for development of the embedded in our processes has creation model. The capitals that international framework on Integrated ensured that we report on all material provide the inputs, and the value Reporting by the International issues relating to sustainability with creating activities that result in outputs Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). regard to aspects internal and external and outcomes are two key components This framework has been applied to to the organization within the sphere of it. Good governance and risk this, the Group’s fourth integrated of influence of the Company. The management underpins the strategy report for 2013/14. DIMO stakeholder identification driven value creation process. process ensures stakeholder The report also contains the GRI G4 inclusiveness. The Group Management DIMO’s value creation model aims key performance indicators required by Committee (GMC) has approved all to create value whilst balancing the the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines the information and data relating Company’s responsibilities to its of the Global Reporting Initiative to sustainability objectives that are diverse stakeholders, including its (GRI), released in May 2013. A soft contained in this report. shareholders, and the environment. copy of this annual report, the GRI How the company achieved this over content index and key information This Annual Report relates to the past financial year is discussed relating to sustainability are available the activities of Diesel and Motor comprehensively through the different on the Company website. This Engineering PLC and its subsidiaries, sections of this report. information relating to sustainability collectively referred to as the DIMO is prepared “In accordance” Group, spanning a 12-month period The financial statements of the comprehensive disclosures based on ending 31st March 2014. There have Company up to and as at 31st March GRI G4 guidelines. been no changes in reporting scope 2014 were prepared in accordance with and/or boundaries from the previous the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards The Greenhouse Gas Protocol year. Non-financial information in this which were in effect up to that date. Corporate Standard has been used to report pertaining to the previous year measure and report on the company’s has not been restated, unless otherwise The Company is in compliance carbon footprint. stated. The non-financial information with the laws and regulations of the contained in this report was audited Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 and This report also acts as a by DNV Business Assurance Lanka the subsequent amendments, and Communication on Progress (COP) for (Pvt) Ltd according to the AA1000 the Listing Rules of the Colombo the United Nations Global Compact. Assurance Standard. Stock Exchange (CSE). The 2013 version of the Code of Best Practice The information content of the The Independent Auditor’s opinion on on Corporate Governance issued report covers the economic, social the Financial Statements is available on jointly by the Institute of Chartered and environmental impacts resulting page 113. Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA from the value creation activities of Sri Lanka) and the Securities and the Company and its subsidiaries Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka operating across the island, and (SEC) have been followed. Details of includes a reasonable assessment of compliance with this code is provided potential impacts. This report also in the corporate website www. contains the objectives set by the dimolanka.com. Sustainability Committee, which are 10 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Grit to greatness A historical overview of DIMO’s seventy five exciting years of success. In 1939, four young men Stephen Group led to a significant expansion In 2014 DIMO added another Peries, Pandithage Don Alexander, of the business. By 1952 a showroom, outstanding jewel to our crown of Cyril Algama and Harold Algama stores and workshop were all open for achievements when we formally declared launched their own workshop in rented business. open our state of the art Mercedes-Benz premises off Prince of Wales Avenue, Sales & Aftercare Centre on Sirimavo Panchikawatte. It was from this tiny Today we are the oldest sole distributor Bandaranaike Mawatha, Colombo 14. company that the massive conglomerate for Mercedes Benz passenger and This showroom and service centre is of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC or commercial vehicles in the entire Asian designed to showcase the Mercedes DIMO, originated. region. Benz Experience; a contemporary and sophisticated multi-purposed space Notwithstanding their youth, the four In 1964, DIMO became a publicly reflecting the timeless elegance and young men had big dreams. Their quoted company, listing with the classic style of the Mercedes Benz brand. vision was not just local but global, with Colombo Brokers’ Association. From ambitions to deliver world-class products that moment on, DIMO has grown on Developing local expertise has always and services to every customer they a trajectory that has been both steady been a priority for DIMO. In 1990 served. This idea of excellence above all and organic, diversifying into a score we launched our first automobile remains our core principle to this day, of related business enterprises while training school offering a two-year while management of the company has remaining true to our core expertise in comprehensive auto-engineering course remained for the most part in the hands automobile and heavy-vehicle sales and designed by Mercedes-Benz. of the founding families. services. Our portfolio now includes classic automobile brand names Post-war, we opened a second DIMO’s original business was in making Mercedes, Chrysler, Jeep and TATA automobile training school in Jaffna, gaskets and turning out parts a very while Bosch, MTU, Komatsu, Siemens, to serve a region that has been denied lucrative enterprise due to the high Michelin, Osram and Mahindra & access to quality technical training for demand for such items during the war Mahindra. Mahindra are each leaders in over 30 years. years. As volumes expanded, the little their respective segments. business grew and diversified, moving Today DIMO is truly a global yet local into the sale of electrical parts and The Company now manages after sales company, one that has always reflected fittings for motor vehicles. In 1945 and service activities for commercial the enduring spirit of Sri Lanka through DIMO was incorporated as a private, vehicles, construction machinery and the many challenges we have overcome limited liability company. power systems from our state of the art on our seventy-five year journey to workshop in Biyagama, while logistics this moment of success. We know that In 1949, DIMO went into partnership are managed from Weliweriya in our deeply embedded ‘tribal’ culture with Mr. F. K. Heller, a representative Gampaha. A regional and expanding has played its part in all that we have of a German company, Lohmann & network of showrooms and branches achieved. It remains the source of our Company. Mr Heller had launched bring ease of access to customers from shared beliefs and common experience Heller and Company in Sri Lanka in the remotest parts of the island. where knowledge is pooled and ongoing 1932, with the distributorship of several learning is inclusive, evolutionary and great German brands Mercedes Benz, To support our powerful brand continuous. Today we are justifiably Bosch and Siemens. When World War portfolio, we also offer cutting edge proud of our carefully honed business 2 broke out, Heller & Company was technology and services through the model that guarantees thousands of acquired by the Government of British Bosch Service Centre in Colombo a stakeholders the promise of rising value, Ceylon. When the war ended Mr. Heller professionally managed workshop where through the excellence of our products was released and subsequently became qualified personnel repair and service and processes and the passion of our a prominent industrialist in Germany. virtually any model of new generation people the DIMO tribe. His active partnership with the DIMO vehicle. 11 Annual Report 2013/14 The village council or ‘gam sabaawa’ would meet to discuss the management of village affairs, resolve issues and develop strategies for the future. Var . ri . ga Ath . tho Statements and reviews by the Executive Management Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Shared efforts, shared success: the strength of the DIMO tribe. A message from the Chairman and Managing Director, Mr A.R. Pandithage “…at DIMO we build value in multiple ways. Our 75th year was another year of building sustainable value for the company, stakeholders and the environment.” Nostalgic about past, excited Board has decided to pay a first and over again our customers return to about the future final dividend of Rs. 10 per share. us with the certainty of our trust and excellence. In our 75th year of conducting At DIMO we build value in multiple business, we are excited for the future ways. Our 75th year was another Our employees are the soul of the and nostalgic about the past. From year of building sustainable value for Company. We are successful in humble beginnings DIMO has evolved the company, stakeholders and the attracting the best skills and their over the decades to become one of the environment. inputs are what carry our business. In most innovative business houses in the turn we have sought to give meaning country. to their aspirations and their lives. It is our culture to be sensitive to their Automobiles remain to be our core business. The global automobile THREE KEY lives and support their goals, thereby RELATIONSHIPS DEFINE making DIMO a “great place to work”. market grew by 3% in 2013 and for BUSINESS AT DIMO: OUR Of our Assets, a long-term employee the first time global automobile sales relationship is of great value. Our exceeded 82 million units. Sales grew RELATIONSHIP WITH employees have powered the Company in China and the United States but THE CUSTOMERS; OUR for 75 years with their commitment continued to decline in Europe. The RELATIONSHIP WITH and for this I am very grateful.” IMF reported a 3% growth in the THE EMPLOYEES; AND global economy for the last year. The OUR RELATIONSHIP It is our privilege to represent the best forecast for this year is 3.6% and 3.9% WITH THE PRINCIPALS. brands in the world while forming for 2015. trusted ties with our principals over these 75 years. Their class and Sri Lanka recorded some impressive expertise have been a source of economic indicators, but the Business at DIMO inspiration to DIMO. Today, we look automobile sector showed a decline. Three key relationships define business However, DIMO’s non-automobile at DIMO: our relationship with the segments delivered an improved customers; our relationship with the performance and this made our profit employees; and our relationship with THE BOND THAT WE before tax improve by 4.7%, compared the principals. SHARE WITH OUR to the previous year. A higher tax CUSTOMERS HAS BEEN charge made the after tax profit reduce The bond that we share with our by 13%. By our standards this was a AKIN TO A MARRIAGE, A customers has been akin to a marriage, modest performance in a turbulent LIFELONG COMMITMENT. a lifelong commitment. Over and and challenging environment. The 14 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC “At DIMO our work ranges in scale from multi million-rupee precision engineering projects to the simple delivery of a single flawless bolt. To each of these transactions and to everything in between, we bring the identical degree of excellence, quality and care.” A.R. Pandithage Chairman/Managing Director 15 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Chairman’s Message to acquire new principals, and develop Responsible Entrepreneurship long-term relationships in a similar The value creation model we have manner to those maintained presently adopted ensures that the diverse forms between us and our principals. of capital in which we invest in are Monetised Value replenished and enhanced. At the Created. Driving Innovation same time the Group stands firmly Innovation is a value that we pursue relentlessly. Unless companies by its value framework that is a key motivating factor for the Company. Rs.6.2 bn constantly innovate they can never ‘Responsible entrepreneurship’ is grow to their full potential. The DIMO the overarching framework of all of 800 Mercedes-Benz Centre is a major the Company’s activities and DIMO step in this direction. The investment remains committed to perpetuating corporate governance processes and was substantial and the return is these values. our approach to risk management. likely to take time. The leader we have become beckons us take on this Re-imagining Governance challenge and move automobile care in THE VALUE CREATION Good governance leads to positive this country to an unparalleled level. MODEL WE HAVE and sustained growth and DIMO It is a centre like no other, offering ADOPTED ENSURES sees itself as a trailblazer where unique, state-of-the-art care and corporate governance is concerned. services that are on par with the best THAT THE DIVERSE We are scrupulous about following all in the world. We want to ensure that FORMS OF CAPITAL IN disclosure requirements and to ensure our customers have access to the best WHICH WE INVEST IN the expected accountability processes products and best after-sales services. ARE REPLENISHED AND are integrated into each tier of the We want to ensure that our employees ENHANCED. AT THE Company’s governance structure. have access to the latest technologies. SAME TIME THE GROUP DIMO will continue to provide the STANDS FIRMLY BY ITS Sustainable growth leadership that we have imparted on VALUE FRAMEWORK the automobile industry in this part of How much value we add is as the world. THAT IS A KEY important as how we create value. MOTIVATING FACTOR The process is as important as the FOR THE COMPANY. product. Our management approach Strategic Focus and value-creation model allow us DIMO’s strategic focus is on to blend corporate strategy with nourishing and nurturing its different corporate responsibility seamlessly. types of capital. This is done through Our value creation story We take responsibility for every step of innovative and responsible value The fourth integrated report published the supply chain, and sustainability is creation activities that add value to the this year revolves around DIMO’s built into all aspects of the Company’s Company’s diverse forms of capital. unique value creation model. The operations. Sharp business strategies ensure the Company’s capital and value-creation Company remains competitive, a activities are discussed in different much sought after employer, and in sections of the report together with many cases, a pioneer of new and strategies. We have supplemented responsible value-creation processes. these with candid disclosures of our 16 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC To my colleagues on the Board, thank WE HAVE MADE you for your astute guidance. My SIGNIFICANT special thanks to Gladwin Peries, who INVESTMENTS, WITHIN retires from the Board after 37 years. Thank you for the contribution you OUR CAPACITY, TO ALL have made to the future of DIMO. SEGMENTS OF THE COMPANY’S OPERATIONS. THESE INVESTMENTS Here to stay ARE NOW BEGINNING TO The DIMO Tribe was exemplary in managing the good and the bad times DELIVER. of the past 75 years. We are here to stay. Adapting to change As a Company we continue to re-define ourselves. Entrepreneurship is about breaking boundaries and adventuring forward. Vehicles will continue to remain our core business. At the same A.R. Pandithage time we will look at new opportunities Chairman/Managing Director in newer markets while ensuring that the DIMO brand is safeguarded 23rd May 2014 against the vagaries of local and global Colombo economies. We have made significant investments, within our capacity, to all segments of the Company’s operations. These investments are now beginning to deliver. We are confident that we can ride the wave of post-war growth that the country is experiencing, while contributing to its growth. My thanks Many factors have contributed to the triumphant journey that our Company has taken so far. To our customers, our employees and our principals, thank you for inspiring us and placing your faith in DIMO. 17 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Living up to our heritage A review of operations from the Chief Executive Officer, Mr A.G. Pandithage “DIMO continues to focus on responsible value creation. The Group understands the need to create wealth for shareholders and for multiple other stakeholders.” A cut above the best segments of the company’s operations delivered startling results and gave us DIMO had a comfortable year. It THE MACRO-ECONOMIC an inkling of the potential these sectors was not a year for great celebration. CLIMATE WAS POSITIVE offer. The construction and material Nor was it a year of gloom. It was a year of moderate performance AND ENABLING DURING handling sector too performed well where the Group continued to build 2013. THE GDP GREW capitalizing on the momentum the BY 7.3%. industry is generating in Sri Lanka. on the accomplishments of the past years. It would have been a year of great celebration had we had a more favourable tariff regime for vehicles, million in 2012 to Rs. 119,530 million in 2013. THE MARKETING & but that was not to be. The strategy of spreading our net into other areas DISTRIBUTION AND ensured that the Group’s overall Building on past ELECTROMECHANICAL, performance was still a good one. accomplishments BIOMEDICAL AND Despite these solid indicators the MARINE ENGINEERING The macro-economic climate registration of vehicles (excluding three SEGMENTS OF THE improves wheelers and motor bicycles) dropped COMPANY’S OPERATIONS The macro-economic climate was to 128,991 compared to 173,465 DELIVERED STARTLING positive and enabling during 2013. The the previous year. The registration RESULTS GDP grew by 7.3%; AWPLR reduced of ‘commercial vehicles’, which is a from 13.37% to 8.57%; the rupee significant market for DIMO, dropped remained relatively stable during the by 29% during the year under review. Responsible value creation financial year and inflation dropped Tariffs for passenger vehicles remained DIMO continues to focus on from 7.6% to 6.9% in 2013. high during the year. This had an responsible value creation. The Group The Group’s operational activities adverse impact on the Group’s overall understands the need to create wealth are mainly in transport, construction, performance. for shareholders and for multiple other power, and healthcare. The transport stakeholders. The Group’s business DIMO’s performance in the nonmodel is designed to take this vision sector grew by 9.4%; the construction automobile sector exceeded into account and its supply chain sector by 14.4%; the power sector by expectations. The Marketing & processes pursue this goal relentlessly. 11.3% and government expenditure on Distribution and Electromechanical, healthcare increased from Rs. 99,101 BioMedical and Marine Engineering 18 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC “Teamwork is the driving force behind our success today. This report is a tribute to the commitment and hard work of everyone working in the great partnerships that together form the DIMO Tribe.” A.G. Pandithage Director/Chief Executive Officer 19 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements CEO’s Message The Group’s human resource policies, The company however, continues including its approach to innovation, to innovate by broadening its range its code of ethics, quality management THE NEW MERCEDES of vehicles and by moving into new systems, environmental management DIMO 800 CENTRE areas of activity. The company also systems and performance management OPENED IN MAY 2014. has to face the challenge of the systems ensure that the company THIS STATE-OFTHE ART tariff concessions offered to vehicles delivers consistently, and most FACILITY ON A 621 PERCH assembled locally. importantly, responsibly. PROPERTY WHICH The rapid growth in infrastructure HAS 25,748 SQUARE development, construction and power Enhancing capacity METERS OF SHOWROOM, sectors has attracted new players. The impressive GDP growth rates WORKSHOP, OFFICE AND DIMO is confident that its vintage recorded in the recent past have PARKING SPACE HAS PUT brand, 75 years heritage, strong prompted the company to increase THE COMPANY AHEAD OF relationships with world class principals the capacity in every sense. The ITS COMPETITION. and its focus on innovation, will help company has invested in capacity us meet any competitive challenge that across all business segments. This the evolving market may offer. includes the number of customer interaction points, the number of DIMO is upbeat about the work bays, the distribution networks, which has 25,748 square meters of opportunities that are unfolding. In 75 building employee competencies, and showroom, workshop, office and years the company has been through a expanding the product portfolio. parking space has put the company multitude of changes and challenges. It ahead of its competition. is optimistic about the country’s future and about the company’s future. The Establishing a presence in Budgets show that the year ahead will THE IMPRESSIVE Jaffna be a better one. GDP GROWTH RATES The new showroom and workshop RECORDED IN THE facility in Jaffna will be operational RECENT PAST HAVE soon. This will reach out to a PROMPTED THE population segment that has been COMPANY TO INCREASE deprived of world class services during THE CAPACITY IN EVERY several years of war. SENSE. THE COMPANY A.G. Pandithage HAS INVESTED IN Taking DIMO forward Director/Chief Executive Officer CAPACITY ACROSS ALL The high tariff regime for vehicles BUSINESS SEGMENTS. continues to have an impact on 23rd May 2014 Colombo the company’s performance. The expectation was that the end of the war would have unleashed a lower tax The new Mercedes Centre regime. The new Mercedes DIMO 800 Centre opened in May 2014. This state-ofthe art facility on a 621 perch property 20 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Group Structure and Group Management Committee Group structure Name of the Company Division Segment No. of Directors Directors Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Automobile Vehicles – Sales A.R. Pandithage (Chairman/MD) 10 A.G. Pandithage (CEO) Company Reg No.: PQ 146 A.N. Algama Year of Incorporation: 1945 S.C. Algama Dr. H.Cabral Vehicles – After Services B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Prof. U.P. Liyanage A.M. Pandithage R. Seevaratnam Marketing Marketing and Distribution R.C. Weerawardane & Projects Construction & Material Handling Equipment and After Services Dimo Travels (Pvt)Ltd A.R. Pandithage (Chairman) Travelling 4 S.C. Algama Company Reg No.: PV1256 M.V. Bandara Year of Incorporation: 1975 E.D.C. Kodituwakku. Holding: 100% Dimo (Pvt) Ltd A.R. Pandithage (Chairman) Industrial Electro Mechanical & Bio 8 S.C. Algama (Managing Director) Company Reg No.: PV2317 Solutions Medical Marine Engineering R.H. Fernando Year of Incorporation: 1980 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Holding: 100% A.G. Pandithage W. Pushpawela C. Ranawana R.C. Weerawardane Dimo Industries (Pvt) Ltd. A.R. Pandithage (Chairman) S.C. Algama Company Reg No.: PV1260 6 A.C.G. Dias Year of Incorporation: 1979 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Holding: 100% A.G. Pandithage R.C. Weerawardane DIMO Group Management Committee Members A R Pandithage A.C.G.Dias N. Mudannayake Chairman/ Managing Director General Manager -Tyres General Manager -IT A G Pandithage B C S A P Gooneratne S.R.W.M.C.Ranawana Director/Chief Executive Officer Executive Director Chief Operating Officer Construction & Material Handling S C Algama E.D.C.Kodituwakku Executive Director General Manager Finance & Controlling W. Pushpawela Chief Operating Officer Dimo (Pvt) Ltd M.V. Bandara D.N.K. Kurukulasuriya Chief Operating Officer Tata VehiclesGeneral Manager -Human Resources R C Weerawardane Sales & Service Executive Director A.Mapalagama General Manager -Infrastructure Development 21 Annual Report 2013/14 The audience hall or council chamber was where a council of ministers and advisors would gather to discuss administration and operations. Var . ri . ga Sa . baa . va The Board of Directors Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements The Board of Directors The board of directors is composed of ten leading individuals who bring a vast range of knowledge and experience to bear on the governance and stewardship of your company. A.R. Pandithage A.G. Pandithage A.N. Algama Chairman-Managing Director Director, CEO Executive Director S.C. Algama Dr. H. Cabraal B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Director 24 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Prof. U.P. Liyanage A.M. Pandithage Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director R.Seevaratnam R.C. Weerawardene Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Director * Mr. T.G.H. Peries is not pictured. 25 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Board of Directors A.R. Pandithage Chairman-Managing Director A.G. Pandithage Director, CEO A.N. Algama Executive Director S.C. Algama Executive Director Dr H. Cabral Independent Non-Executive Director B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Executive Director Prof. U.P. Liyanage Independent Non-Executive Director A.M. Pandithage Non-Executive Director T.G.H. Peries* Executive Director R.Seevaratnam Independent Non-Executive Director R.C. Weerawardene Executive Director * Mr. T.G.H. Peries resigned from the Board with effect from 28 June 2013. 26 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC A.R. Pandithage Law, Council Member – University of A.M. Pandithage * Colombo, UGC nominee – PGIM(Post Chairman/Managing Director Appointed to the Board in September Graduate Institute of Medicine), Joined the Company in June 1973. 1982. Chairman and Chief Executive Member-Board of Studies-Incorporated Appointed to the Board in June 1977. of Hayleys PLC. Honorary Consul of Council of Legal Education. Member Appointed as joint Managing Director United Mexican States (Mexico) to Sri Academic Board of Studies-The Institute in November 1984 and as Managing Lanka. Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Director in 1986. Appointed as the Chief of Logistics & Transport. Member of Member – Corporate Governance Executive Officer in 1994. Appointed the Presidential Committee on Maritime Committee, Senior Lecturer-University as the Chairman, Managing Director Matters. Committee Member of the of Colombo, University of Wales, IALS and CEO in July 2004 and continues to Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Council Sri Lanka Law College, ICLP. Senior be Chairman/Managing Director since Member of the Employers’ Federation of Practitioner in the fields of Corporate April 2012. Holder of Dip.Ing. from Ceylon. Member of the Monetary Policy Law, Intellectual Property Law, Germany. Member of the Institute of Consultative Committee of the Central International Trade Law, Commercial Engineers, Germany (VDI). Director, Dial Bank of Sri Lanka. Director of SriLanka Law and Commercial Arbitration. Textiles Ltd. Port Management & Consultancy Director-Hayleys PLC, Union Bank PLC, Services Ltd. Tokyo Cement PLC, Lanka Orix Finance A.G. Pandithage PLC, Commercial Leasing and Finance T.G.H. Peries Chief Executive Officer PLC, Richard Pieris Distributors Ltd, Joined the Company in 1962 and was Joined the Company in September 1986. Tokyo Super Cement Lanka Co. Ltd, Fuji appointed to the Board in August 1977. Appointed to the Board in December Lanka Cement Co. Ltd, Tokyo Power Resigned from the Board w.e.f. 28 June 1995. Fellow of the Chartered Institute Lanka Co. Ltd, Hambana Petrochemicals 2013. of Management Accountants, UK. Ltd, Alumex PLC and Just in Time Appointed as the Deputy Chief Executive Consultants Ltd. R. Seevaratnam ** Officer with effect from April 2006 and appointed as CEO from April 2012. B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Appointed to the Board in January 2007. Fellow member of The Institute of Joined the Company in January 2001. A.N. Algama Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and Appointed to the Board in April 2006. England & Wales and holder of General Joined the Company in June 1973. Fellow Member of the Institute of Science Degree from the University Appointed to the Board in November Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka of London. Former senior partner 1984. Past Chairman of The Ceylon and holder of Master of Business of KPMG Ford, Rhodes, Thornton & Motor Traders’ Association and Sri Administration Degree from the Company. Non Executive Independent Lanka Tyre Importers’ Association. Postgraduate Institute of Management, Director of Acme Printing & Packaging Executive Committee Member of the University of Sri Jayewardenapura. Non PLC, Acme Packaging Solutions (Pvt) Ceylon Chamber of Commerce – Import Executive Director of Hunas Falls Hotels Ltd, Tea Small Holders Factories PLC, Section. PLC. Tokyo Cement PLC, Lanka Aluminium S.C. Algama Industries PLC, Metecno Lanka (Pvt) Prof. U. P. Liyanage ** Ltd, Classic Teas (Pvt) Ltd, Green Appointed to the Board in November Appointed to the Board in October Farms (Pvt) Ltd, Colombo Fort Land 1984. Appointed as an Executive Director 2006. Fellow of the Chartered Institute & Building Co PLC, Omega Line Ltd, in 1994. Fellow of the Institute of of Marketing. MBA and Ph.D. from the Sirio Ltd, Banji Ltd, Alpha Apparels Ltd, Incorporated Engineers (SL). Council Postgraduate Institute of Management Hayleys Agricultural Holdings (Pvt) Ltd, Member and Chairman-Transport & (PIM), University of Sri Jayewardenapura. Hayleys Consumers (Pvt) Ltd. Automobiles Industries Committee of Professor of Management at PIM. the National Chamber of Commerce, Sri Non-Executive Director of Chemenex R.C. Weerawardane Lanka. PLC, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, Arpico Joined the Company in February 1990. Plastics PLC, Talawakelle Tea Estate PLC, DR. H. Cabral ** Appointed to the Board in June 2002. Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC and Certificate holder of the Chartered Appointed to the Board in October 2006. Richard Peiris & Co. PLC. Institute of Marketing, UK. President’s Counsel, PhD in Corporate Law (Australia), Commissioner-Law * Non-Executive Directors Commission of Sri Lanka, Member ** Independent Non-Executive Directors –Advisory Commission on Company 27 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Group Management Committee The Group Management Committee uses years of experience in managing DIMO’s strategies and operations to drive the company to new levels of excellence each year. A R Pandithage A G Pandithage S C Algama Chairman/ Managing Director Director/ Chief Executive Officer Executive Director M.V. Bandara A.C.G.Dias B C S A P Gooneratne Chief Operating Officer Tata Vehicles General Manager -Tyres Executive Director -Sales & Service E.D.C.Kodituwakku D.N.K. Kurukulasuriya A.Mapalagama General Manager Finance & General Manager Human Resources General Manager Infrastructure Controlling Development 28 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC N. Mudannayake S.R.W.M.C.Ranawana General Manager IT Chief Operating Officer Construction & Material Handling W. Pushpawela R C Weerawardane Chief Operating Officer Dimo (Pvt) Ltd Executive Director 29 Annual Report 2013/14 The traditional agriculture-based lifestyle of rural people saw them come together to work on each other’s fields during the harvest seasons. People would also help each other to thatch roofs or repair each other’s homes; the close-knit ties and community support systems that still exist today. Var . ri . ga Vi . laa . se Value Creation Report 31 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report The value creation report offers a detailed analysis of how we use our capitals to create lasting value for all our stakeholders. Win win creation, in order to maximize At DIMO we have been relentlessly the value created. fine-tuning our value creation process The final element in our value and delivery for many years. Because chain is the responsible corporate however big we grow, the creation of citizenship that we have always These are value for every one of our stakeholders prioritised from 1939 to this day, the capitals remains our primary purpose. Our not just because we know that that provide value creation activities use inputs our stakeholders’ belief in us inputs for our or contributions from our four depends upon it but because it value creation capitals monetised capital (which activities is the standard of governance we includes financial capital, property, live by. plant and equipment), stakeholder, intellectual and environmental capital, In the end the cycle is a perfect one, to achieve our purpose. The efficient in which our capitals or value stores Monetised and productive management of our Capital provide inputs for the value creation capitals and processes is what we pride activities, leading to outputs and ourselves upon, for therein lies the key impacts upon our capitals. to the efficient and continuous delivery of rising value. And that is how we add value M is s io n Stra t e g y to every activity we undertake, Stakeholder Vis io n In our model there are three however great or small. In short, Capital activities that lie at the heart of our it is how we seek to leverage our value-creating enterprise. Securing, core strengths, our expertise and nurturing and preserving the capitals our resources to produce a winwe own while simultaneously managing win result for both DIMO and the impacts of our processes upon every stakeholder who trusts us Intellectual them is the first. The second demands to deliver on every promise we Capital precision and efficiency in the make. management of the process of value Note: You may follow the page guide below for details on each element of the value creation model Environment Pg. Pg.66-77 Pg. 38-65 38-65 Pg. Pg.67 Pg. Pg.68-77 38-43 38-43 Pg. 68-69 Pg. 05 Pg. 05 Pg. Pg. 44-57 Pg. 70-71 44-57 Pg. 72-73 Pg. Pg. 58-59 Pg. 74-75 58-59 Pg. 76-77 Pg. Pg. 60-65 60-65 Pg. 95-101 Pg. 82-94 32 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Value creation model The value creation Value Chain Activities process gives rise to the impacts that form our capitals Core Activities Impact on Monetised Business Segments Capital Vehicles Sales Impact on Vehicles – Stakeholder After Services Capital Marketing & Distribution Impact on Construction & Material Handling Intellectual Equipment & After Service Capital Electro Mechanical, Bio Medical and Marine Engineering Impact on Environment Sourcing Warehousing Solution Delivery After care mapping Engineering R e I n v e s t m e n t Risk Management Corporate Governance Adapted from the International Integrated Reporting Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) 33 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report Stakeholder identification mechanism for engagement h Persons or a body of persons who are likely to influence Dimo’s performance e d g Persons or a body a of persons who are affected by operations c b of Dimo Persons or a body of persons who have legal, financial, f operational responsibilities towards Dimo Stakeholder identification k Those who exhibited only below. Any major concern relating Mechanism one or none of the identified to sustainability identified during the characteristics were not, as a stakeholder engagement process is The company’s stakeholders were rule, considered for periodic escalated to the Board of Directors. comprehensively identified by the engagement. However, the During the year, there were no such Sustainability Committee, using data Sustainability Committee concerns that were identified, which that was independently collected would decide to include any warranted consideration or review by from various stakeholder groups. party for periodic engagement, the Board. The criteria used to identify the notwithstanding the mentioned stakeholders of the company were as criteria, in cases where it was follows: warranted. (e,f,g and h) k Those who exhibited all three of the identified characteristics were Stakeholder engagement regarded as the most important for mechanisms engagement. (a) The Group engages stakeholders on a periodic basis with a view to identifying k Those who exhibited any two stakeholder expectations. A table of the identified characteristics containing the frequency at which were regarded as the next most such engagement takes place and important for engagement. (b,c & the methods of engagement is given d) 34 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC The table below illustrates how we engage with our important stakeholder groups. Stakeholder Engagement Method Frequency Shareholders One-to-one interviews (by independent parties) Once every 3 years Owners Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity to review the past Once a year Providers of year’s performance and engage in discussions with the management capital Annual Report Once a year Quarterly reports providing a quarterly review of Performance. Once every quarter Company Website Online CSE website Online Employees One-to-one interviews (by independent parties) Once every 3 years The key resource Focus group discussions (by independent parties) Once every 3 years for competitive Employee Council meetings Once a month advantage and Employee Portal of the company network accessible to every employee. Continuous sustainable Annual strategic planning meeting Once a year growth Company’s ‘Open Door’ policy encourages direct employee – Continuous management dialogue. Annual Employee Surveys voluntary and confidential. Once a year HR Clinics Bi annual basis across all business units. Individual Performance Reviews – bi-annually Continuous Employee Reward and Recognition Continuous Customers One-to-one interview Once every 3 years Principal source Customer Relationship Management process (CRM) enables the 24 hours, 7 days of sustenance company to keep in touch with the customer on a daily basis. It helps to respond to queries and problems from the customer. ‘Problem solving’ for challenges the customer faces is also done through the CRM process. A Customer Satisfaction Index maintained by each business unit Once a month/quarter provides an assessment of satisfaction levels and helps to improve problem solving capacities within the Company. DIMO “Fleet Owners Clubs” for Loyalty Customers Continuous “Mercedes-Benz Club” Continuous 24 hour roadside assistance 24 hours, 7 days Business Partners One-to-one interview (by independent parties ) Once every 3 years & Suppliers A high speed 24 x 7 online link enables constant dialogue with Continuous Critical principals. Issues discussed include product quality, marketing, component of customer satisfaction, ‘problem solving’ and employee motivation. the Value chain On-site visits from principals and on-site visits to principals’ location Continuous facilitate engagement. Society One-to-one interviews (by independent parties ) Once every 3 years Local immediate Focus groups discussion ( by independent parties) Once every 3 years communities Dialogue with Religious Dignitaries Continuous Stakeholders Written and oral communications initiated by stakeholders Continuous in sustainable Company website On line development Regulatory and One-to-One Interview Once every 3 years government agencies 35 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report Materiality of stakeholder issues Arising from the stakeholder engagement process, the expectations were rated, assigned and prioritised. 2 11 3 4 H 1 13 16 6 Likely level of 5 17 7 10 stakeholder M 12 priority 18 19 14 15 L 8 9 H High L M H M Medium Likelihood of current or L Low potential impacts on the Group Issues indicated in this area are Issues indicated in this area have a Issues found in this area of the grid of high significance and impact relatively moderate impact on our have only a minor impact thus may on both the stakeholders and the business. They too were addressed only be reported in the corporate organisation. All indicators shown during the reporting period and website. in this area are fully discussed in the are fully or partially reported in the Annual Report and in the corporate Annual Report and in the corporate website. website. 1. Emissions, effluents & waste 9. Anti-corruption 15. Energy consumption 2. Technical education for youth 10. Procurement practices for local 16. Employee remuneration and benefits 3. Customer health & safety suppliers 17. Product & service labelling 4. Economic performance 11. Customer privacy 18. Water 5. Employee training & education 12. Ethical marketing communications 19. Employee relations 6. Occupational health & safety 13. Community development 7. Compliance 14. Mutually beneficial relationships Aspect Boundary within the organisation with suppliers 8. Materials consumption Aspect Boundary outside the organisation 36 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Status of material issues up-to-date by adding key inputs and (whether it increased, decreased, replacing outdated information remained unchanged from the previous Stakeholder concerns (both positive based on the feedback received from year, or emerged newly in the current and negative) were considered to stakeholders. This analysis traces the year), and the reasons for the shift of update the material issues. The issues raised, their materiality status status and the Group’s response. materiality analysis has been brought Status of material issues 2013 vs 2014 Material aspect Issues raised Status of Possible Reason for Response by Material the Shift Issues Emissions, Effluents and Society u Our Environment Management System is constantly working Waste towards minimising emission levels. Technical Education for Society u We will continue to facilitate external trainees to receive on the Youth job training at no cost. Customer Health and Customer u We will continue to leverage the specifications and inbuilt health Safety and safety aspects of our blue-chip product portfolio along with our own initiatives to reinforce this aspect. Employee Training and Employee u Continuous training and development programmes conducted Education for the employees. Occupational Health and Employee u Gap Analysis for Occupational Health and Safety Standard Safety (OHSAS) completed. Investment and Local s Suppliers are Will be conducting awareness programs and supplier audits to Procurement Practices for suppliers not aware of the educate suppliers on the supplier code of conduct Local Suppliers content of supplier code prepared by the Company. Water Society u Increase the percentage of recycled/reused ground water. Ethical Marketing Customer t No hindrance to Company communication policy ensures strict compliance with Communications society in terms of regulations and codes concerning ethical marketing practices. ethical marketing practices. Local Communities Society u A process to measure community impact precedes all relevant Company activity. Mutually Beneficial Suppliers u Constant contact and sharing of information continues. Reports, Relationships with to Principals will address expectations of Principals. Suppliers Energy Consumption Society t Reduction in Energy saving measures are implemented across the energy usage due organisation. to strict energy management Employee Benefits Employee t Increasing Dimo seeks to exceed industry levels wherever possible in confidence and delivering benefits to employees. trust employees place in Dimo. s Materiality of issues increased t Materiality of issues decreased u Materiality of issues remains same n New Issues identified 37 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report A review of monetised capitals and value creation activity that can be captured in monetary terms. Monetised Capital Aspect Measure 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Turnover (Rs. mn) 20,884 27,711 39,863 29,357 10,530 Profitability Gross profit ratio (%) 20.87 15.21 18.23 20.30 22.70 Net profit ratio (%) 1.90 1.70 6.81 7.20 2.40 Working Current ratio (times) 1.50 1.71 1.60 1.27 1.28 capital at the year end management Quick Assets Ratio (times) 0.70 0.72 0.36 0.84 0.78 at the year end Asset Asset Turnover (times) 3.10 4.98 8.55 9.59 4.92 Utilization Investments Capital expenditure as percentage 8.66 8.50 6.20 9.90 7.00 of total assets (%) Capital Debt/Equity (%) at year end 23.15 10.10 13.40 9.80 30.20 structure Interest cover (times) 2.42 2.24 15.67 17.35 2.12 38 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Guiding philosophy Rs. Mn % Earnings Monetised capital consists of financial Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) capital and manufactured capital. 8,000 60 for the year reduced to Rs.874.5 mn Financial capital is the pool of funds from Rs. 885.5 mn the previous year 7,000 available for DIMO to create value. 50 while net profit after tax decreased to 6,000 Manufactured capital is made up of Rs.393.5mn from Rs.454 mn. Following 40 manufactured physical objects available 5,000 suit, earnings per share (EPS) reduced to DIMO to carry out its value creating 4,000 30 to Rs.44.34 from Rs. 51.16. The activities, represented by property, 3,000 computation of EPS is given in Note 20 plant and equipment. For the purpose 4.7 to the Financial Statements. 2,000 of this report, land is classified under 10 1,000 monetised capital and not under environment capital. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Rs. Mn Monetised capitals together with inputs Growth in Property Plant & from the other capitals power the value Equipment 4,000 creation activities. This section provides Property Plant & Growth % a review of monetised capitals and value Equipment (Rs. Mn) 3,200 creation activity, outputs and outcomes that can be captured in monetary terms. 2,400 Turnover The Group turnover decreased by 25% 1,600 Overview to Rs. 20.8 bn when compared with In a challenging trading environment, last year’s turnover of Rs. 27.7 bn. A 800 the Group delivered a turnover of 36% reduction in the turnover of the Rs. 20.8 bn through the prudent vehicle –sales segment was the main 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 management of its value creation reason for the decrease. process. The Group recorded a profit Earnings before tax of Rs.512.8 mn and earnings Profitability EBITDA EBIT Profit Before Tax per share of Rs.44.34. The gross profit margin increased from 15.21% to 20.87% in 2013/14. Profit Capital expenditure before taxation shows a 4.7% increase Finance expenses The Company continued with the compared to the last year’s figure of Finance cost, which is usually a planned investments to expand Rs. 490 mn. The increase in gross significant component in the cost capacity. An amount of Rs. 1,393.5 profit and reduction in finance cost structure, reduced by 31% to Rs.437 mn. (Rs. 1,094.4 mn in 2012/13) was collectively triggered the increase in mn from Rs.636 mn in the previous incurred on acquisition of property, the Group profit before tax. year. This was mainly due to the plant & equipment (PP&E) during reduction of interest rates. the year. Of this, Rs. 1,223 mn was spent on the construction of the The increase in borrowings is mainly Mercedes Centre, the single largest attributable to the financial investment investment planned. Other items in the New Mercedes-Benz Centre. include acquisition of plant and During its construction period the Gross Profit Profit before Tax finance cost relating to financing of the machinery amounting to Rs.14.4 mn and computer software amounting to 3.25% 4.7% investment is capitalised as required by Rs.40.3 mn. LKAS 23 Borrowing Costs. 39 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report in 2012/13) for the year ended 31st Working capital March 2014. The gross dividend The Group’s current ratio at the yearapproved for the year amounted end was 1.50:1, which is a reduction to Rs.88,764 mn (Rs. 88,764 mn – from the corresponding ratio of 1.71:1. 2012/13). The dividend cover was 4.4 Prudent management of working capital times (5.1 times in 2012/013). continues to be a key focus area and receives focused attention on a priority The Company has access to necessary basis. Inventories as at the year end Finance Interest Cover funds to finance the payment of the Cost-31% 2.42 Times increased to Rs. 4,867 mn compared to final dividend. (2012/13 -41%) (2012/13-2.24) the Rs. 4,141 mn previous year. Year end trade and other receivables increased Solvency to Rs. 2,742 mn from a corresponding Section 56 of the Companies Act No. figure of Rs. 2,086 mn. The increase 7 of 2007, requires that a solvency test in trade receivables can be mainly be carried out prior to the payment attributed to higher level of turnover in of dividends. In order to satisfy this March 2014 compared to March 2013. Taxation requirement, the Company Auditors Trade Payables The income tax expense for the certified that the Company meets the 12% year was Rs.119.3 mn (Rs.35.9 mn requisite solvency levels for payment of – 2012/13). The rate of income the approved dividend. tax applicable to the Company and subsidiaries was 28%, whilst the rate Return on equity (ROE) of income tax applicable for exports Consequent to the reduction in the was a concessionary rate of 12%. The profit before tax, ROE decreased to qualifying payment under Section 34 5.15% from a ratio of 6.1% in the (C) of the Inland Revenue Act No. previous year. Inventories 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto, 59% on account of the investment in the Receivables Mercedes Benz Centre enabled the 30% Group to lower its tax charge for the year and for the preceding year. Working Capital 2012/13 Details of income tax charge for the year are available in Note 4.6 to the Net Profit Asset Financial Financial Statements. The tax expense Margin Turnover Leverage includes a tax charge of Rs. 44 mn on account of deferred tax (Rs. 42 mn 2013/14 2012/13). A summarized computation 1.29 2.03 ROE 4.97% 1.90% times times of deferred tax is given in Note 4.23 to the Financial Statements. Dividends 2012/13 2.13 1.71 1.65% ROE 6.03% times times The Directors have approved a final dividend of Rs.10 per share (first & final dividend of Rs. 10 per share 40 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Trade Payables 14% Debt to equity ratio The Group’s debt to equity, which is calculated as a proportion of the total interest bearing borrowings to equity has increased to 23.15% from 10.10%. Increase in the total Debt (from Rs.770 mn to Rs. 1,832 mn) caused the increase in the Debt to Equity Ratio. Inventories 55% Rs. Mn Receivables 9,000 31% 7,500 Working Capital 2013/14 6,000 Borrowings 4,500 Long-term debt was obtained mainly 3,000 to finance PP&E. The outstanding long term debt as at 31st March 2014 1,500 was Rs.1,832 mn (2012/13 Rs.770 mn), details of which are given in 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 note 4.21 to the financial statements. Short term borrowings were obtained Capital Structure to finance working capital. The Borrowings Equity outstanding balance as at 31st March 2014 on account of short term loans was Rs. 4,117 mn (2012/13 Rs. 2,647 mn). Consequently, a total of Rs.5,950 mn (2012/13 Rs. 3,417 mn) was outstanding on account of short and long term borrowings as at 31st March 2014. Interest rates on overdrafts are reviewed periodically while rates charged on short term/import loans are determined based on market rates. Cash flow The outflow on account of interest and dividend payments amounted to Rs.431 mn and Rs. 88 mn respectively. Outflow on account of Capital Expenditure during the year was Rs. 1.3 bn. (Rs. 1 bn 2012/13). The Group possesses the necessary banking facilities to support its operations. 41 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report Statement of monetised value added and value distributed The statement of value added given below shows the monetised value derived from customers and the manner in which it has been distributed. Statement of Value Added Group Company For the period of 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 % Rs:’000 % Rs:’000 % Rs:’000 % Rs:’000 Gross turnover 20,884,674 27,711,604 19,185,246 26,496,949 Other income 69,419 40,321 69,722 38,305 Less : Cost of material and services bought in (14,669,059) (21,965,396) (13,543,863) (21,118,134) Value Added 6,285,034 5,786,529 5,711,105 5,417,120 Distribution of Value Added Employees 31 1,946,395 29 1,657,099 30 1,716,714 27 1,480,637 Government 52 3,244,962 51 2,971,591 54 3,043,731 55 2,901,017 Lenders 06 361,698 07 395,480 6 348,029 7 389,620 Community Investment -Donation 00 43,848 00 52,122 0 36,602 0 51,522 Shareholders 01 88,764 02 88,764 2 88,764 2 88,764 Retained in the business 10 599,366 11 621,472 8 477,265 9 505,560 Depreciation set aside 04 205,825 03 167,385 3 197,346 3 160,665 Profit retained 06 393,541 08 454,087 5 279,919 6 344,895 Value Distributed 100 6,285,034 100 5,786,529 100 5,711,105 100 5,417,120 42 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Treasury management k Financial investment in capacity Forward looking note building in order to drive growth. The Group operates a central treasury We are focused on improving function. It controls decisions in profitability through cost management, k Optimising profitability through respect of cash management, utilisation greater efficiencies, higher value addition and efficient of borrowing facilities, banking value addition and productivity utilisation of resources particularly relationships and foreign currency improvements. We will continue to through prudent working capital exposure management. Further, it diversify the revenue sources and management. enables effective cross utilisation of reduce high dependence on the funds between Business Units. k Striking a balance between growth auto segment. Overall, the budgets and immediate profitability in for 2014/15 projects an improved allocating financial resources. performance compared to 2013/14. Financial priorities The Group has to gear itself to ride the k Maintaining a healthy Balance post-war economic wave. The following Sheet. financial priorities have been identified in order be in a state of readiness to pursue the opportunities that the rapid economic development will present to the Group. 43 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report A close look at what our employees bring to the process of value creation. Employees Aspect Measure 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Team strength No. of employees 1519 1,521 1,339 1,019 864 Employee turnover as percentage of Employee attrition ratio 17.20 21.81 21.10 19.30 14.20 average employees (%) Female employees as a percentage of Gender distribution 10 10 11 10 9 total employees Percentage of employees below 40 Age distribution 79 79 81 76 72 years of age Employee satisfaction Employee Satisfaction Index (%) 61.10 53.46 62.7 54 54 Knowledge and skills Average training hours per employee 13.10 16 13.52 10.9 10.34 development Guiding philosophy Seeking the best talent, playing Planting a Seed … and the game according to the highest watching it grow Employees provide the fire and passion standards of ethics and compliance, to the process of value creation. They Building human capital starts with providing opportunities for employees guide the Company through its supply talent seeking, continues with talent to evolve, grow and learn, responding chain, providing direction to what it acquisition and then seeks as its goal, to their expectations and creating new does and delivering enhanced value for talent transformation and evolution. opportunities for them, are very much the Company, the environment, other The Company’s philosophy is focused a part of the DIMO philosophy. stakeholders, and for themselves. on transforming employees from being 44 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Building Employee Capital Employee Employee Satisfaction Health & Safety Employee Special Employer Recruitment Training & Relationship Performance Employee Branding & Selection Development Rewards & Management Management Capital Recognition Compliance Leadership Development part of an organization to being part The Company has over the year sought Nurturing Talent of a vision and a passion; to invest and partnerships and collaborations with Training requirements are identified move employees from mere physical universities and technical institutes, through an annual evaluation of belonging to emotional commitment both as a way of building value for employees. The results of this are and self-discovery. those institutions and as a way of analysed and then training and skills attracting some of their best talent. development programmes designed to This is complemented by the strategic The Magnetism of the brand respond to the feedback provided by use of social media to market DIMO The value the Company adds to its employees. and attract new human capital. brand has many benefits, one of which A total of 295 training interventions is to attract new and accomplished DIMO has also invested in the were implemented over the past year. talent into the organization. The development of its own training Training was provided in Sinhala, work of the company, the working schools with a view to capturing and Tamil and English. The average environment, the accolades it receives nourishing talent. Today, universities, training hours per employee for the and satisfaction levels of existing technical schools, NAITA, and the year was 13.00 (16.00 in 2012-13). employees combine to enhance Company’s own training schools are In addition 83 employees had the employer brand value and attract new the main source of the company’s new opportunity to hone their skills in and talented recruits to DIMO. talent. During the year under review several overseas environments. 258 new employees were recruited and 260 employees left DIMO to pursue other opportunities. 45 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report Training is not confined to work A comprehensive grievance policy Work is also fun at DIMO. The related skills. It extends to personality enables all employees to take their ‘Biggest Loser’ competition attracted development, including emotional and grievances before an independent a lot of attention and some serious physical growth and is aimed at the full mechanism. Grievance response seeks competition for the title. The DIMO flowering of the human personality. to ensure that all employees receive quiz was keenly contested as it is each a fair hearing and that the responses year. The Toastmasters’ Club provided are forward looking. The Company an opportunity for employees to ensures that it responds to grievances showcase their oratorical skills. Rs.Mn within 10 days. Last year 28 grievances 30,000 were received by the management, all Managing performance 25,000 of which were satisfactorily resolved. Employees are evaluated twice 20,000 The Company’s human resource and a year against key achievements. human capital policy is available on the Competencies and personal 15,000 Company’s intranet and is accessible development are discussed and to every employee. The Employees’ feedback encouraged. A computer 10,000 Council meet once a month and based performance management 5,000 provides an effective forum for a system allows supervisors to evaluate constructive dialogue between the performance and manage employees 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 management and the employees. in a structured manner. Innovation is encouraged at all levels. Incentives are Average investment on training The Company is committed to offered to high performers and ultraper employee protecting the human rights of all high performers are provided with employees and this is closely integrated additional incentives. into the Code of Business Ethics of the company. The Company is committed Cultivating leadership Managing talent to equal opportunity for all employees Value is enhanced by identifying Communicating with employees and to ensuring a safe and secure strategic channels of leadership. The and providing channels for them environment in all its workspaces. The Company gives priority to identifying to communicate horizontally and HR policy ensures that employees are leaders and providing opportunities vertically is vital if capital is to be not discriminated against on the basis for them to develop their talent. Every nourished. The human resources of gender, ethnicity, caste, old school year the Senior Management team division visits locations on a periodic ties or other distinction. The Company is provided with opportunities for basis where employees can meet has a whistle-blowing policy which is participating in programmes at some representatives and voice grievances or accessible to any employee with the of the leading universities in the world. discuss other matters. requisite confidentiality guarantees. The company’s ‘D-talent programme’, is The Code of Business Ethics and the designed to fast-track young talent, and The Company’s Employees’ Council whistle-blowing policy are accessible on continued to focus on young employees enables employees and management the Company’s intranet. and provided them special learning to have regular and candid discussions opportunities during the past year. on a variety of matters pertaining Expenses related to professional to the Company’s activities. These advancement and the acquisition of discussions cover matters such as knowledge are reimbursed by the Keeping work safe and healthy working conditions, recruitment policy Company. This includes subscriptions The Company’s quality management and Company strategy. to the memberships of professional system (QMS), which has ISO associations. accreditation, deals with all aspects 46 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC relating to employee safety. Internal Rewarding innovation long service receive special recognition and external audits on the effectiveness from the Company. The Company has in place a number of QMS provide assessment on aspects of awards schemes to reward relating to safety and health. The The vehicle workshops and the sales innovation and commitment. The Company obtained the services of the positions that involve travelling have ‘Employee of the Year’ walks away National Institute for Occupational Safety contributed to seeing that the gender with a car for his or her outstanding & Health to carry out a risk assessment ratio is below what the Company would contribution and the ‘Ideas Man on employee health and safety aspects. have liked to have maintained. The (or Woman)’ who comes up with an Company recruited 10 female trainees innovative idea for the year receives to its vehicle workshops over the Growing satisfaction special recognition at the Employees’ past year in an endeavour to redress Every year DIMO conducts an Council. Last year 62 DIMO employees the balance in what is traditionally employee satisfaction survey to were recognized by the Company considered a ‘male’ environment. which employees provide answers in for their contribution to developing anonymity. Employee satisfaction is innovative practices and solutions. 79% of the Company’s employees are assessed in all areas of the Company below the age of 40. 43% of them are including remuneration, perquisites Staff diversity less than 30. and working conditions. The results DIMO aims to recruit staff from of the survey are analysed by the all ethnic and language groups and Sharing value Group Management Committee and from all regions of the country. Staff changes are made where appropriate. The monetised value distributed to diversity is a value the Company The survey had a response rate of employees during the year was Rs1, actively seeks to promote. Last year 91% (91% 2012/13). The overall 946 Mn (Rs1, 657 Mn in 2012/13) and females constituted 10% of the total satisfaction index was 61.1%, up from constituted 32% (29% 2012/13) of the workforce. Employees with a record of the figure of 53.46% the previous year. monetised value created. The average employee cost per head for the year was % Rs1.3 Mn (Rs 1.4 Mn 2012/13). 80 70 Growing employee capital 60 Employee aspirations continue to grow and evolve. The Company will strive 50 to align employee aspirations with 40 Company aspirations and focus on 30 building long term relationships that are mutually rewarding. It will strive to 20 see that employees make a constantly 10 growing contribution to the value creation process. The Company will A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z make sure it creates an environment that stimulates innovation and Employees Satisfaction Survey Index 2013 2014 provides material and other support A-Nature of work/Responsibility J-Support given at employee life events S-Employee Wellbeings B-Freedom to perform duties K-Appraisal System T-Working Environment for employees to learn and pursue C-Availability of challenging Assignments L-Opportunity for Training U-Superior Relations D-Job Security M-Prospects for promotion V-Support professional goals. Employee capital E-Clarity of Job duties N-Superior's Guidance W-Customer Satisfaction F-Salary O-Financial Assistance for Education X-Focus on Quality will continue to be nourished at DIMO. G-Incentives P-Cafeteria Facility Y-Continuous improvement H-other perks Q-Sanitation Z-Focus on Environment I-Recognition & Appreciation R-Medical Facilities 47 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report Customers are at the heart of all that we do. Our success depends upon their satisfaction. Customers Aspect Measure 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Customer Service No. of CRM Personnel 30 35 42 4 3 Customer No. of Customer Interaction Points 60 52 40 25 19 Convenience No. of Business locations in the North 7 8 4 0 0 and East Customer Average Customer Satisfaction Index 88 85.5 89.2 85.6 86 Satisfaction (%) Customers lie at the heart of what intellectual and emotional aspects of Being present and accessible the company does. The Company’s all products and services it provides. Accessibility is an important aspect of business model is built around fostering customer capital. A closer customers and is designed to meet Seeking and reaching out to new and proximity to the customer increases their diverse needs and enhance their diverse customers, engaging with the opportunity for understanding multiple experiences. The Company them to understand their needs, customer needs, developing wellfosters customer capital by investing building internal competencies to tailored products and services, and the in long term relationships that are serve customers better, enhancing likelihood that the customer will return mutually beneficial, rewarding and standards of responsibility, conforming asking for more. transformative. The Company builds to statutory and ethical norms, and value by creating a complete customer constantly raising the bar with regard During the year under review the experience that straddles the material, to customer care, shape DIMO’s company operated 60 ‘Customer approach to building customer value. 48 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Building Customer Capital er cu sto m Pr Reaching ofi lin the Customer gt he Building Competencies Customer Customer Relationship Engaging the customer to Serve the Customer Capital Management r Nu tu rin Responsible ela Customer Care gr tio ns hip s Interaction Points’, up from the 52 received. It has been supported by a new level with the launch of the operated in the previous year. They a state-of-the-art interactive web site ‘Gamin Gamata’ (‘Village to Village’) consisted of Branches, Customer which provides detailed information programme which endeavours to Contact Points and Display Points. on the Company, its products and penetrate new and emerging markets. Each of these is designed to reach and services. Customer engagement serve the company’s diverse customers programmes have been taken to Strategic arrangements have been in the most effective way. The first made with some of the finance and such contact point was opened in leasing companies to enable customers Branches Piliyandala in December 2011 and 3,253 to reap the benefits of special interest since then the Company has made a Display Points and payment schemes and provide Telephone 3,323 strategic effort to make itself more 16,561 additional incentives to invest in the accessible and to develop this aspect of Company’s products and services. its capital. Building skills within DIMO An important part of the accessibility Building customer capital and being programme is the 24-hour Call Centre responsive to customer needs has launched in May 2012. Customers can required a substantial and constant make use of the Call Centre at any investment in skills. Existing skills need time to seek information on products Response to Customer to be honed and new skills generated if and services and lodge complaints. newspaper Contact Points advertisement 3,166 the Company is to respond effectively The Call Centre has been a giant leap 3,252 to customer needs and expand its forward in reaching out to customers customer base. and enables the Company to be available 24 x7. During the year under Sales Enquiries 2013/14 The Company has identified the skills review 29,555 sales enquiries were deficiencies within the Company and 49 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report then sought to fill these gaps in the Sourcing safe products and High ethical standards most productive way. No stone is responsible principals Marketing practices conform to the left unturned in order to acquire and Priority is given to customer comfort, highest standards of ethics and are constantly expands the skills sets within health, safety and general wellbased on transparency, honesty and the Company. To DIMO this is of the being. In sourcing new products, the full disclosure. Here too, compliance essence in building this segment of Company has always sought the best with statutory requirements is strict. capital and enhancing value. in the business and those with a long Customer privacy is respected track record of safety. The Company’s and customer information kept Continuous training and skills quality management system has been confidential. development is an intrinsic part given the ISO 9001:2008 certification. of the human resource strategy at DIMO. This includes in-house Customer complaints training, external training and overseas Strict compliance A total of 492 customer complaints training. During the year under review Responsible value creation has meant were recorded during the year under the sales and service teams, spent a strict compliance with statutory review. This was compared to the 896 total of 4,096 and 4,989 man hours requirements on the provision of complaints received the previous year. (3,444 and 8,395 in 2012/13) man diagrams, expiry dates, code numbers, Of these, 361 (574 in FY 2012/13) were hours respectively on training and and environmental impact. Accurate resolved within three-days as stipulated. skills development. This comprised of labelling is a must and user manuals The number of customer complaints 642 (588 in 2012/13) sales staff who are provided, where required. for every Rs. One Billion of turnover participated in 111 (119 in 2012/13) was 19.8, down from last year’s 32.3. training programs. 763 (822 in 201213) service staff participated in 108 No complaints were received with Rs. Bn No’s (138 in 2012-13) training programmes. regard to any breaches of customer privacy or misuse of personal data. Similarly, no incidents were reported Responsible relationships 35 1,000 during the year under review with 30 Value is built by focusing on 800 regard to breaches of health and safety, responsible customer relationships 25 or product labelling. and the highest standards of care. 600 20 As a Company that markets world class products and services, DIMO 15 400 Flourishing relationships is conscious that its products should 10 Building relationships that are be safe and created through ethical 200 stable, secure, rewarding and 5 manufacturing processes. The transformative is an intrinsic part Company’s products and engineering 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 of the Company’s value creation solutions conform to the highest levels process. Customer relationships are of safety and are designed to ensure Number of Customer complaints ongoing and constantly evolving, minimum impact on the environment. marked with periodic engagements No. of complaints No. of customer In its after care too the Company per Rs. billion gross complaints and an exploration of the multiple turnover seeks to ensure the highest levels of opportunities that the relationship may responsibility and highest standards present. of ethics in all of its customer relationships. 50 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Nourishing enduring and satisfying relationships is a systemized process at DIMO that straddles marketing, point of sale, delivery, after-care, maintenance, complaints, customer satisfaction and customer return. Much of this is monitored by the centralized Customer Relationship Management division which responds to complaints, carries out customer satisfaction surveys, oversees some promotional campaigns and evaluates periodic reports. Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction is central to the long term sustainability of the company. Customer expectations and demands are constantly mapped and since 2002 customer satisfaction surveys have been used as an index of measurement and management. 51 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report Our business partners are key drivers of our value creation process. Business partners Aspect Measure 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Relationship with Principals No. of principals 77 81 78 72 No. of relationships above 50 years 7 6 6 6 No. of relationships between 25 to 50 years 8 10 9 9 No. of relationships between 01 to 25 years 54 58 55 41 No. of new relationships commenced 8 7 8 16 during the year Relationship with local suppliers Payments to local suppliers (Rs. bn) 5.3 4.7 4.5 3.9 DIMO’s business partners are a key Committing to common values ensuring occupational safety at the source of capital in the company’s workplace. These values are reflected In sourcing partners, the company has value creation process. The company’s in the company’s Supplier Code and tried to identify companies that share principals, suppliers and service suppliers have responded positively in DIMO’s values. DIMO is committed providers are a core component of integrating these values into their own to responsible and sustainable the value creation activity at DIMO. supply chains. Upto last year 96 major entrepreneurship and in its dealings Through this process the company not local suppliers committed to upholding with partners has made an effort to only builds value for itself but for the the Supplier Code. develop relations with those entities business partners as well. that share a similar commitment. In forging new partnerships, the company Principals Three important ideas have shaped our has looked for those entities that are The company has sought to grow relations with our business partners: committed to environmental protection, its portfolio by seeking principals trust, transparency and longevity. Using respecting labour standards, promoting that complement DIMO’s strategic these three ideas, we have invested human rights, fostering equal direction. The company has been in long term mutually rewarding opportunity, eliminating corruption fortunate to have partnered with world partnerships. and anti-competitive behaviour, and class brands over these 75 years. 52 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Building Business Partner Capital Business Business Strategic Expectation Relationship Conflict Delivery of Partner Partner Fit of Business Building Resolution Expectation Evaluation Partner Capital SelfEvaluation Business Partner Feedback DIMO has absorbed industry best information, a commitment to Grievance handling practices and technical knowhow from core values and constant feedback Grievances, if any, that emanate these principals, through constant have helped in developing mutually from the company, local suppliers interaction, which have included beneficial relationships. In some or principals, are resolved speedily. regular visits to their locations or cases the company has invested in Regular feedback and communication visits from their representatives to the development and empowerment with partners has reduced the space the company. Regular feedback is of family members of local suppliers for conflict. The company has aimed at provided to principals and they in through a variety of interventions. constructive and critical engagement turn provide regular feedback to the with all partners. It is an engagement company. Healthy partnerships have During the year the company paid Rs: that is forward looking and solution emerged as a result of this policy of 5.3 bn (2012/13 Rs. 4.7 bn) to local oriented and aimed at strengthening open and candid communication and suppliers. already existing relationships. regular contact. This has helped the Rs. Mn company to consistently deliver to the highest standards expected from the Assessing partner needs 6,000 principals. The company is responsive Integrated into the company’s process to the feedback provided by principals 5,000 of value creation is the regular use of and has responded by investing in independent third-party stakeholder 4,000 technical training, infrastructure surveys, which include interviews development and distribution networks 3,000 with suppliers, market research for to strengthen our market presence. business development and assessing 2,000 customer satisfaction. The surveys involving business partners are aimed Local suppliers 1,000 at generating candid feedback on In the case of local suppliers and 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 relationships with business partners our distribution partners too, the and on how these relationships could company has focused on investing be developed and strengthened. The in long term relationships. Regular Payments to local suppliers company has a policy of sharing the communication, sharing of market results of such surveys with suppliers. 53 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report How do we contribute to nation development and empower the diverse people with whom we live and work? Society Aspect Measure 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Investing in the community Community investments as 0.21 0.19 0.14 0.10 a percentage of turnover (%) Vocational development of youth No. of vocational training 16.78 10.50 14.24 14.52 students as a percentage of full-time employees (%) Contribution to the state Taxes paid to the 3,245 2,972 6,062 5,571 government (Rs. Mn) Society and local communities are affected most by the company’s framework could have on the are important contributors to the activities ensures that DIMO builds company’s reputation. company’s supply chain and to how sustainable value. and how much the company creates The company ensures that its value. The value the company builds in compliance with the regulatory regime Strict compliance turn makes an important contribution is strict and this includes compliance Institutional stability is vital for with environmental, product safety and to the development of the country sustainability and this is why DIMO labelling regulations. and society. Social acceptance and goes to great lengths to partner continuous management of our and maintain positive relationships During this year under review, the relationships with the community with relevant local authorities. The company paid Rs. 3,245 (Rs. 2.96bn within which we operate are critical for company is aware of the adverse effects in 2012/13) in taxes to the state. the longevity of our business. Being in that deviations from the regulatory Taxes are paid promptly and in strict touch with the pulse of the people who 54 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Our Society…Live and Let Live Compliance Expectation of with Regulatory Community Requirements Supporting Technical and Vocational Education of Youth Defining the Scope for Developing the Social and Physical Societal Compliant Service to the Infrastructure of the Community Corporate Capital Citizen Community Supporting Technical and Vocational Education of Youth Compliance Economic with Statutory Reality Requirements compliance with the legal regime that Ethical business practices the other hand the company works is in force; the norm being that no with regulatory and non-regulatory DIMO builds value by ensuring such monetary obligations are left bodies and professional associations to that all of its business practices are pending. design relevant policy frameworks and ethical, transparent and honest in shape relevant laws. all circumstances. The company’s Regular training programmes for staff processes within its supply chain are ensure that employees are kept abreast Last year there were no breaches of the designed to ensure ethical outcomes at of changes in tax structures, tariff company’s Code of Business Ethics. all times. regimes and other regulatory changes including local government and The company has in place a Community engagement environmental regulations, new labour comprehensive ‘Code of Business Community acceptance for the regulations, and consumer product Conduct and Ethics’ which is value that DIMO builds is important safety regulations. periodically revised and refined as for sustainable and responsible business practices evolve. It covers antientrepreneurship. Smart management In keeping with the company’s goal corruption, anti-competitive behaviour, of relationships with the community of delivering the best in products, non-discrimination, fair dealing with helps build value for the company. solutions and service to customers, peers, equal opportunity, and dealings DIMO has developed relations with with public institutions, amongst The company engages the community a number of trade, industry and other things. The Code can easily be in multiple ways, including by professional associations. This has accessed on the company’s intranet. way of independent stakeholders helped the company align itself with surveys. These engagements help the industry best practices and play a role The company does not make company to identify the pulse of the in the formulation of policy. contributions to political parties or community, understand community seek to influence political action. On perceptions and feelings, and respond 55 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report to community needs. The results of Technical and vocational career counselling to rural youth these engagements including the education for youth through our partnership with Deutsche stakeholder surveys, are analysed by Gesellschaft Für Internationale DIMO Automobile Training School the Sustainability Committee which Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GMBH. (DATS) formulates targeted interventions. These engagements are used to The DIMO Automobile Training Moreover, students from the following develop products and other responses School opened its doors to the nation’s institutions received vocational training that are responsive to the nuances of youth in 1990. In 2010, DIMO’s at DIMO: community needs and aspirations. commitment to vocational education k NAITA (National Apprentice & led to the opening of another training Industrial Training Authority school in Jaffna. The state-of-the-art Community interventions training schools at Siyambalape and k Ceylon German Technical Training Last year the company made Jaffna are two key channels through Institute interventions in three strategic areas: which the company provides free k University of Moratuwa vocational and technical education to 1. Technical and vocational education youth. k University of Peradeniya for youth k University of Sri Jayawardenapura 2. Developing community DATS provides young people the infrastructure opportunity to work with world class k University of Kelaniya brands and state-of-the-art technology. 3. Enhancing livelihood opportunities k Vocational Training Authority of So far, 368 students have passed out Sri Lanka Total expenditure on these initiatives from DATS as diploma holders. The schools develop a pool of technical k Automobile Engineering Training was Rs. 43.8 mn (Rs. 50.8 mn in expertise within the country and Institute 2012/13). also provide a recruitment source k Ministry of Vocational & Technical for DIMO. There is no obligation for Training Rs. Mn these trainees to work for DIMO and they are free to chart their career k The Open University of Sri Lanka path. DATS has tried to break gender k CETRAC ( Construction 60 stereotypes by making a special Equipment Training Centre) 50 endeavour to train and recruit female k Asian Aviation Centre (Pvt) Ltd mechanics for the automobile sector. 40 At present, there is a batch of 10 During the reporting period, 209 female students enrolled at DATS. apprentices were given the opportunity 30 DIMO invested Rs: 22.9 mn on the two to obtain their vocational training 20 schools during the reporting period. at the company’s facilities (154 in 2012/13). As of now, there is a total 10 Other initiatives the company of 258 apprentices receiving technical undertook last year include the training. 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 provision of technical training programmes on the use of agricultural Community development expenditure machinery, career guidance workshops Developing community in collaboration with the universities infrastructure of Sri Jayewardenepura and Moratuwa, Investments in community provision of school materials, food infrastructure plays an important items to disabled and disadvantaged role in relationship building. Last groups and the provision of Mobile year trainees from the DIMO 56 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Automobile Training School helped and children, for their empowerment in the renovation and development and their equal access to opportunities. of the Kalotuwawa Primary School in Dedunupitiya. The water supply Some of the community empowerment system at the iconic Athugala Samadhi projects carried out during this Temple in the Kurunegala District was reporting period include awareness strengthened to help the thousands programmes on disease prevention, who flock there every year. The child nutrition programmes, blood company also opened the state-ofdonation camps, development of the-art DIMO Technical Institute in religious sites, opportunities for Sooriyawewa, which is equipped with rural entrepreneurs to own low cost state-of-the art driver and technical commercial vehicles, soil testing and training facilities. agricultural awareness programmes for farmers and partnering with local universities to carry out research to No’s of youth modify logistics related regulations 300 250 200 150 100 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 Number of youth afforded training Enhancing livelihood opportunities DIMO continues to build value by investing in local communities and in livelihoods in different parts of the country. A special focus is given to disabled, disadvantaged communities. The company has developed a special programme of assistance for disabled persons, including disabled soldiers 57 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report Our quest for perfection is driven by our intellectual capital – the source of all intelligent innovation and creative ideas. Intellectual Capital A model of inspiration and Developing organisational Time tested processes innovation knowledge Over the years we have developed Our store of intellectual capital is built The company’s organisational robust organisation-wide processes, through multiple synergies derived knowledge-based intangibles are core value creation activities and from the value creation process. These embedded in the corporate culture, support services that have evolved synergies are manifested in three structures, processes of governance, processes that are unique to the intangibles; organisational knowledge data and information and the nuances company. based intangibles or expertise, process of intuition among employees. capital the systems and processes that Growing brand value are unique to DIMO and brand equity, The DIMO corporate culture enables The DIMO brand is now a ripe old that is, the name, logo and perceptions learning, provides opportunities to ‘75’. It has all the characteristics and that identify our company in the public explore and innovate. The company advantages of a vintage brand, rich, eye. also encourages an open culture of robust, owning years of acquired skills knowledge-sharing and building on and long relationships with diverse These three capitals help drive the knowledge already acquired, across stakeholders. At the same time it company’s value creation activities. different tiers. carries the advantages of a young Value creation and intellectual capital brand adapting easily to change and are thus inter-dependent while embracing new ideas and challenges innovation is a key factor that is with gusto. embedded in the value creation process. 58 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Intellectual capital Organisational knowledge based intangibles Process Intellectual Capital Capital Brand Value The DIMO brand is another form of capital that contributes to building value within the company. The brand is an integral element of the company’s innovative supply chain process that in turn, replenishes and rejuvenates the brand. One of DIMO’s brand strengths is the trust and goodwill the company has generated over the years. Our portfolio of quality products and our expert, responsive after-care services have ensured that our customers return to us over and over again. 59 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report Minimising the impact that we have on our physical environment and inspiring our employees and society to internalize the values of conservation remain our priorities. Environment Aspect Measure 2013-14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Combating Climate Carbon footprint tCO2 e per Rs. 1 mn of Group 0.2773 0.2218 0.1674 0.1064 0.2472 Change net turnover Energy Total energy consumption (1,000 GJ) 52,333 60,547 78,184 32,264 26,210 Consumption Energy consumption (Giga joules) per employee 34 42 58 31 30 (on average) Water Consumed Total water consumption (m3) 90,487 101,984 75,640 46,408 37,572 Water Recycled Ground water recycled and reused as a percentage 24 % 21.00 15.00 24.00 34.00 of total water consumption (%) Waste Management Hazardous waste (solid) sent for recycling/reusing 125,153 132,364 65,989 37,002 N/A Kg Hazardous waste (liquid) sent for recycling/reusing 107,646 105,506 94,267 80,295 N/A Litres 60 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Building Environmental Capital Materials Management Management Noise of Atmospheric Management Emissions and Climate Change Environmental Capital Waste Energy & Fuel Management Management Water Management DIMO’s environmental strategy ISO 14001 (2004) certified, that nudges could possibly have an impact on the is driven by two principles. The the company towards environmentally community. company’s first principle seeks friendly goals. The Environment to minimize the impact that the Management System (EMS) is managed Stakeholder engagement with local company’s operations have on the by the company’s Group Management communities has also identified physical environment. The second Committee and Sustainability their expectation of us to be seeks to inspire employees and society Committee, which oversee all aspects environmentally friendly. It may also to internalize the value of conservation of the system. have an impact on the company’s social and to commit to minimizing the licence to operate. Climate change impacts on the environment. DIMO’s Over the years the EMS has identified continues to pose a major challenge environmental strategy is grounded six areas where the company should to the global community and the in the idea that the company should minimize adverse impacts and company is conscious of the harm that re-use, re-cycle and replenish wherever maximize positive impacts. carbon based fuels cause. possible, and preserve today’s physical environment for generations yet This is the sixth consecutive year in Greenhouse emissions unborn. which the company has calculated and Emissions are the invisible destroyer. reported on its carbon footprint. Their impact is subtle and long term A comprehensive environmental and has previously been easier to hide. The measurement methodology management system The main greenhouse gas (GHG) follows the standards laid down All forms of entrepreneurship impact emitted into the atmosphere by the in the WBCSD/WRI Greenhouse on the environment. For entrepreneurs activities of the company is carbon Gas Protocol’s Corporate Standard the challenge is to minimize adverse dioxide. DIMO has taken steps to (Revised Edition). impacts and maximize positive impacts. measure and manage emission levels, DIMO has in place a comprehensive being conscious of the fact that this environmental management system, 61 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report Emission tCO e The company has in place processes to ensure that all materials used as THERE WAS A 7.7% 7,500 part of the company’s activities are REDUCTION IN THE stored, used and then disposed of in COMPANY’S CARBON line with the company’s comprehensive 6,000 FOOTPRINT. THIS IS Environmental Management System. ATTRIBUTED TO A The company’s Materials Management 4,500 REDUCTION IN DIESEL System ensures that materials are 3,000 USED FOR DELIVERY recycled wherever possible. Those VEHICLES AND REDUCED materials that cannot be re-cycled are ELECTRICITY USAGE. disposed in a responsible way. 1,500 Atmospheric emissions Managing energy usage 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 The company’s main sources of Atmospheric emissions are tested every energy are electricity, diesel, petrol, Carbon Footprint three months. So far the company has and liquefied petroleum gas. The Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total ensured that its emissions levels are expenditure on energy is significant well below the level set by the Central because of the nature of its business Environmental Authority (CEA). The direct GHG emissions from diesel activities. Electricity is obtained used for company vehicles, delivery A comprehensive system of ‘gas’, and mainly from the national grid. of brand new vehicles and other uses ‘dust’ extractors and filtration systems This is supplemented by the use of amounted to 2,511 tCO2e (2,914 across all the company’s workshop sites environmentally friendly ‘in-house’ tCO2e in 2012/13). This is 43% (47% ensure that emissions are kept within generators. in last year) of the company’s total acceptable limits. Carbon dioxide carbon footprint. Stringent processes measure and and diesel fumes from our Mercedez carefully manage energy consumption Benz workshop are captured, stored DIMO’s GHG emission during the within the company. The cost of energy and released in controlled volumes year under review was 0.2773 tCO2e is a significant part of product and into the atmosphere. Exhaust and gas per Rs.1 Mn of net turnover. This is in service costs, and has an important extractors capture emissions from comparison to the last year’s figure of impact on the company’s bottom line. engine testing and the cleaning of air 0.2218 tCO2e. This increase is partially filters and brake assemblies. Filtration due to the reduction in turnover that Overall energy usage reduced by 13% systems in the company’s paint booths did not result in a proportionate over the past year. Diesel fuel usage for capture toxic fumes and particles, byreduction in GHG emissions. There delivery of vehicles reduced by 20% products of the ‘painting’ process. was a 7.7% reduction in the company’s and this had a significant impact on carbon footprint. This is attributed to overall energy consumption. Stringent a reduction in diesel used for delivery Materials management processes to monitor diesel usage were vehicles and reduced electricity usage. The company uses a substantial implemented during the year. Petrol quantity of materials for vehicle consumption increased by 7% because The company will continue to monitor repairs, for after care of vehicles, of an increase in sales promotion its carbon footprint and ensure that and in providing various engineering activities. Electricity consumption there is a progressive reduction in solutions. This includes paints, decreased by 14%. years to come. kerosene, lubricants, re-threaded tyres, floor carpets, lacquer, thinner, putty and filler. 62 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC External and ‘in-house’ energy audits Total water consumption & compliance with regulatory limits. All have identified a number of areas reused water of the company’s workshop locations where the company can reduce contain a state-of-the-art biological Water consumption decreased by energy usage. The use of capacitor water treatment and recycling plant. 10.1 % over the past year. This was banks for power factor correction, Wherever possible water is recycled mainly due to a 15% decrease in the replacement of incandescent and re-used. water consumption at the company’s lighting with CFL and LED lighting, headquarters. 24% of the ground programming all computers to revert water consumed (21 % in FY 2012/13) to standby mode within a fiveminute M3 has been recycled and reused. This idling period, and the setting of amounts to 11% (11% in FY 2012/13) 110,000 air conditioning units at a constant of the total water consumption. minimum of 24 degrees Celsius or more, are some of the measures that 88,000 were identified and measures the company implemented across all of its 66,000 OVERALL ENERGY locations. The company is certified to conduct energy diagnoses and audits USAGE REDUCED BY 13% 44,000 and is accredited by the Sri Lanka OVER THE PAST YEAR. Sustainable Energy Authority. DIESEL FUEL USAGE FOR 22,000 CUSTOMER DELIVERIES Optimised water usage REDUCED BY 20% 2011/ 12 2012/ 13 2013/ 14 Water is a primary and indispensable input for the vehicle service and repair Water usage/ reused business. In addition, water is used Municipal Ground Rain water Re-used for other purposes at all location sites. The amount of water re-cycled water water harvesting water The company continues to rely on the increased because of an increase in national supply for its water. capacity at the water treatment plant at Siyambalape. The total volume The company is subject to random The company’s processes ensure of water reused at Siyambalape and independent checks by a CEA the measurement, management and Weliveriya was 9,692 m³. Of this, approved entity. Re-cycled water is recycling of water used within the 4,917m³ has been used for vehicle checked randomly to ensure pH Value, Group. Water optimization affects washing purposes whilst the balance Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), the company’s bottom line, and was used for gardening purposes in Biochemical Oxygen Demand, Total helps conserve a natural resource both premises. Suspended Solids and Oil/Grease that is critical to society. Waste water DIMO’s waste management processes content levels are below the tolerance is treated to comply with regulatory prevent the discharge of untreated levels set by the CEA. The levels have requirements before being released water into the sewage system. Waste always been found to be within the into the environment to ensure that water from all workshops pass through parameters of the CEA. there are no harmful effects to the community. oil separators and are monitored to ascertain their pH levels, to ensure 63 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Value Creation Report Waste management Organic During the year under review 125,153 Pallet racks 25% kilograms (132,364 kg in 2012-13) The measurement and management 25% Plastic and 107,646 litres, (105,506 litres in of effluents and waste is necessary 1% 2012-13) of hazardous waste items were as it helps the company evaluate handed over to CEA approved third the level of efficiency with which parties for recycling/ to be re-used. the service centres operate. It also helps the company ascertain how environmentally friendly it is. Being Noise management able to recycle and reuse helps keep Noise emissions from all of the Polythene costs down while mitigating the 4% company’s facilities are strictly adverse impacts on the environment. Cardboard boxes Contaminated paper controlled to ensure that they 33% Efficient waste management 12% do not cause discomfort to those plays a pivotal role in adhering in the vicinity. Noise levels are Non-hazardous solid waste disposal to environmental regulations and measured constantly by the Central Kg 2013/14 ensuring that the local communities Environmental Authority (CEA) where the company operates do not to ensure that it remains within face any health hazards as a result of acceptable limits. the company’s business activities. HAZARDOUS WASTE Environmentally friendly Non-hazardous solid waste ITEMS WERE HANDED buildings management OVER TO CEA APPROVED In order to pursue the company’s The company’s systematised approach THIRD PARTIES FOR sustainability objectives to the to effluent and waste segregation for RECYCLING maximum and to further integrate non-hazardous solid waste, which the sustainability ethos into all aspects forms part of the EMS, involves of DIMO’s operations, the company separating materials at source. began to explore the use of ‘Green Materials such as organic material, Hazardous waste management Buildings’ at different locations within paper, plastic and polythene are the Group. Hazardous waste is regularly handed classified so that management becomes over to designated third parties for easier and more efficient. The implementation of the green recycling. This includes waste oil, building concept began with the Colour coded bins are provided at thinner, sludge, mettle scraps, metal construction of the Bosch Service all the company’s locations and waste dust, paint cans, filters, batteries, tyres Centre at the Head Office premises is separated at source. Disposed and saw dust. No chemical spillages in 2011. This facility, constructed as a food is given to a third party for use have taken place at DIMO. Employees ‘Green Building’ began commercial as animal feed. Last year 136,192 have been trained to respond promptly operations in January 2012. The LEED kilogrammes (134,536kg in 2012-13) to chemical spillages, should they Gold Certificate was obtained for this of non-hazardous waste were handed occur. Regular training is provided to building. over to CEA approved third parties for employees on safety measures and the recycling or to be reused. proper handling of materials. 64 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC The recently completed Dimo 800 – Mercedes Benz Centre at Sirimavo Bandaranaike Mawatha, Colombo 14, was also constructed in line with the Green Building concept. The company expects to save approximately 25 % energy from the energy saving initiatives taken. Protecting biodiversity: Turtle conservation at Panama The objective of the turtle conservation project, carried out in partnership with the Environmental Foundation Limited (EFL), is to conserve marine turtles by restoring and rehabilitating their nesting habitats along the Panama coastal line in the Eastern Province. A new agreement to continue the partnership for this project was signed on the 2nd of December 2013. The marine turtle monitoring and conservation program in the KomariPanama area will be developed into a community-based turtle monitoring, conservation and education programme. Under the renewed agreement, as of now, 3570 hatchlings were released to the ocean and 88% of the eggs have successfully hatched. 65 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Unusually diverse, predictably excellent Find out how our products and services play their role in the generation of sustainable value. “Whatever we do, we do it well. And whatever we do, we strive to bring added value into every transaction we process.” Vehicles Sales Vehicles After Care Services Marketing & Distribution Construction & Material Handling Equipment & Services Electro Mechanical, Bio Medical & Marine Engineering 66 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Value creation activities This section provides an overview of the “value creation activities” undertaken by each business segment together with their performance. Registration of Vehicles in Sri Lanka Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Class of vehicles Motor cars 20,237 5,762 23,072 57,886 31,546 28,380 Three-wheelers 44,804 37,364 85,648 138,426 98,815 83,673 Motor cycles 155,952 135,421 204,811 253,331 192,284 169,280 Buses 1,180 739 2,491 4,248 3,095 1,805 Dual purpose vehicles 2,856 1,280 11,712 33,518 37,397 24,603 Goods transport vehicles 14,038 8,225 11,845 14,818 12,266 5,872 Land vehicle 26,132 15,284 19,664 23,194 21,892 13,038 TOTAL 265,199 204,075 359,243 525,421 397,295 326,651 Source: Department of Motor Traffic Adding value through an the primary contributors to value innovative supply chain generation. These core areas were supported by interventions in the DIMO uses monetised and nonfinancial and commercial services, in monetised capitals to generate IT, marketing and human resource significant outputs and outcomes management. The company’s capital for company, stakeholders and deployed in these core areas and environment. In 2013 DIMO continued support services, helped in the process to deploy its supply chain process to of value creation and in growing both generate value in a number of key monetised and non-monetised capital. areas. The company’s core activities sourcing, warehousing, marketing, solution mapping, engineering, delivery and after sales care – were 67 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements VEHICLES Sales A key part of our portfolio is the vehicle segment. From high-end luxury brands to hardworking commercial vehicles, we deliver a range of passenger, four-wheel drive, commercial and special purpose vehicles that serve Sri Lankans from every part of the island. Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 35,000 5,000 28,000 4,000 21,000 3,000 14,000 2,000 7,000 1,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Vehicle Sales Group Results vs Vehicle Sales Results Turnover Results Group Results Results 68 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Adding value with ‘high-end’ Borrowing and lending rates dropped Outlook and utility vehicles in 2013/14 although the expected The company anticipates that the increase in demand did not occur. The sale and the after care of heavy investments earmarked for passenger, commercial vehicles and offinfrastructure and roads over the next The ‘DIMO Batta’, which the company road vehicles is one of the company’s few years and a lower interest rate started marketing in 2006 has core activities. The company markets regime will stimulate a healthy growth transformed the lives of thousands a range of vehicles which include in this sector. DIMO stands ready to of Sri Lankan entrepreneurs. It has Mercedes Benz, Tata, Chrysler Jeep, capitalize on this opportunity. provided a variety of entrepreneurs Mahindra tractors and Claas machines. with a low cost and functional vehicle The company’s overall performance that serves multiples purposes. During is influenced significantly by how this the year the company sold 10,375 units segment performs. out of which 6,772 were DIMO Battas. There was a decrease in the total 43 showrooms in all parts of the number of vehicle registrations in 2013 country showcase the company’s by 18% (a 24% decrease in 2012). Car vehicles. Innovations such as a ‘twentyregistrations decreased by 10%, buses four hour roadside assistance service’, by 42%, three-wheelers by 15%, land Adhisathkara and Gamin Gamata have vehicles by 40% and ‘goods transport ensured that customers are provided vehicles’ by as much as 52%. with the highest levels of after sales care. Import tariff and interest rates have a critical bearing on the growth of the automobile market in Sri Lanka. An Vehicle sales -segment 2013/14 2012/13 enhanced duty structure on vehicles Segment Turnover (Rs. mn) 13,262 20,736 has curtailed demand over the past % Contribution to the Group Turnover 64% 75% two years. On the other hand the Segment Result (Rs. mn) 692 916 commercial vehicle business is highly dependent on the prevailing interest% Contribution to the Group Segment Result 41% 54% rate regime. Most of these vehicles are Segment Capital employed(Rs.mn) 4,028 3,740 purchased through lease agreements or Weighted average customer satisfaction index 90% 91% from commercial borrowings. No of vehicles sold by Dimo 10,375 14,199 Principals represented 69 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements VEHICLES After Care Services World-class accessories and components are simply part of our renowned after care service package. DIMO also serves our customers through our state-of-the-art Mercedes Benz Centre and the LEED Gold certified BOSCH Diesel Centre and Car Service Centre, offering industry expertise, state of the art diagnostic equipment and access to best-in-class automobile engineering services. Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 3,500 5,000 2,800 4,000 2,100 3,000 1,400 2,000 700 1,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Vehicles After Services Group Results vs Vehicles After Services Turnover Results Reuslts Group Results Results 70 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Adding value with quality Vehicle after care today requires added value to our supply chain in this ‘After Sales’ care the intensive use of state-of-the-art segment. technology. DIMO has invested heavily The state-of-the-art Mercedes Benz in training technically sound and service centre that opened in 2014 will Outlook technologically advanced engineers transform ‘after sales care’ offered by The new state-of-the-art workshop at over the years. It has placed strong the company. It will complement the the Mercedes Centre will significantly emphasis on maximizing the benefits services offered by the Bosch Centre, improve workshop capacity, providing of modern technology for vehicle which DIMO opened two years ago. a boost to the revenue streams from after care and on carving a niche as During 2014 the company will relocate this segment. Relocation of the Tata a technological leader. An elaborate the Tata passenger vehicle service passenger car workshop too will help training structure and an ‘in-house’ centre to its headquarters. This will be to improve its capacity and revenue. training centre ensure the constant accompanied by a re-organisation of Overall this segment is expected to availability of well-equipped engineers the Tata service dealer network and a record a much improved performance. with the capacity to understand strengthening of service capacity. diagnostic issues and advise on Apart from providing ‘after sales care’ effective solutions. The use of for Mercedes Benz, Chrysler Jeep, electronic and on-line catalogues has Tata vehicles and Mahindra tractors, DIMO also holds the franchise for spare parts for these vehicles and has Vehicle after sales-segment 2013/14 2012/13 a country-wide distribution network. Segment Turnover (Rs. mn) 2,067 2,294 Spare parts for these brands of vehicles % Contribution to the Group Turnover 10% 8% and tractors are made available Segment Result (Rs. mn) 386 445 through 21 distribution centres in % Contribution to the Group Segment Result 23% 26% different parts of the country. Segment Capital employed(Rs.mn) 1,429 1,251 Weighted average customer satisfaction index 85% 77% Workshop throughput – No. of vehicles 7,451 7,504 Principals represented 71 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements MARKETING & DISTRIBUTION The Marketing & Distribution sector is a broad one, delivering total solutions in tyres, auto components, power tools and lighting products from a range of global brands. Top quality product technology combined with highly trained personnel make us outstanding in these industry segments. Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 3,000 5,000 2,400 4,000 1,800 3,000 1,200 2,000 600 1,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Marketing and Distribution Group Results vs Marketing & Turnover Results Distribution Group Results Results 72 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Adding Value through Marketing & distribution segment Outlook Marketing and Distribution considerably improved its contribution The construction sector boom has Operations to the segment result with the Original given an impetus to the lighting and equipment (OE) business being The Marketing and Distribution power tools businesses. Plans are afoot a major contributor. Power tools segment of DIMO’s operations markets to add two more product ranges, which business too performed exceptionally a range of quality products that include will boost the segment turnover. The well to record the highest ever profit tyres, modern lighting products, power growth momentum experienced in the to come from its operations. Power tools, original equipment for vehicles tyre business in the second half of the tools accessories sales remained the (OE) and Bosch auto components. year is expected to continue during market leader in the branded products These products are distributed mainly the ensuing year. In order to improve segment. Tyre retailing is being through a country-wide network of competitiveness, strengthening of considered as a strategy for market distributors and dealers. Key aspects the distribution network will receive penetration and the company recently driving performance in this segment special focus. The budgets indicate that opened a retail outlet in Wattala taking are a reliable marketing strategy, strong Bosch and Original Equipment (OE) the first step in this direction. execution of this strategy, and the business will enhance the contribution effective management of the inventory to segment result. Overall, a much and receivables. Sourcing quality improved performance is expected products, warehousing them and from this segment. prompt delivery play an important part in the supply chain of this segment. The company uses the logistics centre Marketing and Distribution -segment 2013/14 2012/13 at Weliveriya as its main warehouse to Segment Turnover (Rs. mn) 2,650 2,134 supply agents throughout the country. % Contribution to the Group Turnover 13% 8% Segment Result (Rs. mn) 209 15 % Contribution to the Group Segment Result 12% 1% Segment Capital employed(Rs.mn 1,505 1,132 Weighted average customer satisfaction index 86% 87% Segment Receivables – (Rs. Mn) 817 452 Segment Inventory – (Rs. mn) 511 566 Principals represented 73 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements CONSTRUCTION & MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT & SERVICES Sri Lankans all over the island now have access to state-of-the-art technology in construction and mining equipment. DIMO also offers a range of after-market support services, company certified implements and original components. Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 3,500 5,000 2,800 4,000 2,100 3,000 1,400 2,000 700 1,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Construction, Material Handling Group Results vs Construction, Material Equipment & After Services Handling Equipment & After Services Turnover Results Results Group Results Results 74 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Adding value through the This segment of the company’s Outlook construction and infrastructure operations was buoyed by the Strong public sector investments industry momentum of the country’s in highways, railroads, and port construction sector. “BOMAG” asphalt DIMO provides a range of solutions development will present this segment pavers, “KAESER” compressors, for infrastructure development with more business opportunities. This LEEBOY backhoe loaders, “GEHL” and the construction industry. momentum is likely to be maintained skid steer loaders and “PALFINGER” Bulldozers, rollers and compressors and the company will continue to truck mounted cranes were introduced and more specialized machinery support the development of a robust to the product portfolio of this such as pavers and cranes provide a infrastructure, housing and the segment during the year. ‘one stop shop’ for those engaged tourism industry for Sri Lanka at the in road construction. Warehousing same time creating value for DIMO. solutions such as racking systems, material handling equipment, storage management systems and automated Construction Material Handling Equipment and Services 2013/14 2012/13 car parking systems are designed for Segment Turnover (Rs. mn) 1,273 1,381 another group of entrepreneurs. The % Contribution to the Group Turnover 6% 5% company provides full maintenance Segment Result (Rs. mn) 174 142 contracts with the equipment it markets, providing added value to % Contribution to the Group Segment Result 10% 8% customers. The warehousing solutions Segment Capital employed (Rs.mn) 579 492 are unique and include the full Weighted average customer satisfaction index 90% 86% spectrum of services from design to Contribution of full maintenance contracts to the 32.75% 42.25% supply and commissioning of a fully segment result functional state-of-the-art warehouse. Principals represented 75 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements ELECTRO-MECHANICAL, BIO MEDICAL & MARINE ENGINEERING This segment is possibly our widest, including building automation systems, fire detection, protection and suppression systems, CCTV and access control systems, public address systems, power systems for marine propulsion and rail traction, industrial refrigeration and medical equipment. Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 1,700 5,000 1,360 4,000 1,020 3,000 680 2,000 340 1,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Electro Mechanical, Bio Medical & Group Results vs Electro Mechanical, Bio Marine Engineering Medical & Marine Engineering Results Turnover Results Group Results Results 76 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Adding value through ElectroThe Bio-Medical Engineering business Outlook Mechanical, Bio-Medical and was the top performer of this Sri Lanka is in a phase of the economy Marine Solutions segment. State of the art diagnostic where spending in construction equipment such as highend MRI This is a segment that has seen a industry, power generation and and CT scanners were installed and rapid expansion in the recent years transmission and healthcare is rapidly commissioned by the engineers of the in scope and in size. The Electro increasing. This significantly enhances DIMO tribe. During the year under Mechanical Engineering business the prospects of this segment. We review, the first tomotherapy unit in includes many building services such as also note the encouragingly consistent Sri Lanka was imported and supplied fire detection and protection systems, growth recorded in this segment. This by DIMO. The building technologies building technologies, security and is a key area that is expected to be business was active in the private electrical engineering solutions and developed in the short and medium sector and public sector projects and services including transmission and term in our endeavour to reduce made a significant contribution to the distribution. This is an area where total dependence on the auto related segment result. The Power Engineering solutions are offered to the customer segments. The budgets indicate a business too made its contribution to upon understanding their requirement. further improved performance in the development of the power sector, The Bio Medical Engineering business 2014/15. whilst creating value for DIMO. deals with state of the art equipment in diagnosis, therapy, ophthalmology and critical care. Therefore, our solution Electro Mechanical , Bio Medical and Marine 2013/14 2012/13 extends to designing, supplying, Engineering commissioning and after service of Segment Turnover (Rs. mn) 1,630 1,165 the solution proposed. The Marine % Contribution to the Group Turnover 8% 4% solutions business is mainly engaged Segment Result (Rs. mn) 245 186 in areas related to repair of ships and marine craft. Solution mapping, % Contribution to the Group Segment Result 14% 11% engineering and after service are Capital employed 1,494 1,034 critical activities in the supply chain of Weighted average customer satisfaction index 88% 88% this segment. Principals represented 77 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Sustainability Performance Objectives in 2013/14 Achievement Aspect Term Objective 2013-14 Remarks 2012/13 2011/12 (Annualised) Monetised Long/ ROE to be more than Not achieved Not Achieved The AWDR+3% as at year end was 11.45% Capital Short Annual AWDR+3% achieved The ROE for the period was 3.29%. The ROE for 2012/13 was 6.1% Customer Long To ensure continuity of a Achieved Achieved Achieved A quality management system accredited customer-centric Quality with ISO 9001:2008 is in place Management system with suitable accreditation Short Number of training hours Not achieved Achieved Achieved The number of training hours of sales for sales personnel to personnel was 25% less than the previous increase by 10% from year previous year Short To achieve a Weighted Achieved Achieved Achieved During the year under review the Average Customer Weighted Average Customer Satisfaction Satisfaction Index score of Index score was 89%. In 2012/13 this was more than 85% 85.2% Short Each branch to have a Achieved Achieved Not Each branch achieved the required customer interaction event Applicable number of customer events each quarter Employee Short To achieve an employee Achieved Not Achieved In the current year the employee satisfaction index score of achieved satisfaction index score has increased to more than 60% 61.10% from 53.46 in 2012-13 Short Average training hours per Achieved Achieved Achieved Average Training hours per employee was employee per year to be 13.10 hours in 2013/14. The corresponding more than 10 hours figure for 2012/13 was 16.00 Hours Long To maintain an the ratio of Achieved Achieved Not The ratio was 20% in 2013/14 and 2012-13 female to male employees, achieved excluding workshops and field sales of more than 15% Business Short To carry out a performance Achieved Achieved Achieved The Annual Principal performance Partner evaluation of twenty foreign evaluation process made this possible Principals at least once a year Short To obtain declarations from Achieved Achieved Achieved Declarations from 74% of the current at least 50% of the current major local suppliers have been obtained major local suppliers, that they will abide by the DIMO supplier code Society Short Invest at least .05% of Achieved Achieved Achieved In 2013/14 Dimo has invested 0.20% of turnover on community the turnover on community development development activities activities. In 2012/13 this was 0.19%. During the year under review expenditure on community development activities was Rs. 43.8 mn (Rs. 50.8 mn in 2012/13) 78 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Achievement Aspect Term Objective 2013-14 Remarks 2012/13 2011/12 (Annualised) Society Long/ To provide vocational Achieved Achieved Achieved The number of vocational trainees Short training for trainees who registered for training in 2013/14 numbering more than 5% was 16.78% of the average number of of the number of employees employees for the year. This was 10.76% in 2012/13 Short 100% compliance with Achieved Achieved Achieved The Company’s Code of Business Laws and Government Ethics require compliance with laws and regulations regulation at all times. No non-compliances were reported during the year Environment Long To re-cycle and re-use at Achieved Achieved Not We were able to achieve 24% in 2013/14 least 20% of the ground Achieved due to expansion of the water recycling water used capacity. The corresponding figure for 2012/13 was 21% Short Waste segregated and Achieved Achieved Achieved In 2013/14 the Company renewed the handed over to selected waste collection agreements with 3rd third parties for recycling/ parties who were approved by the Central reuse to be more than 90% Environmental Authority. These parties of total solid waste were capable of providing a total solution for waste management Short Carbon Foot Print for every Not Achieved Not Not Carbon footprint for every Rs. one million Rs. 1.0 mn of turnover to Achieved Achieved mn of turnover in 2013/14 was 0.2773 reduce by 5% tC02e. The corresponding figure for 2012/13 was 0.2218 tCO2e. However, the total carbon footprint reduced from 6,242 tCO2 to 5,768 tCO2 Value creation Long Reduce dependence Partially Partially Not Non-vehicle segment turnover increased on vehicle business by achieved achieved achieved by 25% and segment result increased by increasing the turnover & 234% in 2013/14 compared segment result of Nonvehicle business at least by 15% per annum Long/ EVA To be positive Not achieved Not Achieved EVA created during 2013/14 was a negative Short achieved value of Rs.536 mn and in 2012/13 it was a negative value of Rs.547 mn Long/ Value Added to increase Not achieved Not Achieved The Value Added has increased by 6 % in Short every year at a rate more achieved 2013/14 over the previous year, Which did than the rate of inflation not meet the objective of 11.9% +5% 79 Annual Report 2013/14 The ‘sanhinda’ was where people would gather to resolve matters of governance, initiate community discussions and enjoy social interaction. Var . ri . ga Ree . thi Governance & Risk Management Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Senior Independent Director’s Statement Senior Independent Director’s compliance with laws, regulatory Statement requirements and the Code of Ethics. The ‘Code of Best Practice on A Director is permitted to obtain Corporate Governance 2013’ (The independent professional advice that Code) issued jointly by the Securities may be required in discharging his and Exchange Commission and The responsibilities, at the Company’s Institute of Chartered Accountants expense. of Sri Lanka recommends that a Senior Independent Director (SID) As the SID, which role I have played be appointed in the event of the since May 2009, I am consulted by Chairman heading the executive the Chairman on major strategic and function of the Company. governance issues. As the SID, I make myself available to any Director to The presence of a SID provides a have any confidential discussion on workable mechanism to review the role the affairs of the Company, should played by the Chairman. Whilst the the need arise. By virtue of being the role of the Chairman entails providing Chairman of the Audit Committee, I leadership in observing best practices also meet Independent Auditors and of corporate governance, my role Internal Auditors and obtain their as the SID calls for a review of the views on any matters of concern. Board’s effectiveness. The presence of the SID also provides emphasis to transparency in matters relating to governance. Dimo is committed to principles of good governance and always strives to R.Seevaratnam live by the Best Practices of Corporate Senior Independent Director Governance. The governance culture of the Company is strongly embraced Colombo by the Board of Directors. The 23rd May 2014 Company follows a policy of strict 82 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Transparent, accountable and responsible A very detailed analysis of our corporate governance philosophies, policies and practice. “DIMO perceives good governance as an uncompromising effort that enables growth in a sustainable manner; not as a set of controls that stifles progress.” Philosophy The Sustainability Committee, requirements demand a robust containing members of the Board enterprise governance framework. Enterprise Governance is at the and management, has the primary core of the corporate philosophy of responsibility to oversee the Dimo. It perceives good governance Governance Framework Group’s activities with regard to the as an uncompromising pursuit that The ultimate responsibility for good identification and management of provides the platform for growth in governance rests with the Board of environmental and social concerns and a sustainable manner; not as a set of Directors. In order to effectively fulfill the achievement of the sustainability controls that stifles growth. this responsibility, the Board has in objectives. It is the duty of this place a governance structure and a Committee to report critical issues Governance Policy to the Board for action. Operational process to monitor its effectiveness. The Audit Committee, Remuneration Dimo is committed to a policy aspects relating to management of Committee and Nomination of transparent, accountable and environmental and social impacts are Committee together with the Group responsible governance. In doing delegated to the respective business Management Committee play a leading so, the Board accepts the position units. role in ensuring effective enterprise of trusteeship, stewardship, and governance. accountability that is placed upon it. Governance Model The Board’s objective is to deliver The Board identifies the scope of The governance framework is designed superior returns to all stakeholders Enterprise Governance, which that taking into consideration the demands and it is done in conformity with is implemented starting from the placed by the aspects of conformance acceptable corporate behaviour. Board Room throughout the Value and performance along with legislative Creation process. This signifies that the and regulatory requirements and best Governance in Action conformance and performance aspects practices of enterprise governance. Primary authority for identifying, of Governance should be identified It consists of a governance structure, overseeing and evaluating economic in relation to managing the capitals regulation framework and assurance concerns is vested in the Board of and value creation activities. Duties and certification sources. Directors and regular monitoring is of responsible trusteeship, faithful delegated to the Group Management stewardship and uncompromising Committee (GMC), which consists accountability underpin the manner of executive members of the Board in which Dimo is committed to good and senior management. The GMC governance through its Value Creation together with the heads of business process, in its pursuit of creating value units is responsible for implementing and accumulating financial and nonand monitoring the performance and financial wealth for its stakeholders. conformance aspects of governance. Conformance and Performance 83 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Enterprise Governance Governance Framework REGULATION GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE & FRAMEWORK STRUCTURE CERTIFICATION EXTERNAL ASSURANCE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL Shareholders INFORMATION • Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance • Independent Audit issued jointly by SEC and ICASL • Corporate Governance rules published by the CSE • Companies Act No.07 of Board of 2007 Directors • GRI Guidelines on Sustainability Board Committees Remuneration Nomination Audit INDEPENDENT Committee Committee Committee REVIEW • Internal Audit EXTERNAL REGULATION Management Committees INDEPENDENT CERTIFICATION • Article of Association • QMS Audit & Certification • Quality Management System (QMS) • EMS Audit & Certification • Environment Management Group Sustainability Management • Assurance of Non-financial System (EMS) Committee Committee Information • Code of Business Ethics • Internal Control System • Risk Management Framework Employer Employer Branding Branding 84 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Conformance and Performance demands through the structures and or performance. A point of reference the processes that are in place. could be a code of best practice, The driving force of conformance and guideline, standard, system, process performance is the onus that is placed The table … illustrates key or even a body of persons that could upon the Board by the expectations conformance and performance aspects provide guidance and direction in of trusteeship, stewardship and arising from value creation activities conformance and performance. accountability although there are and capitals and the point of reference many laws, regulations, best practices through which they are addressed, and expectations that shape these two regulated and reported. The point dimensions of governance. Arising of reference is the source that from the responsibilities placed upon provides guidance for conformance it, the Board endeavours to meet the Conformance & Performance Aspects based on Value Creation Activities/ Capitals Capital / Key Conformance Point of Reference Key Performance Point of Reference Activity Aspects Aspects Value creation Meet regulatory Quality Management System Quality and safe Quality Management activities standards with regard to products and System product and services. services Code of Business Ethics Meet Regulatory Quality Management System On-time delivery Quality Management standards and business System ethics in performing supply chain activities. Code of Business Ethics Product responsibility Quality Management System Monetised Internal Control Audit Committee Business Strategy Group Management Capital Formulation Committee Group Management Committee Internal Audit Audit Committee Operational Group Management Excellence Committee Quality Management System Uncertainty Management Risk Management Framework Environmental Management System Assurance Audit Committee Independent Auditors 85 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Enterprise Governance Capital / Key Conformance Point of Reference Key Performance Point of Reference Activity Aspects Aspects Customers Meeting Customer Quality Management System Customer Quality Management Expectations satisfaction System Customer Health & Quality Management System Customer Quality Management Safety Relationship System Management Customer Privacy Quality Management System Customer Quality Management Complaint System Handling Employees Employee safety Quality Management System Employee HR Scorecard satisfaction Employee Rights UN Global Compact Principles Training & HR Scorecard development Code of Business Ethics Retention HR Scorecard Equal opportunities UN Global Compact Employee HR Scorecard Principles Engagement Reducing gender Sustainability Objectives inequality Comply with legislation Code of Business Ethics and regulations relating to employees Business Compliance with Quality Management System Expectation Quality Management Partners Principals’ requirements management System of ethical practices Honor Agreements with Quality Management System Principals Intellectual Data security and Quality Management System Quality and Quality Management capital integrity accuracy of System information Meet the requirements of Code of Business Ethics Not applicable the legislative enactments applicable to the Group. Enhance and preserve Code of Best Practice on the reputation of the Corporate Governance jointly company by following issued by SEC and ICASL best practices relating to good governance and sustainability. CSE Listing Rules Articles of Association GRI G4 Guidelines 86 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Capital / Key Conformance Point of Reference Key Performance Point of Reference Activity Aspects Aspects Society Anti-corruption Code of Business Ethics Benevolence & Sustainability Committee Philanthropy UN Global Compact Social development Sustainability Committee Principles Environment Comply with all Environmental Management Carbon foot-print Environmental requirements of System Management Management System the Environment Management SystemMeet Legal and Environmental Management Energy & Fuel Environmental Regulatory requirements System Management Management System regarding Environment UN Global Compact Water Management Environmental Principles Management System Code of Business Ethics Waste Management Environmental Management System Material Usage Environmental Management System Noise & Air Environmental Emissions Management System Re-cycle & Re-use Environmental Management System Level of Compliance & Adherence Point of Reference Aspect of Regulation Status The Code of Best Practices on Best practices of Corporate Governance All requirements of the code and the Corporate Governance jointly compliance level is given on the table issued by The Securities and laid out in the company’s website at www. Exchange Commission of Sri dimolanka.com/investors/stewardship Lanka and The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (The Code) Listing Rules of the Colombo Listing rules to be followed by listed Complied. The Compliance level is given on Stock Exchange companies in Sri Lanka including on the table laid out from pages 91 to 94 Corporate Governance relating to; – Non Executive Directors – Independent Directors – Disclosures relating to Directors – Remuneration Committee – Audit Committee 87 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Enterprise Governance Point of Reference Aspect of Regulation Status Legislative enactments Legal requirements that the Group is The Code of Business Ethics specifically applicable to the Group subject to requires that all employees comply with all applicable laws. Employees sign a declaration to the effect that they will follow Code of Business Ethics. Articles of Association Requirements prescribed by the Articles of Complied Association Code of Business Ethics Compliance requirements applicable to all All employees sign declarations to the effect employees that all requirements in the Code will be complied with. Global Reporting Initiative To report on sustainability related Complied. GRI index is available on the (GRI) guidelines on performance in a complete generally company’s website at www.dimolanka.com/ Sustainability Reporting. accepted manner as specified by GRI G4 sustainability/sustainability-performance guidelines. The Report on the Independent Assurance obtained on NonFinancial Reporting is available from pages 163 to 166 Environment Management Meet the requirements of the Group’s Complied. The Group’s Environmental System (EMS) Environmental Management System Management System is certified with ISO accredited by ISO 14001:2004 Standard. 14001:2004 with certification provided by Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) Quality Management System Meet the requirements of the Group’s Complied. The Group’s QMS is certified (QMS) Quality Management System accredited by with ISO 9001: 2008, with certification ISO 9001:2008 Standard. provided by Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) UN Global Compact Ten To comply with the requirements of Communication in progress is available on Principles the declaration made on UN Global company’s website at www.dimolanka.com/ Compact Ten Principles covering Human sustainability/sustainability-performance Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti – Corruption. HR Scorecard Specifies the KPIs to be attained with regard HR scorecard is compiled every month and to HR related objectives that includes actual KPI’s are compared with targets. objective relating to Employee Satisfaction, Training & Development, Retention and Engagement Audit Committee Among other responsibilities, to review Effectiveness of internal controls is reviewed effectiveness of Internal Control, Internal with Internal auditors and Independent Audit and Independent Assurance Auditors. Performance of Internal Auditors and Independent Auditors is also reviewed by the Audit Committee. Where necessary, members of the Group Management Committee are called upon to explain matters relating to internal controls. 88 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Point of Reference Aspect of Regulation Status Group Management Among other responsibilities, to install and Effectiveness of internal controls is reviewed Committee review effectiveness of internal controls and by the Group Management Committee from to work towards operational excellence the feed – back received internally and from internal audit findings. Performance standards are set through KPIs and Objectives set for Business Units and Support Service Units and performance levels are reviewed periodically. Sustainability Committee To carry out the Group’s sustainability Initiatives are planned and progress is efforts as per its terms of reference reviewed by the sustainability committee. Key sustainability initiatives are reported in the Annual Report. Risk Management To manage risks that the Group is exposed Please refer the Risk Management Report to on pages 95 to 101 Adherence corporate values into value creation assurance and comfort with regard to activities, and making a conscious integrity and due functioning of the The governance practices of the effort to continually improve the enterprise governance framework. Company are conceived out of the governance framework and processes. This is depicted in the governance corporate philosophy of achieving framework appearing on page 84 The sustainable growth through good three lines of defence approach, which governance. While being fully Compliance is described later, provides comfort on compliant with demands of the laws Compliance is monitored through the the effectiveness of internal controls and regulations relating to corporate monitoring of the point of reference/s. and risk management. governance, the Company recognizes In the event of the points of reference that best practices provide a robust being a code of best practice, framework for sustainable growth and guideline, legislation or a rule, the Lines of Defence meeting stakeholder expectations. compliance is monitored through The comfort level derived from ascertainment of compliance with the assurance is reliant upon the internal Enterprise Governance requires a point of reference. On the other hand controls that are in place. Whilst the high level of commitment across the where the point of reference is a body internal controls focus on the current organization and it is essential that an of persons such as a management operations and decisions, the risk enabling governance culture is created. committee, the compliance is and management process focuses This envisages creation of awareness at monitored by comparing the stated on the uncertainties that the Group all levels. All employees are expected expectations or goals with the actual is exposed to. The “Three Lines of preserve the corporate values and status. Defence” model given below depicts respect the code of business ethics the approach followed in ensuring in achieving their own objectives set effectiveness of internal controls and by the management and in achieving Assurance and Comfort risk management. the objectives of the Company. The Independent assurance, independent sustenance of enterprise governance review, oversight and independent principles is facilitated by aligning the certification are key sources of 89 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Enterprise Governance Three Lines of Defence Line of Defence Owner Heads of First Line of Internal Business Defence Controls Units Group Management Committee Second Line of Defence Oversight of Internal Controls & Risk Management Audit Committee Independent Third Line of Defence Independent Auditor Assurance Internal Controls auditors present their findings to the Right Policy, Whistle Blowing Policy, Audit Committee. Communication Policy and IT Policy. The Board has delegated the oversight function of the internal controls to the The Company maintains an open door Audit Committee. Implementation of Best Practices policy which encourages the prompt suitable internal controls rests with The extent of compliance with the discussion of any issues relating to the Group Management Committee code of best practices on corporate business conduct. The Whistle Blowing (GMC). The internal audit function is governance jointly issued by the Policy has documented mechanisms constructed to Messrs SJMS Associates Securities and Exchange Commission to directly contact the personnel – Chartered Accountants. The internal of Sri Lanka and The Institute of responsible in order to report audit findings include areas requiring Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka any issues. The Code of Business improvements in internal controls and is available in the company’s website Conduct, the Human Resources instances of any noncompliance. In at www.dimolanka.com/investors/ and Human Rights Policies contain addition, independent auditors present stewardship grievance handling mechanisms. No their findings with regard to possible external ombudsmen are involved in improvements to the internal controls Group’s code of business ethics the identification and resolution of and instances of noncompliance provides guidelines for ethical internal issues. that they come across during their business conduct. The Group also has engagement. The independent a Human Resource Policy, Human 90 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Disclosures The tables given below provide the required and applicable details, disclosures or cross references to details/ disclosures mandated by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the listing rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Disclosures required by the Companies Act No.7 of 2007 Information required to be disclosed as per the Reference to the Page Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Companies Act Reference (i) The nature of the business of the Group and the Company together with any Section 168 (1) (a) 120 change thereof during the accounting period (ii) Signed Financial Statements of the Group and the Company for the accounting Section 168 (1) (b) 114-157 period completed (iii) Auditors’ Report on Financial Statements of the Group and the Company Section 168 (1) (c) 113 (iv) Accounting Policies and any changes therein Section 168 (1) (d) 120-157 (v) Particulars of the entries made in the Interests Register during the accounting Section 168 (1) (e) 109 period (vi) Remuneration and other benefits paid to Directors of the Company during the Section 168 (1) (f) 128 accounting period (vii) Corporate Donations made by the Company and its during the accounting Section 168 (1) (g) 128 period (viii) Information on Directorate of the Company and its Subsidiaries during and at Section 168 (1) (h) 21 the end of the accounting period (ix) Amounts Paid/payable to the External auditor as audit fees and fees for other Section 168 (1) (i) 128 services rendered during the accounting period (x) Auditors’ relationship or any interest with the Company and its Subsidiaries Section 168 (1) (j) 110 (xi) Acknowledgement of the contents of this Report and Signatures on behalf of the Section 168 (1) (k) 109-111 Board 91 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Corporate Governance Disclosures Required by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange The following table shows the level of compliance with the Section 7.10 of Listing Rules of the Colombo stock Exchange, pertaining to Corporate Governance. Rule Subject Applicable requirement Compliance Details No. status 7.10.1.(a) Non-Executive At least two or one third of the Directors, Compliant Four out of Ten Directors are Directors whichever is higher, should be NonNon-Executive Directors Executive Directors 7.10.2.(a) Independent Two or one-third of Non-Executive Directors, Compliant Three of the Four Non-Executive Directors whichever is higher, should be independent. Directors are independent 7.10.2.(b) Independence Each Non-Executive Director should submit Compliant Non-Executive Directors have of Directors a declaration of independence/nonsubmitted the declaration in the independence prescribed format 7.10.3.(a) Disclosures Names of Independent Directors should be Compliant Please refer page 27 relating to disclosed in the Annual report. Directors 7.10.3.(b) Independence The Board shall make a determination Compliant The Board has determined that of Directors annually as to the Independence or NonIndependent Directors identified independence of each Non-Executive on page 27 meet the criteria of an Director Independent Director 7.10.3.(c) Disclosures A brief resume of each Director should be Compliant Please refer page 27 relating to included in the Annual Report including Directors the area of expertise 7.10.3.(d) Appointment of Provide brief resume of any new Director Not Not Applicable new Directors appointed to the Board. Applicable 7.10.5 Remuneration A listed company shall have a Compliant Names of the members of the committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee are available on page 94 7.10.5.(a) Composition Shall comprise Non-Executive Directors, a Compliant Remuneration Committee consists of majority of whom shall be independent of four Non-Executive Directors Remuneration of which on are independent. committee Chairman of Remuneration Committee is an Independent Non-Executive Director 7.10.5.(b) Functions of The Remuneration Committee shall Compliant Please refer the Remuneration Remuneration recommend the remuneration of the Chief Committee report on page 103 committee Executive Officer and the Executive Directors 7.10.5.(c) Disclosure in The Annual Report should set out; Compliant Please refer page 94 the Annual a) Names of Directors comprising the Report Remuneration Committee relating to Remuneration committee 92 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Rule Subject Applicable requirement Compliance Details No. status b) Statement of Remuneration policy Compliant Please refer the Remuneration Committee report on page 103 or a brief statement of policy c) Aggregate remuneration paid to Compliant Please refer page 156 Executive & Non-Executive Directors 7.10.6 Audit A listed company shall have an Audit Compliant Names of the members of the committee Committee. Audit Committee are available on page 94 7.10.6.(a) Composition Shall comprise Non-Executive Directors, a Compliant Audit Committee consists of four of Audit majority of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors of which committee whom three are independent. Chairman of Audit Committee is a Non-Executive independent Director Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Compliant Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer should attend Audit Financial Officer attend Audit Committee Meetings Committee meeting by invitation The chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Compliant or one member should be a member of a Committee is a member of professional accounting body The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales 7.10.6.(b) Function Should be as outlined in the Section 7.10 of Compliant The terms of reference of the of Audit the Listing Rules Audit Committee adopted by the committee Board on 20th June 2007 cover the areas outlined. 7.10.6.(c) Disclosure in a). Names of Directors comprising the Compliant Please refer pages 94 the Annual Audit Committee Report relating to Audit Committee b). The Audit Committee shall make a Compliant Please refer Audit Committee determination of the independence of the report on pages 102 Auditors and disclose the basis for such determination c). The Annual report shall contain a Compliant Please refer Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee in the report on pages 102 prescribed manner 93 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Enterprise Governance Disclosures specified by section 7.6 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange The Annual Report also contains disclosures specified above. There is no evidence of the book value being substantially different from the market value of land and other fixed assets of the Company or its subsidiaries. Composition of the Board and Board Committees and attendance at Meetings for 2013/2014 Board Member Date of Appointment to Board Committee Members the Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee First Re-election Position Attendance Position Attendance Position Attendance Position Attendance Not A.R. Pandithage June 1977 Chairman/MD 7/7 No Member 1/1 No Applicable Senior January R. Seevaratnam June 2013 Independent 7/7 Chairman 4/4 Member 1/1 Member 1/1 2007 Director October Independent Dr. H. Cabral June 2011 3/7 Member 3/4 Chairman 1/1 Member 1/1 2006 Director October Independent Prof. U. Liyanage June 2012 7/7 Member 3/4 Member 1/1 Chairman 1/1 2006 Director September Non-Executive A.M. Pandithage June 2012 6/7 Member 3/4 Member 1/1 Member 1/1 1982 Director November Executive A.N. Algama June 2012 7/7 No No No 1984 Director November Executive S.C. Algama June 2012 7/7 No No No 1984 Director CEO /Director December A.G. Pandithage June 2013 7/7 No No No 1995 Executive B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne April 2006 June 2011 7/7 No No No Director Executive R.C. Weerawardane June 2002 June 2013 6/7 No No No Director August Executive T. G. H. Peries* June 2010 1/1 No No No 1977 Director * Mr. T. G. H. Peries resigned from the Board with effect from 28th June 2013. 94 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Identify. Assess. Mitigate. A close look at our risk management framework. “The Board is primarily responsible for ensuring that the risks are identified and appropriately managed across the value creation process.” Overview Risk Management Structure to situations that could seriously reduce earnings, impair its liquidity The constantly evolving economic/ The Board is primarily responsible for position or create legal, regulatory business environment and the ensuring that the risks are identified or reputation risks. The GMC also challenging business operations and appropriately managed across evaluates options available to mitigate present the Group with risks and the Group through the value creation risks and to identify risks that do not opportunities. These risks have the process and embedding this into the match the risk appetite of the Group. potential to impact the capitals and “Dimo way”. The Audit Committee Monitoring of risk management the value creation activities. Thus, a has been delegated the responsibility measures is a responsibility that rests need arises to identify and manage for reviewing the effectiveness of the with the GMC. risks that may affect the value creation Group’s risk management process, process in the short, medium and including the systems established to Heads of Business Units provide long term. The systematic approach identify, assess, manage and monitor useful information and feed back to required for risk management calls risks. The Internal Audit function also the GMC for risk management with for measures that ensure that risks are plays a key role in risk identification. the assistance of the employees of the identified on time, evaluated in terms Group of risk appetite of the Group and that The Group Management Committee effective management and monitoring (GMC) takes the lead at the mechanisms are installed. implementation level in identifying risks. The GMC examines processes and events, uncertainties and changes in environment that expose the group 95 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Risk Management Risk Management Structure Risk Appetite Board of Directors Audit Oversight Review Committee Group Identify Implement Management Monitor Committee Heads of Measurement Business Feedback Units Feedback Employees Risk Evaluation Risk Mapping • The impact of the event is assessed by determining the loss or damage Where a risk is evaluated it takes into Risk mapping is carried out in order it would cause and the extent of account the likelihood of an event and to assess the likelihood of occurrence the impact. considering these its potential impact on the business. and consequences of an event/set of two factors, the impact is then Impacts are quantified or assessed in events: categorised as low, moderate and terms of potential loss or damage. • Likelihood of occurrence is assessed significant. Risks are assessed both as gross risk and net risk. The assessment of gross on the basis of past experience and Upon assessment of the likelihood risk involves the potential harm it the preventive measures in place. As of occurrence and the extent of the can cause without mitigating actions, per the probability of occurrence, a impact of each risk, it is subjected to whereas net risk assessment considers ranking of high, medium and low is the following matrix in order to derive potential harm or loss when mitigating assigned for each risk. the nature and intensity of action action is taken. Risks and their required. corresponding mitigating action plans are reviewed by the GMC. 96 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Risk Management Actions 13 12 High Likelihood Moderate 15 14 17 18 16 4 10 9 19 6 Low 11 1 7 5 8 2 3 Low Moderate High Impact Extensive monitoring and management required Considerable management required Acceptable risk 97 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Risk Management Risk Management Actions The table given below sets out an assessment of risks that the value creation activities and capitals were subject to during the year and risk mitigating actions that were/are in place: Value Creation Activities / Capitals and Associated Risks Category Risk Statement Risk Mitigation Change in Risk Profile / Segment affected 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 01 Monetised Increase in interest • Ensuring proper mix of short and long term Capital rates impacting on borrowings the Group’s cost of • Maintain an appropriate combination of fixed and funding floating rate borrowings 02 Monetised Unavailability of • The finance and treasury functions ensure that banking Capital sufficient funds facilities are in place to cover its forecasted cash needs impacting smooth for at least a period of twelve months functioning of • The Group maintains a desired mixture of cash and the day-to-day cash equivalents operations of the Group 03 Monetised Damages resulting • Preventive measures of safety are taken to minimise Capital from natural damage to people and property in the case of fire or disasters such as fire floods and floods • The Group has a disaster recovery plan in place • Indemnity from insurance policies 04 Customers Loss of customers • Availability of a Quality Management System. and resulting • Dedicated unit for Customer Relationship Management impact on business • Continuous training of employees on customer care due to dissatisfied and aftercare customers. • Inclusion of customer care and customer satisfaction index in employees’ and business unit objectives. • A detailed narrative on delivering value to customers is available from pages 48 to 51. 05 Employees Adverse impacts • Due importance is given to the human resources arising from failure management function of the Group to recruit/retain • Top management involvement in talent management skilled employees led by the Human Resources Department • Adoption of Best Practices in human resources management • Conducting employee satisfaction surveys • Investment in training and development • Policy of competitive remuneration • More employee-related information is available from pages 44 to 47. 98 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Category Risk Statement Risk Mitigation Change in Risk Profile / Segment affected 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 06 Employees Losses from low • An ‘Open door policy’ is in place to discuss grievances productivity and with superiors low employee • An employee council meets every month to provide for engagement as a employee representation result of industrial • HR clinics are held at business locations where disputes representatives from HR Department visit locations to listen to employee grievances. 07 Business Performance • The Group has focused on developing a mutually Partners being adversely beneficial relationship with principals in an effort to impacted as a result minimise the risk. of disruptions to • Independent survey on expectations of principals relationships with • Emphasis on meeting expectations of principals principals. • Periodic evaluation of Principals’ satisfaction levels • A detailed account of our relationships with principals is given from pages 52 to 53. 08 Intellectual Loss of confidential • Extensive controls and reviews to maintain efficiency of Capital data through IT infrastructure and data security breaches / • Regular back up of data & off-site storage of data system down in the backup system IT systems • Disaster recovery plan 09 Society Potential exposure • The Code of Business Ethics of the Group requires that of the Group to all employees comply with laws and regulations. financial losses, • A written undertaking is obtained from every employee, litigation and that the Code of Business Ethics will be followed by unacceptable him/her. The Code requires that all employees comply corporate with all laws applicable to the Group. behaviour • Internal and independent assurance provides comfort on compliance with laws and regulations. 99 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Risk Management Category Risk Statement Risk Mitigation Change in Risk Profile / Segment affected 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 10 Society Loss of social • Engagement in various community related activities, licence to operate including community development Damage to the • Philanthropy reputation and loss • Developing the social and physical infrastructure of the of stakeholders’ community interest as a result of • Upholding of the principles of Global Compact relating social rejection to social development. Loss of reputation • More details on interactions with the community are arising from available on pages 54 to 57. corporate behaviour against the interests of the society 11 All Loss of confidence/ • Environmental sustainability is a part of the decision stakeholders business making process in day to day operations and strategy opportunities/ formulation depletion of group • Existence of a sustainability committee to manage image due to group environmental sustainability related issues not being perceived • The Group’s Environmental Management System is as a responsible accredited with ISO 14001:2004 citizen. • The Group follows GRI Guidelines on sustainability reporting. The GRI index is available at www. dimolanka.com/sustainability/sustainabilityperformance 12 Vehicle Sales The vulnerability of • Reduce the dependency on vehicle segment, by Segment the vehicles market gradually strengthening the other business segments to negative changes such as Marketing & Distribution, Construction & in interest rates Material handling Equipment and Electro Mechanical, and fiscal policy Bio Medical Engineering and Marine Solutions. would adversely impact on group’s performance. 13 Medical This business • Diversifying into different markets and product / and Power segment caters to services. Engineering a limited customer • Strengthening the service levels and product offering in Businesses base, and therefore this sector. the bargaining • Enhance value addition by Dimo through wider power of customers participation in the supply chain. is high. This may impact profit margins. 100 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Category Risk Statement Risk Mitigation Change in Risk Profile / Segment affected 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 14 Construction Intense competition • Enhancing the customer awareness on product’s high & Material from cheaper quality and durability and after sales services. Handling substitute products. • Offer a “value for money” proposition Equipment Businesses 15 All Business Failure to secure • Maintaining a sound working capital management Segments delivery of products strategy, on time. • Relationship management with principals. 16 All business Technological • The Group makes regular investments in new segments obsolescence will technology in providing after sales services and in IT impact on the infrastructure inability to compete • Staff are consistently exposed to new technology and in the market trained to handle them • The Group is backed by world renowned brands, some of whom are technology leaders. Therefore, technology is leveraged to compete with others 17 All Segments Possibility of • Strict adherence to Group Credit Policy that includes incurring losses on evaluation of a customer prior to granting credit and receivables due to credit administration. adverse economic • Periodic review of receivables by the Group conditions/poor Management Committee credit management 18 All Segments Negative changes • Hedging through forward foreign exchange contracts, in exchange rates where desirable causing potential • Hedging through foreign currency bank account losses on assets balances and trade receivables & liabilities and transactions denominated in foreign currency 19 All Segments Losses resulting • Leverage information technology to manage inventory from slow moving and ordering inventory items becoming obsolete 101 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally reviews their findings in order to identify External Auditors Messrs KPMG, Chartered constituted as a Sub-committee of the effectiveness of internal controls and risks Accountants. The Audit Committee has met Main Board, to which it is accountable and attached to different areas of operations. with the External Auditors to review their consists of four Non-Executive Directors, audit plan and any observations made by of whom three members are Independent them. Compliance with Laws and Non-Executive Directors. Regulations The Committee has received a declaration The Audit Committee has written terms of The Audit Committee reviewed the reports from the External Auditors, confirming reference, dealing clearly with its authority submitted by the management and Internal that they do not have any relationship or & duties and is established for the purpose Auditors on the state of compliance interest in the Company or its subsidiaries of assisting the Board in fulfilling their with applicable laws and regulations and as required by the Companies Act No. 07 oversight responsibilities regarding the settlement of statutory payments. of 2007. integrity of the Financial Statements, risk management, business ethics, internal Internal Controls The Committee reviewed the non-audit control, compliance with legal and The Committee is satisfied that an services and its impact on the independence regulatory requirements, review of external effective system of internal control is in of the External Auditors. Auditors’ performances & independence place to provide reasonable assurance and internal audit. The Audit Committee has approved the on safeguarding of the Company’s assets extension of period of engagement External and reliability of Financial Statements. Auditors, by one year, and recommended to Compliance with Financial Effectiveness of Company’s system of the Board their reappointment. Reporting Internal Controls is evaluated through The Audit Committee considered the reports provided by Management, Internal quarterly and annual Financial Statements Auditors and External Auditors. Meetings of Audit Committee and reviewed the Annual Report including Four Audit Committee meetings were held the Financial Statements prior to Internal Auditors during the year ended 31st March 2014. publication. The attendance details are given in page 94. The Internal Audit function is outsourced The Internal Auditors attend the meetings to Messrs SJMS Associates, a firm of The review included: quarterly. Chartered Accountants. Internal auditors • Appropriateness and changes in directly submitted their findings to Audit Accounting Policies. Committee quarterly and their reports are Conclusion • Significant estimates and judgment made made available to External Auditors. The Audit Committee is satisfied that the by the management. effectiveness of the organisational structure The Audit Committee monitors and of the Group and of the implementation • Compliance with relevant Accounting reviews: of the Group’s accounting policies and Standards and applicable regulatory • The coverage of the audit plan operational controls provide reasonable requirements. assurance that the affairs of the Group are • Adequacy of impairment provision • The follow-up action taken on the managed in accordance with Group policies against assets. recommendation of the Internal and that the Group assets are properly Auditors. • Issues arising from the Internal and accounted for and adequately safeguarded. External audit. • The internal audit programmes and results of the internal audit process. • The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. • Effectiveness of the internal audit function. R. Seevaratnam Chairman Audit Committee Risk Management Independent Auditors The Audit Committee meets the Internal Colombo The Audit Committee reviewed the Auditors on a quarterly basis and 23rd May 2014 independence and objectivity of the 102 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Report of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is a subOur remuneration philosophy is The Committee meets as and when committee of the Board. The members designed to reward, motivate and a need arises. The Remuneration of the Committee consist of three retain the company’s executive team, Committee meetings and members Independent Directors and a Nonwith market competitive remuneration attendance is given in page 94. Executive Director. The Chairman of and benefits, to support the continued the Committee, who is an Independent success of our business and the Director, and the members of the creation of shareholder value. Committee were appointed by the Board. The remuneration packages which are linked to individual performances are The Committee was established aligned with the Company’s short-term for the purpose of recommending and long-term strategy. The Committee Prof. U. Liyanage the remuneration of the Board of makes every endeavour to maintain Chairman Remuneration Committee Directors including Chairman, Chief remuneration levels that are sufficient Executive Officer (CEO) and the to attract and retain Executive Colombo Executive Directors. The Committee Directors and the Senior Management 23rd May 2014 also approves the remuneration of the team. members of the Group Management Committee on the recommendations All Non-Executive Directors receive made by the Chairman and the CEO. a fee for serving on the Board and serving on sub-committees. They do The Committee has acted within not receive any performance related the parameters set by its terms of incentive payments. reference. The Company does not have an The decisions on matters relating to Employee Share Ownership plan remuneration of Executive Directors for Directors and Key Management and the members of the Group Personnel (KMPs). Management Committee were arrived at in consultation with the Chairman The Directors’ emoluments are & the CEO. No Director is involved in disclosed note 4.5 on page 128 determining his own remuneration. 103 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Report of the Nomination Committee Introduction The Committee has acted within the • Evaluate performance of Executive parameters set by its terms of reference. Directors. The Nomination Committee assists the Board by keeping the composition The Committee is satisfied that the The Committee met on one occasion of the Board under review and combined knowledge and experience in 2013/14 and the members’ conducting a rigorous and transparent of the Board matches the demands attendance record is set out in the process when making or renewing facing the Company. Enterprises Governance report on appointments of directors to the page 94 Board. It also advises the Board on issues of directors’ conflicts of interest The key activities carried out by the and independence. The Chairman Committee during the year are as and the members of the Nomination follows Committee are appointed by the Board Dr. H. Cabral of Directors to enhance the process for Chairman Nomination Committee • Review the structure, size and nominating members to the Board of composition of the Board. Directors. Colombo • Evaluate the independence and 23rd May 2014 effectiveness of the Non-Executive Committee Composition and its Directors. Key Activities • Review the process for succession The members of the Committee planning to ensure that the consist of three Independent Directors, Board has the correct balance a Non-Executive Director and the of individuals to discharge its Chairman/MD of the board. The duties effectively. During the year, Chairman of the Committee, who the Committee was briefed on is an Independent Director, and the succession planning issues relating members of the Committee were to executive directors and Group appointed by the Board. corporate management roles and satisfied itself that action plans are in place to manage succession. 104 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer The Consolidated Financial Statements Statements were made on a prudent Auditors and the Internal Auditors are prepared in compliance with the and reasonable basis, in order that have full and free access to the requirements of the followings: the Financial Statements reflect in members of the Audit Committee to a true and fair manner, the form discuss any matter of substance. • Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and substance of transactions, and issued by The Institute of Chartered reasonably present the Company’s state Accountants of Sri Lanka, of affairs. • Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, To ensure this, the Company has • Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock taken proper and sufficient care A.R. Pandithage Exchange, and in installing a system of internal Chairman/Managing Director • Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing control and accounting records, for Standards Act No. 15 of 1995. safeguarding assets, and for preventing and detecting frauds as well as other The Accounting Policies used in irregularities, which is reviewed, the preparation of the consolidated evaluated and updated on an ongoing basis. A.G. Pandithage financial statements are appropriate Director/Chief Executive Officer and are consistently applied, except unless otherwise stated in the The Internal Auditors have conducted notes accompanying the Financial periodic audits to provide reasonable Statements. The consolidated financial assurance that the established policies statements have been prepared and procedures of the Company were in accordance with the Sri Lanka consistently followed. However, there are inherent limitations that should be B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS). recognized in weighing the assurances Director/Chief Financial Officer There are no departures from the prescribed Accounting Standards provided by any system of internal controls and accounting. Colombo in their adoption. Comparative 23rd May 2014 information has been reclassified The Financial Statements were wherever necessary to comply with the audited by Messrs KPMG, Chartered current presentation. The Significant Accountants, the Independent Accounting Policies and estimates that Auditors. involved a high degree of judgment and complexity were discussed with the The Audit Committee of the Company Audit Committee. meets periodically with the Internal Auditors and the Independent The Board of Directors and the Auditors to review the manner in management of the Company accept which these Auditors are performing responsibility for the integrity their responsibilities, and to discuss and objectivity of these financial auditing, internal control and financial statements. The estimates and reporting issues. To ensure complete judgments relating to the Financial independence, the Independent 105 Annual Report 2013/14 The astrologer and his calculated forecasts for the years ahead remain an important aspect of life in Sri Lanka. Var . ri . ga Palaa . pala Financial Information 107 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Financial Calendar Interim Financial Statements Three months ended 30th June 2013 – 08th August 2013 Six months ended 30th September 2013 – 24th October 2013 Nine months ended 31st December 2013 – 03rd February 2014 Twelve months ended 31st March 2014 – 23rd May 2014 Dividends Final dividend for 2013/2014 – 13th June 2014 Annual Report – Financial year ended 31st March 2014 – 4th June 2014 69th Annual General Meeting – 27th June 2014 108 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report of the Board of Directors The Directors have pleasure in Review of Business Board and Board Committee presenting the Annual Report for the Performance Meetings year ended 31st March 2014 which Review of business performance and The number of Board meetings, covers business strategy, value creation future outlook of the group is available Audit Committee meetings, report, Audited Financial Statements, in the Chairman’s Letter (pages 14 to Nomination Committee meetings share-related information, and reviews 17), Chief Executive Officer’s Review and Remuneration Committee on risk management, governance and (pages 18 to 20) and the value creation meetings held during the year and sustainability. Disclosures required by report (pages 32 to 79). the attendance of Directors at these the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007’ meetings are given on page 94 of appearing on page 91 form part of Enterprise Governance Report. this Annual Report of the Board of Turnover Directors. The total gross turnover generated by the five business segments of the Directors Shareholdings Group Structure and Nature of Group was Rs 20.9 bn. Shareholdings of Directors and their spouses are given on page 162 under Operations ‘Share Information”. The Group structure and names of the Directorate Directors of subsidiaries are available As at 31st March 2014, the Board of Dr. H Cabral, Mr. B.C.S.A.P. in page 21. Directors of the Company consisted Gooneratne, Prof. U.P. Liyanage, of ten members. The information on Mr. R. Seevaratnam and Mr. R.C. A brief description of nature of the Directors, of the Company is available in Weerawardane who are Directors of principal business activities of the the Directors profile in pages 24 to 27. the Company did not hold any shares Group and the Company is given in of the Company as at 31st March 2014. Note 2.3 to the Financial Statements New Appointments, Resignations and on page 120. There was no significant Re-elections to the Board change in the nature of business of the Director’s Interest Register Company or its subsidiaries during the There were no new appointments The Interest Register is maintained by year that may have a significant impact made to the Board, during the the Company, as per the Companies on the state of the Company’s affairs. financial year ended 31st March 2014. Act No. 07 of 2007. All Directors have made declarations as provided for Mr. T.G.H. Peries retired from the board in Section 192 (2) of the aforesaid Vision, Mission and Corporate of Directors w.e.f. 28th June 2013. Companies Act. Conduct The Company’s vision and mission Mr. S.C Algama, Mr. A.N Algama and During the year, entries were made are available on page 5. They have Dr. H. Cabral retire by rotation and are in the Interest Register on Directors’ been identified as “Aspiration” and eligible for re-election, interests in contracts, remuneration “Purpose” respectively. The Directors paid to the Directors, renewal of and all the employees conduct their The agenda for the Annual General Directors’ and Officers’ Liability activities with the highest level of Meeting includes an ordinary Insurance. The Interest Register is ethical standards and integrity in resolution to be taken up to appoint available for inspection as required achieving the vision and mission. All Mr. R. Seevaratnam as a Director, who under the Companies Act. employees are given a copy of code of has reached the age of 70. business ethics of the Company and Director’s remuneration is given in employees are required to adhere to it. Note 4.5 to the Financial Statements. 109 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Annual Report of the Board of Directors Accounting Policies Internal Control System and Company Rs. 1078.2 mn) on property Risk Management plant and equipment and Rs. 40.3 mn The financial statements, significant (2012/13 Rs. Nil) by the Company on accounting policies and the notes The Board considers that strong intangible assets, details of which are thereto of the Group and the Company internal controls are integral to sound available in notes 4.9 and 4.11 to the (refer pages 114 to 157), comply management of the Company and is Financial Statements. with the requirements of the Sri committed to maintaining financial, Lanka Accounting Standards and the operational and risk management Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. controls over all its activities. The Market Value of Freehold Land Group Management Committee A qualified independent valuer carried These Financial Statements and notes has put in place an effective and out a revaluation of the Company’s thereto give a true and fair view of the comprehensive system of internal freehold land on 30th September 2011 Company’s and the Group’s financial controls. and the carrying value of freehold land position as at 31st March 2014 and of is adjusted accordingly. The details of their performance for the year ended The Enterprise Risk Management market value of freehold land are given on that date. There were no changes report is available on pages 95 to 101. in note 4.9 to the Financial Statements. to the accounting policies used by the Group during the year. The Board is satisfied with the effectiveness of the system of internal Stated Capital controls that were in place during the There were no shares Issues during the Independent Auditors year under review and up to the date financial year. Appointment and of approval of the Annual Report and Remuneration Financial Statements. The Company’s External Auditors, Dividends and Reserves Messrs KPMG, who were reappointed Detail information on dividends and in accordance with a resolution passed Share Information reserves are available in note 4.8 at the last Annual General Meeting, Information relating to distribution and 4.20 to the Financial Statements have expressed their opinion which of shareholdings, market value and respectively. appears on page 169 of this Annual top twenty shareholders are available on the pages 160 to 162 under “Share Report. Statutory Payments Information”. The Directors, to the best of their The details of their remuneration knowledge and belief are satisfied are given in Note 4.5 to the Financial Donations that all statutory payments to the Statements. As far as the Directors are The Group and the Company made government, other regulatory bodies aware, the Auditors do not have any donations during the year amounting and related to the employees have been other relationship with the Company, to Rs. 13.2 mn and Rs. 5.9 mn made on time. or any of its subsidiaries. The Auditors respectively (2012/13 Group: Rs. 14.8 do not have any interest in contracts mn, Company Rs. 14.1 mn) with the Company, or any of its Environmental Protection subsidiaries. Policies and Endeavours made on Property Plant and Equipment environmental preservation by the and Intangible Assets Group and the Company are available The Group and the Company incurred in pages 60 to 65 of the Stakeholder Rs. 1,393.5 mn and Rs. 1433 mn Report. (2012/13 Group Rs. 1,094.4 mn, 110 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Events after the Reporting Date Annual General Meeting There were no material event that The Annual General meeting will be occurred after the reporting date that held at the Registered Office of the require adjustment to or disclosure in Company, No. 65, Jetawana Road, the Financial Statements, other than Colombo 14 on 27th June 2014. The those disclosed in the note 5.4 to the notice of Annual General Meeting is Financial Statements in pages 157. given on page 169. By order of the Board of Directors, Going Concern The Board of Directors has reviewed the Company’s business plans and is satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue its A.R. Pandithage operations in the foreseeable future. Chairman/Managing Director Accordingly, the Financial Statements are prepared considering the Company as a going concern concept. Compliance with laws and A.G. Pandithage regulations Director/Chief Executive Officer To the best of knowledge and belief of the Directors, the Group/Company has not engaged in any activity, which contravenes laws and regulations of the B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne country. Director Colombo 23rd May 2014 111 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Statements The Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 for the preparation and presentation appears in the Report of the Auditors require the Directors to prepare and of Financial Statements’ set out in on page 113. present Financial Statements for the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. each financial year giving a true and In virtually all circumstances, a fair Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants fair view of the state of affairs of the presentation will be achieved by the Auditors of the Company has Company and the Group as at the end compliance with all applicable Sri examined the Financial Statements and of the financial year and the profit or Lanka Accounting Standards. the related records and information. loss of the Company and the Group Their opinion on Financial Statements for the financial year. Directors also have to ensure that; is given on page 113. • Appropriate Accounting Policies The responsibilities of the Directors in The Directors are also responsible have been used in a consistent relation to the Financial Statements of for taking reasonable measures to manner; the Company and the Group are set safeguard the assets of the Group/ out in following statement. As per the • Where necessary, prudent judgment Company and in that context to have provision of the Companies Act No. and estimates have been made; proper regard to the establishment of 07 of 2007, the Directors are required appropriate systems of internal control • Requirements of the Sri Lanka to prepare for each financial year with a view to prevention and detection Accounting and Auditing Standards and place before general meeting of of fraud and other irregularities. The Act No. 15 of 1995 have been shareholders the Financial Statements, Directors, having reviewed the financial followed; which comprise; budget and cash flows for the year to • Listing rules of the Colombo Stock 31st March 2014 and the bank facilities, 1. Income Statement and Statement Exchange are complied with. consider that the Group/Company of Comprehensive Income, which has adequate resources to continue presents a true and fair view of The Directors are responsible for in operation, and have continued the profit or loss of the Group/ ensuring that the companies within to adopt the going concern basis in Company for the financial year; and the Group keep sufficient accounting preparing Financial Statements. records to disclose with reasonable 2. Statement of Financial Position, accuracy, the financial position which presents true and fair view of of the Company and the Group, By Order of the Board, the state of affairs of the Group/ and to ensure that the Financial Company as at the end of the Statements presented comply with the financial year and which complies requirements of the Companies Act with the requirements of the No.07 of 2007. Companies Act No.07 of 2007. The Board of Directors accepts B.C.S.A.P.Gooneratne In addition, the Directors have to responsibility for the integrity and Director ensure that Financial Statements objectivity of the Financial Statements present fairly for each financial year presented. Colombo the Group’s/Company’s financial 23rd May 2014 position, financial performance The Directors are required to provide and cash flows. This requires the the Auditors with every opportunity to faithful representation of the effects take whatever steps necessary to enable of transactions, other events and them to form their audit opinion. conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria The responsibility of the Auditors in for assets, liabilities, income and relation to the financial Statements expenses set out in the ‘Framework 112 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Independent Auditors’ Report TO THE SHAREHOLDERS Scope of Audit and Basis of Company as at 31 March 2014, and of its OF DIESEL & MOTOR Opinion financial performance and its cash flow ENGINEERING PLC Our responsibility is to express an for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. Report on the Financial opinion on these financial statements Statements based on our audit. We conducted our In our opinion, the consolidated financial audit in accordance with Sri Lanka We have audited the accompanying statements give a true and fair view of Auditing Standards. Those standards financial statements of Diesel & Motor the financial position of the Company require that we plan and perform the Engineering PLC (“the Company”) and and its subsidiaries dealt with thereby audit to obtain reasonable assurance the consolidated financial statements of as at 31 March 2014, and of its financial whether the financial statements are free the Company and its subsidiaries (“the performance and its cash flows for the from material misstatement. Group”), which comprise the statement year then ended in accordance with Sri of financial position as at 31 March 2014, Lanka Accounting Standards. An audit includes examining, on a the statements of income, comprehensive test basis, evidence supporting the income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and notes, amounts and disclosures in the financial Report on Other Legal and comprising a summary of significant statements. An audit also includes Regulatory Requirements assessing the accounting policies used These financial statements also comply accounting policies and other explanatory and significant estimates made by with the requirements of Section 153(2) information set out on pages 114 to 157 management, as well as evaluating the to 153(7) of the Companies Act No. 07 of this annual report. overall financial statement presentation. of 2007. Management’s Responsibility We have obtained all the information for the Financial Statements and explanations which to the best of Management is responsible for the our knowledge and belief were necessary preparation and fair presentation of for the purposes of our audit. We these financial statements in accordance therefore believe that our audit provides with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. a reasonable basis for our opinion. This responsibility includes: designing, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS implementing and maintaining internal Opinion control relevant to the preparation and Colombo In our opinion, so far as appears fair presentation of financial statements 23rd May 2014 from our examination, the Company that are free from material misstatement, maintained proper accounting records whether due to fraud or error; selecting for the year ended 31 March 2014 and and applying appropriate accounting the financial statements give a true and policies; and making accounting estimates fair view of the financial position of the that are reasonable in the circumstances. 113 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements SECTION 1 Financial Statements Section 1 provides the key Financial Statements relating to financial performance, position and cash flows of the Group and the Company, which comprises the following. Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income: Financial performance Statement of Financial Position: Financial position Statement of Changes in Equity: Summary of comprehensive income and transactions with owners Statement of Cash Flow: Cash flows Notes to the Financial Statements: Comprising general (Section 3) and specific (Section 4) accounting policies, estimates and other disclosures (Section 5). 114 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income Income Statement Group Company 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change For the year ended 31st March Note Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 % Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 % Revenue 4.1 20,884,674 27,711,604 (25) 19,185,246 26,496,949 (28) Sales taxes (201,513) (227,451) (11) (180,872) (216,789) (17) Net revenue 20,683,161 27,484,153 (25) 19,004,374 26,280,160 (28) Cost of sales (16,366,248) (23,303,126) (30) (15,226,149) (22,519,305) (32) Gross profit 4,316,913 4,181,027 3 3,778,225 3,760,855 0 Other operating income 4.3 69,419 35,903 93 69,722 35,427 97 Distribution expenses (549,392) (487,981) 13 (506,403) (475,939) 6 Administrative expenses (2,962,384) (2,843,448) 4 (2,658,182) (2,599,142) 2 Results from operating activities 874,556 885,501 (1) 683,362 721,201 (5) Finance income 75,511 240,761 (69) 70,617 241,178 (71) Finance cost (437,209) (636,241) (31) (423,990) (630,798) (33) Net finance cost 4.4 (361,698) (395,480) (9) (353,373) (389,620) (9) Profit before tax 4.5 512,858 490,021 5 329,989 331,581 (0) Income tax (expense)/reversal 4.6 (119,317) (35,934) 232 (50,070) 13,314 476 Profit for the year 393,541 454,087 (13) 279,919 344,895 (19) Basic and diluted earnings per share (Rs.) 4.7 44.34 51.16 31.54 38.86 Statement of Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 % Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 % Profit for the year 393,541 454,087 (13) 279,919 344,895 (19) Other comprehensive income Actuarial loss arising from employee benefit 4.22 (25,272) (28,796) (12) (23,347) (24,748) (6) Net changes in fair value of financial assets available-for-sale (255) 1,300 (120) (253) 1,304 (119) Tax on other comprehensive income 4.6.2 7,076 8,063 (12) 6,537 6,929 (6) Total other comprehensive income net of tax (18,451) (19,433) (5) (17,063) (16,515) 3 Total comprehensive income for the year 375,090 434,654 (14) 262,856 328,380 (20) Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes to the Financial Statements from pages 120 to 157 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 115 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Statement of Financial Position Group Company As at 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Note Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Assets It is certified that the Financial Statements as Non Current Assets set out on pages 114 to 157 have been prepared Property, plant & equipment 4.9 6,746,756 5,567,369 6,750,935 5,523,513 in accordance with the requirements of the Lease rentals paid in advance 4.10 28,936 31,141 28,936 31,141 Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. Intangible assets 4.11 35,723 2,136 35,723 2,136 Investment in subsidiaries 4.12 20,645 11,145 Financial assets available-for-sale 4.14 4,823 5,077 4,801 5,054 Deferred tax assets 4.23 121,172 111,082 115,756 107,280 Total non current assets 6,937,410 5,716,805 6,956,796 5,680,269 Current Assets Inventories 4.15 4,867,641 4,141,906 4,755,944 4,055,558 Trade & other receivables 4.16 2,742,873 2,086,115 2,099,995 1,654,001 E.D.C. Kodituwakku Other current assets 4.17 421,086 206,394 391,852 178,086 General Manager Finance & Controlling Current tax asset 4.28 86,856 67,081 107,913 102,176 Member Group Management Committee Amount due from subsidiaries 4.29.1 56,468 Cash and cash equivalents 4.18 1,038,788 682,078 1,033,806 615,156 The Directors are responsible for the Total current assets 9,157,244 7,183,574 8,445,978 6,604,977 preparation and presentation of these Total assets 16,094,654 12,900,379 15,402,774 12,285,246 Financial Statements. Equity and Liabilities Signed for and on behalf of the Board, Equity Stated capital 4.19 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 Capital reserve 2,014,752 2,014,752 2,014,752 2,014,752 Revenue reserves 4.20 5,477,444 5,191,118 4,875,315 4,701,223 Total equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company 7,917,493 7,631,167 7,315,364 7,141,272 A.R. Pandithage Non-Current Liabilities Chairman/Managing Director Long-term borrowings 4.21 1,499,763 540,243 1,499,763 540,243 Employee benefits 4.22 349,642 287,046 332,521 273,471 Deferred tax liabilities 4.23 151,079 96,724 144,688 92,679 Deferred income 4.24 91,018 140,312 57,691 77,311 Total non-current liabilities 2,091,502 1,064,325 2,034,663 983,704 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Current Liabilities Director/Chief Financial Officer Trade payables 4.26 1,208,337 843,044 1,129,614 792,718 Other current liabilities 4.27 426,959 484,286 400,473 462,254 23rd May 2014 Current portion of Colombo long-term borrowings 4.21 333,080 229,960 333,080 229,960 Short-term borrowings 4.21.2 4,117,283 2,647,597 3,964,245 2,518,226 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Amounts due to subsidiaries 4.29.1 225,335 157,112 Total current liabilities 6,085,659 4,204,887 6,052,747 4,160,270 The Notes to the Financial Statements Total liabilities 8,177,161 5,269,212 8,087,410 5,143,974 from pages 120 to 157 form an integral Total equity and liabilities 16,094,654 12,900,379 15,402,774 12,285,246 part of these Financial Statements. Net assets per share 891.97 859.71 824.13 804.63 116 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Statement of Changes in Equity Revenue Reserves Stated Capital General Available-for Retained Capital Reserve Reserve -Sale Reserve Earnings Total Note Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Group Balances as at 01st April 2012 425,297 2,014,752 2,317,290 2,678 2,680,598 7,440,615 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 454,087 454,087 Other comprehensive income 1,300 (20,733) (19,433) Total comprehensive income 1,300 433,354 434,654 Transaction with owners, recorded directly in equity contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2011/12 Final Dividend (244,102) (244,102) Transfer during the year 1,500,000 (1,500,000) Total transactions with owners 1,500,000 (1,744,102) (244,102) Balance as at 31st March 2013 425,297 2,014,752 3,817,290 3,978 1,369,850 7,631,167 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 393,541 393,541 Other comprehensive income (255) (18,196) (18,451) Total comprehensive income (255) 375,345 375,090 Transaction with owners,recorded directly in equity contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2012/13 Final Dividend 4.8 (88,764) (88,764) Transfer during the year 300,000 (300,000) Total transactions with owners 300,000 (388,764) (88,764) Balance as at 31st March 2014 425,297 2,014,752 4,117,290 3,723 1,356,431 7,917,493 Company Balances as at 01st April 2012 425,297 2,014,752 2,179,464 2,658 2,434,823 7,056,994 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 344,895 344,895 Other comprehensive income 1,304 (17,819) (16,515) Total comprehensive income 1,304 327,076 328,380 Transaction with owners,recorded directly in equity contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2011/12 Final -Cash dividend (244,102) (244,102) Transfer during the year 1,500,000 (1,500,000) Total transactions with owners 1,500,000 (1,744,102) (244,102) Balance as at 31st March 2013 425,297 2,014,752 3,679,464 3,962 1,017,797 7,141,272 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 279,919 279,919 Other comprehensive income (253) (16,810) (17,063) Total comprehensive income (253) 263,109 262,856 Transaction with owners,recorded directly in equity contributions and distributions Dividends to shareholders 2012/13 Final Cash Dividend 4.8 (88,764) (88,764) Transfer during the year 225,000 (225,000) Total transactions with owners 225,000 (313,764) (88,764) Balance as at 31st March 2014 425,297 2,014,752 3,904,464 3,709 967,142 7,315,364 The General reserve and Retained earnings represent reserves available for distribution. Available-for-sale reserve consists of net unrealised gains arising from fair valuation of available-for-sale financial assets, excluding the impact arising from impairment of assets. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes to the Financial Statements from pages 120 to 157 Form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 117 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Profit before taxation 512,858 490,021 329,989 331,581 Adjustment for Depreciation on property, plant & equipment 4.9 208,888 167,385 200,409 160,665 Amortisation of intangible assets and lease rentals 4.10/4.11 8,974 3,148 8,974 3,148 Deferred income net of amortisation (49,294) (39,457) (19,620) (70,498) Impairment reversal on investment in subsidiary 4.12 (9,500) (Profit)/Loss on disposal of property, plant & equipment 4.3 (6,971) 4,418 (6,993) 2,878 Interest expenses 4.4 437,209 636,241 423,990 630,798 Interest income 4.4 (59,856) (110,169) (59,136) (108,370) Dividend income 4.3 (522) (235) (11,322) (13,015) Reversal of impairment of trade receivables 4.5 (19,275) (142,540) (31,914) (122,667) Provision/(reversal of) for slow moving inventories 4.5 (87,605) 131,061 (83,751) 122,593 Provision for employee benefit obligation excluding actuarial loss 4.5 55,935 43,311 51,850 40,675 1,000,341 1,183,184 792,976 977,788 Changes in working capital (Increase)/decrease in inventories (638,130) 3,878,068 (616,635) 3,897,716 (Increase)/decrease in trade & other receivables (637,483) (134,547) (414,080) 54,600 (Increase)/decrease in other current assets (214,692) 55,441 (213,766) 54,882 Increase in amount due from subsidiaries (56,468) Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 358,725 (652,599) 330,328 (661,952) Decrease in other current liabilities (57,327) (218,203) (61,781) (213,547) Increase in amounts due to subsidiaries 68,223 58,495 Cash generated from/(used in) operating activities (188,566) 4,111,344 (171,203) 4,167,982 Interest paid (430,641) (628,206) (417,422) (622,763) Employee benefit-payment 4.22 (18,611) (9,495) (16,147) (8,776) Income tax paid 4.28 (87,751) (265,943) (5,737) (228,818) Net cash generated from/(used in) operations (725,569) 3,207,700 (610,509) 3,307,625 118 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Cash Flow from Investing Activities Proceeds from disposal of property plant & equipment 12,195 13,556 12,196 11,953 Dividend received 522 147 11,322 12,927 Interest received 59,856 110,169 59,136 108,370 Acquisition and construction of property plant & equipment and capital work-in-progress 4.9 (1,393,500) (1,094,453) (1,433,034) (1,078,254) Acquisition of intangible assets 4.11 (40,356) (40,356) Net cash used in investing activities (1,361,283) (970,581) (1,390,736) (945,004) Cash Flows from Financing Activities Proceeds from long-term loans 4.21.1.1 1,292,600 1,292,600 Repayment of long-term loans 4.21.1.1 (229,960) (229,960) (229,960) (229,960) Dividend paid 4.20 (88,764) (244,102) (88,764) (244,102) Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 973,876 (474,062) 973,876 (474,062) Net increase/(decrease ) in cash & cash equivalents (1,112,976) 1,763,057 (1,027,369) 1,888,559 Cash & cash equivalents at beginning of the year (1,965,519) (3,728,576) (1,903,070) (3,791,629) Cash & cash equivalents at end of the year (Note-A) (3,078,495) (1,965,519) (2,930,439) (1,903,070) Note-A Analysis of Cash & Cash Equivalents at the end of the year Cash & bank balances and short-term investments 4.18 1,038,788 682,078 1,033,806 615,156 Short-term borrowings 4.21.2 (4,117,283) (2,647,597) (3,964,245) (2,518,226) Cash and cash equivalents (3,078,495) (1,965,519) (2,930,439) (1,903,070) Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes to the Financial Statements from pages 120 to 157 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 119 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements SECTION 2 Corporate Information This section gives a description of the reporting entity, the principal activities of the Company and Group entities and the identification of Financial Statements and its authorisation. 2.1 Reporting Entity Entity Principal Business Activities Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (the Company) is a limited liability Company listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange, Fully-owned Subsidiaries incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka. The Company and its Dimo (Pvt) Ltd. Sale and after sales services of biomedical subsidiaries have the registered office at No. 65, Jetawana Road, equipment, power engineering solutions, Colombo 14. The ordinary shares of the Company are being building technologies, generator sets, traded in the Colombo Stock Exchange. diesel engines for marine propulsion & rail traction, and fluid management 2.2 Consolidated Financial Statements systems. The Consolidated Financial Statements of Diesel & Motor Dimo Travels Provision of transportation facilities. Engineering PLC as at and for the year ended 31st March 2014 (Pvt) Ltd. comprise the Company and its fully-owned subsidiaries (together Dimo Industries Import and sale of tyres. referred to as the ‘Group’ and individually as ‘Group Entities’). (Pvt) Ltd. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC does not have any identifiable There were no significant changes in the nature of the principal parent of its own. activities of the Group and the Company during the financial year under review. Activities of the Group are described in more The Financial Statements of all companies in the Group are detail in the ‘Group Structure’ on page 21. prepared to a common financial year, which ends on 31st March. All subsidiaries of the Company have been incorporated in 2.3 Principal activates and nature of Sri Lanka. operations The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are The Directors have made an assessment of the Group’s ability to as follows: continue as a going concern in the foreseeable future, and they do not intend to liquidate or to cease trading activities of any of Group entities. Entity Principal Business Activities The Company 2.4 Approval of Financial statements by the Diesel & Motor Import, sale and repair of passenger Board of Directors Engineering PLC vehicles, commercial vehicles, material The Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2014, handling machinery, construction were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 23rd May machinery, agri machinery, power 2014. tools, import & sale of vehicle spares, components, accessories, providing lighting solutions and storage systems. 120 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC SECTION 3 Basis of Preparation This section provide the basis of preparation of Financial Statements including significant accounting policies and application of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and other relevant statutory requirements. This section provides a summary of significant accounting policies, 3.5 Use of Materiality, Offsetting and significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions Rounding used, other general accounting policies and Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS) not yet adopted. Materiality and aggregation Each material class of similar items is presented separately in the All specific accounting policies and accounting estimates in relation Financial Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or function are to the reported values have been presented in the respective notes in presented separately unless they are immaterial. section 4. Offsetting 3.1 Statement of Compliance Assets and liabilities and income and expenses are not set off The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group and unless permitted by Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. the separate Financial Statements of the Company, have been prepared and presented in accordance with the Sri Rounding Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) laid down by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and in The amounts in the Financial Statements have been rounded compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 off to the nearest Rupees thousand, except where otherwise of 2007. indicated. 3.2 Responsibilities for the financial 3.6 Summary of significant accounting statements policies The Board of Directors acknowledges the responsibility in The accounting policies set out in each of the individual notes relation to the Financial Statements, as set out in the ‘Statement to the Financial Statements of the Group/Company, have been of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Statements’, ‘Annual applied consistently to all periods presented in these Financial Report of the Board of Directors’ and in the statement appearing Statements. with the Statement of Financial Position on pages 109 to 111 of Management considers the accounting policies relating to this Annual Report. revenue recognition to be significant accounting policies. These policies are presented in more details in note 4.1. 3.3 Basis of measurement In addition, the accounting policies relating to the following The Financial Statements of the Group/Company have been are considered relevant to understanding these Consolidated prepared on historical cost basis, except for freehold land and Financial Statements. financial assets available for sale measured at fair value and defined benefit obligations which is recognised at present value. Property, plant and equipment Financial assets and liabilities 3.4 Functional and presentation currency Inventories The Financial Statements of the Group / Company are presented Trade and other receivables in Sri Lankan Rupees, which is the Group’s functional currency. 121 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements SECTION 3 Basis of Preparation 3.7 Summary of significant accounting SLFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, judgements, estimates and assumptions measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. SLFRS 9 replaces the parts of LKAS 39 that relate to The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with classification and measurement of financial instruments. SLFRSs/LKASs requires management to make judgments, SLFRS 9, requires financial assets to be classified into two estimates and assumptions that affect the application of measurement categories: those measured at fair value and accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, those measured at amortised cost. The determination is made liabilities, income and expenses. Judgments and estimates are at initial recognition. The classification depends on the entity’s based on historical experience and other factors, including business model for managing its financial instruments and expectations that are believed to be reasonable under the the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument. circumstances. Hence, actual experience and results may differ For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the LKAS from these judgments and estimates. Estimates and underlying 39 requirements. The effective date of this standard has been assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and revisions to deferred. accounting estimates are recognised prospectively. SLFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’, builds on Management considered the following items, where significant existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the judgments, estimates and assumptions have been used in determining factor when assessing whether an entity should be preparing these Financial Statements. included within the consolidated financial statements of the Going concern parent company. The standard provides additional guidance The management has made an assessment of its ability to continue to assist in the determination of control where it is difficult to as a going concern and is satisfied that it has the resources to assess. This standard will not have significant impact on the continue in business for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, Group and it has been adopted from the accounting period management is not aware of any material uncertainties that may commencing from 1 April 2014. cast significant doubt upon the Group’s/Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the Financial Statements SLFRS 11, ‘Joint Arrangement’, The objective of this SLFRS is continue to be prepared on a going concern basis. to establish principles for financial reporting by entities that have an interest in arrangements that are controlled jointly (i.e. The following notes provide more information on specific joint arrangements). SLFRS 11 has become effective for the accounting judgments, estimations and assumptions used. Group from 1 April 2014. However, it will not be applicable for the Group, in the absence of a joint venture in the Group this Impairment losses on non financial assets (Note 3.9) standard become in applicable. Management Judgement is used when assessing the indicators of impairment. SLFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’ includes Deferred tax (Note 4.23) the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other Provision for impairment of trade receivables (Note 4.16) entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose Defined benefit obligation (Note 4.22) vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles. This standard will not have a significant impact on the Group and has become Provision for impairment of investments in subsidiaries effective from the accounting period commencing on 1 April (Note 4.12.1) 2014. Provision and contingent liabilities (Note 4.25) SLFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’, aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of 3.8 New standards not yet adopted fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs) issued but not yet disclosure requirements for use across SLFRSs/LKASs. This effective. standard has become effective to the Group from 1 April 2014 The new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations and Group dose not anticipate any significant impact. issued but not effective for the financial year commencing 1 April 2013 have not been applied when preparing these Financial There are no other standards interpretations that are issued but Statements. not effective as at the reporting date. 122 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 3.9 General accounting policies Impairment of non-financial assets All non-financial assets, other than inventories, are reviewed Basis of consolidation at each reporting date to determine whether there is any Subsidiaries indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company. the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment Control exists where the Company has the power to govern loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain estimated recoverable amount. benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value rights that are currently exercisable are also taken into account. in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in All the subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that control use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their commences until the date that control ceases. present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current A list of the Group’s subsidiaries is set out in Note 4.12 to the market assessments of the time value of money and the risks Financial Statements. specific to the asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together Financial Statements of the Group entities are prepared to into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from a common financial year ending 31st March, using uniform continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows accounting policies. of other assets. There are no restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed funds to the Company (The Parent) in the form of cash dividend at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has or repayment of loans and advances. decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine Transactions eliminated on consolidation the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only Intra-group balances and transactions, income and expenses and to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed any unrealised gains arising from intra-group transactions are the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been Unrealised losses are also eliminated in the same way as recognised. unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. Foreign currency translation Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group/Group entities at the functional currency rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the spot rate of the functional currency prevailing at the reporting date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of foreign exchange transactions are recognised as a profit or a loss in the Income Statement. 123 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements SECTION 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes This section provides specific accounting policies and accounting estimates in relation to the reported values in the financial statements with additional notes and explanations. 4.1 Revenue Accounting Policies Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the Constructions related contracts economic benefits will flow to the Group/Company and the Revenue from construction related contracts is recognised in the revenue and associated costs incurred or to be incurred can be Income Statement by reference to the stage of completion of the reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the transactions at the end of the reporting date. consideration received or receivable net of trade discounts and sales taxes. The Group/Company separately identifies different The stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of components of a single transaction in order to reflect the work performed. When the outcome of a construction contract substance of the transaction. The following specific criteria are cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised used for the purpose of recognition of revenue. only to the extent of contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable. Sale of goods Service support income Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the Service support income which is included in revenue represents significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have income received from foreign principals on indent sales. Such been passed to the buyer, usually on delivery of the goods. income is recognised on an accrual basis at the time of supply Provision of services of goods and services relating to the service support provided by the Group. Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the Income Statement once all significant performance obligations have been provided. Sales Performance Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Vehicles Sales 13,262,241 20,736,288 13,262,801 20,686,979 Vehicles After Services 2,067,354 2,294,649 2,083,942 2,294,649 Marketing and Distribution 2,650,395 2,134,000 2,564,728 2,134,000 Construction & Material Handling Equipment and After Services 1,273,775 1,381,321 1,273,775 1,381,321 Electro Mechanical & Bio Medical and Marine Engineering 1,630,909 1,165,346 20,884,674 27,711,604 19,185,246 26,496,949 124 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.2 Segment Information Electro-Mechanical, Bio Medical and Marine Engineering Sale, installation, commissioning and maintenance of medical Accounting Policies equipment, generating sets, diesel engines for marine The Operating business are organised and managed separately propulsion and rail traction, building management systems, fluid according to the nature of the products and services provided. The management systems, industrial refrigeration systems and power Primary segment reporting format is determined based on products engineering equipment and systems. and services offered as the Group’s risks and returns are affected predominantly by differences in the products and services provided. Inter-segment transfers are based on fair market prices (arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third The Group comprises of the following main business segments as parties). Segment results, assets and liabilities include items per the products and services offered: directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Vehicles Sales Sale of brand new passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles, agri Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise mainly of assets and machinery, special purpose vehicles and pre-owned passenger vehicles. liabilities that cannot be attributed to a particular segment. Vehicles After Services Finance income and expenses and income taxes are managed at Repair and Service of vehicle included in the vehicle-sale Group level and are not allocated to business segments. segment, sale of vehicle spare parts, accessories and components. Sales to any single customer does not represent more than 10% Marketing and Distribution of the total sales and no segments are determined based on the Sale of power tools and accessories, lamps, lighting fittings and geographical area as all the segments are operating in the same accessories, tyres and retreaded tyres. economic environment. Construction & Material Handling Equipment and After Services Sales and services of earth moving machinery, road construction machinery, forklifts, material handling machinery, racking systems, dock levellers and car parking systems. Construction, Material Construction, Material Handling Equipment Handling Equipment & After Services & After Services 6% Electro Mechanical, 5% Electro Mechanical, Bio Medical & Marine Bio Medical & Marine Marketing & Engineering Marketing & Engineering Distribution 8% Distribution 4% 13% 8% Vehicles Vehicles After Services After Services 10% 8% Vehicles Sales Vehicles Sales 63% 75% Segment Revenue Segment Revenue 2014 2013 125 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Segmental Results and Assets/Liabilities Group Vehicles Sales Vehicles Marketing and Construction & Material Electro Mechanical & After Services Distribution Handling Equipment Bio Medical and and After Services Marine Engineering Total For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Business Segment Turnover and Results Total segment revenue 13,288,560 20,794,283 2,800,344 2,758,442 2,822,779 2,181,450 1,321,621 1,437,782 1,900,079 1,221,937 22,133,383 28,393,894 Inter-segment revenue (26,319) (57,995) (732,990) (463,793) (172,384) (47,450) (47,846) (56,461) (269,170) (56,591) (1,248,709) (682,290) Total external revenue 13,262,241 20,736,288 2,067,354 2,294,649 2,650,395 2,134,000 1,273,775 1,381,321 1,630,909 1,165,346 20,884,674 27,711,604 Segment results 692,280 916,766 386,107 445,586 209,697 15,605 174,681 142,765 245,859 186,168 1,708,624 1,706,890 Unallocated other income 69,419 35,903 Unallocated expenses (903,487) (857,292) Finance cost net (361,698) (395,480) Income tax expense (119,317) (35,934) Profit for the year 393,541 454,087 Business Segment Assets and Liabilities Segment assets 4,028,135 3,740,927 1,429,507 1,251,320 1,505,377 1,132,103 579,762 492,174 1,494,910 1,034,883 9,037,691 7,651,407 Unallocated assets 7,056,963 5,248,972 Total assets 16,094,654 12,900,379 Segment liabilities 374,858 2,914,312 63,968 109,137 53,312 102,724 854 23,084 30,893 88,902 523,885 3,238,159 Unallocated liabilities 7,653,276 2,031,053 Equity 7,917,493 7,631,167 Total equity and liabilities 16,094,654 12,900,379 Other Information Capital expenditure 52,331 12,741 84,881 86,525 23,259 28,395 3,813 5,512 4,296 15,984 168,580 149,157 Unallocated capital expenditure 1,265,276 945,296 Depreciation and amortisation 22,868 13,759 74,741 52,867 11,786 8,036 4,213 3,389 8,478 6,719 122,086 84,770 Unallocated depreciation and amortisation 95,776 85,763 Construction, Material Electro Mechanical, Construction, Material Electro Mechanical, Handling Equipment Bio Medical & Marine Handling Equipment Bio Medical & Marine & After Services Engineering & After Services Engineering 10% 14% 8% 11% Marketing & Marketing & Distribution Distribution 12% 1% Vehicles Vehicles Sales Vehicles Vehicles Sales After Services 41% After Services 54% 23% 26% Segment Results Segment Results 2014 2013 126 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.3 Other Operating Income/(Expenses) Accounting Policies Income earned and expenses incurred on other sources, which Dividend income are not directly related to the normal operations of the group Dividend income is recognised when the Group/Company right are recognised as other operating income/(expenses). to receive payment is established. The following specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognising income. Deferred Income on sale and lease back transactions The excess of sales proceeds over the cost of an asset in a sale and lease back transaction is classified as deferred income. Deferred income is systematically amortised to the Income Statement over the lease period. Other Operating Income/(Expenses) Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Amortisation of deferred income 1,595 3,191 1,595 3,191 Sundry income 60,331 36,895 49,812 22,099 Dividend income 522 235 11,322 13,015 Profit/(Loss) on disposal of property, plant & equipment 6,971 (4,418) 6,993 (2,878) 69,419 35,903 69,722 35,427 4.4 Finance Income and Expenses Accounting Policies Finance income comprises of interest income. Interest income is Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method. construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. A qualifying asset is an asset which Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings and takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended impairment losses recognised on financial assets (other than use or sale. Other borrowing costs are recognised in the Income trade receivables). Interest expenses are recognised using the Statement in the period in which they occur. effective interest method. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis as either finance income or finance cost depending on whether foreign currency movements are in a net gain or net loss position. 127 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Net Finance Cost Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Finance income Interest income 59,856 110,169 59,136 108,370 Exchange gain on translation of foreign currency 15,655 130,592 11,481 132,808 Total finance income 75,511 240,761 70,617 241,178 Finance cost Interest on long-term borrowings (40,673) (53,329) (40,673) (53,329) Interest on short-term borrowings (396,536) (582,912) (383,317) (577,469) Total finance cost (437,209) (636,241) (423,990) (630,798) Net finance cost (361,698) (395,480) (353,373) (389,620) Capitalisation of finance income and cost Finance income 8,399 8,399 Finance cost (57,622) (59,651) (57,622) (59,651) Net finance cost (49,223) (59,651) (49,223) (59,651) 4.5 Profit Before Tax Profit before tax is stated after charging/(reversing) the following: Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Directors’ emoluments Short-term employment benefits 173,211 159,847 159,273 149,827 Post-employment benefits 41,434 43,267 39,111 41,011 Auditors’ remuneration Audit services 2,811 2,415 2,300 1,980 Audit-related services 717 932 602 785 Non-audit services 557 628 403 454 Depreciation on property, plant & equipment 208,888 167,385 200,409 160,665 Amortisation of intangible assets and lease rentals paid in advance 8,974 3,148 8,974 3,148 Reversal of impairment of trade and other receivable (19,275) (142,540) (31,914) (122,667) Provision/(reversal of) for slow moving inventories (87,605) 131,061 (83,751) 122,593 Donations 13,191 14,804 5,949 14,104 Legal fees 17,668 17,753 17,225 15,904 Staff expenses (Note 4.5.1) 1,344,015 1,121,737 1,174,398 993,423 128 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.5.1 Staff Expenses Accounting Policies Salaries and wages, contribution to EPF and ETF, training expenses and current service cost of defined benefit plans are measured at cost and recognised as an expense in the year in which the related services are provided. Staff Expenses Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Defined contribution plan cost 160,925 145,001 139,918 128,032 Employee benefit obligation cost (Note 4.22) 55,935 43,311 51,850 40,675 Training expenses 42,803 41,866 34,339 28,401 Salaries and wages 1,084,352 891,559 948,291 796,315 1,344,015 1,121,737 1,174,398 993,423 Average number of employees for the year 1,518 1,433 1,349 1,290 The average number of employees is calculated by averaging the number of employees as at the year end in the current and previous year. 4.6 Income Tax Accounting Policies Accounting Estimate Income tax expense/(reversal) for the year comprises current The Group/Company recognises liabilities for anticipated tax, and deferred tax including adjustments to previous years based on estimate of taxable income where the final tax outcome and changes in tax provisions. It is recognised in the Income of these matters is different from the amount that were initially Statement except, to the extent it relates to items recognised recorded, such differences will be adjusted in the current year’s directly in Equity or in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). income tax charge and/in the deferred assets/liabilities as appropriate in the period in which such determination is made. Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income Deferred tax for the year, using tax rates enacted at the reporting date and A detail disclosure of accounting policies and estimate of any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years. deferred tax is available in Note 4.23. Income Tax Expense Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Current Tax Expense Current tax on profit for the year (Note 4.6.1) 66,795 69,092 21,536 Under provision in respect of previous year 1,181 1,494 74 67,976 70,586 21,610 Deferred Tax Expense Origination/(Reversal) of temporary differences (Note 4.6.2) 51,341 (34,652) 50,070 (34,924) Total income tax expense/(reversal) 119,317 35,934 50,070 (13,314) 129 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.6.1 Reconciliation of Accounting Profit to Income Tax Expense Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Profit before taxation 512,858 490,021 329,989 331,581 Disallowable expenses 405,705 387,338 383,017 371,219 Allowable expenses (396,564) (267,963) (376,714) (263,745) Qualifying Payments (343,492) (362,177) (336,292) (361,677) Taxable income 178,507 247,219 77,378 Income tax Tax at 12% 622 98 98 Tax at 28% 66,173 68,994 21,438 Current tax on profits for the year 66,795 69,092 21,536 Effective tax rate (%) 13% 14% 0% 6% Current tax has been computed in accordance with the Inland Withholding tax on the final dividend approved on 23rd May Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto. 2014 is Rs. 8.8 mn. The actual liability arises in the year in which The companies within the Group are liable to income tax at 28%. dividend is paid. Therefore, no liability is recognised in these The tax on export profits is 12%. Financial Statements. 4.6.2 Recognition of deferred tax expenses in the Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Income Statement (Note 4.23.2) 51,341 (34,652) 50,070 (34,924) Other Comprehensive Income (Note 4.23.2) (7,076) (8,063) (6,537) (6,929) 44,265 (42,715) 43,533 (41,853) 4.6.3 Tax Losses Brought Forward and Utilised During the Year Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Tax losses at the beginning of the year 6,050 6,050 Claim during the year (3,829) Tax losses at the end of the year 2,221 6,050 Tax losses brought forward relate to Dimo Industries (Pvt) Ltd. 130 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.7 Earnings Per Share Basic and Diluted Accounting Policies Measurement basis Earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit for The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the during the year and the previous year are adjusted for events that weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during have changed the number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. the year. Calculation of Earnings Per Share Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (Rs. ’000) 393,541 454,087 279,919 344,895 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 8,876,437 8,876,437 8,876,437 8,876,437 Earnings per ordinary share basic and diluted (Rs.) 44.34 51.16 31.54 38.86 4.8 Dividends Calculation of Dividend Per Share Company 4.8.1 Approved Final Dividend For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 On 23rd May 2014, the Board of Directors of the Company has Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 recommended the payment of a first and final dividend of Rs. 10.00 per share for the year ended 31st March 2014 (2012/13 Final dividend approved 88,764 88,764 final dividend of Rs. 10.00 per share). In accordance with 88,764 88,764 the LKAS 10 on ‘Events after the Reporting Period’, this final Dividend per share (Rs.) 10.00 10.00 dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the Financial Statements as at 31st March 2014. No interim dividend was paid during the financial year 2013/14. (No Interim dividends was paid in 2012/13.) 4.8.2 Compliance with Section 56 and 57 of Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 As required by Section 56 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company satisfied the solvency test in accordance with Section 57, prior to recommending the final dividend. A statement of solvency completed and duly signed by the Directors on 23 May 2014 has been audited by Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants. 131 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.9 Property plant and equipment Accounting Policies Basis of recognition Subsequent cost Property, plant & equipment are recognised if it is probable When significant parts of a property, plant and equipment that future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow are required to be replaced at regular intervals, the Group to the Group/Company and cost of the asset can be measured derecognises the replaced part, and recognises the new part reliably. with its own associated useful life and depreciated accordingly. Ongoing repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the Purchased software which is integral to the functionality of the Income Statement as incurred. related equipment is capitalised as part of that equipment. Derecognition Basis of measurement An item of property, plant & equipment is derecognised upon All property, plant & equipment are initially measured at its disposal, replacement or when no future economic benefits are cost. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on acquisition of the asset and subsequent costs. The cost of selfderecognition of the asset is included in the Income Statement constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, in the period the asset is derecognised. any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, the costs of dismantling Depreciation and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are Depreciation is based on straight-line method over the estimated located and borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the useful lives of the assets. Freehold land is not depreciated. asset under construction. Depreciation of an asset begins from the date they are available Cost model for use or in respect of self constructed assets from the date that Property, plant & equipment (excluding freehold land), is stated the asset is completed and ready for use. Depreciation ceases at at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated the earlier of the date that the asset is classified as held for sale impairment losses, if any. and the date that the asset is derecognised. The estimated useful life of assets is as follows: When an asset’s carrying value is higher than it’s estimated recoverable amount, the carrying value is written down to its Class of Asset Year recoverable amount. (please refer 3.9 Impairment of nonBuildings 36 40 financial assets) Buildings on leasehold land Over the lease period Plant and machinery 08 13 Revaluation model Workshop Implements 03 04 Freehold land is stated at cost at the time of acquisition and Motor vehicles 03 04 subsequently measure at fair value at the next revaluation. The Furniture & Fittings 09 13 Group policy is to revalue all freehold land at every three years Office equipment & electrical fittings 06 10 or when there is a substantial difference between the fair value Computer hardware & software 03 04 and the carrying amount. Residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation Any revaluation surplus is recognised in Other Comprehensive are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted if Income and accumulated in equity in the capital reserve, except appropriate. to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously recognised in the Income Statement, in which Capital work-in-progress case the increase is recognised in the Income Statement. Capital work-in-progress is stated at cost, including borrowing A revaluation deficit is recognised in the Income Statement, costs, less any accumulated impairment losses. These would be except to the extent that it offsets an existing surplus on the transferred to the relevant asset category in PPE when the asset same asset recognised in the capital reserve. Upon disposal, any is completed and available for use i.e. when it is in the location revaluation reserve relating to particular assets being sold is and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the transferred to retained earnings. manner intended by management. 132 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Carrying Value of Property, Plant & Equipment * Freehold Buildings Leasehold Plant and Tools and Motor Computer Electrical Land and Buildings Machinery Implements Vehicles Hardware Fixtures, Premises and and Fittings Premises Software and Office Total Equipment 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Group Cost or Revalued Amount At the beginning of the year 3,396,858 701,828 123,050 448,126 179,382 399,820 190,998 268,988 5,709,050 5,241,994 Additions 14,495 11,414 41,454 14,235 23,872 105,470 443,710 Transferred from capital work-in-progress 104,227 8,424 112,651 65,358 Disposals (5,470) (141) (17,672) (2,901) (299) (26,483) (42,012) At the end of the year 3,396,858 701,828 227,277 457,151 190,655 423,602 210,756 292,561 5,900,688 5,709,050 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 121,289 16,001 134,535 139,323 214,582 131,328 126,749 883,807 740,461 Charge for the year 17,307 18,745 32,439 16,487 77,893 26,116 19,901 208,888 167,385 On disposals (1,573) (141) (16,511) (2,812) (221) (21,258) (24,039) At the end of the year 138,596 34,746 165,401 155,669 275,964 154,632 146,429 1,071,437 883,807 Carrying amount before capital work-inprogress 3,396,858 563,232 192,531 291,750 34,986 147,638 56,124 146,132 4,829,251 4,825,243 Capital work-in-progress at cost At the beginning of the year 638,885 93,560 908 8,773 742,126 156,741 Additions 1,087,911 14,027 83,761 21,533 32,299 48,499 1,288,030 650,743 Transferred to PPE (104,227) (8,424) (112,651) (65,358) At the end of the year 1,726,796 3,360 83,761 21,533 24,783 57,272 1,917,505 742,126 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2014 3,396,858 2,290,028 195,891 375,511 56,519 147,638 80,907 203,404 6,746,756 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2013 3,396,858 1,219,424 200,609 313,591 40,059 185,238 60,578 151,012 5,567,369 Company Cost or Revalued Amount At the beginning of the year 3,396,858 700,213 123,050 412,562 159,097 396,245 172,733 253,519 5,614,277 5,157,601 Additions 12,762 11,246 41,454 12,378 23,239 101,079 427,511 Transferred from capital work-in-progress 104,227 8,424 112,651 65,358 Disposals (5,470) (141) (17,672) (2,523) (299) (26,105) (36,193) At the end of the year 3,396,858 700,213 227,277 419,854 170,202 420,027 191,012 276,459 5,801,902 5,614,277 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 120,948 16,001 122,550 124,778 212,175 118,699 117,739 832,890 693,588 Charge for the year 17,267 18,745 29,784 14,810 77,309 23,746 18,748 200,409 160,665 On disposals (1,573) (141) (16,511) (2,456) (221) (20,902) (21,363) At the end of the year 138,215 34,746 150,761 139,447 272,973 139,989 136,266 1,012,397 832,890 Carrying amount before capital work-in-progress 3,396,858 561,998 192,531 269,093 30,755 147,054 51,023 140,193 4,789,505 4,781,387 Capital work-in-progress at cost At the beginning of the year 638,885 93,560 908 8,773 742,126 156,741 Additions 1,106,190 14,027 90,617 21,533 32,299 67,289 1,331,955 650,743 Transferred to PPE (104,227) (8,424) (112,651) (65,358) At the end of the year 1,745,075 3,360 90,617 21,533 24,783 76,062 1,961,430 742,126 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2014 3,396,858 2,307,073 195,891 359,710 52,288 147,054 75,806 216,255 6,750,935 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2013 3,396,858 1,218,150 200,609 290,012 34,319 184,070 54,942 144,553 5,523,513 Capital work-in-progress mainly comprises of cost relating to constructions of new Mercedes Benz centre. * Freehold land is carried at revalued amount. 133 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.9.1 Revaluation of Freehold Land Freehold land was revalued as at 30th September 2011 by The revaluation surplus, amounting to Rs. 879.14 mn was Mr. K. Arthur Perera, A.M.I.V. (Sri Lanka) who is a professionally credited to the capital reserve account during the year 2011/12. qualified independent valuer. The value of freehold land has been written up to correspond The revaluation was carried out by taking into account the with the market value and the details are as follows: observable prices in active market or recent market transactions on arm’s length terms, adjusted for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property. Freehold Land Extent Original Revalued Revalued Freehold Pledged Mortgaged Cost Amount as Building to Financial Location Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 No. of Times Square Institution of Cost Feet No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 and No. 56, K. Cyril C. Perera Mawatha, Colombo 14 2A-0R-33.29P 414 1,349,135 3,258.78 65,605 – – No. 61, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 0A-1R-04.00P 18,014 220,000 12.21 8,423 – – No. 74, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 0A-1R-14.56P 113,808 252,640 2.22 4,042 – – No. 800, Sirimawo Bandaranaike Mawatha,Colombo 14 3A-3R-14.00P 641,519 659,388 1.03 – – – No. 135, Mahena Road, Siyambalape 7A-3R-05.90P 16,483 222,660 13.51 96,300 – – Commercial Kirindiwela Road, Weliweriya 16A-0R-36.31P 89,958 191,125 2.12 213,925 √ Bank No.360, Madampitiya Road, Mahawatta, Colombo 14 1A-2R-26.80P 301,599 *301,599 – – – – No. 09, Ariyala, Kandy Road, Jaffna 1A-2R-26.72P 32,487 *32,487 – – – – Yaggapitiya Watta, Dambulla Road, Kurunegala 5A-0R-0P 54,599 *54,599 – – – – No. 274/A, Kakunagaha Watta, Siyambalape 1A-0R-14.00P 21,123 *21,123 – – – – No. 23, Kaldemulla Road, Moratuwa 0A-3R-27.04P 92,102 *92,102 – 18,274 – – Total 1,382,106 3,396,858 406,569 * These freehold lands were acquired subsequent to the last revaluation date and therefore, the original cost is shown under the ‘Revalued’ column. 4.9.2 Fully Depreciated but still in Use 4.9.4 Permanent Fall in Value of Property, Plant & Equipment Property, plant & equipment totalling to Rs.435.6 mn (2013 Rs. There is no permanent fall in the value of property, plant & 433 mn) at cost have been fully depreciated and continue to be equipment which require a provision for impairment. used by the Group. The cost of fully-depreciated assets of the Company amounted to Rs. 404.6 mn (2013 Rs. 403 mn). 4.9.5 Title Restriction on Property, Plant & Equipment There were no restrictions that existed on the title to the 4.9.3 Property, Plant & Equipment Pledged as Security against property, plant & equipment of the Group/Company as at Long-Term Bank Loan reporting date. Land and buildings with a carrying value of Rs. 191 mn (2013 Rs. 666 mn) have been pledged as security against term loans obtained. 134 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.10 Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Acounting Policies Lease rentals paid in advance is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. Such carrying amounts are amortised over the remaining lease period or useful life of the leasehold property whichever is shorter. Carrying Value of Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Cost At the beginning of the year 39,938 39,938 39,938 39,938 Additions during the year At the end of the year 39,938 39,938 39,938 39,938 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 6,592 4,387 6,592 4,387 Amortisation for the year 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 At the end of the year 8,797 6,592 8,797 6,592 Carrying amount at the end of the year 31,141 33,346 31,141 33,346 Current portion of lease rentals paid (Note 4.17) 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 Non-current portion of lease rentals paid 28,936 31,141 28,936 31,141 Carrying amount at the end of the year 31,141 33,346 31,141 33,346 4.10.1 Details of Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Amount of Duration of lease the lease Location Rs. ’000 i. No. 562/126, D.S. Senanayake Mawatha, Anuradhapura 2,400 From April 1997 to August 2021 ii. No. 562/100, Jayanthi Mawatha, Anuradhapura 37,538 From October 2010 to May 2028 39,938 135 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.11 Intangible assets Accounting Policies Basis of recognition Useful economic lives, amortisation An intangible asset is recognised if it is probable that future Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised on a straight-line economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will basis over their estimated useful life from the date that they are flow to the entity and the cost of the asset can be measured available for use. These assets are assessed for impairment whenever reliably. there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. Basis of measurement Intangible assets mainly represent cost of computer software and the amortisation rate is as follows: Acquired Intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Computer software 4 Years Above rate is consistent with the rate used in the previous years. Subsequent expenditure Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is recognised in the Income Derecognition Statement when incurred. Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, replacement or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the Income Statement in the period the asset is derecognised. Carrying Value of Intangible Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Cost At the beginning of the year 6,344 6,344 6,344 6,344 Additions during the year* 40,356 40,356 At the end of the year 46,700 6,344 46,700 6,344 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 4,208 3,265 4,208 3,265 Amortisation for the year 6,769 943 6,769 943 At the end of the year 10,977 4,208 10,977 4,208 Carrying amount at the end of the year 35,723 2,136 35,723 2,136 * Additions consist of investment in application software. 136 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.12 Investments in Subsidiaries Accounting Policies Accounting Estimate Provision for Impairment Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost less impairment An impairment assessment was carried out as at 31st March in the Financial Statements of the Company. The net assets of 2014 and it was concluded that net realisable value of all the each subsidiary are reviewed at each reporting date to determine investments included under unquoted investments exceed its whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such carrying value except for DIMO Industries (Pvt) Ltd. Based indication exists, then the recoverable amount of the investment on an assessment made for impairment, a provision of Rs. is estimated and the impairment loss is recognised to the extent 2.7 mn (2012/13 Rs. 12.2 mn) in relation to the investment of its net assets loss. in Dimo Industries (Pvt) Ltd. was considered to be adequate as at reporting date. The management has implemented a revitalisation plan for Dimo Industries (Pvt) Ltd. and commenced tyre trading activities with effect from 1st April 2013. Carrying Value of Investments in Subsidiaries Company As at 31st March Percentage of 2014 2013 Holding (%) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Unquoted Investment Ordinary Shares Dimo (Pvt) Ltd. 25,000 ordinary shares 100 250 250 Dimo Industries (Pvt) Ltd. 2,305,000 ordinary shares 100 23,050 23,050 Dimo Travels (Pvt) Ltd. 500 ordinary shares 100 50 50 23,350 23,350 Impairment provision (Note 4.12.1) (2,705) (12,205) 20,645 11,145 4.12.1 Provision for Impairment of Investments in Subsidiaries Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 At the beginning of the year 12,205 12,205 Reversal of impairment (9,500) At the end of the year 2,705 12,205 137 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.13 Financial Assets and Liabilities Accounting Policies Financial assets Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Initial recognition and measurement Group classifies financial liabilities at initial recognition as Group/Company classifies financial assets at initial recognition other financial liabilities. At the end of each reporting period as available-for-sale financial assets or loans and receivables all classifications are re-evaluated to the extent that such based on the purpose of each investment. At the end of each classification is permitted and required. reporting period all classifications are re-evaluated to the extent that such classification is permitted and required. All the financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction cost. Other financial liabilities mainly consist All the financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus of trade and other payables and bank borrowings. Subsequently directly attributable transaction cost. they are carried at amortised cost. Available-for-sale financial assets (AFS) Derecognition Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under financial assets that are designated as available for sale financial the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. assets or are not classified as loans and receivables, held-tomaturity investments or financial assets at fair value through Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities profit or loss. Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the Statement of Financial Position if, Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in quoted and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset shares held for earnings on income or for capital appreciation. the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities Loans and receivables simultaneously. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables mainly consist of trade and other receivables. Derecognition of financial assets A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised when: a. The right to receive cash from the asset has expired b. The Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass through’ arrangement, and either, i. The Group: has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or ii. has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset 138 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.13.1 Financial Assets and Liabilities by Category Financial assets Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 i. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss ii. Held-to-maturity (HTM) iii. Loans & receivables (L&R) Trade & other receivables 2,742,873 2,086,115 2,099,995 1,654,001 Cash and cash equivalents 1,038,788 682,078 1,033,806 615,156 iv. Available-for-sales (AFS) Financial assets available-for-sale 4,823 5,077 4,801 5,054 Total financial assets 3,786,484 2,773,270 3,138,602 2,274,211 Financial liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 i. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss ii. Other financial liabilities Current portion of long-term borrowings 333,080 229,960 333,080 229,960 Long-term borrowings 1,499,763 540,243 1,499,763 540,243 Short-term borrowings 4,117,283 2,647,597 3,964,245 2,518,226 Trade payables 1,208,337 843,044 1,129,614 792,718 Total financial liabilities 7,158,463 4,260,844 6,926,702 4,081,147 Fair value estimation of financial assets and liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs with significant The Group/Company uses the following hierarchy for effects on the recorded fair values are observable, determining and disclosing the fair value of financial either directly or indirectly; instruments. Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for effect on the recorded fair values that are not based identical assets or liabilities; on observable market data. The Group held the following financial instruments carried at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position. Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Financial assets Classified as available for sale Level 1 4,823 5,077 4,801 5,054 Level 2 Level 3 Financial liabilities are not measured at fair value. 139 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.13.2 Financial risk management The group’s activities are exposed it to a variety of financial risks (a) Market risk such as; (i) Foreign exchange risk a. Market risk (Including currency risk, fair value interest rate The Group is sensitive to the fluctuations in exchange rates risk and cash flow interest rate risk) and is principally exposed to fluctuations in the value of Sri b. Credit risk Lankan Rupee (LKR) aginst the US Dollar (USD), Euro and c. Liquidity risk Japanese Yen. Group’s functional currency is the Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR) in which most of the transactions are denominated The groups’ overall risk management programme focuses and all other currencies are considered foreign currencies for on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reporting purposes. The Group had taken measures to manage minimise potential adverse effects on the groups’ financial risk by having foreign currency trade receivables and foreign performance. currency bank accounts balances to cover the exposure on foreign currency payables. Hence the overall objective of foreign The overall objectives and policies for the Group’s financial exchange risk management is to reduce the short term negative risk management are as per the internal treasury practices. It impact of exchange rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flow, will cover foreign exchange policy, Investment policy, financing thereby increasing the predictability of the financial results. policy and policies on credit risk and risk limits. Sensitivity Analysis Based on exchange rate fluctuation against Sri Lankan rupees Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 US Dollar (USD) % of Appreciation / (Depreciation) during the financial year 3.52 (0.90) 3.52 (0.90) 1% change impact to profitability by Rs’000 4,242 5,295 3,301 3,543 Euro % of Appreciation / (Depreciation) during the financial year 11.39 (4.93) 11.39 (4.93) 1% change impact to profitability by Rs’000 3,096 3,767 1,088 1,858 Japanese Yen % of Appreciation / (Depreciation) during the financial year (4.96) (13.73) (4.96) (13.73) 1% change impact to profitability by Rs’000 306 119 301 119 (ii) Interest rate risk Sensitivity Analysis Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash If interest rates had been higher/lower by 100 basis points and flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes all other variables were held constant, the profit before tax for in market interest rates. The group’s exposure to the risk of the period ended 31 March 2014 would decrease/increase by changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the group’s 12.2 Mn (2013 Rs 7.7 Mn). This is mainly attributable to the long-term debt obligations with floating rates. The Group Group’s exposure to interest rates on variable rate of interest. manages its interest rate risk by monitoring and managing cash flows, negotiating favourable rates on borrowings and deposits including and maintaining an appropriate combination of fixed and floating rate debt. 140 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (iii) Price risk The Group has taken several measures to manage and mitigate The Group is exposed to price risk because of investments in the credit risk including carrying out a credit evaluation as per quoted shares held by the Group classified as financial assets the Group credit policy, prior to extending credit. A review of available-for-sale. The value of these investments is subjected to age analysis of trade debtors and follow-up meetings are carried the performance of investee company and the factors that affects out by the business unit managers at least once a month and the status of the stock market. Sensitivity analysis on the value of by the Group Management Committee (GMC) at least once a the investments is not provided as it is deemed to be not material. quarter. In the event of a debt becoming doubtful, legal action is initiated by the Manager Legal. (b) Credit risk Credit risk exposure The Group extends credit facilities to customers during the course of business. Therefore, non-payment of trade debts is a The maximum risk exposure of financial assets which are key risk associated with trade receivables. generally subject to credit risk are equal to their carrying amounts. Following table shows the maximum risk positions. Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs’000 Rs’000 Rs’000 Rs’000 Trade and other receivables 2,742,873 2,086,115 2,099,995 1,654,001 Amounts due from subsidiaries 56,468 Cash in hand and at bank 1,038,788 682,078 1,033,806 615,156 Total credit risk exposure 3,781,661 2,768,193 3,190,269 2,269,157 Deposits and balances with banks Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs’000 Rs’000 Rs’000 Rs’000 Fitch Rating AAA 68,797 85 68,797 85 AA+ 821,765 149,550 821,765 149,550 AA 1,786 2,168 1,750 2,062 AA121,959 458,977 119,274 393,222 A 51,399 51,399 BB 46 46 1,014,307 662,225 1,011,586 596,364 (c) Liquidity risk mitigate the effects of fluctuations in cash flows. The Group’s This is the risk that the group will encounter in meeting the objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding obligations associated with it’s financial liabilities that are settled and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts and bank by delivering cash or another financial asset. loans. Access to source of funding is sufficiently available. Maturity profiles and specific risk management strategies with In the management of liquidity risk, the Group monitor and regards to trade payables and bank borrowings are given in the maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate respective notes. by the management to finance the Group’s operations and to 141 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.13.3 Capital Risk management The Company manages its capital structure and adjusts it The objectives of the capital management can be summarised as accordingly in line with changes in global and local economic follows: and market conditions and its overall risk appetite. a. Appropriately allocate capital to meet strategic objectives. Given below is a summary of the capital structure of the Group: b. Enable the Group to face any economic down turn/ crisis For the year ended 2014 2013 situation. Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as Long-term borrowings (Note 4.21.1.1) 1,832,843 770,203 to ensure investor, creditor and market confidence in order to Equity 7,917,493 7,631,167 sustain future development of the business. The impact of the Total equity and long-term loans 9,750,336 8,401,370 shareholders’ return is also recognised and the Group recognises Gearing ratio (%) 19% 9% the need to maintain a balance between higher returns that might be possible with greater gearing and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position. 4.14 Available-for-sale financial assets (AFS) Accounting Policies Accounting Estimate Assessment of Impairment Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently measured The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is at fair value and the resulting unrealised gains and losses any objective evidence that an asset or a group of assets is arising from changes in the fair value are recognised in impaired. In the case of equity investments classified as availableOther Comprehensive Income (available-for-sale reserve). for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or When financial assets classified as available-for-sale are sold or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in cost. ‘Significant’ is evaluated against the original cost of the the Income Statement. investment and ‘prolonged’ against the period for which the fair value has been below its original cost. Where there is evidence The fair values of quoted shares are based on current bid prices of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference at the end of the reporting period. between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, is removed from Other Comprehensive Income (available-for-sale Dividend income is recognised in the Income Statement when reserve) the Group becomes entitled to receive the dividend. Carrying Value of Available-for-Sale Financial Asset Group Company No. of Market Total No. of Market Total Shares Value Cost Fair Value Shares Value Cost Fair Value 2014 2014 2013 2014 2014 2013 As at 31st March (Per Share) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 (Per Share) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Quoted Investments Ordinary Shares Hunas Falls Hotels PLC 900 48.10 14 44 47 450 48.10 7 22 24 Hatton National Bank PLC (non-voting) 33,943 120.00 700 4,073 4,474 33,943 120.00 700 4,073 4,474 Ceylinco Insurance PLC (non-voting) 1,700 415.00 298 706 556 1,700 415.00 298 706 556 1,012 4,823 5,077 1,005 4,801 5,054 All investments in available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in Sri Lankan Rupees 142 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.15 Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realizable Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary value. course of business less the estimated selling expenses. The cost of inventories that are not interchangeable are Goods-in-transit are recognised at purchase cost. recognized by using specific identification of their individual cost and other inventories are based on weighted average cost formula. The cost of inventories includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and other costs incurred in bringing them to their present location and condition but excluding borrowing cost. Carrying Value of Inventories Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Stock-in-trade 4,303,732 3,930,259 4,221,759 3,895,507 Work-in-progress (at cost) 122,814 106,467 89,312 52,708 Provision for slow moving inventories (Note 4.15.1) (252,423) (340,028) (244,624) (328,375) 4,174,123 3,696,698 4,066,447 3,619,840 Goods-in-transit 693,518 445,208 689,497 435,718 Total inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value 4,867,641 4,141,906 4,755,944 4,055,558 4.15.1 Movement in Provision for Slow Moving Inventories Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 At the beginning of the year 340,028 208,967 328,375 205,782 Provision for/ (reversal of) slow moving inventories (87,605) 131,061 (83,751) 122,593 At the end of the year 252,423 340,028 244,624 328,375 4.16 Trade and Other Receivables Accounting Policies Accounting Estimate Provision for Impairment Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods The Group/Company considers evidence of impairment for sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. receivables at both specific asset level and at collective level. Other financial nature receivables are recognised as other All individually significant receivables are assessed for specific receivables. If collection is expected in one year or less (or in impairment by considering objective evidences i.e. Experiencing the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they are a significant financial difficulty or default in payments by a classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as noncustomer. Receivables that are not individually assessed are then current assets. collectively assessed for any impairment by grouping receivables together with similar risk characteristics. Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective In assessing collective impairment, the Group/Company uses interest method, less provision for impairment. historical trends of the probability of default, the timing of recoveries, and the amount of losses incurred, adjusted for management’s judgment as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses are likely to be greater or less than suggested historical trends. 143 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Carrying Value of Trade and Other Receivables Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Trade receivables 2,968,878 2,329,280 2,284,433 1,868,141 Provision for impairment (Note 4.16.1) (242,677) (261,952) (200,886) (232,800) 2,726,201 2,067,328 2,083,547 1,635,341 Other receivables 16,672 18,787 16,448 18,660 Carrying value 2,742,873 2,086,115 2,099,995 1,654,001 4.16.1 Movement in Provision for Impairment of Trade Receivables Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 At the beginning of the year 261,952 404,492 232,800 355,467 Reversal of impairment loss (19,275) (142,540) (31,914) (122,667) At the end of the year 242,677 261,952 200,886 232,800 4.16.2 Age Analysis of Trade Receivables after Provision for Impairment Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Not due 1,837,842 1,446,388 1,390,909 1,177,492 Due but not impaired Between 61 days to 180 days 623,581 368,730 531,999 287,861 Between 181 days to 365 days 198,094 163,544 125,424 101,672 Over 365 days 66,684 88,666 35,215 68,316 Net trade receivables maximum exposure to credit risk 2,726,201 2,067,328 2,083,547 1,635,341 Provision for impairment 242,677 261,952 200,886 232,800 Gross trade receivables 2,968,878 2,329,280 2,284,433 1,868,141 With respect to trade receivables as at the reporting date, past due but not impaired, based on credit history, there are no indications that customer will not be able to meet their obligations. No indication of default are identifiable for trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. 4.16.3 Carrying amount of trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies. Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs’000 Rs’000 Rs’000 Rs’000 Currency Sri Lankan Rupees 2,518,329 1,745,605 1,916,723 1,382,491 USD 119,040 273,485 113,690 239,116 Euro 59,056 46,084 25,942 11,580 Japanese Yen 27,181 549 26,684 549 Other 2,595 1,605 508 1,605 2,726,201 2,067,328 2,083,547 1,635,341 144 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.16.4 Trade debtors jointly with inventories are pledged as security 4.16.5 Terms of Trade and Other Receivables for short-term borrowings up to a limit of Rs.95 mn (2012/13 Trade and other receivables are non-interest-bearing and Rs. 95 mn). are expected to be received before 60 days. 4.17 Other Current Assets Accounting Policies The Group/Company classifies all non financial current Advances and deposits are carried at historical value less assets under other current assets. Other current assets mainly provision for impairment. Prepayments are amortised over the comprises of advances, deposits, prepayments and current period during which it is utilised and carried at historical value portion of the lease rentals paid in advance. less amortisation charge and any impairment. Carrying Value of Other Current Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Deposits and prepayments 305,417 198,410 279,168 171,424 Lease rentals paid in advance (Note 4.10) 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 Other receivables 113,464 5,779 110,479 4,457 421,086 206,394 391,852 178,086 4.18 Cash and Cash Equivalents Accounting Policies Cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash balances, Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings that are repayable investments in short-term deposits with an original maturity on demand and forming an integral part of the Group’s cash of three months or less. Cash and Bank balances are stated at management are included as a component of cash and cash recoverable values. Short-term deposits are stated at recoverable equivalents for the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows. value of the deposit. There were no cash and cash equivalents held by the Group companies that were not available for use. Carrying Value of Cash and Cash Equivalents Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Bank balances 118,057 225,859 115,336 159,998 Investment in fixed deposits 896,250 436,366 896,250 436,366 Cash in hand 24,481 19,853 22,220 18,792 1,038,788 682,078 1,033,806 615,156 Review of Credit & Interest Rate Risks The Group’s cash and cash equivalents comprise of bank Fixed deposits have been placed with the maturity period balances and fixed deposits which are invested in commercial less than three months and carrying a fixed rate of interest. banks and does not bear a credit risk. Investments in fixed deposits are made for varying periods of between one month to three months. 145 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.18.1 Carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies. Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Currency Sri Lankan Rupees 179,872 533,561 177,575 532,394 USD 855,219 77,831 852,707 30,479 Euro 278 62,001 105 43,598 Yen 3,419 8,685 3,419 8,685 1,038,788 682,078 1,033,806 615,156 4.19 Stated Capital Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 No. of No. of Shares Rs. ’000 Shares Rs. ’000 Ordinary Shares Issued and Fully-paid Ordinary Shares At the end of the year 8,876,437 425,297 8,876,437 425,297 4.20 Revenue Reserve Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 At the beginning of the year 5,191,118 5,000,566 4,701,223 4,616,945 Dividend (88,764) (244,102) (88,764) (244,102) Total comprehensive income Income Statement Profit for the year 393,541 454,087 279,919 344,895 Other Comprehensive Income Actuarial loss arising from employees benefits (Net of tax) (18,196) (20,733) (16,810) (17,819) Net Changes in fair value of financial assets available-for-sale (255) 1,300 (253) 1,304 At the end of the year 5,477,444 5,191,118 4,875,315 4,701,223 4.21 Long-term and Short-term Borrowings Accounting Policies Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of transactions cost. Subsequently, they are stated at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (Net of transaction cost) and the repayable amount (including interest) is recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the loan using effective interest method. 146 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.21.1 Carrying Value of Long-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 a. Non-current portion of the long-term borrowings Term loans (Note 4.21.1.1) 1,499,763 540,243 1,499,763 540,243 Total non-current long-term borrowings 1,499,763 540,243 1,499,763 540,243 b. Current portion of the long-term borrowings Term loans (Note 4.21.1.1) 333,080 229,960 333,080 229,960 Total current portion of long-term borrowings 333,080 229,960 333,080 229,960 4.21.1.1 Movement and Classification of Long-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 At the beginning of the year 770,203 1,000,163 770,203 1,000,163 Loans obtained during the year 1,292,600 1,292,600 Repayments during the year (229,960) (229,960) (229,960) (229,960) At the end of the year 1,832,843 770,203 1,832,843 770,203 Classified as current liabilities (repayable within one year) 333,080 229,960 333,080 229,960 Classified as long-term loans (repayable after one year) 1,499,763 540,243 1,499,763 540,243 4.21.1.2 Principal Amounts of Long-term Borrowings Company Balance Outstanding 2014 2013 as at Secured Repayments Tenure Lender Currency Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 31.03. 2014 Commercial Bank of Ceylon LKR 400,000 400,000 156,910 P Repayable in 120 Instalments PLC commenced from February 2008 Hatton National Bank PLC LKR 200,000 200,000 Repayable in 60 Instalments commenced from March 2009 DFCC Bank LKR 250,000 250,000 108,333 Repayable in 60 Instalments commenced from June 2011 Bank of Ceylon LKR 500,000 500,000 275,000 Repayable in 60 Instalments commenced from January 2012 DFCC Bank LKR 500,000 500,000 Repayable in 60 Instalments commenced from April 2014 HSBC Bank USD 792,600 792,600 Repayable in 60 Instalments commenced from December 2014 Total 2,642,600 1,350,000 1,832,843 Details of land which were pledged against above bank loan facilities are disclosed in Note 4.9.3. 147 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.21.1.3 Analysis of Long-Term Borrowings by the year of Repayment Commercial Hatton DFCC Bank of HSBC Total Total Bank of National Bank Ceylon Bank 2014 2013 Ceylon PLC Bank PLC Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Movement of Loans Balance at the beginning of the year 196,870 40,000 158,333 375,000 770,203 1,000,163 Loans obtained during the year 500,000 792,600 1,292,600 Repayments during the year (39,960) (40,000) (50,000) (100,000) (229,960) (229,960) Balance at the end of the year 156,910 608,333 275,000 792,600 1,832,843 770,203 Analysis of Long-Term Borrowings by Period of Repayment Repayable within 6 months from year end 19,980 75,000 50,000 144,980 114,980 between 6 months and 1 year 19,980 75,000 50,000 43,120 188,100 114,980 between 2 and 5 years from year end 116,950 458,333 175,000 749,480 1,499,763 540,243 later than 5 years from year end 156,910 608,333 275,000 792,600 1,832,843 770,203 4.21.2 Short-Term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Short-term bank loans 3,835,720 2,284,352 3,762,535 2,204,731 Bank overdrafts 281,563 363,245 201,710 313,495 4,117,283 2,647,597 3,964,245 2,518,226 Unutilised bank facilities as at 31st March 2014 amounted to Rs.6,325 mn (2013 Rs. 9,233 mn). Short-term bank loans are repayable within a period of six months and details of inventories and book debts which were pledged against above shortterm loan facilities are disclosed in Note 4.16.4 148 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.22 Employee Benefits Accounting Policies Defined contribution plans The liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the under which an entity pays fixed determinable contributions into reporting date. The calculation is performed annually by a a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method (PUC). to pay further amounts. Any actuarial gains and losses arising are recognised immediately in Other Comprehensive Income. The discount rate has been Employees are eligible to Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) derived considering the yield of government bonds. contributions and Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF) contributions as per the respective statutes. These obligations come within The liability is not externally funded. the scope of a defined contribution plan as per LKAS -19 on ‘Employee Benefits’. The contributions made are expensed to Accounting Estimates the Income Statement as and when the contributions The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about are made. discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, and mortality rates. Due to the long term nature Defined benefit obligations of these obligation, such estimates are subject to significant In accordance with the Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, a liability uncertainty. arises for a defined benefit obligation to employees. Such defined benefit obligation is a post-employment benefit obligation falling within the scope of Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS -19 on ‘Employee Benefits’. Carrying Value of Defined Benefit Obligation Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Present value of unfunded obligation 349,642 287,046 332,521 273,471 At the beginning of the year 287,046 224,434 273,471 216,824 Current service cost 25,795 19,745 23,135 17,908 Interest cost 30,140 23,566 28,715 22,767 Actuarial loss 25,272 28,796 23,347 24,748 Paid during the year (18,611) (9,495) (16,147) (8,776) At the end of the year 349,642 287,046 332,521 273,471 4.22.1 Defined Benefit Obligation Recognised in Total Comprehensive Income Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Income Statement Current service cost 25,795 19,745 23,135 17,908 Interest cost 30,140 23,566 28,715 22,767 55,935 43,311 51,850 40,675 Other Comprehensive Income Actuarial loss 25,272 28,796 23,347 24,748 25,272 28,796 23,347 24,748 Total charge for the year 81,207 72,107 75,197 65,423 149 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes An actuarial valuation was carried out by Mr. M. Poopalanathan, The current service cost for the year under review is included AIA, of Messrs Actuarial and Management Consultants (Pvt) under Administration Expenses. Ltd., a firm of professional actuaries as at 31st March 2014. However, according to the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of The following assumptions and data were used in valuing the 1983, the liability for gratuity to an employee arises only on defined benefit obligation by the actuarial valuer: completion of five years of continuous service. The liability as required by the Payment of Gratuity Act for the Group and the 2014 2013 Company as at 31st March 2014 amounted to Rs. 330 mn and Rs. % % 316 mn respectively. Rate of discount 10.5 10.5 Sensitivity Analysis Salary escalation rate 10 10 Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on a 67/70 constant, would have affected defined benefit obligation by the mortality table, issued by the Institute of Actuaries, London. amounts shown below. Normal retirement age of an executive employee is assumed to be 60 years while a non-executive employee is assumed to retire at the age of 55 years. Defined Benefit Obligation Group Company Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rate of discount (1% movement) 13,676 14,724 12,700 13,858 Salary escalation rate (1% movement) 16,004 15,107 15,070 14,055 4.23 Deferred Tax Accounting Policies Deferred tax is provided using liability method on temporary The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each differences as at the reporting date between the tax written down reporting date and reduced to the extent that is no longer value and their carrying amounts in financial reporting, for probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow Company and Group. all or part of the deferred tax assets to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are Deferred tax provision is calculated by applying on the recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable temporary difference, the income tax rate that is applicable at profits will allow the deferred tax assets to be recovered. the time of reversal. In the absence of the availability of the income tax rate applicable on the reversal date, the income tax Accounting Estimate Judgement Used rate applicable on the reporting date is used. Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is available against which the losses can be utilised. Judgment is probable that future taxable profits will be available against required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can which the temporary difference can be utilised. be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits. 150 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Carrying Value of Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities) Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Summary of net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) At the beginning of the year 14,358 (28,357) 14,601 (27,252) (Origination)/reversal of temporary differences to Income Statement (51,341) 34,652 (50,070) 34,924 Reversal of temporary differences to Other Comprehensive Income 7,076 8,063 6,537 6,929 At the end of the year (Note 4.23.1) (29,907) 14,358 (28,932) 14,601 4.23.1 Reconciliation of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Deferred Tax Liability Temporary difference arising from property, plant & equipment (539,566) (345,444) (516,741) (330,999) Total temporary difference of deferred tax liability (539,566) (345,444) (516,741) (330,999) Closing deferred tax liability @ 28% (151,079) (96,724) (144,688) (92,679) As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Deferred Tax Assets Temporary difference arising from defined benefit obligations 349,642 287,048 332,521 273,470 Temporary difference arising from tax losses 2,221 Temporary difference arising from deferred free service income and warranty provision 80,892 109,674 80,892 109,674 Total temporary difference of deferred tax asset 432,755 396,722 413,413 383,144 Closing deferred tax assets @ 28% 121,172 111,082 115,756 107,280 Net temporary differences (106,811) 51,278 (103,328) 52,145 Net deferred tax (liability)/asset (29,907) 14,358 (28,932) 14,601 4.23.2 Movement in Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities during the Year Group Company Balance Recognised Recognised Balance Balance Recognised Recognised Balance as at in Income in Other as at as at in Income in Other as at 01.04.2013 Statement Comprehensive 31.03.2014 01.04.2013 Statement Comprehensive 31.03.2014 Income Income Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Property, plant & equipment Deferred tax liability (96,724) (54,355) (151,079) (92,680) (52,008) (144,688) Retirement benefit obligation Deferred tax asset 80,373 10,452 7,076 97,901 76,572 9,998 6,537 93,107 Tax loss-Deferred tax asset 622 622 Deferred free service and warranty provision Deferred tax assets 30,709 (8,060) 22,649 30,709 (8,060) 22,649 14,358 (51,341) 7,076 (29,907) 14,601 (50,070) 6,537 (28,932) 151 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.24 Deferred income Accounting Policies Accounting Estimate Undelivered free services relating to vehicle sales Relative fair value of free services The Company sells vehicles bundled with free services to the The amount charged by the service provider in respect of each customers with warranty limitations on mileage or usage period. service is recognised as the relative fair value of free services. The unprovided free services are deferred at the time of selling These amounts are estimated using the combination of historical the vehicles at its relative fair value and recognised as revenue experience in service and price changes. when the recognition criteria are fulfilled i.e. upon provision of the service or expiration of entitled period or/and criteria, whichever occurs first. Carrying Value of Deferred Income Group Company As at 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 At the beginning of the year 140,312 179,769 77,311 147,809 Income deferred during the year 329,079 148,528 149,292 90,211 Income amortised during the year (378,373) (187,985) (168,912) (160,709) At the end of the year 91,018 140,312 57,691 77,311 4.25 Provisions and Contingent Liabilities Accounting Policies Provisions Provisions for extended warranty Provisions are recognised when the Group/Company has a The Company may offer extended warranties on vehicles on its present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past own account in certain circumstances. The extended warranty event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying is provided by giving a warranty period that goes beyond the economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation warranty provided by manufacturers. and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where the Group expects some or all of a provision A provision for warranty is recognised when the underlying to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, products are sold. The quantum of the provision is based on the the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the historical experience. The said extended warranty provision will reimbursement is certain. The expense relating to any provision be reversed upon expiration of warranty period. is presented in the Income Statement net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions Accounting Estimate are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where The Management considers likelihood of any claim succeeding appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting in making provisions. The time of concluding legal claims is is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time uncertain, as is the amount of possible outflow of economic is recognised as a finance cost. benefits. Timing and cost ultimately depend on the due process in the respective legal jurisdictions. Provisions are calculated based on the historical experience and the specific terms in the individual cases. The Group arrives at an estimate on the basis of an evaluation of the most likely outcome. All known provisions have been accounted for in preparing the Financial Statements. 152 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Group Company As at 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Provision for litigation claims 11,000 11,000 Provisions for extended warranty 29,062 26,622 29,062 26,622 40,062 26,622 40,062 26,622 Contingent liabilities Currently the Group/Company is involved in pending litigations Contingent Liabilities are possible obligations whose existence and claims arising out of the normal conduct of the business. will be confirmed only by uncertain future events or present Group/Company does not expect the pending litigations and obligations where the transfer of economic benefit is not claims, individually and in aggregate, to have a material impact probable or cannot be readily measured. Further, provisions on Group’s financial position, operating profit of cash flow in for which no reliable estimate can be made are disclosed as addition to amounts accrued as provision for legal disputes. contingent liabilities. Disclosure relating to contingencies are setout in Note 5.2. 4.26 Trade payables Accounting Policies Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services, that Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and have been acquired in the ordinary course of business. Trade subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due interest method. within one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current Generally trade payables are due within ninety days. liabilities. Carrying Value of Trade Payables Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Trade payables 1,208,337 843,044 1,129,614 792,718 4.26.1 Review of Liquidity Risk Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and have settlement The trade payables of the Group include an amount of Rs. 693.5 periods less than 90 days. The quick assets ratio of the Company million as bills payable corresponding to goods shipped but not as at the year-end was 0.70:1 (in 2012/13 0.72:1). As a liquidity received (Goods-in-Transit). At the time of settlement of such risk management measure, the entities continually compare bills, entities will obtain short-term loans to cover the working trade payables with receivables, cash and cash equivalents and capital cycle period of the imports. unutilised banking facilities. Unutilised banking facilities are given in Note 4.21.2 153 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.27 Other Current Liabilities Accounting Policies Group classifies all non financial current liabilities under other current liabilities. Other current liabilities include accruals and advances and these liabilities are recorded at the amounts that are expected to be paid. Carrying Value of Other Current Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Advances received 12,367 124,185 12,367 124,185 Interest payable 6,568 8,035 6,568 8,035 Unclaimed dividend 6,025 6,503 6,025 6,503 Value Added Tax (VAT) 3,882 10,583 5,269 Other payables and accrued expenses 398,117 334,980 375,513 318,262 426,959 484,286 400,473 462,254 4.27.1 Terms of Settlement of Other Current Liabilities Other current liabilities are non-interest bearing and are payable within three months excluding advances and unclaimed dividends. Advances received are expected to be set-off within three months. 4.28 Current Tax Assets and Liabilities Current tax assets are recognised at historical value less impairment. Income tax liabilities are recorded at the amounts expected to be paid. Carrying Value of Current Tax Asset/(Liability) Group Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Opening balance 67,081 (128,276) 102,176 (105,032) Current tax for the year (Note 4.6) (67,976) (70,586) (21,610) (895) (198,862) 102,176 (126,642) Tax paid during the year: Current tax & WHT 87,751 265,943 5,737 228,818 87,751 265,943 5,737 228,818 Current tax asset/(liability) 86,856 67,081 107,913 102,176 Made up as follows: Current tax asset 107,913 103,550 107,913 102,176 Current tax liability (21,057) (36,469) 86,856 67,081 107,913 102,176 154 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 4.29 Amounts Due (to)/ from Subsidiaries Name of the Company Dimo Dimo Dimo (Pvt) Ltd. Industries Travels (Pvt) Ltd. (Pvt) Ltd. As at As at Shareholding 100% 100% 100% 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Opening balance due to subsidiaries (147,397) (9,388) (327) (157,112) (98,617) Sale of goods and services 51,356 51,356 12,260 Purchase of goods and services (267,178) (267,178) (56,387) Expenses incurred on behalf of subsidiaries 38,491 39,856 78,347 64,623 Fund transfers net 99,565 26,000 155 125,720 (78,991) Closing balance due (to) /from subsidiaries (225,163) 56,468 (172) (168,867) (157,112) 4.29.1 Amounts Due (to)/ from Subsidiaries comprises with: Company As at 31st March 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Amount due from subsidiaries 56,468 Amount due to subsidiaries (225,335) (157,112) Amount due (to)/from subsidiaries (168,867) (157,112) 155 Annual Report 2013/14 Introductory Statements Executive Management Reviews Profiles of Leadership Value Creation Report Governance & Risk Management Financial Statements SECTION 5 Other Disclosures This section provides information on related party disclosures and other disclosures required by the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard. 5.1 Related Party Disclosures The Company carried out transactions in the ordinary course of its business with parties who are defined as related parties as per Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 24 on ‘Related Party Disclosures’, the details of which are reported below: 5.1.1 (a) Transactions with Key Management Personnel (KMPs) 5.1.1 (b) The Compensation Paid to Key Management Personnel According to Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 24 on (KMPs) ‘Related Party Disclosures’, Key Management Personnel are those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and The Executive Directors are entitled to a structured incentive controlling the activities of the entity. Accordingly, the Board scheme which is linked to performance. of Directors of the Company (Executive and Non-Executive Directors) have been classified as KMPs. As the Company is the The Company contributes towards a post-employment ultimate parent of the subsidiaries (listed in Note 2.3), the Board contribution plan for the Executive Directors. In addition of Directors of the Company has the authority and responsibility to their salaries, the Company provides non-cash benefits to for planning or controlling the activities of the Group directly or KMPs. indirectly. Accordingly, the Board of Directors of the Company (Executive & Non-Executive) are KMPs of the Group. There are no share-based payments made to the Directors during the year. Officers who are employees of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC and Directors of the subsidiaries and not of the Company No Loans were granted to KMPs of the Company. have been classified as KMPs of the respective subsidiary only. Compensation to Key Management Personnel of the Company are as follows: Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Short-term employment benefits 173,211 159,847 159,273 149,827 Post-employment benefits 41,434 43,267 39,111 41,011 Total compensation applicable to key management personnel 214,645 203,114 198,384 190,838 The Company also has an obligation towards a post-employment 5.1.1 (c) Transactions with Close Family Members of KMPs benefit plan for the Executive Directors. The liability arising Close family members are defined as spouse or dependant. from the post-employment obligation has been provided Dependant is defined as any one who depends on the respective for, based on an actuarial valuation and is covered under Director for more than 50% of his/her financial needs. Employee Benefits referred to in Note 4.22 to the Financial Statements. There were no transactions with the close family members during the year. 156 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 5.1.2 Transactions with Companies Significantly Influenced by 5.2 Commitments and Contingencies Key Management Personnel (KMP) Capital Expenditure Commitments Mr. A.M. Pandithage who is a Director of the Company is also the Chairman of Hayleys PLC. Capital expenditure committed by the Board of Directors for which a provision has not been made in the Financial Statements The balances due to and due from Hayleys Group as at 31st amount to approximately Rs.824.2mn (2012/13 Rs. 2,101.4 mn). March 2014 are as follows: Contingencies Group Guarantees As at 31st March 2014 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 The contingent liabilities as at 31st March 2014 on guarantees given by Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC, in respect of bank Balance due to Hayleys Group guarantees, bid bonds and performance bonds amounted to Rs. Balances due from Hayleys Group 2,110 1,674 753.9 mn (2012/13 Rs. 731.7 mn). Transactions during the year with the Hayleys Group: Litigation Against the Company The claims for lawsuits filed against the Company as at 31st Group March 2014 amount to Rs. 41.2 mn (2013 Rs. 37.9 mn). For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 Although, there can be no assurance, the Directors believe, Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 based on the information currently available that the ultimate resolution of such lawsuits are not likely to have a material effect Goods and services purchased on the results of operations, financial position or liquidity. from Hayleys Group 21,906 25,681 Goods and services sold to Hayleys Group 30,728 42,633 5.3 Comparative Information Comparative information is reclassified wherever necessary to Terms and Conditions of Transactions with the companies on confirm with the current year’s classification in order to provide which KMPs have Significant Influence better presentation. Outstanding balances at the year-end relating to the Companies on which KMPs have significant influence are unsecured, interest free, and all related-party dues are on demand. There have 5.4 Events Occurring After the Reporting been no guarantees provided or received for any related party Period receivables or payables for the year ended 31st March 2014. The Subsequent to the reporting date, the Board of Directors of Group has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating the Company approved a first & final dividend of Rs. 10.00 per to amounts owed by related parties (2013 Rs. Nil). share for the year ended 31st March 2014. Details of the above dividend are disclosed in Note 4.8.1 to the Financial Statements. 5.1.3 Transactions with Group entities There were no other material events that occurred after the The Company has carried out transactions with Group entities in reporting date that require adjustments to or disclosure in the the Ordinary course of business. The details are set out in Note Financial Statements. 4.29. 157 Annual Report 2013/14 The pita potha falls at the end of the book, after which we bring our reader the appendices and other information. Var . ri . ga Pita . potha Appendices 159 Annual Report 2013/14 Share Information 1 Stock Exchange Listing The issued ordinary shares of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC,are listed with the Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka. The audited Group Income Statements for the year ended 31st March 2014 and the audited Balance Sheets at that date have been submitted to the Colombo Stock Exchange within three months of the Balance Sheet date. 2 Shareholders The number of Shareholders as at 31 st March 2014 was 1,915 (2,024 as at 31st March 2013). No of Shares Held Resident Non Resident Total No of Share No of % No of Share No of % No of Share Total No % holders Shares holders Shares holders of Shares 1 1,000 1,617 223,388 2.52 28 9,852 0.11 1,645 233,240 2.63 1,001 10,000 203 603,503 6.80 6 6,541 0.07 209 610,044 6.87 10,001 100,000 44 1,460,574 16.45 1 12,466 0.14 45 1,473,040 16.59 100,001 1,000,000 15 5,331,810 60.07 15 5,331,810 60.07 1,000,001 and over 1 1,228,303 13.84 1 1,228,303 13.84 Total 1,880 8,847,578 99.67 35 28,859 0.65 1,915 8,876,437 100.00 Over 95% of the shares issued is held by residents of Sri Lanka. 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 Categories of Shareholders No.of No.of shares % No.of No.of shares % Shareholders Shareholders Individuals 1,810 5,533,175 62.34 1,919 5,869,921 66.13 Institutions 105 3,343,262 37.66 105 3,006,516 33.87 Total 1,915 8,876,437 100.00 2,024 8,876,437 100.00 3 Market Value of Shares The Market value of an ordinary share of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (based on the Volume Weighted Average Price), as at 31st March 2014 was Rs. 505.00 (Rs. 505.00 as at 31st March 2013). 4 Dividend Payment 2013/14 2012/13 Rs.mn Rs.mn Final dividend Rs.10.00 per share 88,764,370 88,764,370 160 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 5 Share Trading Information from 1st April 2012 to 31st March 2014 2013/2014 2012/2013 Highest (Rs.) 649.00 15 May 13 940.10 2 April 2012 Lowest (Rs.) 450.00 16 Sep 13 490.00 15 March 2013 Closing (Rs.) 505.00 27 March 14 505.00 28 March 2013 No.of transactions 2,924 3,807 No. of shares traded 508,640 431,915 Value of shares traded (Rs.) 259,814,071 270,355,889 6 Public Shareholding As at 31st March 2014 2013 Number of Shares 4,144,847 3,895,878 % 46.69 43.89 7 History of Share Issues Year Issue No. of Shares Price (Rs.) 2011/12 Scrip (one share per every fifty shares held) 174,048 1,395.00 2006/07 Rights (one share per every ten shares held) 1,100,000 55.00 2006/07 Scrip (one share per every ten shares held) 1,000,000 Nil 2004/05 Scrip (one share per every nine shares held) 1,000,000 Nil 2003/04 Rights (one share per every two shares held) 3,000,000 20.00 2000/01 Scrip (one share per every four shares held) 1,200,000 Nil 1995/96 Scrip (one share per every three shares held) 1,200,000 Nil 1994/95 Scrip (one share per every five shares held) 600,000 Nil 1992/93 Rights (one share per every five shares held) 500,000 75.00 1991/92 Rights (one share per every three shares held) 500,000 30.00 1991/92 Scrip (one share per every four shares held) 500,000 Nil 1989/90 Rights (one share per every two shares held) 500,000 10.00 1987/88 Scrip (one share per every share held) 500,000 Nil 1980/81 Scrip (one share per every share held) 250,000 Nil 161 Annual Report 2013/14 Share Information 8 Changes in Shareholdings of Directors and their Spouses During 2013/2014 Name Shareholding % As at 31.03.2014 Movement of As at 31.03.2014 No. of Shares Shares No. of Shares Mr. A. R. Pandithage 21.63 1,919,735 1,919,735 Mr. A. N. Algama 2.41 213,739 213,739 Mr. S. C. Algama 6.40 574,779 574,779 Mr. A. G. Pandithage 6.43 570,862 570,862 Mr. A. M. Pandithage 2.53 224,172 224,172 Mr. T. G. H. Peries* 248,969 39.40 3,503,287 3,752,256 * Mr. T. G. H. Peries resigned from the board w.e.f. 28th June 2013 9 Top Twenty Shareholders Name 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 Shares % Shares % Employees Provident Fund 1,228,303 13.84 1,228,303 13.84 Mr. A. R. Pandithage 991,233 11.17 991,233 11.17 Mrs. J. C. Pandithage 928,502 10.46 928,502 10.46 A & G Investments Pvt Limited 608,939 6.86 608,939 6.86 Mr. S. C. Algama 567,786 6.40 567,786 6.40 Mr. A. G. Pandithage 525,814 5.92 525,814 5.92 Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Ltd-Life Fund 315,466 3.55 315,466 3.55 Almar Trading Co (Pvt) Ltd 310,875 3.50 309,374 3.49 Mr. A. N. Algama 213,739 2.41 213,739 2.41 Mr. T. G. H. Peries 193,069 2.18 193,069 2.18 Mr. A. M. Pandithage 182,319 2.05 182,319 2.05 Dr. D. Jayanntha 159,200 1.79 158,700 1.79 Miss. T. R. N. C. Peries 148,009 1.67 148,009 1.67 Mr. L. P. Algama 134,569 1.52 134,569 1.52 Estate of The Late N. U. Algama 118,845 1.34 118,845 1.34 United Motors Lanka PLC 111,640 1.26 78,803 0.89 The Ceylon Guardian Investment Trust PLC A/C #02 77,873 0.88 Mr. M. Radhakrishnan 69,788 0.79 69,788 0.79 Almar International (Pvt) Ltd 62,861 0.71 62,861 0.71 The Ceylon Investment PLC A/C #02 62,556 0.70 7,011,386 78.98 6,836,119 77.01 10 The stated capital represents 8,876,437 Ordinary shares. 162 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting Introduction and quantitative information performance reported in the (sustainability performance) reported Annual Report prepared by DIMO DNV GL represented by DNV in DIMO’s Annual Report – 2013based on GRI G4 guidelines, Business Assurance Lanka (Private) 14. The management of Company covering economic, environmental Limited has been commissioned is responsible for all information and social performance for the by the management of Diesel and provided in the Report as well as the activities undertaken by DIMO over Motor Engineering PLC (‘DIMO’ processes for collecting, analysing and the reporting period 1st April 2013 or ‘the Company’) to carry out an reporting the information presented to 31st March 2014 and reported in independent assurance engagement in the printed and web based this Annual Report; (Type 2, Moderate level) for the report, including the maintenance non-financial qualitative and • Review of the policies, initiatives, and integrity of the website. Our quantitative information (sustainability practices and performance responsibility in performing this performance) prepared ‘in accordance described in the non-financial work is regarding the verification of – Comprehensive’ option based qualitative and quantitative the non-financial qualitative and on Global Reporting Initiative G4 information (sustainability quantitative information (sustainability Sustainability Reporting Guidelines performance) reported and performance) disclosed in the (GRI G4) and reported in DIMO’s referenced in the Report; Report only and in accordance with Annual Report – 2013 -14 (‘the the scope of work agreed with the • Evaluation of the disclosed Report’) in its printed and web based management of the Company. The information in the Report, both Report. This engagement focused on assurance engagement is based general and specific standard verification of non-financial qualitative on the assumption that the data disclosures, ‘in accordance and quantitative information and information provided to us is – Comprehensive’ reporting (sustainability performance) disclosed complete, sufficient and authentic. We requirements covering the systems, in the Report, and underlying disclaim any liability or responsibility and the processes which DIMO management system and reporting to a third party for decisions, whether has in place for adherence to the processes. The engagement was investment or otherwise, based on this reporting principles set out in GRI carried out against AccountAbility’s assurance statement. Our assurance G4; AA 1000 Assurance Standard 2008 engagement was planned and carried • Evaluation with respect to the (AA 1000AS), the DNV GL Protocol out in April – May 2014. AccountAbility principles and for Verification of Sustainability Reporting (‘VeriSustain’ www.dnv. specified performance information, com/moreondnv/cr/; available on Scope, Boundary and for a Type 2, moderate level of request) including confirmation of Limitations of Assurance assurance, in accordance with the ‘in accordance – Comprehensive’ requirements of AA1000AS (2008): The scope of assurance included the reporting requirements and adherence review of Economic, Environment and • information relating to the issues, to reporting principles and standard Social disclosures in the Report. In responses, performance data, case disclosures of the GRI G4. particular the assurance engagement studies and underlying systems included: for the management of such The intended users of this assurance information and data; statement are the management and • The verification of the qualitative readers of the non-financial qualitative and quantitative sustainability 163 Annual Report 2013/14 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting • information relating to materiality performance information, as set out • Performed sample-based reviews of assessment and stakeholder in the AA1000AS (2008); the mechanisms for implementing engagement processes; the sustainability related policies, as • Application of the principle of described in the Report; • Confirmation of sustainability materiality as per GRI G4; disclosures related to GRI G4 ‘in • Performed sample-based checks • Adherence to additional principles accordance – Comprehensive’ as of the processes for generating, of Completeness and Neutrality, as declared by DIMO. gathering and managing the set out in VeriSustain; quantitative data and qualitative The reporting aspect boundary is • The GRI G4 requirements – ‘in information included in the Report. based on the internal and external accordance Comprehensive’. materiality assessment covering During the assurance engagement, we Conclusions the operations (Vehicle Sales, Vehicles – After Services, Marketing have taken a risk-based approach, In our opinion, based on the scope and Distribution, Construction and meaning that we concentrated our of this assurance engagement, Material Handling Equipment and verification efforts more on the the non-financial qualitative and After Services, Electromechanical, issues of high material relevance quantitative information (sustainability Biomedical Engineering and Marine to DIMO’s business and its performance) reported in the Annual Solutions) in Sri Lanka, including the stakeholders. We have verified the Report – 2013-14 and referenced key supply chain activities as set out statements and claims made in the information on the website provides a in the report. During the assurance Report and assessed the robustness fair representation of the sustainability process, we did not come across of the underlying data management related strategies, management limitations to the scope of the agreed system, information flow and system and performance, and meets assurance engagement, except certain controls. In doing so, we have: the general content and quality disclosures related to remuneration requirements of GRI G4 i.e., • Reviewed the approach to which are set out in the report as stakeholder engagement and its • General Standard Disclosures: We sensitive and confidential. No external materiality determination process; reviewed the General Standard stakeholders were interviewed as part Disclosures reported in this Report of this assurance engagement. • Examined and reviewed documents, and we are of the opinion that the data and other information made reported information generally available by the DIMO and visited Verification Methodology meets the reporting requirement for the Head Office at Colombo and ‘in accordance – Comprehensive’ This assurance engagement was sites i.e. service centres of a) Vehicle based on GRI G4 and the reason for planned and carried out in accordance and b) Construction and Material non-disclosure is explained.. with the AA1000AS (2008) i.e. Type Handling Equipment located at 2, Moderate, and VeriSustain. The Siyambalape; • Specific Standard Disclosures: We report has been evaluated against the reviewed the Specific Standard • Conducted interviews with key following criteria: Disclosures reported in this representatives including data • Adherence to the principles Report and we are of the opinion owners and decision-makers from of Inclusivity, Materiality and that the reported information different functions; Responsiveness, as well as generally meets the disclosure Reliability of specified sustainability requirement for ‘in accordance 164 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC – Comprehensive’ based on GRI Society requirements of GRI G4. Inputs to G4 covering Generic Disclosures − Local Communities – G4-SO1 & 2; materiality determination consider the on Management Approach (DMA) aspects that are internal and external − Anti-Corruption – G4-SO3 to 5; and Performance Indicators for to the organization and concerns of − Compliance – G4-SO8; identified material Aspects as below: stakeholders. In our view, the level − Grievance Mechanisms for Impact at which the Report adheres to this Economic on Society – GRI-SO11; principle is ‘Good’. − Economic Performance – G4-EC1, EC3 and EC4; Product Responsibility Responsiveness: We consider that the − Indirect Economic Impacts – G4− Customer Health and Safety – GRI response to key stakeholder concerns EC7, EC8; G4-PR 1,2 through its policies, management − Procurement Practices – EC9; − Product and Service Labelling G4systems and governance mechanisms PR3 to 5; are fairly reflected in the Report. In Environment our view, the level at which the Report − Marketing Communications G4-PR7; − Materials – EN1; adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. − Customer Privacy G4-PR8; − Energy – G4-EN3 to 6; − Compliance G4-PR9; Reliability: The majority of data and − Water – EN8 to 10; information verified at the Head Office − Emissions – EN15 to 21; We have evaluated the Report’s and at two sites visited by us were adherence to the following principles − Effluents and Waste – G4-EN22 to 24; found to be fairly accurate. Some of on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and − Compliance – EN29 the data inaccuracies identified during ‘Needs Improvement’: − Environmental Grievance the verification process were found Mechanisms G4-EN34; to be attributable to transcription, AA1000AS (2008) principles interpretation and aggregation errors; Social Labour Practices and Inclusivity: The stakeholder these errors have been corrected. Decent Work identification and engagement Hence in accordance with the − Employment – G4-LA1 to 3; AA1000AS (2008) requirements for process includes engagement with key − Occupational Health and Safety – stakeholders of business verticals to a Type 2, moderate level assurance G4-LA5 to 8; identify key sustainability challenges engagement, we conclude that the − Training and Education – G4-LA9 to and concerns through different specified sustainability data and 11; channels. The material issues emerging information presented in the Report from the stakeholder engagement is reliable and acceptable. In our view, − Supplier Assessment for Labour were collected and prioritised, and the level at which the Report adheres Practices – G4-LA14 & 15; the results are fairly reflected in the to this principle is “Good”. − Labour Practices and Grievance Report. In our view, the level at which Mechanisms – G4-LA16; the Report adheres to this principle is Specific evaluation of the Human Rights ‘Good’. information on sustainability − Non-discrimination – G4-HR3; Materiality: The Company has carried performances − Human Rights Grievance out the materiality assessment for We consider the methodology and Mechanisms – G4-HR12; its five business verticals based on process for gathering information 165 Annual Report 2013/14 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting developed by DIMO for its adheres to the principle of Neutrality maintains complete impartiality toward sustainability performance reporting is “Good”. internal stakeholders interviewed is appropriate, and the qualitative during the verification process. and quantitative data included in the Opportunities for Improvement Report was found to be identifiable The following is a summary of and traceable; the personnel observations and further opportunities For DNV GL responsible was able to demonstrate for improvement reported back to the origin and interpretation of the management of DIMO. These do the data and its reliability. We not, however, affect our conclusions observed that the Report presents a regarding the Report, and are faithful description of the reported not considered for drawing our sustainability activities for the conclusion on the Report; however, Vadakepatth Nandkumar reporting period. they are indeed consistent with the Project Manager, Management’s objectives already in Head – Sustainability and Climate Additional principles as per place: Change, DNV GL VeriSustain Protocol DNV Business Assurance India Private Completeness: The Report has fairly • Strengthening of the materiality limited, India. reported the general and specific assessment process based on multistandard disclosures including the stakeholder engagement, covering sustainability strategy, management all business verticals and supply approach, monitoring systems and chain partners, can identify relevant sustainability performances indicators sustainability topics in the supply Prasun Kundu, against the GRI G4 – ‘in accordance chain. Assurance Reviewer, – Comprehensive’. However certain DNV Business Assurance India Private • The supply chain risk assessment disclosures /performance indicators limited, India. covering the value chain partners internal and external to the Company will help evolving appropriate like remuneration, other indirect 29th May 2014, Bangalore, India. sustainability strategies to manage emissions( Scope 3), occupational the risks. health and safety etc.– are partially reported/responded as systems Our Competence and for disclosure is being developed; Independence In our view, the level at which the We are a global provider of Report adheres to this principle is sustainability services, with qualified “Acceptable”. environmental and social assurance specialists working in over 100 Neutrality: The disclosures related to countries. We were not involved in sustainability issues and performances the preparation of any statements or are reported in a neutral tone, in terms data included in the Report except of content and presentation. In our for this assurance statement. DNV GL view, the level at which the Report 166 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Ten Year Summery Year Ended 31st March 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 2008/09 2007/08 2006/07 2005/06 2004/05 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Operating Results Revenue 20,884,674 27,711,604 39,862,943 29,357,271 10,530,587 9,187,966 12,687,289 12,989,916 10,512,326 7,565,327 Profit before tax 512,858 490,021 3,724,521 3,395,980 420,095 175,082 344,444 512,895 382,235 253,633 Income tax (119,317) (35,934) (1,022,870) (1,274,228) (141,842) (72,054) (139,351) (211,118) (117,062) (76,431) Profit for the year 393,541 454,087 2,701,651 2,121,752 278,253 103,028 205,093 301,777 265,173 177,202 Capital Employed Stated Capital 425,297 425,297 425,297 182,500 182,500 182,500 182,500 Share Capital 121,000 90,000 90,000 Share Premium 61,500 37,500 37,500 Capital Reserve 2,014,752 2,014,752 2,014,752 1,135,612 1,135,612 1,135,612 311,522 311,522 311,522 311,522 Revenue Reserve 5,477,444 5,191,118 5,000,566 2,882,735 882,816 686,733 1,163,129 1,012,486 777,009 566,836 Total equity 7,917,493 7,631,167 7,440,615 4,200,847 2,200,928 2,004,845 1,657,151 1,506,508 1,216,031 1,005,858 Total Borrowings 1,608,915 2,796,158 2,864,688 2,802,374 2,709,671 1,966,600 3,068,466 5,045,829 3,417,800 5,950,126 Net capital Employed 2,614,773 4,012,189 4,371,196 4,459,525 4,714,516 4,167,528 7,269,313 12,486,444 11,048,967 13,850,158 Net Assets Employed Noncurrent assets 6,937,410 5,716,805 4,763,435 3,099,509 2,149,406 2,234,911 1,463,068 1,005,370 775,323 734,720 Current assets 9,157,244 7,183,574 10,536,783 7,839,972 3,389,023 3,028,263 4,368,090 4,193,262 3,794,288 2,460,687 Total liabilities (2,227,035) (1,851,412) (2,813,774) (3,670,168) (1,370,901) (548,658) (1,371,633) (827,436) (557,422) (580,634) (excluding borrowings) Net Assets Employed 13,867,619 11,048,967 12,486,444 7,269,313 4,167,528 4,714,516 4,459,525 4,371,196 4,012,189 2,614,773 Cash Flows Net cash generated from / (587,299) (990,433) 383,134 520,706 625,652 846,833 1,793,848 (2,430,074) 3,207,700 (725,569) (used in) operation Net cash flow from (97,584) (91,474) (287,636) (519,212) 1,918 (24,275) (937,710) (788,829) (970,581) (1,361,283) Investing activities Net cash flow from 92,125 305,800 (49,458) 179,289 (416,861) (295,885) (377,658) 277,902 (474,062) 973,876 Financing activities Net increase / (decrease) (592,758) (776,107) 46,040 180,783 210,709 526,673 478,480 (2,941,001) 1,763,057 (1,112,976) in cash & cash equivalents Key Indicators Earnings per share (Rs.) 44.34 51.16 304.36 239.03 27.97 9.36 16.95 25.76 22.96 15.34 Net assets per share (Rs.) 891.97 859.71 838.24 473.26 252.92 230.39 136.95 124.50 121.60 100.59 Market value per share (Rs.) 505.00 505.00 982.20 1,484.70 394.25 60.25 88.75 120.00 138.50 103.00 Dividend per share (Rs.) 10.00 10.00 40.00 61.00 7.00 3.00 4.00 6.00 6.00 5.00 Dividends approved (Rs.'000) 88,764 88,764 244,102 443,822 34,810 26,107 48,400 72,600 60,000 50,000 Annual sales growth (%) (24.64) (30.48) 35.91 178.78 14.61 (27.58) (2.33) 23.57 38.95 57.71 Equity to total assets ratio (%) 49.19 59.15 48.63 38.40 39.78 38.09 28.42 28.98 26.61 31.48 Dividends cover ( no of times) 4.43 5.11 7.61 4.00 3.11 2.34 4.02 3.88 3.99 3.18 Price earnings ratio ( no. of times) 11.39 9.87 3.23 6.21 14.89 6.44 5.24 4.66 6.03 6.71 Current Ratio ( no. of times) 1.50:1 1.71.;1 1.60:1 1.27:1 1.20:1 1.31:1 1.26:1 1.30:1 1.33:1 1.24:1 Turnover to capital employed 1.51 2.51 3.19 4.04 2.53 1.95 2.84 2.97 2.62 2.89 (no of times) Interest Cover( no of times) 2.73 2.24 15.67 17.35 2.20 1.31 1.67 2.11 2.43 2.73 Average No. of employees 1,518 1,433 1,179 942 867 869 866 820 714 627 167 Annual Report 2013/14 Awards Accolades Date Award Place Year Awarded institute received Nov’13 The Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Overall Winner 2013 Ceylon Chamber of Commerce (CCC) Awards 2013 Nov’13 Top ten Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability TOP TEN 2013 Ceylon Chamber of Commerce (CCC) Award 2013 Nov’14 The Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Winner 2013 Ceylon Chamber of Commerce (CCC) Awards 2013 (Social sustainability) Nov’13 The Best Sustainability Project Awards 2013( Best project 2013 Ceylon Chamber of Commerce (CCC) Automobile Training School) Nov’13 The Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Certificate of 2013 Ceylon Chamber of Commerce (CCC) Awards 2013 -Certificate of Merit for the Turtle Merit Conservation Project Nov’13 The Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Certificate of 2013 Ceylon Chamber of Commerce (CCC) Awards 2013 -Certificate of Merit for “Lassana Merit Hetak” Project Dec’13 Annual ReportDiversified Holdings (up to 05 Gold 2013 The Institute of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka subsidiaries) Dec’13 Corporate Governance Disclosure Reporting Gold 2013 The Institute of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka in the overall category Dec’13 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting in Gold 2013 The Institute of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka the overall category Dec’13 Special Recognition Award for Excellence in Special award 2013 The Institute of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka Integrated Reporting Feb’14 ACCA Sustainability Reporting Overall Runner-Up 2013 The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Category Feb’14 ACCA Sustainability Reporting Retail and 1st Place 2013 The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Trading category Sep’13 Grand Award for On-Line Annual Reports Grand Award 2013 International ARC Awards in New York Interactive International Sep’13 App Annual Report -Engineered Industrial Silver 2013 International ARC Awards in New York Products Category Sep’13 Cover Photo Design -Engineered Industrial Bronze 2013 International ARC Awards in New York Products Category Sep’13 Interactive Annual Report -Engineered Gold 2013 International ARC Awards in New York Industrial Products Category Sep’13 Illustrations -Engineered Industrial Products Honours 2013 International ARC Awards in New York Category Sep’13 Photography -Engineered Industrial Products Honours 2013 International ARC Awards in New York Category Sep’13 Printing & Production -Engineered Industrial Silver 2013 International ARC Awards in New York Products Category Jun’13 Category winner of Business Services Turnover Gold 2012 League of American Communications Professionals $100 million $ 1 billion Oct’13 Great Place to Work Adjudged a top 15 best Top 15 2013 Great place to Work Institute Company 168 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Notice of Meeting NOTICE IS HERBY GIVEN that the be reappointed as a director of the Sixty – Ninth Annual General Meeting Company”. of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 6. To reappoint Messrs KPMG as will be held at the Registered Office of Auditors to the Company for the the Company, No. 65, Jetawana Road, ensuing year and to authorize the Colombo 14, on Friday, 27th June 2014 Board of Directors to determine at 11.30 a.m. and the business to be their remuneration. brought before the meeting will be: 7. To authorize the Directors to determine contributions to charities. Agenda 1. To consider and adopt the Report The profiles of the Directors proposed of the Directors and the Statement for re-election are given on the Annual of Accounts for the year ended Report. 31st March 2014, with the Report of the Auditors thereon. NOTE 2. To re-elect Mr. S.C. Algama, A member is entitled to appoint a who retires by rotation in terms proxy to attend and vote instead of of Articles 66 of the Articles of himself/herself and a proxy need not Association as a Director of the be a member of the Company. A Form Company. of proxy is enclosed for this purpose. 3. To re-elect Mr. A.N. Algama, The instrument appointing a proxy who retires by rotation in terms must be deposited at the Registered of Articles 66 of the Articles of Office, No. 65, Jetawana Road, Association as a Director of the Colombo 14, not less than forty-eight Company. hours before the time fixed for the 4. To re-elect Dr. H. Cabral, who Meeting. retires by rotation in terms of Articles 66 of the Articles of By Order of the Board, Association as a Director of the Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Company. Company Registration No. PQ-146 5. To propose the following resolution as an ordinary resolution for the reappointment of Mr.R.Seevaratnam who has reached the age of 70 years. B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne “IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that Secretary the age limit referred to in section 210 of the Companies Act No. Colombo 07 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. 23rd May 2014 R.Seevaratnam who has reached the age of 70 years prior to this Annual General Meeting and that he will 169 Annual Report 2013/14 Corporate Information Name of the Company Auditors Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC KPMG, Chartered Accountants, Registered Office P.O. Box 186, P.O. Box 339, No 32A, No. 65, Jetawana Road, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, Colombo 14, Sri Lanka. Colombo 03, Sri Lanka. Telephone: +94-11-2449797, +94-112338883 Internal Auditors www.dimolanka.com SJMS Associates E-mail: dimo@dimolanka.com Chartered Accountants Facsimile: +94-11-2449080 No 2, Castle Street, Colombo 04, Sri Lanka. Legal Form A public limited Company Lawyers incorporated in 1945 under the Laws F J & G De Saram & Company of the Democratic Socialist Republic Attorneys-at-Law of Sri Lanka. The company was reNo. 216, De Saram Place, registered under the Companies Act Colombo 10, Sri Lanka. No 7 of 2007 on 9th May 2008. Bankers Company Registration Number Bank of Ceylon PQ 146 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC DFCC Vardhana Bank Founded Hatton National Bank PLC 1939 Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd Accounting Year End Nations Trust Bank PLC 31st March NDB Bank PLC People’s Bank Tax Payer Identification Sampath Bank PLC Number (TIN) Company Secretary 104002498 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, F.C.A., M.B.A. (Sri J.) Stock Exchange Listing The ordinary shares of the Company Company Registrars are listed with the Colombo Stock Corporate Services Ltd Exchange of Sri Lanka No. 216, De Saram Place, Colombo 10, Sri Lanka Designed & produced by Digital Plates & Printing by Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd Photography by Luxshmanan Nadaraja & Dimitri Crusz Form of Proxy I/We ,………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… of..............................................................................................................................................................…………………………………………… being a member/members of DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC hereby appoint: 1. ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ of ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Holder of NIC No. ...................................................................................................... or failing him/them. 2. ASOKA RANJITH PANDITHAGE (Chairman of the Company) of Colombo or, failing him, one of the Directors of the Company as my/our proxy to vote as indicated hereunder for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Sixty-Eighth Annual General Meeting of the company to be held on Friday, 27th June 2014 and at every poll which may be taken in consequence of the aforesaid meeting and at any adjournment thereof. For Against (1) To consider and adopt the Report of the Directors and the Statement of Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2014, with the Report of the Auditors thereon. (2) To re-elect Mr. S. C. Algama, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. (3) To re-elect Mr. A. N. Algama, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. (4) To re-elect Dr. H. Cabral, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director (5) To reappoint as a Director Mr. R. Seevaratnam in terms of section 210 of the Companies Act No.07 of 2007 “IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that the age limit referred to in section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. R.Seevaratnam who has reached the age of 70 years prior to this Annual General Meeting and that he be reappointed as a director of the Company”. (6) To re-appoint Messrs KPMG as Auditors and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. (7) To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. The proxy may vote as he/she thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the meeting. Dated this ..................................... day of ..................................... 2014. Witness: ........................................................................... ........................................................................... …………...............…………………….…. Signature of Shareholder 1. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2. Instructions to fill the Form of Proxy (please see overleaf). Instruction as to Completion 1. To be valid this form of proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office, No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo14, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting. 2. In perfecting the form of proxy please ensure that all details are legible. 3. If you wish to appoint a person as your proxy, please insert the relevant details overleaf and initial against this entry. 4. Please indicate with a ‘X’ in the spaces provided how your proxy is to vote on each resolution. If no indication is given the proxy in his/her discretion will vote as he/she thinks fit. Please delete if you do not wish your proxy to vote as he/she thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the meeting. 5. In the case of a company/corporation, the proxy must be under its common seal which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 6. In the case of a proxy signed by an Attorney, the Power of Attorney must be deposited at the registered office for registration.
