October 29, 2015 Ms. Lise Kingo Executive Director UN Global Compact United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Ms. Kingo: Levi Strauss & Co. is proud to confirm our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and share with you our 2015 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress, which outlines progress we have made on our commitment in the last year in the areas of Environment, Labor and Human Rights, and Anti-Corruption. Our commitment to sustainability goes far beyond regulatory compliance or addressing the social and environmental impact of our business practices. We build sustainability into everything we do so that our profitable growth helps restore the planet. Since our last communication on progress, Levi Strauss & Co. expanded our sustainability communications and continued to further our commitment to transparency. Levi Strauss & Co.’s corporate public website provides the latest information about our social and environmental sustainability strategies, policies and actions. The information found on our public website is supplemented by the sustainability portion of the Levi Strauss & Co. 2014 Annual Financial Report, which outlines actions taken by the company in the 2014 fiscal year to advance our corporate responsibility objectives and operationalize the principles of the Global Compact. Environment In the last twelve months, Levi Strauss & Co. continued to increase transparency and reporting on key environmental issues such as water, energy and climate, and chemicals. Aligned with our commitment to the Global Compact, our 2014 CEO Water Mandate Communication on Progress is available in the water section of our corporate website. Through engagement with the CEO Water Mandate, we have grown our commitment to water sustainability and are working across our supply chain in the areas of product innovation, direct operations, collective action, and consumer and community engagement. As part of our commitment to disclosing information on energy and climate, we issued our seventh Carbon Disclosure Report, which captured not only a summary of our 2014 emissions, but also our GHG reduction targets and strategies for achieving those reductions. This energy and climate reporting helps us assess progress, identify gaps in our program, and push for action. As noted in our 2014 greenhouse gas emissions summary, we reduced our emissions 9 percent in 2014 vs. 2013. We also continued to advocate for public policies at the state, national and international levels to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and build a low-carbon, sustainable future. We are committed to zero discharge of hazardous chemicals in the apparel industry by 2020. In the last year, we continued to work with the Joint Roadmap Toward Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals, an ambitious industry collaboration working to set a new standard for chemicals management and environmental performance for the global apparel and footwear industry, outlining together specific commitments and timelines for actions to meet the goal of zero discharge. Page 1 of 2 Over the last year, we have been sharing progress toward meeting our chemical sustainability commitments on the chemicals section of our corporate website. In December 2014, we reported on progress on our commitment to zero discharge of hazardous chemicals, including the launch of our Restricted Substances Stewardship Program and actions we have taken to address the elimination of alkylphenol ethoxylates (APEOs), perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) and phthalates in our products and supply chain. We’ve also encouraged our Chinese vendors to proactively submit their environmental discharge data onto the publicly available Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE) Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR); as of July 2015, 13 mills and 8 laundries supplying LS&Co. had posted their data. Labor and Human Rights Our Sustainability Guidebook, (first established in 1991 as our Terms of Engagement), outlines labor, health and safety, and environmental requirements for our manufacturing suppliers. Building on this commitment to human and worker rights in the apparel supply chain, we’ve continued to advance implementation of our Worker Well-being initiative in the last year. This initiative identifies how the company can work with its suppliers, other organizations, and the apparel industry to improve the lives of people making our products. Following extensive external stakeholder consultation, we began with pilot programs in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Egypt, Haiti, and Pakistan. In the last year, we’ve rolled out our Worker Well-being initiative to a number of new suppliers with worker-focused programs in the areas of economic empowerment, health and family well-being, and equality and acceptance. We are requiring that by 2020, all of our key vendors have worker well-being programs in place. Anti-Corruption Our success as a company is built upon a foundation of integrity – a longstanding commitment to act with the highest ethical standards and conduct business honestly and legally. We make both our Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and our Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy publicly available for all stakeholders on our corporate website. LS&Co. remains an active and committed UN Global Compact member. This year, we continued to take a leadership role by participating in the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles’ Leadership Group, attending the UN WEP Annual Event and Leadership Group meeting in New York, serving as a panelist on a UN WEP webinar focused on investing in women’s health, and th joining the 15 Working Conference of the CEO Water Mandate as a speaker and participant. We look forward to the years ahead as the Global Compact’s activities advance our company’s sustainability commitment. All the best, Charles V. Bergh President and Chief Executive Officer Page 2 of 2
