Enics Communication on Progress (COP) Jan 2014-Dec 2014 Enics Communication on Progress (COP) CONTENT CONTENT ............................................................................................ 2 Statement by The Chief Executive.......................................................... 3 2. Human Rights ............................................................................. 4 3. Labour ....................................................................................... 6 4. Environment ............................................................................... 7 5. Anti-Corruption ........................................................................... 8 www.enics.com © Enics Group. All rights reserved. Page 2 of 9 Enics Communication on Progress (COP) Statement by President and CEO The principles of UNGC are manifested in Enics values, Enics Code of Conduct, vision, mission which form the basis for Enics culture, strategy, relations with partners, decisionmaking and procedures. As Enics principle “Quality of:for Life”, our values and Code of Conduct infer, sustainability is an issue that we hold of high importance. Sustainability at Enics translates into a proactive approach to economic, environmental and social responsibilities and is embedded in the Enics management system. Sustainability means that Enics pays attention to requirements set by employees, customers, society and legislation. Enics Management Team has a strong commitment to responsible action and sustainable development. Enics is a member of the UN Global Compact and remains committed to Global Compact's principles and goals. We work with the Global Compact, to ensure that its initiatives and 10 principles reach a wider audience. We also seek to embed the principles into our own business practice. Enics AG Hannu Keinänen President & CEO www.enics.com © Enics Group. All rights reserved. Page 3 of 9 Enics Communication on Progress (COP) Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals: Enics recognize that human rights should be considered fundamental and universal, based on accepted international laws and practices, such as those of the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Labor Organization and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles. In most of the Enics units, specific local Employees Grievances Handling Process is implemented to ensure employees have equal possibility to report any violation of their rights and fair hearing. In most of Enics' units, specific local Harassment Dealing Guidelines are implemented to ensure that employees and managers recognize harassment and know how to deal with the cases. Enics common competence evaluation and salary review processes include all employees and ensures fair possibilities to development and fair pay. Enics Executive Management team has approved group level Grievance Procedure and Non-Compliance Reporting Procedure, which allows monitoring and taking preventive actions in relevant matters. Enics has established OHSAS18000 requirements in all its units and conducts work environment measurement on a regular basis. The health and safety committee are established in all Enics units. In interactions with Suppliers Enics promotes and takes effort to ensure human right principles are followed by them. Enics has created Supplier Manual giving preconditions to suppliers. Enics conducts assessment of suppliers on regular basis using Supplier SelfAssessment and Supplier Assessment and Evaluation tools. So far approximately 75% of Enics Preferred Suppliers have signed Enics Commitment to Ethical Conduct of Business and Enics Code of Conduct. Enics has created Conflict Minerals Statement to support Enics initiative to support Human Rights in the war zone. Enics contributes to the global community development through UNICEF. In 2014 Enics donated into children fund. Implementation Actions for 2015 • Implement Global Grievance Procedure in all sites. • Implement Global Non-Compliance Reporting Procedure in all sites. • Conduct trainings for all employees. • The need for Enics Global Donation Policy will be evaluated www.enics.com © Enics Group. All rights reserved. Page 4 of 9 Enics Communication on Progress (COP) Measures of outcome Progress of actions will be reviewed and reported to Enics Executive Management Team by the dedicated UNGC team on a regular basis. Implementation of global principles will be followed by nominated responsible person (UNGC team) on regular basis. Through training registers, either global or local ones, the progress of relevant trainings will be followed. The supplier commitment is monitored via supplier assessments how many suppliers are assessed and what is the rating level. www.enics.com © Enics Group. All rights reserved. Page 5 of 9 Enics Communication on Progress (COP) Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals: Enics considers labor principles based on accepted international laws and practices, such as those of United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Labor Organization and the United Nations Global Compact principles, as fundamental and universal in its business activities. Freedom to associate, collective bargain or form employees’ responsible bodies are recognized and supported by Enics. Enics has never intentionally used and will not knowingly use compulsory or child labor contradicting with international laws or local labor legislation. Fair and non-discriminatory treatment of employees and also potential employees of Enics is ensured by Enics Personnel Policy and several processes, like recruitment, compensation related, contracting and other processes. Enics Executive Management team has approved group level Grievance Procedure. Enics’ suppliers are strongly encouraged to comply with same high level and the relevant internationally recognized standards. For new suppliers, we conduct the Supplier Assessment where labor principles are included. Implementation Actions for 2015 • Implement Global Non-Compliance Reporting Procedure in all sites. • Conduct trainings for all employees. Procedure will be made available for all Enics employees in Enics Intranet. Measures of outcome Progress of actions will be reviewed and reported to Enics Executive Management Team by the dedicated UNGC Team on a regular basis. www.enics.com © Enics Group. All rights reserved. Page 6 of 9 Enics Communication on Progress (COP) Implementation of global principles will be followed by nominated responsible person (UNGC team) on regular basis. Through training registers, either global or local ones, the progress of relevant trainings will be followed. www.enics.com © Enics Group. All rights reserved. Page 7 of 9 Enics Communication on Progress (COP) Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Enics environmental activities and improvement of the environmental performance are carried out in compliance with local legislation and customer requirements. Our focus in environmental development is to reduce waste continuously and recycle. Enics business units operate according to an environmental management system, and all units have an ISO14001 certification.. Towards suppliers Enics promotes its principles about the environment and technology through Enics Code of Conduct, Supplier Manual, Supplier Self Evaluation and Questionnaire, and Supplier Assessment Process. Implementation Actions for 2015 • Creation of global level Key Performance Indicators for environmental area, including water, waste and energy consumption etc. • Creation of informative booklet (electronic or paper) about Enics environmental ambitions, activities and achievements is in consideration Measures of Outcome Progress of actions will be reviewed and reported to Enics Group Management Team by the dedicated UNGC Team on a regular basis. www.enics.com © Enics Group. All rights reserved. Page 8 of 9 Enics Communication on Progress (COP) Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals: Enics expects avoidance of any conflict of interest by its employees and strongly opposes all forms of corruption. We respect and follow local legislation and internationally recognized principles for combating corruption and bribery. Enics’ stand is clearly stated in Code of Conduct. Additionally Enics Executive Management Team has approved AntiCorruption Policy. In interaction with customers and suppliers the Commitment to Ethical Conduct of Business, which reflects increasing requirements of UNGC principles and anti-corruption, is promoted to be signed. Implementation Actions for 2015 • Implementation of Anti-Corruption Policy and Non-Compliance Reporting Procedure. • Trainings about anti-corruption. Measures of outcome Progress of actions will be reviewed and reported to Enics Executive Management Team by dedicated UNGC Team on a regular basis. Through training registers, either global or local ones, we monitor that managers and key employees have passed the related trainings. Summary of reported non-compliance will be provided twice a year. www.enics.com © Enics Group. All rights reserved. Page 9 of 9
