BUILDING YOUR TOMORROW TODAY DOOSAN CORPORATION Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix A BUILDING YOUR TOMORROW TODAY About this report Purpose of the Report I Each year, Doosan Corp publishes an annual corpocorrelation with the material issues contained in the report are further detailed rate social responsibility(CSR) report that addresses the interests and demands on pages 16 to 17. Lastly, the Management Report describes Doosan Corp’s CSR of the company’s key stakeholders. In the 2014 Doosan Corporation CSR Report, strategy and system, and its economic, social, and environmental performance Doosan Corp shares its CSR vision and performance on. This report will also be related to the material issues. used as a communication channel to reflect the opinions of internal and external stakeholders. Reporting Period and Scope I This report covers the period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014, and it provides partial quantitative performance data Structure of the Report I The 2014 Doosan Corporation CSR Report presents of the past three years to follow the latest trends. The report also includes Doosan the important issues related to the three pillars of Doosan Corp's CSR strategy Corp's activities during 2015 when necessary and these are marked separately. and Doosan Corp's performance on those issues to highlight the key interests of The reporting scope of this report encompasses the domestic locations of Doosan stakeholders. The major policies and processes designed to meet those needs Corp's each business, including its headquarters. are outlined in the Management Report. This report consists of three parts: The first part includes an overview of Doosan Reporting Principles I This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI(Corp’s CSR management and materiality assessment. The second part focuses Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Guidelines. The status of the reporting standards on the three pillars of Doosan Corp’s CSR strategy, namely, “Developing Peois included on pages 78 to 81. ple,” “Reliable Operating,” and “Responsible Engagement,” and Doosan Corp's Third Party Verification I This report has been audited through a third-party specific activities under the CSR strategy in connection with the material issues identified through a materiality assessment. Doosan Corp’s CSR strategy and its verification assessment by Lloyd Register Quality Assurance, and the verification statement can be found on pages 76 to 77. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 01 BUILDING YOUR Overview 02 TOMORROW 02 CSR Highlight 04 CEO Message 06 Letter to Stakeholders TODAY 08 Doosan Group 12 Doosan Corporation 14 Business Areas Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2014 16 CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Developing People 18 20 Build Great Workplace with focus on  Human Respect 25 Strengthen People Development  within the Group Influence Sphere Interactive PDF Guide Reliable Operating 28 30 Minimize Environmental Footprints  Navigation menu through Green Management To move directly to that page, please click a table of contents  36 Reinforce Fair Operations at the top 40 Improve Product & Service Accountability Responsible Engagement 44 Navigation buttons 46 Develop Strategic Community Involvement  Go to cover page Go to preceding page & Development Return to last page visited Go to next page Click or mouse-over to open additional information Management Report 51 52 Governance 56 Risk Management 58 Ethical Management 60 Generation and Distribution of Economic Value 61 Talent Management 64 Product Accountability Management 66 EHS Management Building Your Tomorrow Today The cover expresses the core values of “Proud Global Doosan” using the comAppendix 69 pany’s CI logo design and color variation. The central dynamic and futuristic 70 Economic Data image of overlapping squares embodies Doosan Corp’s commitment to realize its vision. The gradual color variation surrounding the squares represents Doo72 Social Data san Corp’s aspiration to become Proud Global Doosan and its commitment to 74 Environmental Data social responsibility and open communication with its stakeholders, including 76 Third Party Verification Statement employees, customers, local communities, and shareholders. At the bottom 78 GRI Indicators are the three pillars of Doosan Corp’s CSR strategy, through which we will carry out its CSR activities from now on. This is our today and tomorrow, and the sus82 UN Global Compacts tainable world that Doosan Corp strives to build. 83 Awards and Membership Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 02 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment CSR Highlights 1 1. Women’s Council 2. Listed on the DJSI Asia Pacific Index 3. Doosan Day of Community Service 4 2 3 Creating a Women-Friendly Work Developing Greenhouse Gas More Advanced and Scientific Environment Inventory for All Business Groups Operations through the OE Summit Doosan Corp has adopted and operated a variTo actively engage in government-led resDoosan Corp held an OE(Operational Excelety of women-friendly programs, including the ponses to climate change and fulfill its environlence) Summit to check the progress of ongoW Project, Women’s Council, and Mom’s Caring mental responsibilities, Doosan Corp develing projects at major business groups and disProgram, to create a female-friendly corporate oped a greenhouse gas inventory for all of its cuss future tasks. During the summit meeting, culture and offer female employees a vision for businesses. executives shared issues facing each business growth. group and tried to work out solutions. The summit will contribute to creating synergy through enhanced collaboration among busiDoosan Day of Community Service ness groups and ultimately maximizing profit. Promoting External CSR Communication In October 2014, Doosan Corp attended a Corporate Community Involvement(CCI) Day event By first publishing the 2013 Doosan Corporaheld group-wide and had CCI activities carried tion CSR Report, Doosan Corp pledged that it out simultaneously at its business locations would abide by its economic, social, and enviworldwide. ronmental commitments towards its stakeholders, and actively responded to evaluation demands. As a result of its efforts, we were listed on the DJSI Asia Pacific Index for the first time and recognized as a competent and sustainable company. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 03 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment 5 6 7 4. OE Summit 5. Group Chairman's Visit to Doosan Corporation Fuel Cell 6. General Assembly of Suppliers Cooperative Council and Business Presentations 7. CSR Committee Green Business Using Fuel Cells Creating a Supply Chain CSR Creating a Training System to Doosan Corp began a fuel cell business by Implementation System Cultivate Professionals acquiring and merging with leading South Doosan Corp created a supply chain CSR manDoosan Corp created a Functional Specialty Korean and American fuel cell manufacturagement system for the company’s supply Education system to enhance the capabilities ers. Through the new business, we created a chain encompassing a wide range of business of employees in specialized jobs like R&D and platform for sustainable growth and developareas. Doosan Corp's supply chain CSR includes technical positions, and strengthen our comment and will use it to produce environmentalestablishing a company-wide policy and stratpetitive edge. We opened the R&D Academy ly-friendly fuel cell systems and thus fulfill its egy, building an integrated management sysand Data Scientist training programs linked environmental responsibilities. tem, and adopting standard processes. to the functional competency system. These programs have led to positive results which include R&D and quality innovations. Increasing Customer Satisfaction Embarking on Internal CSR across All Processes by Acquiring CFL Communication Doosan Corporation Electro-Materials business To improve CSR-related internal communicagroup acquired Circuit Foil Luxembourg(Ctions, Doosan Corp holds CSR Committee meetFL)which had enabling technologies for copings and operates each subcommittee. In addiper clad laminatesand successfully intertion, we provided CSR training tailored to the nalized related materials and technologies to needs of business operations to increase employsystemically provide raw materials and cusees’ awareness and understanding of CSR. tomer services. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 04 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment CEO Message Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 05 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Doosan has greatly contributed to the growth of Korean society over the past century, and will continue to grow with society in the coming century. Doosan, Korea’s first modern company, has undergone massive change over its past 119 year history. In 2014, in particular, the company completed its transformation into an ISB(Infrastructure Support Business) provider by moving away from retail operations in food and beverage and publishing businesses. Doosan will continue to work hard and explore a wide range of opportunities for successful innovation. The company is also always scanning the globe for important trends, new technologies, and developing markets, and will drive innovation and change more successfully by diversifying its customer base. Companies grow within and together with society. Therefore, companies are facing growing demand at home and abroad to become more socially responsible. Doosan’s management philosophy has long advocated corporate social responsibility, which has been solidified and embodied in the “Doosan Way,” which the company announced in 2012. To become a truly global leader, Doosan has reinforced its social responsibility policy across all business operations through the “Doosan Way.” Employees at Doosan are also committed to thinking and acting in the “Doosan Way” in their own specialty areas. Doosan not only pursues the growth of its own businesses but also maintains open communication with its stakeholders for the company and society to grow together. Doosan’s communication culture, in which the company is always open to communication and discussion based on the Doosan Way, has been extended across and outside the organization. Through this culture, Doosan has become more attentive to the needs of various stakeholders including its shareholders, customers, business partners, and environmental and community organizations. The needs of the changing community and environment have been incorporated into the company’s business operations. Doosan never forgets the importance of its position as the oldest company in Korea, and will fulfill its social responsibilities and roles to become not only a respected company, but a company that creates shared value on the basis of communication with stakeholders. Doosan will create a solid foundation for managing its corporate social responsibility so that the company can grow together with society. Doosan’s CSR management is the company’s commitment to growth over the next 100 years. Doosan will fulfill its commitment by sharing the value of growth with all its stakeholders. We greatly appreciate your unwavering support. Thank you. Chairman of Doosan and CEO of Doosan Corp Yongmaan Park Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 06 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Letter to Stakeholders Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 07 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Doosan Corp. will continue to fulfill social responsibilities as a global corporate citizen on the basis of communication with stakeholders. Dear Valued Stakeholders, Implementing Responsible Business Operations Companies around the world are constantly faced with demands A variety of regulatory requirements, such as environmental regufor continuous change and innovation despite the global economic lations, have become tighter around the world, restricting business downturn. Since 2009, Doosan Corp has been working on transitionoperations at home and abroad. In these circumstances, Doosan ing its business portfolio towards one centering on the infrastructure Corp has not only responded to such regulatory requirements, but support business(ISB). As a result, Doosan Corp entered the fuel cell has also fulfilled its social responsibilities across all business operbusiness in 2014 as the company’s major future growth driver and ations. First of all, the company is strengthening its programs and as a means to contribute to clean energy for society. Each business systems designed to effectively fulfill its environmental obligations of Doosan Corp has also continuously explored opportunities and in relation to climate change and environmental contaminants. Furworked hard to utilize its capabilities and resources. As a participant thermore, Doosan Corp acknowledges that growing together with in the UN Global Compact, Doosan Corp is committed to the UNGC 10 its business partners will help fulfill its social responsibilities and Principles and has fulfilled its role and responsibilities as a corporate enhance its capabilities. Thus, Doosan Corp makes sure to comply citizen that creates value for its stakeholders. with fair trade laws and expand support for its business partners. Through its efforts, Doosan Corp will set an example for other comParticularly, Doosan Corp has developed a framework for its CSR stratpanies and contribute to creating a positive culture in the industry. egy, which neatly incorporates all the CSR activities that have been implemented thus far. Furthermore, in 2013, through the publication Creating Value Needed by Communities of its first CSR report, the company disclosed its performance on CSR Doosan Corp is constantly exploring options for its Corporate Comto its stakeholders. Its efforts led the company to be listed on the DJSI munity Involvement(CCI) activities to maximize benefits for commuAsia Pacific Index. The company was thus internationally recognized as nities. Doosan Corp is implementing strategic CCI activities driven by a competent and sustainable company. We are sincerely grateful to all voluntary participation of employees, particularly in the communiour stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, business partties where the company’s facilities are located. More specifically, the ners, communities, and employees, for their support of our CSR activcompany celebrates the “Doosan Day of Community Service” and ities. From now on, Doosan Corp will concentrate its CSR activities on has contributed to the growth of communities through employees’ the following three areas: active involvement across all facilities. Doosan Corp will continue to contribute to building a brighter future by finding the best possible Creating a Sustainable Future through People solutions to social issues. Securing and developing human resources that form the basis of a sustainable company is a vital activity for any company in a rapidly Respected shareholders, changing economic environment. Doosan Corp creates a culture that Through its 2014 CSR Report, Doosan Corp would like to share its CSR encourages employees to make development plans and pursue prostrategy and 2014 business performance with its shareholders. Doosan fessional growth on their own, and provides activities and opportuniCorp will continue to fulfill its social responsibilities and role as a global ties for employees to openly communicate regardless of position or corporate citizen through open communication. Doosan Corp will also gender. In addition to making business operations more efficient, the continue its growth to create value for all our stakeholders. company also implements streamlining activities according to the “Doosan Way”. Safety and health management is applied not only to Your continued support and involvement will be greatly appreciated. employees but also to business partners outside the organization, so that all members within the company’s sphere of influence can work in a safer and healthier environment. Doosan Corp is a company that puts people first. Doosan Corp CSR Committee Chairman, Vice Chairman James B. Bemowski Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 08 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Overview Doosan Group Korea’s Doosan, Korea’s first modern company, has undergone massive changes over its 119-year history. The Oldest company’s long history began in 1896 when Park Seung-Jik opened the country’s first modern store in Enterprise Baeogae(currently Jongno 4-ga in Seoul). Since then, Doosan has been constantly changing and growing in the past century. Transition to In 1995, one year before its 100th anniversary, Doosan decided that it needed a fundamental transforan ISB-driven mation through “selection and focus” to become a global company and embarked on business reforms. Business Doosan sold off its flagship affiliates and assets including OB Beer that were the company’s key flagship Portfolio businesses, increased profitability through integration of its affiliates, and adopted advanced management systems. Doosan has accomplished remarkable change and growth since 2000 by exploring new growth engines and transforming its retail-driven business portfolio into one centering on infrastructure support business(ISB), which encompasses industrial infrastructure, construction equipment, energy, national defense, and production equipment. An ISB Leader Doosan has emerged as a global leader in various ISB sectors including power, seawater desalination, Recognized construction equipment and marine diesel engines. We are internationally recognized as the world’s Worldwide foremost builder of seawater desalination plants now entering the multi-effect distillation(MED) sector, thereby furthering our market dominance. We are ranked first in the world for skid steer loaders(SSL) and attachments and second in the world for low speed marine engines. The Korean government selected our steam generators for commercial nuclear plants and forged backup rolls for plate rolling mills as the World’s Best Products. New History Doosan operates 23 domestic affiliates and 118 overseas subsidiaries. Although we have already as a Top-Tier achieved significant changes, we will continue to pursue further reforms to provide exceptional prodGlobal ucts and services that inspire trust and pride among our customers. Enterprise Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 09 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Affiliates Doosan Group Consumer Goods and Doosan Corporation ISB(Infrastructure Support Business) Services Business Doosan Corporation Doosan Capital Electro-Materials Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Power plants, water, casting, construction/ Doosan Corporation transport facilities, green energy, etc. Oricom Industrial Vehicle Doosan Corporation Mottrol Neoplux Doosan Infracore Construction machinery, machine tools, Doosan Corporation Information engines and parts Doosan Feed & Livestock &Communications(I&C) Doosan Corporation Glonet Doosan Cuvex Doosan Engineering & Construction Civil works, building works, plants, CPE, Doosan Corporation FM1 OSS, HRSG Doosan Tower Doosan Corporation Doosan Bears Doosan Engine Fuel Cell Diesel engines for vessels/power plants, diesel plants, engine parts Doosan Magazine Auxiliary Organizations Doosan DST Doosan Yonkang Foundation, Doosan Art Center, DLI2 Mobile weaponry, horning/guided weapon 1. FM(Facility Management) systems, launch systems, navigation, etc. 2. DLI(Doosan Leadership Institute) Unit:100 million KRW 2014 Group Financial Highlight 313,693 89,023 204,682 10,080 Total Assets Total Capital Revenue Operating Income Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 10 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment The Doosan Way The Doosan Way? The Doosan Way is our unique belief and philosophy to create “Proud Global Doosan.” After quickly transitioning from a consumer products supplier into a global provider of ISB industrial products, Doosan aims to become a company working with a generous and competent group of people, unique ways of developing people, and commitment through the Doosan Way. We are creating an organization where members find their sense of purpose and a company where people are at the center of business. We believe that our company can be sustainable and can become the cornerstone for developing more talented people. The Doosan The Doosan Credo is a set of principles that represent Doosan’s philosophy and its unique way of doing business. Credo These principles have been the foundation of Doosan’s success for the past century. The Doosan Credo contains nine core values. These core values are points of reference by which Doosan makes all types of decisions. Through this Credo, Doosan accomplishes its ultimate goal. The Credo consists of Doosan’s “Aspiration” and “Core Values”. Doosan Credo System Aspiration Proud Global Doosan Core Values Safety and Inteagrity and Social Cultivating Technology People Customers Profit Inhwa Environment Transparency Responsibility People and Innovation Doosan Credo Unique Values that Drive Our behavior and Our Business Aspiration: Doosan’s ultimate goal is to create 'Proud Global Doosan'. ‘Proud Doosan’ means each of our employees and all of our stakeholders are proud of their association with Doosan. Every employee takes great pride in being a member of Doosan. Each customer recognizes and appreciates Doosan’s high-quality goods and services. Every shareholder values our high but fair levels of profit. Core Values: Doosan People live by the nine core values of the Doosan Credo every day. Doosan People live by the nine core values of the Doosan Credo everywhere we conduct business to build ‘Proud Global Doosan’. These values guide the way we do business, the way we treat each other and the way we work with all of our partners. Traits of After reflecting on the structural reforms that Doosan completed through its expertise, change and innovation Doosan People during its 100-year operation, Doosan found six distinctive traits that Doosan People shared. All members of Doosan abide by the Doosan Credo and carry out their six distinctive traits as Doosan People in their jobs. Limitless Aspiration Cultivatuing People Inhwa Open Communication Tenacity & Drive Prioritization & Focus Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 11 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Doosan Way Contents Doosan Way Implementation and Practice Doosan Way Programs and Systems Doosan Way Day Doosan Way week Doosan Way week 2014. 4.23 2014.4.21~25 2014. 4~ 2014. 5~7 2014. 7 2014.10 Doosan Way Day Held Credo Remind Chairman Park ·Held Doosan Way CA Announced Doosan Day of Session Yongmaan held development for 380 supplementary policies Community Service dialogue with CAs across the Group of the Code of Conduct technical employees ·Held CA Workshop Doosan Way week 2014. 2~3 2013. 12~ 2013. 7~12 2013. 7 2013. 7. 4~5 2013. 7. 3 Rolled out Doosan Issued of the Doosan Held team-based Upgraded Group portal Held Leadership ·Announced improvements Way Survey to 17,000 Way FAQ brochure Doosan Way Workshops 5.0 on the basis of the Perspective Session of the Code of Conduct, the technical employees for strengthening of Doosan Way change whistle-blowing policy, and worldwide competitive edge model the disciplinary policy, and introduced the white paper policy. ·Announced of technical employee development programs Doosan Way Day Doosan Way week 2013. 3~ 2013. 3 2013. 3 2013. 4~5 2013. 6 2013. 7. 3 Began to regularly hold Completed lobby Established a CSR Rolled out Doosan Way Converted 700 contractHeld Doosan Way Awards seasonal concerts renovation and the strategy system Survey to 21,000 office based employees to full(Doosan Way Award, with chairman Media Wall at Doosan employees worldwide time employees Doosan Technology Park Youngmaan Tower in Seoul Award) ceremony 2013. 3 2013. 3~ 2013. 2~ 2013. 2 2013. 1 2013. 1 Improved of perforLaunched the WHY All teams Group-wide Implemented a new HR Openned Doosan Way Presented icons that mance management campaign:Thinkregularly Doosan Way evaluation system Hall on the 9th floor of represent traits of system and established Explain-Ask “Why” Time meetings Doosan Tower in Seoul Doosan People of a financial policy and guidelines 2012. 5. 7~9 2012. 5~2013. 4 2012. 6~ 2012. 8 2012. 10~2013. 3 Held the Doosan Way Held about 830 sessions of the Doosan Way Provided Insight Held the Change Held a town hall meeting Workshop for CEOs and Workshop for 45,600 employees worldwide Programs and coaching Agent(CA) Workshop hosted by Chairman Park BG leaders in Jeju-do to executives and team Yongmaan leaders worldwide 2012. 4 ~ 2011. 6 ~ 2010. 5 2005. 3 2004 Implemented the Smart Office1 Held Doosan Wayrelated Complied the Doosan Completion of the In the spring of 2004, 1. Smart Office:Activity undertaken to enhance capabilities discussions and a regular Credo and the Doosan Credo draft Chairman Park Yongmaan which eliminate inefficiencies with the goal of making meeting of the distinctive traits of starts writing the Doosan business practices more advanced and scientific decision-making body Doosan People Credo DWC(Doosan Way Council) Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 12 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Doosan Corporation Headquarters We utilize our capabilities in various businesses on the basis of advanced corporate governance. Industrial Vehicle Plant Fuel Cell Plant In 2009, Doosan Corporation adopted a holding company strucIncheon Seoul ture to create a more ethical and advanced corporate governance. Electro-Materials Seongnam R&D Center Through a three-year preparation process of restructuring and Suwon Suji resolving cross ownership issues, we established a sustainable manGlonet R&D Center agement structure that meets global standards. Electro-Materials Plant Jeungpyeong Electro-Materials & Glonet Plant We create value as a trailblazing operating-holding company. Electro-Materials Plant Doosan Corporation is an operating-holding company capable of Mottrol Plant making profits by conducting its own businesses in addition to brand royalties and dividend payments. As Doosan Corp became a holding Iksan Gimcheon company, it not only strengthened the competitiveness of its existing businesses, but it has also pushed ahead with M&As and investments, including the acquisitions of Doosan Corp Mottrol(formerly Tongmyung Mottrol) and Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle and the Changwon 2014 acquisitions of Doosan Corp Fuel Cell(ClearEdge Power(USA) and Fuel Cell Power(Korea)), in order to create sources of revenue. Currently, Doosan Corp operates 5 business groups—Electro-Materials, Industrial Vehicle, Mottrol, Glonet, and Fuel Cell—and 2business units, Information & Communications and FM. Electro-Materials Japan Branch Japan, Tokyo Company Name Doosan Corporation Information & Communications DSIC Date of Establishment December 18, 1933 China, Beijing Mottrol DMJC CEO and COO Park Yongmaan, Lee Jaekyung China, Jiangin Electro-Materials Shenzhen Major Business Areas Electronic components, hydraulic parts,  China, Shenzhen engine and electric forklifts, etc. Electro-Materials CFAP Hong Kong Countries of Business Korea, China, US, UK, etc. China, Hongkong Location of Headquarters 275, Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Total Assets 3.51 trillion KRW Doosan Headquarters Total Sales 1.825 trillion KRW S. Korea, Seoul Operating Income 256.4 billion KRW No. of Employees 3,929 Electro-Materials Taipei Branch Taiwan, Taipei Electro-Materials Shanghai China, Shanghai Electro-Materials Changsu China, Changshu Electro-Materials CFAP Zhangjiagang China, Zhangjiagang Industrial Vehicle DIVC China, Yantai Headquarters & Production Plants Production Plants R&D Center Local Subsidiary Branch Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 13 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Organizational Chart Doosan Corp consists of 5 business Groups(BG) and 2 business units(BU). Doosan Corporation 16 Production Plants (Including domestic plants and headquarters ) Doosan Corp Doosan Corp Doosan Corp Doosan Corp Information & Doosan Corp Doosan Corp Doosan Corp Electro-Materials Industrial Vehicle Mottrol BG Communications Glonet BG FM BU Fuel Cell BG BG BG BU 14 Local Subsidiaries Doosan Corp Global Management Doosan Corp operates 16 production plants, 14 Local subsidiaries, and 4 branch offices in 12 countries around the world. Doosan Corp will strengthen global operations by recruiting and developing global talent and expanding its global business network, and will also continuously develop global standards such as accounting 4 Branch Offices standards to become the world’s leading company. Electro-Materials USA Industrial Vehicle DIVUK USA, San Jose UK, Northampton Information & Communications DSIA Industrial Vehicle GENESIS USA, Atlanta UK, Warboys Industrial Vehicle DIVAC Information & Communications DSIE USA, Atlanta UK, Crawley Electro-Materials CFT Electro-Materials CFL USA, Pennsylvania Luxembourg, Wiltz Fuel Cell USA Industrial Vehicle DLE USA, South Windsor Germany, Bersteland Information & Communications DSIE-CZ Czech, Pilsen Industrial Vehicle DIVEU Belgium, Sint-Niklaas Glonet JV China, Chengdu Electro-Materials Vietnam Branch Vietnam, Hanoi Electro-Materials Singapore Singapore Headquarters & Production Plants Production Plants R&D Center Local Subsidiary Branch Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 14 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Business Areas Based on domestic sales by business group Electro-Materials Doosan Corp Electro-Materials BG produces and distributes printed circuit CCL(copper clad laminate) for PCB(printed circuit board), an essential part of digital devices and home appliances made with copper foil, glass fabrics, epoxy and polyimide resins for worldwide customers. The process industry requires large-scale equipment investments and produces high-tech products by combining polymer chemicals and electronic materials. In July 2014, Electro-Materials BG acquired Circuit Foil Luxembourg(CFL) based in Luxemburg, which has been producing copper foil, a key raw material of CCL professionally. Through the acquisition, Electro-Materials internalized CFL’s materials and technologies, reduced costs, and bolstered its European network. Also, Electro-Materials BG vertically integrated the manufacturing of copper foil, a key raw material, which allowed the company to respond systematically in the materials, manufacturing, and customer service areas. Total Sales Unit : 100 million KRW 5,946 Industrial Vehicle Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle BG has been a leading manufacturer of engine and electric type forklifts in Korea. Since 1968 when it became the first forklift manufacturer, Industrial Vehicle BG has exported forklifts to about 100 countries worldwide. After being acquired by Doosan Corporation, Industrial Vehicle BG established a growth strategy and pushed ahead with continuous operational reforms, green product development, and networking capabilities enhancement. In 2014, despite tough business conditions due to shrinking emerging markets, Industrial Vehicle BG achieved sales growth based on initiatives for brand awareness enhancement, sale capability reinforcement of key dealers and reliable product quality. Total Sales Unit : 100 million KRW 5,955 Mottrol Doosan Corp Mottrol BG conducts business in the hydraulic parts and defense industries. In the hydraulic parts industry, Mottrol BG has a competitive advantage in global markets particularly for specialized hydraulic parts, such as travel and swing devices, hydraulic pumps, and main control valves(MCV) for excavators. Mottrol BG will expand its sales in developed and emerging markets(India, Turkey, etc.) through continuous new product development and product diversification. In the defense industry, Mottrol BG develops and provides hydraulic devices and electronic-hydraulic systems for weaponry applications, thereby playing a central role in the modernization of military equipment. Mottrol BG is looking forward to expand its sales by expanding into global defense markets while continuing operations in the domestic market. Total Sales Unit : 100 million KRW 3,220 Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 15 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Information & Communications(I&C) Doosan Corp Information&Communication(I&C) BU provides comprehensive IT services including IT consulting, system integration, application systems, and IT infrastructure to Doosan’s subsidiaries around the world, using its far-flung network of IT service partners in and outside Korea. Furthermore, I&C BU developed IT services capabilities in the manufacturing and contract industries through “selection and focus”, and focuses on laying the groundwork for new growth businesses centering on IT infrastructure cloud services and ICT. Total Sales Unit : 100 million KRW 1,833 Glonet Doosan Corp Glonet BG manufactures and supplies functional biomaterials and with its built-in research and development capability, it has supplied various advanced materials including pharmaceutical, cosmeceutical and functional foods ingredients to the industry. Glonet BG has focused and established a stable business infrastructure in China based on its specialities in lipid technology for pharmaceutical emulsions and now is expanding its business coverage to the leading and emerging market through partnering with credited global companies. Total Sales Unit : 100 million KRW 321 Facility Management(FM) Doosan Corp Facility Management(FM) BU operates integrated building maintenance and management as its key business. FM BU is leading changes in the existing facility management market by expanding into the disaster response system deployment and application, fire prevention and electricity consulting services, renovation of aging building fire protection and mechanical equipment businesses. With advancements in construction technology; cutting-edge skyscrapers and industrial facilities are growing in numbers, leading to further market expansion in which FM BU will play a pivotal role. Total Sales Unit : 100 million KRW 373 Fuel Cell Doosan Corp Fuel Cell BG offers a comprehensive product lineup from power generation to residential applications using its fuel cell original technologies. Fuel cells are energy supply devices that produce electricity and heat without relying on combustion. Fuel Cell BG provide green energy generation solutions since they also reduce carbon emissions, air pollution and noise levels. In the domestic market, Fuel Cell BG is extending the supply of fuel cells to largesized electric utilities under the government’s renewable energy distribution policy. Fuel Cell BG will also continue to implement the home fuel cell distribution project. Total Sales1 1. Sales reported from September to December 2014 Unit : 100 million KRW 82 Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 16 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment CSR Strategy In 2012, Doosan Corp defined the Doosan Way to create “Proud Global Doosan” and affirmed its commitment to corporate social responsibility. Furthermore, Doosan established the CSR Strategy system consisting of CSR goal, mission, 3 CSR pillars, 7 CSR priorities, and the enabler to proactively respond to various CSR needs and evaluations. Doosan Corp implements CSR management under the group’s CSR strategy. To execute CSR management more effectively, Doosan created a dedicated organization in 2013 and also an operating system for implementing strategic tasks. CSR 2020, Global CSR leading Company: Goal Become one of ten Fortune World’s Most Admired Companies CSR Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth Mission Growth of People Growth of Business CSR Pillars Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement 1. S trenthen people development 3. Minimize environmental footprints 6. S  trengthening Stakeholder CSR within the Group influence sphere through green management Participation Priorities 2. Build Great Workplace with focus 4. Reinforce Fair Operations 7. Develop Strategic Community on Human Respect 5. Improve product & service Involvement & Development accountability Enabler Development strong CSR governance (Execution system and Employee’s Commitment) Demand of Global Initiative:ISO 26000/UN Global Compact/GRI Society Materiality Doosan Corp conducted a materiality assessment to address the key interests and issues of stakeholders. First, Assessment Doosan Corp created a pool of 37 issues by taking into consideration various global guidelines like GRI G4, benchmarks, and industrial issues. Then a materiality assessment was performed in the Relevance aspect in Results terms of Doosan Corp’s business and CSR operations, and in the Impact aspect that influences key stakeholders. Finally, 10 material issues were selected. Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Creating Issue Pool Evaluation of Important Issues Selection of Material Issues Evidence of 'Relevance' Competing companies, standards, Global standards analysis media and document analysis results Internal data review Identifying important issues Global benchmarking and organizing a report Evidence of 'Impact' Media research Direct stakeholder research (survey/employee interviews) Creating a pool of 36 subjects Materiality Assessment Map 10 Material Issues Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 17 CSR Highlights I CEO Message I Letter to Stakeholders I Doosan Group I Doosan Corporation I Business Areas I CSR Strategy and Materiality Assessment Material Issues Doosan Corp links its CSR strategy to the preparation of a CSR report centering on the material and general issues and Internal and identified through a materiality assessment. These issues are selected after taking into account their internal and external impacts. We then manage impacts after defining stakeholders related to each of those issues. External Impacts Direct Impacts Internal and External Impacts of Doosan Corp Indirect Impacts Material Shareholders  Page Customers Suppliers Employees Communities Aspect Issue & Investors Talent Recruitment and Employee 25-27 Training and Education Capability Enhancement Developing Occupational Safety and Promoting Health and Safety at Plants 23-24 Healthttw People Labor Practices Grievance Improving Employee Communication 20-22 Mechanisms Green Product Development 31-32 Products and Services (Strengthening R&D Activities) Execution of Green Management 66 Climate Change Response 30-32 Energy, Emissions Environmental Pollution Management 33, 68 Water, Wastewater, and Waste Resource Cycling and Recycling 33, 68 Prevention of Unfair Trading 39, 59 Unfair Competition Fairness and Transparency in Supplier Reliable Selection 39 Anti-Corruption Operating Shared Growth Policy 36-38 Supplier Support 38 Spreading Ethical Management Activities 58 Anti-Corruption Ensuring Product Safety Customer Safety, Product and 43 Service Labeling Maximizing Customer Value through 41-42 Quality Innovation Marketing Communication, CS through Customer Communication 43 Information Security Manufacturing Efficiency 41, 64 CCI* Strategy and Policy 46-47 CCI* Aligned with Community Needs 48-50 Responsible Engagement Local Communities Community Residents’ Health 50 Potential Issues General Issues Material Issues CCI Aligned with Community Needs Ensuring Product Safety TOP  ISSUE 10 Fairness and Transparency in Supplier Selection Quality innovation Prevention of Unfair Trading Environmental Pollution 01.CCI* Aligned with Community Management Employee Communication Needs  azardous chemical H management 02.Environmental Pollution CCI  reflecting business Climate Change Response Management characteristics Promoting Health and  S  trengthening  Shared Growth Safety at Plants 03.Ensuring Product Safety R&D Activities Policy Supply chain CSR Customer communication 04.Fairness and Transparency G  reen product and CCI strategy and policy in Supplier Selection service development Supplier support 05.Employee Communication Governance integrity Talent retention and employee Impact  ompany-wide environmental C management system capability enhancement 06.Climate Change Response Manufacturing efficiency and cost competitiveness Resource cycling and recycling 07.Shared Growth Policy  ommunity environmental C Fair distribution of Economic improvement Performance Exploring new markets such as international markets 08.Promoting Health and Safety Stakeholder engagement Spreading ethical management at facilities  ommunity C Supplier communication residents’ health M  itigating environmental impacts of operations 09.Strengthening R&D Activities Increasing employee satisfaction 10.Prevention of Unfair Trading Green purchasing Global CCI ctivities Green Process evaluation and management logistics  roduct information P disclosure Relevance Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 18 Build Great Workplace with focus on Human Respect I Strengthen People Development within the Group Influence Sphere Developing People “Faith in People” is the source of competitive advantage that has led Doosan for the past 100 years and that will continue Doosan’s sustainable success for another 100 years and more. Build Great Workplace with focus on human respect 20 Doosan Corporation strives to create a positive work environment by continuously improving its business practices and organizational culture and systemically manages employee health and safety. Strengthen people development within the Group influence sphere 25 Doosan Corporation provides specialized training programs by function and level aimed at maximizing the capabilities of employees. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 19 Build Great Workplace with focus on Human Respect I Strengthen People Development within the Group Influence Sphere Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 20 Build Great Workplace with focus on Human Respect I Strengthen People Development within the Group Influence Sphere 1.1 Build Great Workplace with focus on Human Respect Business & Social Context Creating a great workplace increases employee commitment and allows the organization to make the best use of its abilities. Improved open communication among employees helps accelerate decision-making for both leaders and members, and facilitates an understanding and agreement among employees, thereby streamlining business processes across the organization. Furthermore, government policies, including policies for women’s career management and work-life balance programs, are demanding companies to take the initiative in creating a great workplace. Our Approach Future Action By emphasizing teamwork on the basis of inhwa, one of the core values Doosan Corp will continuously improve employees’ quality of life by of the Doosan Way, Doosan Corp is building a happy workplace where strengthening a culture where human rights are respected. employees feel a sense of pride, belonging, and accomplishment. 1 Enhance employee satisfaction through company-wide activities to uphold 1 Strengthen connections between the Doosan Way and business operations, human rights and internalize the values of the Doosan Way 2 Create a positive work environment through Ombudsperson Program 2 Open communication at all levels and realization of inhwa 3 Improve safety and health levels through expansion of safety and health 3 Respect the lives of employees and stakeholders through safety and health leadership practices and improvement of management and support management, including risk improvement, disaster prevention activities, systems compliance, and daily safety training Our Efforts Doosan Corp strives to create a positive work environment by continuously improving its business practices and organizational culture and 530 systemically manages employee health and safety. 50 % ideas submitted 1 Realize an organizational culture in which employees work wisely by An increase in employees’ use of parental leave over 0.18 % occupational  strengthening connections between the Doosan Way and key business the previous year disaster rate operations 2 Reinforce activities through which female employees achieve work-life balance Innovative  3 Build a world-class safety and health management system idea contest Manager Son Bo-Hyeon Working women generally experience hurdles in their long-term professional development, such as being Doosan Corporation excluded from important businesses and child-related career interruptions. Doosan Corp established the Electro-Materials Women’s Council to resolve these issues and help women grow professionally on their own. This year, a Business Group wide range of activities will be carried out under the slogan of women’s professional development and happy home life. While we are still at the stage where we try to get the entire company’s attention to these activities, we intend to maximize the strength and competencies of female employees through cultural improvements and help female leaders play a central role within the organization. Doosan Corp will also commit itself to reinforcing an organizational culture where the company demolishes environmental barriers to women’s growth like maternity leave and childcare, along with systems that support the traditional culture. Hopefully, women will understand their own strengths and explore ways in which they can make contributions to the organization by utilizing their strengths, while leaders will spread Doosan Corp’s organizational culture where the diversity of women and minorities is respected. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 21 Build Great Workplace with focus on Human Respect I Strengthen People Development within the Group Influence Sphere Realization of Leader’s Action Plan, Doosan Way Council & Leader’s Self-Directed Change Doosan Corp conducts the Doosan Way the Doosan Way Review Survey targeting all employees to ask about what their current leaders are like so that leaders among the employees reflect on their own leadership behavior as perceived by their members and ultito Work Wisely mately drive change. Based on the survey results, the leaders created and implemented the “Leader’s Action Plan” including ‘People Development through 1:1 meetings’ and ‘prompt responses to pending issues’ to work on the areas in which they need to make changes to their behavior. Aside from changes in leadership, the leaders are driving positive changes, such as open communication across the organization and streamlining business operations. Furthermore, the leaders of business groups/units and invested companies meet every other month to share the progress of their Doosan Way-related activities and issues and discuss the areas they can Doosan improve upon. Particularly, among the opinions of responsible employees and the organization’s current staWay Time tus, the leaders come up with a “Doosan Way Council Agenda” and discuss issues that require strong leadership, such as the 2014 Direction for the Doosan Way Implementation and EHS Upgrade Plan. WHY Extending the Doosan Way Survey to Technical Positions To realize the Doosan Way, Doosan Corp Campaign conducts an annual Doosan Way Survey to identify and meet the demands of employees. Based on the 2014 survey results, we established the 7 Improvement Tasks directed at technical positions, including ‘Improving communication for Doosan Way activities’ and ‘Enhancing job and cultivation systems’. In implementing Doosan the tasks, Doosan Corp works with related teams to improve working conditions at plants. We also conduct Way Council interim surveys regarding the tasks undertaken by each business group to make changes in order to review the effectiveness and progress of those tasks. Additionally, Doosan Corp consistently improves process and system by examining areas for improvement. Best Practices of the Doosan Way Doosan Corp focuses on enhancing the organization’s operational efficiency and competitiveness through more effective communication and strives to help all of its employees WHY accomplish their shared goals. Operation of the Cost Reduction Committee : Doosan Corp Electro-Materials BG effectively carried How out cost reduction tasks by operating the Cost Reduction Committee. Under the supervision of I-FA (A→S→P) Team and the Chief Operating Officer, the Cost Reduction Committee was created to engage all employees in production, procurement, production control, control, quality, equipment, logistics, and HR operations. The committee also organized an ideal pool that allowed fast decision-making and company-wide cost reduction. The committee maximized its effectiveness through collaboration among busiWHAT ness units and reduced costs by 38.6 billion KRW in 2014. Voluntary Information Sharing : Through voluntary information sharing, Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle BG helped global sales officers broaden their perspectives on global markets and increased operational efficiency. In the past, global sales officers did not have enough information to get comprehensive views on global markets, even if they were well informed about the territories in which they were working. To resolve this issue, the scheduling officer of each sales team led efforts to bring regional data up-to-date and share current details of global sales. As a result of such efforts, global sales officers were able to increase their understanding of global markets and reduce redundancies at work. Streamlining Data Management through MES : Doosan Corp Mottrol BG improved efficiency in data management and developed more advanced and scientific business practices by upgrading its Manufacturing Execution System(MES). Mottrol BG improved conveniences in manufacturing and production processes to enable the automatic entry of process and quality data. To utilize the data created, Mottrol BG also allowed delivery and coating process priorities and assembly plans to be displayed on screens at business sites. Mottrol BG was thus able to develop a system for tracking and analyzing quality problems in the process, and eliminate the root causes of problems. Doosan Corp seeks to transform its business processes and lead innovation Business Process by sharing best practices for innovation. The Doosan Corporation Best PracInnovations and Sharing tice(BP) Conference provided its businesses to reflect on cases of innovation in operations and exchange thoughts. To propagate the best practices shared during the conference and to internalize and promote the business groups’ OE operational innovations, the Operational Excellence(OE) Portal was opened. Portal The OE Portal enabled the business groups to freely communicate news about innovation, including BP sharing and open communication, as well as “Operational Innovation News,” where they share various innovations made within the groups. Through this web portal, Doosan will promote exchange of more various best practices and thoughts. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 22 Build Great Workplace with focus on Human Respect I Strengthen People Development within the Group Influence Sphere Improving Learning Organizational Culture Doosan Corp operates the Learning Credit program to support the culOrganizational tivation of talents equipped with leadership skills and expertise. Through the Learning Credit program, learners will develop their own learning plans, carry out learning activities according to the plans, and earn credits Culture for Open for their performance. Besides the formal curricula, the learners will be motivated to engage in “self-directed Communication learning” through which they can explore learning methods and take control of their own learning. By combining a variety of sustainable and practical cultivation methods, employees will be able to achieve the balacross All Levels anced enhancement of their capabilities. Furthermore, Doosan Corp operates the CoP(Community of Practice), a form of self-directed learning, and uses it as the place where employees share their knowledge and experience with each other. In 2014, Doosan Corporation Information & Communications reported high CoP participation rates, with each employee taking part in at least one CoP among a total of 62 CoPs(46 professional and 16 global CoPs). Each business group of Doosan Corp operates CoPs in a variety of areas, including R&D and manufacturing technology, and helps its employees gain first-hand knowledge and experience related to management activities and develop problem-solving skills under the various business-related themes. Strengthening Foundations for Female Leaders’ Growth Female employees often experience career interruptions and barriers to professional growth due to a number of reasons, despite their increasing labor force participation and their remarkable performance across various fields. To resolve these issues, Doosan Corp launched the W Project in 2013 as part of its efforts to create a women-friendly corporate culture, provide a systemic foundation to suggest professional growth visions for women, and ultimately enhance the competitiveness of its businesses. As a result of the W Project, the Women’s Council was established in 2014. The Women’s Council holds meetings that female employees voluntarily attend as agents of change, and it is working to accomplish three goals: Strengthening the foundations for female professional growth as leaders, ensuring the effectiveness of women support programs and a culture that promotes work-family balance, and creating communication channels and a network within the organization. Currently, there are eight active female members who represent Doosan’s business areas and invested companies. In 2015, the council will expand their scope of engagement and continue its activities, such as giving guest lectures and building communication channels. Mom’s Caring Program : Doosan Corp operates the Mom’s Caring Program aimed at resolving concerns about low fertility rates and helping employees balance work and family life. The Mom’s Caring Program includes basic guidelines to pregnancy and birth for female employees to help adjust to work life during and after pregnancy. Through the Mom’s Caring Program, pregnant employees can get detailed information about the applications necessary at each stage of their pregnancy, and team leaders provide support so that pregnant employees stay healthy until they give birth and pursue successful careers. Providing Various Communication Opportunities Doosan Corp organizes a wide range of activities to facilitate company-wide open communication. Using the Doosan Way Time, we holds meetings to enhance communication and increase efficiency at work. The Doosan Way Time meetings also allow employees at various levels to freely discuss ways to drive innovation. It contributes to the creation of a communicative organizational culture. we also operate other opportunities of communication, such as “Winning Doogather Team Workshop” to enhance team communication and “Winning Doogather Junior Workshop” to receive junior employees’ suggestions and increase their satisfaction with the organization. Other various activities include “Talk Concert & Suggestion,” “In-depth Conversation through Executive Workshop,” and “Informal Meetings by Level and Position.” Doosan Corp Information & Communications(I&C) BU held an Innovative Idea Contest for all its employees and those Innovative Idea Contest: of its suppliers to spread a culture of innovation across the organization and strengthen competitive edge in the ICT An Activity to Enhance industry. Divided into the new technology and new business categories, the contest was intended to help employees Fundamental Competstrengthen their capabilities through active participation and discover advanced services and business items. I&C BU itiveness and Spread a received a total of 530 ideas i.e. 174 in the new technology category and 356 in the new business category. After the Culture of Innovation ideas were screened through a 2-step process in view of “customer needs,” “why Doosan Corp I&C competency,” and “innovativeness and economic evaluation,” 12 ideas were selected as Excellence Prize winners and runner-ups. I&C 12 BU is working with related business units and teams to realize and commercialize these ideas. I&C BU will firmly estabideas selected lish a culture of innovation and continue to carry out activities like new business development workshops by linking the ideas to its businesses. 530 ideas submitted Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 23 Build Great Workplace with focus on Human Respect I Strengthen People Development within the Group Influence Sphere Creating a Building a World-Class Safety and Health Management System Since the Sewol Ferry disaster and Safe and Healthy hazardous material spills in 2014, there has been a growing concern about safety and health. Employee safety is also one of the core values of Doosan Corporation. Based on an in-depth analysis and review of leading Workplace global EHS1 companies’ best practices, Doosan Corp developed the EHS Upgrade Plan and aims to build an EHS system at a level comparable to those of global leaders until 2020. Centering on three topics, which are establishing a corporate culture of EHS, strengthening organizational capabilities, and creating and enhancing programs and systems, the EHS Upgrade Plan contains longand short-term implementation plans. In addition, Doosan Corp is spearheading efforts to lay a cornerstone for change and continuously increase levels of quality. Such efforts include the reinforcement of expertise through internal and external collaborative relationships, the creation of an organization equipped with the necessary workforce and EHS execution capabilities, and the creation, revision, and observance of standards to which all employees can adhere. 1. EHS: Environment, Health, and Safety EHS Training and Cultivation of Professionals : Doosan Corp provides education and training on a regular basis to help all of its employees abide by laws and the safety and health management system. we have also expanded training for office employees to whom less attention was paid than to technical employees. Mandatory online training courses are provided to increase employees’ understanding of EHS and to disseminate knowledge about safety and health requirements in daily life. Furthermore, Doosan Corp trains specialized EHS instructors to develop safety and health professionals. In 2014, 3 EHS instructors and 8 general instructors received training and were deployed to provide systemic and specialized EHS training. We also produced high-quality learning materials and courses to prepare cross training among business groups and units. Sharing Best Practices : To spread and apply best practices across all businesses, Doosan Corp shares EHS Best Practices and rewards best practices on a half-yearly basis. We also make sure that cases of accidents are shared by the entire organization and provide training to improve upon similar processes and to prevent recurrences of similar accidents. Supplier Safety and Health Management Process Using IT Systems Doosan Corp created a safety management process for its suppliers to control health and safety risks that may arise starting the stage of supplier selection until the termination of contract. In 2014, we streamlined the management process by incorporating IT systems. Doosan Corp Mottrol BG is at the forefront of a push to make smarter preliminary EHS impact assessment and safe work permit processes. Through these initiatives, Doosan Corp is streamlining interdepartmental communication and related data management. EHS Upgrade Roadmap Create World-Class Management System Make Upgrades and Improvements Lay Foundation for Change 2019~2020 2017~2018 ~2016 Extend practice programs to external Implement practice programs across all areas suppliers Establish Enhance CEO and executive officer leadership and internal suppliers Individual EHS awareness assessment and Compapractice programs Carry out specialized EHS consciousness-raisimprovement activities 1 ny-wide Assess EHS awareness levels and develop ing activities by BG EHS  improvement plans Culture Identify/operate mandatory EHS items Develop/implement professional Create an internal/external expert pool and a development programs Fulfill staffing requirements and create an collaborative system Cultivation of global professionals Strength- Functional Competence system Hold regular exchange of EHS practices with en OrgaIntegrated operation of EHS units across business leading companies 2 nizational areas CompeCreate an external expert group support system Establish an EHS review process at design tence and purchasing stages Build a network with leading companies Adopt cutting-edge disaster control systems Establish/operate a preventive maintenance Provide EHS training for voluntary employee system for EHS equipment participation Improve underperforming facilities/equipment Improve Computerize business operations through IT Establish/upgrade an EHS performance Process systems management system 3 and  Strengthen training implementation capabilities Provide EHS training infrastructure by position Systems Re-establishment and implementation of audit/ and duty monitoring systems Establish common standards at global levels Define common standards across business areas Create a performance evaluation system linked Create to EHS Improve MBO KPI items Process Expand EHS support for internal/external 4 and  Create a BCM1(emergency response) system 1. BCM : business continuity management suppliers Systems Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 24 Build Great Workplace with focus on Human Respect I Strengthen People Development within the Group Influence Sphere Accident Prevention Activities In the wake of recent major accidents and disasters affecting society as a whole, Doosan Corp is improving the organization’s crisis response capabilities. We provide all employees with first aid and CPR training, and those responsible for important duties receive specialized training through independent agencies. We also regularly provide fire/flood response and evacuation training so that potential damage can be minimized by prompt response in crisis situations. An estimated 3,200 employees and sales representatives working at Doosan Tower received disaster response training and three sessions of Doosan Tower evacuation training. Evacuation training that simulated real-world situations was conducted with an average attendance of 819 employees(91% participation), and video analytics helped find out traffic flow and vulnerabilities during evacuation. Doosan Corp aims to improve on these results and minimize injury and property damage if any disaster occurs. Health Promotion Activities To promote employee health, Doosan Corp supports enhanced health-care for high-risk groups and provides health check-ups and physical therapy programs to prevent cardiovascular and musculoskeletal diseases. Other health promotion efforts include lifestyle improvement programs such as Quit Smoking Fund and Anti-Obesity Program. Doosan Corp Electro-Materials BG : Electro-Materials BG organizes shortand long-term health promotion activities early each year and ensures the systemic implementation of various activities to promote employee health, including training and programs. As a result of its efforts, in December 2014, the business group was awarded an Employee Health Promotion Activity Certificate from the Ministry of Labor, which gives recognition to great workplaces for employee health. Doosan Corp Mottrol BG : In July 2014, Doosan Corp Mottrol BG received an Excellence Prize at the Employee Health Promotion Best Practices Conference organized by Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency(KOSHA), as a result of its comprehensive health promotion efforts, such as “GO GO Program.” In December, Mottrol BG again received recognition as a great workplace in six categories, including health promotion activity system. Doosan Corp Glonet BG : Glonet BG and Korea Occupational Safety& Health Agency entered into a funding agreement for ‘Labor-Management-Led Health Promotion Activities’. Glonet BG accordingly provided training and practices on cerebrovascular disease prevention and pre-work warmup exercises, with which employees expressed high satisfaction. Doosan Tower Emergency Evacuation Training Disaster Control Training in case of Hazardous Spills In 2014, Doosan Corp’s occupational accident rate was 0.18%, which represents a slight decline compared to the preSafety and Health vious year. Major accidents resulted from crushing and cutting point hazards in the workplace. Efforts are continuPerformance ously being made to identify causes and make improvements. Occupational Accident Rate Unit : % Severity Rate1 2012 0.18 2014 2013 0.24 0.072 1. Number of lost work days per 1,000 2014 0.18 work hours Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 25 Build Great Workplace with focus on Human Respect I Strengthen People Development within the Group Influence Sphere 1.2 Strenthen People Development within the Group Influence Sphere Business & Social Context The pace of technological change is accelerating in a rapidly changing global economic environment. As flexible responses to such changes, global companies adopt the strategies of recruiting top talents and maximizing employee capabilities. Fair talent recruitment processes and the development of essential employee capabilities such as specialized skills, leadership, communication skills, and a global mindset are considered vital to companies’ sustainable growth. Our Approach Future Action Doosan Corporation needs “people” for sustainable growth while Doosan Corp will create a firmly established culture of training to cultiemployees need professional development to realize their personal vate talent that will drive sustainable performance and growth. values. From talent selection to professional leader development pro1 C reate a culture of talent cultivation through the reinforcement of leaders’ cesses, Doosan Corp continues to invest in talent cultivation. coating capabilities  ultivate all employees to become ‘Doosan People’ by sharing values and 1 C 2 D evelop new training courses and monitoring existing training courses to culture improve employees’ competencies  ultivate professionals to enhance business execution capabilities 2 C 3 E nhance professional development programs to serve as a strategic  ultivate next generation leaders who will lead change and innovation 3 C partner 4 Cultivate talent who will play leading roles in global businesses Our Efforts Doosan Corp provides specialized training programs by function and level. 9,616 million KRW 156 people Coaching Sharing  1 Improve leadership and coaching capabilities in the workplace Total training cost Workshop attendees  evelop training programs centering on R&D and cultivation of 2 D professionals  xpand training programs to improve employees’ problem-solving 3 E skills and strategic thinking skills 130 hours Training hours per person Assistant Manager As a mid-level member of the team, I was looking for ways to improve my capabilities and finally applied Kang Sung-A for the Jr. MBA program. The Jr. MBA program consisted of online and in-class lectures by professors and Doosan Corporation instructors who specialize in strategic management, marketing, HR organization, finance/accounting, Glonet Business Group and leadership. The program was not merely about knowledge dissemination, but it involved discussions about actual working practices at Doosan Corporation for seven months. In particular, the program was very helpful for researchers and engineers, who accounted for the majority of the class, in acquiring basic knowledge about business management and comprehensive business analysis skills. In addition, I was able to apply what I learned to my job by coming up with ideas for process improvement. I applied what I learned to my current job, which is heavy metals analysis, and came up with an improvement plan for automating the repetitive tasks that had been manually handled. In 2015, I am looking to improve efficiency at work and reduce manufacturing costs. As long as my colleagues voluntarily attend and enjoy Doosan Corporation’s excellent training programs, I am sure that the company and individuals can grow together. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 26 Build Great Workplace with focus on Human Respect I Strengthen People Development within the Group Influence Sphere Strengthening Specialized Leadership Reinforcement Programs Doosan Corp operates training programs aimed Capabilities through at strengthening the organization’s common capabilities aligned with job functions at various levels. For employees to enhance their leadership skills at early stages of their careers, we created the New Assistant Leadership and Manager course. Doosan Corp also operates the Executive Coaching program aimed at strengthening new Coaching Programs executives’ leadership skills and the Management Leadership program designed to develop managers’ leadership skills. The Management Leadership program comprises the Influence and Coaching modules. In 2014,2 sessions were carried out and attended by 39 employees. Leadership Development Programs for On-Site Technical employees Doosan Corp operates the New Recruit OT, Production Leadership Training(Parts I and II), and Counselling programs to help technical employees strengthen their capabilities. For new technical employees, we provide a program designed to instil a sense of pride and belonging in the employees as Doosan People. For on-site managers who play a pivotal role in the internalization of the Doosan Way, we provide training on organizational management and leadership skills needed for work. Through the Grievance Counselling program created in 2014, on-site technical managers learned the basic principles and skills of counselling and applied them while managing conflicts and improving teamwork within the organization. Doosan Corp will open a variety of programs aimed at developing technical leaders who understand our internal and external environments and link Doosan Corp’s strategies to on-site performance improvement. On-Site Coaching Capability Improvement Training To practice the Doosan Way, Doosan Corp provides Coaching Sharing Workshops and organizes activities such as sharing on-site coaching practices and tips to develop employees’ coaching skills. Doosan Corp held 7 sessions throughout 2014 and 156 employees attended. Doosan Corp Glonet BG also conducts coaching sessions for business leaders every other week to promote open communication and enhance individual capabilities. Glonet BG operates the programs as a communication channel where employees select session topics by level, share tips for efficient coaching, and explore ways to strengthen individual capabilities and provides suggestions for professional growth. A total of 11 sessions were held and members of the organization were able to share concerns about their professional growth through tailored coaching for 4 groups(employee/assistant manager, manager, deputy general manager/General manager, team leader). These programs contribute to promoting open communication and establishing a culture of quick and accurate coaching across the organization. Development of R&D Academy Doosan Corporation Mottrol deployed internal instructors and operated 4 courses(cost estiTraining Programs mation for machined parts, contamination control, programs and design, hydraulic excavation system) linked to the Functional competency system to strengthen the competitive edge of R&D employees. Through the R&D for R&D and Academy, researchers were able to improve their design and quality verification and casting material developProfessionals ment capabilities. In 2015, Doosan Corp will expand the R&D Academy and operate 15 courses. R&D employees’ communication skills are now essential to collaboration R&D Biz. in business operations and to the development of products that meet cusCommunication tomer needs. R&D employees are strengthening their capabilities for effecProgram tive reporting and information disclosure processes through tiered development programs by level. The entire program consists of 3 stages(preliminary tasks, basics, and follow-up) and the stages are interconnected to improve the effectiveness of learning. The program was subdivided by each business and by level to accommodate different communication skills. It focuses on strengthening junior-level writing, manager-level reporting, and team leader-level coaching capabilities. The R&D Biz. Communication Program will be extended from Mottrol BG to all the business R&D Academy groups of Doosan Corporation, such as Electro-Materials BG and Industrial Vehicle BG. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 27 Build Great Workplace with focus on Human Respect I Strengthen People Development within the Group Influence Sphere ICT-based Professional Development Program To implement Doosan ICT, Doosan Corp Information & Communications BU operates a variety of training programs aimed at developing professionals in IT trend analysis to data management. Data Scientist Development Program: Doosan Corp I&C BU focuses on developing Data Scientist who will support decision-making on process innovation and new business(products and services) development based on their data analytics skills. I&C BU defined the required skills for a data scientist under the PI & IT Functional system and developed the Data Scientist Development Program in which Functional Leaders, HR, and internal experts participated. The Data Scientist Development Program includes practices in specialty areas to successfully develop professionals and the program has been extended to the entire corporation and its affiliates after I&C BU ran the test program. In 2014, 2 sessions of training were conducted. 20 people attended the first test program at I&C BU, and 24 people attended the second program trial at I&C BU and Doosan Group. IT Trends for Junior Program : Doosan Corp I&C BU opened the IT Trends for Junior Program to develop IT professionals based on training on IT industry and technology trends and on learners’ IT trends research related to their jobs. In 2014, the first session was conducted and attended by 32 people, consisting of 22 assistant managers and 10 employees. Smart Working Academy : Doosan Corp I&C BU operates the Smart Working Academy to develop IT professionals capable of identifying customers’ problems and needs and suggesting efficient solutions. I&C BU provides training that consists of logical thinking, document preparation, organizing meetings and presentations. In 2014, 3 sessions were held and attended by 58 people. Enhancement of STEPSTM Doosan Corp operates the STEPS(Strategic Thinking Enhancement through Problem Solving) ProDoosan Corp’s Own gram to help employees enhance their problem-solving and strategic thinking skills. Consisting of STEPS Basic, STEPS Junior, STEPS, and STEPS Executive, the STEPS Program aims to improve employees’ strateDistinctive Strategic gic thinking and problem-solving skills through tiered training by level. In 2014, 6 sessions were held and 26 Thinking Skills employees, 20 assistant managers, 39 managers, and 3 executives completed STEPS. Doosan Corp tries to incorporate their enhanced problem-solving skills into the entire organization’s business practices. STEPS Completion STEPS STEPS STEPS STEPS employees Basic Junior Executive 26 assistant managers 20 managers 39 executives 3 “How to Pack” Program to Improve Presentation Skills Doosan Corp Electro-Materials BG provides the “How to Pack” program aimed at improving report-writing skills based on strategic and systemic thinking. Through this program, employees can learn templates and reporting practices and minimize waste in the data preparation, interpretation, revision, and gathering processes. The program does not merely provide instructions on how to operate PowerPoint, but it also helps employees identify key details and effectively incorporate them into their reports through the 7 Steps. Dissemination training is being carried out in sessions at manager, employee and assistant manager levels. Members of the staff whose report-writing skills were recognized by Strategy and New Business Planning Team are working as in-house instructors. In 2015, Doosan Corp will add report-writing process and report-writing practice courses, and extend training to researchers and engineers. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 28 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability Reliable Operating As a corporate citizen, Doosan Corporation is committed to minimizing environmental impact through green management, reinforcing Fair Operations for shared growth with suppliers, and improving product & service accountability. Minimize environmental footprints through green management 30 Doosan Corporation responds to climate change by increasing energy efficiency across all processes and developing green products and systemically manages on-site pollution. Reinforce Fair Operations 36 Doosan Corporation continues its commitment to sustainable supply chain management through shared growth support activities and a fair supplier selection process. Improve Product & Service accountability 40 Doosan Corporation drives quality innovation and stability across various product lines through continuous R&D and enhances communication with customers to increase their satisfaction. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 29 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 30 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability 2.1 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management Business & Social Context Climate change has been a growing concern worldwide. The South Korean government is also tightening environmental regulations to respond to climate change through the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management System and the Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System. Climate change response is thus considered an integral part of business management, and companies carry out climate change activities to help them adhere to global regulations and reduce energy costs. In addition, there has been a growing interest in the disposal of pollutants in local communities due to recent incidents of environmental pollution. The government is also tightening environmental regulations in many ways, for instance, by announcing its plan to legalize an integrated environmental management system. Our Approach Future Action Doosan Corp created a green management system to minimize environDoosan Corporation will minimize the environmental impact of its busimental impact and provides systemic responses to a variety of environness operations at all stages-from product development to on-site waste mental issues, such as climate change, pollution control, and chemical management-in order to respond to climate change and control pollution. management. 1 Climate change response by reinforcing activities under the Greenhouse 1 Strengthen the green management strategy system and promoting Gas Emission Trading System employee engagement 2 Chemical accident prevention and compliance with laws by creating a 2 B uild green management infrastructure including climate change response, chemical management system green product development, reducing pollution, and IT systems. 3 Efforts to minimize environmental impact through development and moni3 Enhance external communication through disclosures and engagement in toring of environmental performance indicators global initiatives 4 Identify and responding proactively to the latest trends in environmental laws Our Efforts Doosan Corporation responds to climate change by increasing energy 74,558 tCO eq 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions efficiency across all processes and developing green products and systemically manages on-site pollution. 1 Expand energy efficiency activities to all processes 8,429 million KRW 13,706 ton Environmental Investment Cost Waste Generation 2 Enhance energy efficiency through green product development 3 Strengthen chemical and waste management systems Managing Director Responding to climate change is an integral part of a company’s business. Governments around the world Yang Chun-Seung agreed that limitless burning of fossil fuels was impossible and have since taken measures to limit fossil fuel Korea Sustainability use by companies. In such circumstances, Doosan Corp should respond proactively to climate change and fulInvesting Forum fill its environmental responsibilities to set an example for other companies and local communities. The company should therefore expand the scope of disclosures of greenhouse gas emissions. Doosan Corp has so far reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. The company should consider including Scope 3 emissions into its disclosures. For example, Doosan Corp should disclose GHG emissions from using products, in addition to GHG emissions from production. Through such disclosures, consumers can monitor energy use and savings, while the company’s responsible officers will actively explore plans to increase energy efficiency. Through the publication of its first CSR report, Doosan Corp fulfilled its GHG disclosure obligations with integrity and transparency. The company will hopefully continue its leading role in responding to climate change. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 31 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability Responding to Energy Efficiency Activities in Processes Climate Change Reducing Energy Use by Replacing Equipment through Energy Doosan Corp analyzed production processes at all businesses, identified areas with excess energy consumption, and organized energy efficiency activities to Efficiency work on the problem. Doosan Corp Electro-Materials BG reduced energy use by about 25% by installing an anti-backdraft damper in the incinerator duct and controlling airflow, which led to annual savings of 180 million KRW. Electro-Materials BG also conducted energy conservation projects like incinerator economizer replacement and transformer connection, saving a total of 1.36 billion KRW in 2014. High-Efficiency LED Replacements Doosan Corp replaced light bulbs at plants and offices with LEDs to reduce energy use and improve poor working conditions. Doosan Corp FM BU replaced 13,000 low-efficiency light bulbs with 22,300 LEDs. Without any change in energy consumption after the construction, FM BU increased the illumination in the workplace by about 20%. The use of LEDs in various colors will also increase the value of products at the shopping building of Doosan Tower. The LED replacements will contribute to more savings on electricity bills. Benefits of LED Replacement 13,000 22,300 Maintaining 20 % On-site illumination low-efficiency light bulbs LEDs electricity use improved by Enhancing Energy Efficiency through Development of Green Products Innovative Pump Control System to Improve Fuel Efficiency Doosan Corporation has a responsibility to reduce fuel usage since our products are parts of construction equipment that uses fossil fuels, the major source of carbon dioxide emissions. Doosan Corp Mottrol BG improved the pump control system used in excavators and contributed to reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Unlike existing pump control systems 1, Mottrol BG removed bypass flow from this pump control system to improve its fuel efficiency. Through the improvement, the system’s fuel efficiency increased, and is at least 12% higher than the industry’s highest level, while the system maintained outstanding control performance. Hydraulic products typically generate the most carbon dioxide emissions during the in-use phase of the product life cycle. Doosan Corp will continue to develop green products to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Forklift with Increased Energy Efficiency Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle BG continues to carry out activities aimed at reducing fuel consumption through the optimization of engines and front ends, which are the key components of the forklift. The new 2-ton engine forklift model employed the multi-torque feature 2. The 4-ton and 7-ton engine forklifts were divided into heavy-duty and light-duty so that customers could choose any operating mode or forklift type according to their working conditions, thereby increasing energy efficiency 3. Industrial Vehicle BG also changed the rail shape of the 2-ton forklift to reduce the front-end weight4 by about 10%. The new rail will be first applied to electric forklifts that will be developed in 2015, and will then be extended to enginedriven forklifts. Fuel Cells fueled by methane gas captured from Food Waste Doosan Corp Fuel Cell is developing an environmentally friendly fuel cell system that can generate energy from waste energy sources like food waste(bio fuels). In December 2014, Intergrated Fuel Cell system was successfully operated in initial test in real field place. The integrated fuel cell system was composed of fuel treatment unit, fuel processor, cell stack, m-BOP 5, e-BOP 6 , and control HW/SW. After further technical improvements, Doosan have a plan to launch commercial fuel cells that create energy(electricity and heat) in the locations where the food waste are available such as apartment complex, industrial parks, and public buildings. 1. Existing pump control systems: Refer to open center negative flow control or open center positive flow control systems 2. Multi-torque feature: Allows users to operate forklifts by choosing among STD, ECO, and drive modes according to their working conditions 3. As for the 5.5-ton tier-4 forklift model, the fuel consumption of the light duty forklift increased 8%, compared with the heavy-duty forklift 4. On the basis of the weight of the 4,805mm full free triple mast and carriage. 5. m-BOP : Mechanical Balance of Plant 6. e-BOP : Electrical Balance of Plant Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 32 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability Fuel Cell Doosan Corporation conducts its business as a socially responsible corporate citizen that cares about increasing social and environmental value in the long term. The fuel cells business will play a central role in producing future energy solutions, since fuel cells not only create electricity but also produce highly efficient green energy, which will replace conventional power plants consumed by fossil fuels. Under the Renewable Portfolio Standard(RPS), companies in the South Korean power industry are required to use new and renewable energy at a certain ratio or higher of total energy generation, and 10 states in America also impose the same regulation. As the RPS is more widely applied, electric utilities are forced to adopt the method of generating power that guarantees high efficiency at lower cost. Therefore, the companies are utilizing fuel cells that are easier to install than PV and wind energy systems. Fuel cells also lead to lower prices through the continuous improvement of manufacturing technologies, which will help expand the fuel cells market. Solution Fuel Cells for Power Generation, Buildings, and Residential Use Fuel cells produce electricity and heat energy(CHP, combined heat and power) as the hydrogen contained in fuel steam reacts with oxygen in the air through the electrochemical reaction, without relying on combustion. Doosan Corp Fuel Cells provides eco-friendly, high-efficiency power generation solutions that can be used in distributed power generation and residential power applications. Fuel Cells for Fuel Cells for Buildings(PEMFC) Fuel Cells for Residential Use(PEMFC) Power Generation/Buildings(PAFC) Fuel Natural Gas City Gas City Gas System Output Maximum 440kW, Rating: 400kW 10kW 600W Size 8.74 x 3.35 x 3.02m 1.5 x 1.6 x 1.52m 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.9m 20-year service life, Characteristics 2 hours of run time or less 1 hour of run time or less 10-year warranty for cell stacks Effect Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Reducing Fuel cell systems can reduce CO 2 emmision by 45% as comReducing Fuel cell systems can be connected to boilers and produce GHG pared with greenhouse gas emissions from existing coalEnergy energy with heat and power(CHP), electricity and hot water. The Emissions based power generation. Fuel cell systems also provide Costs fuel cell system can save utility cost at each residential house distributed generation, reducing energy losses arising more than 130,000 KRW because of its high efficiency. from power transmission and distribution. Since fuel cells can use heat produced during generation, they offer higher Gas overall energy efficiency than existing systems1 . Bill Electrical Efficiency Thermal Efficiency Electricity Saving of Bill 37~55% 20~38% ~45% ~45% 130,000 KRW 1 Total Efficiency Coal-Fired Power Home Fuel Cell System ~90% +Commercial Boiler ~83% Fuel Cell Small Gas Turbine(10MW and below) 1. Monthly electricity use of 600kWh, areas where Seoul city gas is supplied, 1. Small gas turbine that uses turbines and engines as power sources as of March 2015 GS Power Doosan Corporation Fuel Cell was founded in July 2014. During 2014, Doosan Corp Fuel Cell Installations 4.8MW 2011 acquired America’s Clear Edge Power, a leading global fuel cell manufacturer located in Seoul Gangwon-do KOSEP LOTTE Connecticut, and merged with Fuel Cell Power in September 2014. Fuel Cell Power led 0.8MW 2013 Incheon Gyeonggi-do 3.08MW 2013 the South Korean polymer electrolyte fuel cell(PEMFC) market in the field of residential KOSEP Chungcheongbuk-do power generation for over 10 years. With its facilities at Bundang Techno Park in Gyeo2.64MW 2014 Chungcheongnam-do Gyeongsangbuk-do nggi-do and at Doosan Tower in Seoul, Fuel Cell Korea has about 70 employees and SK Fuel Cell America, based in Connecticut, has about 170 employees. Fuel cells produced Jeollabuk-do 3.08MW 2013 Gyeongsangnam-do by Doosan Corp Fuel Cell have been installed in over 400 facilities worldwide, including Jeollanam-do ICHNP Europe, Japan, and the U.S., and they are also used in seven plants in Korea. 30.8MW – 2015 BIFC 0.4MW 2013 Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 33 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability Reducing Pollutant Chemical Management Efforts Doosan Corporation worked hard to create a company-wide chemical Emissions management system to prevent recurring chemical accidents and to comply with laws regarding the use and management of fortified chemicals. In 2014, we organized a consultation meeting about developing a chemical inventory, and identified verification and regulatory measures for chemicals retained by each business. In 2015, Doosan Corp will come up with critical control areas for capability reinforcement, legal support, and internal activity assessment and improvement and create and implement improvement plans. As proactive responses, Doosan Corp's businesses provided officers working at their R&D centers and plants with training on the Chemical Registration and Evaluation Acts and Chemicals Control Acts. Doosan Corp's businesses will also provide systemic responses to applicable laws by creating guidelines for chemical management guidelines. Resource Conservation and Waste Reduction Activities Doosan Corporation saved resources and reduced waste generation by streamlining its business processes. Doosan Corp Electro-Materials BG reduced acetone use and waste acetone generation by replacing harmful acetone for industrial uses with reverse osmosis(R/O) treated water in the magnetic filter cleaning process at Jeungpyeong Plant, saving about 60 million KRW in acetone purchases. Doosan Corp Glonet BG is operating freezers and condensers to recover and recycle solvents, which are the most commonly used materials in business processes. As a result of its efforts, Glonet BG is recovering and recycling over 80% of solvents each year. Glonet BG also recycled 88% of materials(solvent) in the PL95 process. Furthermore, Glonet BG conducts environmental impact assessments, creates plans for material environmental issues, and makes necessary improvements. Doosan Corp Mottrol BG overhauled the part packaging process before supplying parts to its suppliers. By replacing disposable plastic packing materials with recyclable exterior plastic covers, Mottrol BG reduced waste plastic generation by 0.45 ton each month. Furthermore, Mottrol BG reduced working hours and increased efficiency by allowing containers for part packaging to be directly used at facilities. Electro-Materials BG Glonet BG Mottrol BG Around 60 million KRW savings in acetone purchases 88% 0.45ton Waste plastic Recycling of generation solvents reduced by Effluent Quality Improvement Activities Doosan Corp strives to minimize the impacts of effluents released from local plants on the neighbouring ecosystems. Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle BG installed oil water separators and emergency shutoff systems in 5 effluent outlets to prevent wastewater releases into local communities. Industrial Vehicle BG also identifies and works on sources of pollution by increasing the frequency of wastewater quality analysis to twice a year. Mottrol BG replaced the existing oil-water separate process with an activated carbon adsorption process and reduced normal hexane(n-hexane) emissions, which cause water pollution, by 47%. Mottrol BG's efforts also led to 40% cost savings(20,000 KRW per ton) per ton of wastewater treated. Glonet BG strengthened wastewater management by adopting additional effluent quality analysis systems and installing a pollutant removal system in the final settling tank. Doosan Corp carried out soil recovery activities to fulfill its responsibilities as a corporate citizen towards local comSoil Recovery munities. In 2010, Mottrol BG began the clean-up operation in the areas affected by soil pollution at its plants and Activities completed the clean-up in August 2014. Soil recovery was performed after conducting in-depth pollution surveys at waste collection sites and their surroundings. Then, Mottrol BG organized voluntary clean-up activities on soils of 3,000m3. Contaminated soils were purified and their TPH* levels were drastically reduced to 75% of the legal stan75% dard. Soil recovery activities are voluntarily conducted at other facilities affected by contamination. Mottrol BG is of the legal TPH standard committed to protecting local ecosystems. 1.TPH(Total Petroleum Hydrocarbon): Used to determine whether soil is contaminated by kerosene, diesel, jet oil, and bunker C oil. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 34 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability MASS Balance Input Energy Usage Unit:TJ Energy 2012 1,654 2013 1,616 Electricity 1,001 1,504 Energy Usage(TJ) 2014 Environmental Investment Costs  Unit:Million KRW 1,504 City Gas Investment Benefits from Environmental Investments 503 9,038 2014 8,429 2014 Water Usage Unit:Ton Water Supply Water 2012 537,584 2013 581,030 316,675 2014 556,315 Water Usage(Ton) Groundwater Total Usage of Reused and Recycled Water Unit:Ton 556,315 190,085 Reused Industrial Water 2012 193,606 49,555 2013 181,139 2014 2014 178,510 Usage of Raw Materials Unit:Ton Glass Fabric Meterials 19,930 2012 77,093 Copper Foil 2013 79,785 8,544 65,440 Material Use(Ton) 2014 Other Usage of Recycled Materials Unit:Ton 65,440 7,226 Cast Products Reused 18,572 2012 563 Epoxy Resin 2013 447 11,168 2014 125 2014 Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 35 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability output Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unit:tCO2e Carbon 2012 82,202 80,421 Direct Emissions (Scope1) 2013 Greenhouse Gas 74,558 Emissions(tCO2e) 2014 25,945 Benefits from Environmental Investments Unit:Million KRW 74,558 Indirect Emissions Benefit Environmental Investment Costs (Scope2) 8,429 2014 9,038 2014 48,624 Wastewater Generation Unit:Ton Chemical Oxygen Demand(COD) Unit:ppm Wastewater COD 2012 446,231 2012 22 2013 431,169 2013 24 2014 405,768 2014 17 Biochemical Oxygen Demand(BOD) Unit:ppm Doosan Corp makes sure that water pollutants generated from its operations are properly treated through continuous management and mainBOD 12 tenance of wastewater treatment systems. Other efforts include treat2012 ment system improvements so that pollutant releases are below 50% of 17 2013 the legal standards under the Discharge of Water Pollutants Act. 2014 11 Waste Generation Unit:Ton Waste 2012 14,704 Recycling 2013 14,647 10,861 2014 13,706 Waste Generation(Ton) Hazardous Waste Unit:Ton 13,706 Incineration 2,648 Waste 2012 9,555 Reclamation 2013 9,183 2014 196 2014 8,265 Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 36 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability 2.2 Reinforce Fair Operations Business & Social Context With the expansion of partnerships and the increasing importance of intercompany networking in global markets, there is a growing demand for shared growth with suppliers and customers. The South Korean government highlights shared growth as a top policy priority and continues to demand collaboration between large and small/medium companies under the Fair Trading Act and the Subcontracting Act. Shared growth is not only a matter of voluntary engagement but has become the cornerstone of business management. In an increasingly complex business environment, ethical awareness is particularly emphasized among companies and their members. Companies are also facing society’s growing demand for ethics in business through compliance programs(CP). Our Approach Future Action By working and growing with its suppliers, Doosan Corporation enhances Doosan Corp will continue its commitment to Sustainable Supply Chain. the competitiveness of its systems across production and supply processes 1 Expand a Sustainable Supply Chain management system and reinforces fair trade operations through a new monitoring system. 2 Operate CSR support programs for suppliers 1 Gain competitive advantage by strengthening a Supplier Relationship Man3 Enhance selection and evaluation processes by extending supplier agement system CSR assessments 2 Increase collaboration by enhancing communication channels for suppliers 3 Strengthen the CSR capabilities of suppliers Our Efforts Doosan Corp strives to develop a sustainable supply chain 20 Advance Compliance based on partnership support activities and a fair supplier selection process. 36 billion KRW Agreements in advance payments for 1 Create a sustainable supply chain management system public holidays for small and medium suppliers 2 Develop suppliers communication and support programs 3 Establish a fair and efficient suppliers selection and evaluation system 278 Key suppliers President Dongpyung Tech is a key supplier for Doosan Corp and chairs Mottrol Suppliers cooperative council. CoopRyu Man-Yeol erative council are attended by business group leaders, procurement executives, and representatives of Dongpyung Tech suppliers to discuss plans for collaboration through personal interaction, and support shared growth. Since Mottrol BG relies on its suppliers for 75 to 85% of the parts used in its products, the quality provided by its suppliers is closely related to the quality of products made by Doosan Corp. Doosan Corp should, therefore, serve as the go-between among suppliers to promote activities carried out by the cooperative council, strengthen communication and improve quality. In actuality, Doosan Corp organizes meetings where the cooperative council shares business situations to enhance communication with its suppliers. Through Doosan Corp’s efforts, the suppliers will be able to develop plans responsive to business conditions. Additionally, I hope that Doosan Corp understands the role and importance of its suppliers and reinforces partnership activities, including financial support. Hopefully, Doosan Corp will take a more aggressive approach to communicating with its suppliers. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 37 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability Establishment Strategy for Sustainable Supply Chain Management Supply chain CSR is not merely an effective manof a Sustainable agement approach to preparedness for risks that may arise from business operations. It is also an essential requirement for the shared growth of large, small and medium businesses, which is the country’s policy priSupply Chain ority. Doosan Corp created the Standard Supply Chain CSR Process to establish strategies and systems aimed Management at facilitating CSR activities in the supply chain. The process is a platform for integrated company-wide supply chain CSR activities that Doosan Corp can implement by taking into consideration the supply chain enviSystem ronment in which Doosan Corp’s various business areas are included. Tasks under Strategies: To implement supply chain CSR, Doosan Corp selected 15 tasks in the categories of “Strategy and Policy,” “Communication,” “Supply Chain Risk Management,” and “Program and System Operations,” on the basis of various global CSR standards such as GRI G4 and ISO 26000. These 15 tasks include 6 tasks in Strategy and Policy, 1 in Communication, 6 in Supply Chain Risk Management, and 2 in Program and System Operations. Doosan Corp created a mid-/long-term implementation plan based on priorities. Governance for Systematic Supply Chain Operations : Doosan Corp established the Supply Chain CSR Council in April 2014 to build governance for systematic supply chain CSR activities and enhance communication among its businesses. The council consists of seven business groups and units and one invested company and inspects activities conducted by Doosan Corp’s businesses at quarterly council meetings. In 2014, three council sessions(two staff-level and one executive-level meetings) were held, during which 12 detailed implementation guides and a long-term strategy roadmap were discussed as key agenda items. Supply Chain CSR Guide to Effective Implementation: To effectively establish and implement supply chain CSR, Doosan Corp distributes the Supply Chain CSR Guides and assists each business in executing the specified tasks. Through the Supply Chain CSR Guides, the organization was able CSR to form a common understanding of supply chain CSR implementation and laid the foundation for process improvement and development. The guide has been linked to the business plans of Doosan Corp's businesses and individuals and incorporated into performance measurements, providing more motivation for responsible officers to conduct their jobs. CSR Office(CC CSR) CSR Team(Administration Center) Supply Chain CSR Operating Supply Chain CSR Council System ElectroIndustrial Information BS Division of Mottrol Glonet FM Materials Vehicle & CommuniAdministraDST BG BG BU BG BG cations BU tion Center Supply Chain CSR Doosan Corp strives to build a sustainable supply chain on the basis of supply chain CSR connected with Doosan Activity Plan Corp’s CSR Vision, “Responsible and Sustainable Growth.” The 12 short-term tasks identified by Doosan Corp will be implemented across the organization in 2015. 2019~2020 2017~2018 ~2016 Implementing the supply chain CSR system connected Strengthening the system for establishing a sustainwith CSR objectives Applying and executing the policies/strategies able supply chain Supporting supply chain CSR activities linked to interset in 2014 Expanding supply chain CSR to overseas subsidiaries/ nal and external collaboration across the supply chain Policy and 〮 Disclosing supply chain CSR policies to stakeholders affiliates 1 Strategy 〮 Concluding and applying supply chain CSR guidelines agreement Creating supply chain risk self-assessment systems Internalizing detailed guides for supply chain CSR for suppliers Applying and promoting detailed task implementaDeveloping and applying a risk management model Economic, social, and environmental performance Supply based on business characteristics measurements and disclosures tion guides Chain Risk 〮 Implementing 12 detailed tasks 〮 Applying and implementing a risk improvement 2 Manage〮 Monitoring task schedules and supporting cycle system ment implementation Establishing a performance measurement model Promoting two-way communication channels on the in economic, social and environmental aspects business side 〮 Sharing ideas, suggestions for improvement, Providing two-way communication channels Promoting two-way communication channels performance, and technologies 〮 Operating business group websites and Commupurchasing systems 〮 Sharing supply chain CSR implementation results Suppliers’ self-assessments and sharing feedback on 3 nication 〮 Disclosing the CSR results of top-performing improvement 〮 Operating regular and special meetings suppliers Providing business consulting services for key suppliers Providing supply chain CSR training and consulting Providing training & consulting services on differentiatio 〮 Providing consulting services on technologies and services for suppliers 〮 Providing advanced/specialized training for key business strategies 〮 General training & consulting services on suppliers 〮 Leading CSR operations for respective suppliers Program anti-corruption, safety and environment 〮 Supporting suppliers’ independent CSR activities Implementing the partner certification program 4 OperaDeveloping long-term programs and an implementa(pilot) tions tion framework Developing a supply chain CSR certification program 〮 Developing advanced/specialized contents for suppliers by specific area Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 38 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability Strengthening Communication with Suppliers Creating Various Communication Channels to Resolve Suppliers Grievances Doosan Corp operates open and formal grievance channels to enhance communication with its suppliers. In 2014, Doosan conducted a VOS among 103 key suppliers and incorporated the results into the establishment and implementation of its supply chain CSR strategy. We also share the results with each business to support their Supplier Relationship Management. Furthermore, we will create and operate a formal two-way communication channel on its website. Regular Communication through Suppliers Association Doosan Corp operates the suppliers cooperative council for key suppliers and organizes communication enhancement activities including regular assembly and quarterly meetings. The suppliers cooperative council accepts suggestions for supplier support through business briefings and sharing of examples of improvement at suppliers and Doosan Corp incorporates feedback into its business operations. Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle BG held a general assembly of suppliers where it presented plans for shared growth and supplier support and awarded recognition plaques and rewards to top-performing suppliers. More specifically, Industrial Vehicle BG held the Quality Innovation Declaration ceremony to renew determination to enhance the quality competitiveness of parts made by suppliers. Doosan Corp Mottrol BG also held a general assembly and quarterly meetings and shared best practices to promote shared growth and sustainable Supplier Relationship Management. Mottrol BG also held a business briefings to increase partners’ understanding of one another and share their visions. Promoting Communication with Global Suppliers Doosan Corp carries out a range of activities to enhance communication with global suppliers as well as domestic ones. Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle BG, for instance, holds an annual business presentation for high-performing Chinese suppliers. In 2014, Industrial Vehicle BG gave a presentation about business results; an outlook and a long-term vision before 22 companies; handed out rewards to 3 high-performing partners in quality, price, and delivery categories; and shared best practices. Through these activities, Doosan Corp is motivating suppliers to continuously improve their operations to ensure quality stability. Operating Programs for Shared Growth Realizing Shared Growth through Financial Support Doosan Corp provides various forms of finanNetwork Loan cial support to suppliers for their financial and management stability. Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle BG increased the ratio of cash payments up to 3.6 billion KRW to ensure the financial health of suppliers facing financial difficulty. Industrial Vehicle BG also helped its partners maintain cash flow through advance payments of 35.4 billion KRW. Doosan Corp Mottrol created a Network Loan of 45 billion KRW to finance the operations of its suppliers and helped its suppliers ensure cash flow through advance payments of 5.7 billion KRW. 45billion KRW Moreover, Industrial Vehicle BG and Mottrol BG offered 2.6 billion KRW for development and improvement of production equipment 1 . Advance Payments for Public Holidays Supplier CSR Support Doosan Corp strives to raise awareness of CSR across its supply chain by offering suppliers training and consulting services on labor, human rights, anti-corruption, health and safety, and environment to its suppliers. Through these efforts, Doosan Corp is committed to building sustainable and mutually reinforcing partnerships. In 2014, Doosan Corp expanded the scope of training and consulting to 36 billion KRW more companies and during the first half of 2015, it will provide training and consulting services on the funda*For Electro-Materials BG, Industrial Vehicle BG, and Glonet BG mentals of supply chain CSR for suppliers. Development and Joint Tours for Benchmarking against Global Leaders To strengthen the capabilities of its suppliers, Improvement Grants Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle BG embarked on a joint tour with its suppliers to leading companies in Germany and Japan. 12 employees from five suppliers accompanied Industrial Vehicle BG to visit ZF and BOSCH REXROTH in Germany and learned about their advanced operations and quality control systems. The trip helped attract equipment and human resources investments for the suppliers to enhance their competitive26 billion KRW ness. Furthermore, Industrial Vehicle BG visited Toyota’s forklift plant in Japan with 5 employees from three suppliers and benchmarked their operations against Toyota’s production operations. Doosan Corp will continue its support for suppliers in strengthening their capabilities through joint tours abroad and sharing of advanced technologies. 1. Production equipment : Equipment or machinery used in production Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 39 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability Establishment of New DooBuy: A Systematic and Fair Supplier Selection Process Doosan Corp is connected to a wide Fair and Efficient range of suppliers through a complex value chain. To select and evaluate suppliers more systematically in such an environment, Doosan Corp operates New DooBuy, an updated version of the pre-existing purchasing Supplier Selection system. New DooBuy has been applied to Doosan Corp Electro-Materials BG, Information & Communications and Evaluation BU, Glonet BG and will be extended to other business groups and units. Processes Systematic Supplier Management through Sourcing Groups : Doosan Corp constructed Sourcing Groups(SG)1 to ensure systematic management of suppliers that provide similar products and businesses. Doosan Corp also created a supplier review system, which allows Doosan Corp to classify and manage suppliers by SG, from registration to regular evaluation processes, on the basis of SG characteristics. By classifying suppliers by SG and by providing underperforming suppliers with capability reinforcement programs, Doosan Corp laid the foundation for effective supplier support. Fair Supplier Selection through Auto Screening and Registration/Evaluation : Doosan Corp allows its suppliers to register with DooBuy and screens suppliers that fail to meet the requirements through the Auto Screening process. In addition, Doosan Corp conduct an evaluation of registered suppliers on the basis of purchasing criteria on an item-by-item basis and review their qualifications. Through these selection mechanisms, Doosan Corp ensures transparency and fairness in the supplier selection process. 1. Basic unit of supplier management by which suppliers that supply similar products are classified Creating a Supplier Evaluation System Incorporating CSR Doosan Corp incorporates CSR items into supplier selection and evaluations to motivate its suppliers to fulfill CSR. In 2014, Electro-Materials BG, Industrial Vehicle BG, Mottrol BG, and Information & Communications BU incorporated 20 CSR items such as anti-corruption, labor, human rights, environment, and health/safety into their evaluation checklists. Depending on whether partners fulfilled the items, bonus points are given during regular evaluations. Doosan Corp will also add CSR items to new supplier selection and evaluation checklists. Number of PriorOperating the Compliance Program(CP) Consultation regarding compliance Program Reinforcing Communication Activities to Establish a Culture of Fair Trade and Compliance Doosan Corp has operated the Compliance Program since 2004 to fulfill its social responsibilities, and establish 20 25% a culture where businesses are conducted ethically and legitimately, and rules are fairly observed. In 2014, increase Doosan Corp’s Compliance Program was focused on communication activities to increase employees’ under16 16 standing of subcontracting and unfair trading, which have recently gained a lot of attention. Through this, we reinforced the culture of fair trade and compliance. Doosan Corp established the Fair Trade Council consisting of Complianc officers from Complianc team and its businesses to share Compliance performance and work on areas for improvement. To increase employees’ understanding of fair trade and their voluntary participation in anti-violation activities, we promoted the the Prior Consultation regarding compliance Program process between each team of our businesses and Compli2012 2013 2014 ance Team to prevent violations of the Fair Trading Act that may arise during working in the Doosan Corp. Doosan Corp updated the Fair Trade section of its website and added annual Compliance results and fair trade FAQ so that compliance officers and external stakeholders can understand Doosan Corp’s Compliance Total training hours activities at a glance. 2,338hours Fair Trade and Compliance Training Doosan Corp provides annual training on fair trading for employees who engage in fair trade-related operations. In 2014, Doosan Corp increased participation and the application of training to actual work by offering intensive training on subcontracting and unfair trading, which learners found to be most necessary. Doosan Corp also increased the online training program so that employees Training hours could easily participate. Through continuous training, Doosan Corp will help employees apply their knowlper person edge about fair trading to their jobs and prevent any legal violations related to fair trading. 6.1hours Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 40 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability 2.3 Improve Product & Service Accountability Business & Social Context In global markets, competition has intensified and customers have also become more demanding. In response to such difficulties in the business environment, global companies are aggressively investing in R&D to develop new technologies and enhance their quality competitiveness. R&D comes with long-term payoffs and continuous R&D investments in electronics and ISB businesses that depend on advanced technologies particularly lay the cornerstone for sustainable growth. Our Approach Future Action Doosan Corporation’s businesses are conducting continuous quality Doosan Corporation will commit itself to strengthening quality competinnovation and R&D operations to develop superior technologies to those itiveness through continuous investment in R&D and product safety and of competing companies, and works towards improving product safety to stability. keep customers healthy and safe in the following ways 1 Implement product and production process reforms through data 1 Build infrastructure to gain quality competitiveness analytics 2 Conduct R&D to develop high-quality and unique products 2 Organize quality enhancement activities for suppliers 3 Boost product accountability to ensure customer convenience and safety 3 Increase customer satisfaction by providing more product and service information 4 Increase customer satisfaction with products and services Our Efforts Through continuous R&D, Doosan Corporation is driving quality innova400 people per year tion and safety improvement across various product lines and enhancing customer communication to increase customer satisfaction. 684 cases Number of service employees who of sharing quality participated in product 1 Strengthen quality control capabilities in the product development process such as on-site quality control and quality audits 2.6 % information (For Doosan Corp Mottrol ) safety training (For Doosan Corp Ratio of R&D 2 Develop products that take customer health and the environment Industrial Vehicle ) investment costs into consideration compared with sales 3 Ensure product safety across all processes, from new product development to service management Manager I believe that the strength of Doosan Corporation Electro-Materials lies in its quality control capabilities. At Byeon Seung-Seop Electro-Materials BG, Quality Team conducts its own quality analysis and controls quality problems using the Daedeok GDS data accumulated through long-term collaboration. If any quality problems occur, Electro-Materials BG collaborates with Daedeok GDS to effectively analyze the causes and come up with solutions. In addition, top management meetings are held annually to ensure open communication, and periodic technical staff meetings will also be organized. Electro-Materials BG also localizes expensive parts that were previously imported and supplies them at reasonable prices, which helps Daedeok GDS ensure the price competitiveness of its products. I hope that Doosan Corp Electro-Materials BG grows to become the industry’s leader by strengthening its ability to cope with the rapidly changing market, and continues to collaborate with Daedeok GDS to achieve shared growth. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 41 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability Maximizing Strengthen Quality Control Capabilities Doosan Corp develops quality control professionals and helps Customer Value employees strengthen their capabilities to ensure consistently high product quality and to continuously improve quality. through Quality Doosan Corp Mottrol BG provides training to develop quality professionals who specialize in different areas, Innovation including excavator hydraulic systems, bearings, casting materials, heat treatment, gears, and rubber materials. Mottrol BG also provides ISO 9001(Quality Management System) internal auditor training for internal quality auditors. Key professionals trained to become QMS1 professionals in their teams are driving continuous improvements in quality control operations in their respective areas. Mottrol BG’s efforts led to increased scores on the external QMS maturity assessment by 20% each year, from 2011 to 2014, and the score improvements demonstrated Mottrol BG’s level of quality control capability enhancement. Doosan Corp Glonet BG is strengthening management system operations capabilities including quality managment by providing system operating and internal auditor training for ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 officers of each team. Rate of Leaking Defects during In-line Quality Control Activities Doosan Corp is improving product reliability by strengthening the Commissioning quality inspection all production process. Industrial Vehicle BG conducts inspections of production processes and finished products. Through the inspections, Industrial Vehicle BG keeps track of product quality and incorporates amendments into products. In 2014, Industrial Vehicle BG’s faultless vehicles without leaks 98.6% accounted for 98.6%, which represents a 1.5%p increase from 97.1% in 2013. 97.1% 96.6% Mottrol BG collects quality-related data from all processes using MES2 and analyzes the process capability to Improved by prevent quality defects. 1.5%p Glonet BG strengthens monitoring of manufacturing sites, warehouses, and laboratories and regularly performs calibrations and corrections of manufacturing/supporting equipment and quality control test equipment in order to create a product quality control system that meets the GMP3 of pharmaceutical raw material. Fuel Cell BG maintains the process quality of products through a two-way inspection process for key parts that have been produced. During the first stage, the parts are inspected for performance and during the sec2012 2013 2014 ond stage, module performance is determined to ensure higher stability and reliability. Through continuous Data collection range : Industrial improvement of manufacturing processes, Fuel Cell BG has eliminated redundant processes, increased yield, Vehicle BG and reduced costs. Various Quality Information Sharing System Doosan Corp shares quality information through a variety of channels to increase satisfaction levels and inspects company-wide improvement strategies and customer service results. Through a range of meetings, such as team leader meetings, site managers, business parts and R&D center and Chief Operating Officer-led meetings, Doosan Corp regularly discloses current details of supplier quality, manufacturing quality, the customer quality, and development processes. Doosan Corp organizes meetings where causes of problems are analyzed and solutions and improvement plans are discussed. Doosan Corp Electro-Materials BG and Mottrol BG analyze and share the quality status that arise from the production line and performance test results by daily and on a monthly basis, and then shares the results. Furthermore, Doosan Corp's businesses analyze subdivided quality issues regarding process progress results, OTD(on time delivery), production line stops, and loss based on the overall production results that are automatically counted, and shares the results. 1. QMS(Quality Management System):Quality Management System 2. MES(Manufacturing Execution System):Manufacturing Execution System 3. GMP(Good Manufacturing Practice):Standard for manufacturing and management of good drugs to ensure the safety and effectiveness of drugs Mottrol BG implements process quality audits to improve preventive management and competitiveness of process qualConducting Process ity. Mottrol adopted the method of proactively managing factors that influence quality, by which the business group idenQuality Audits tifies and inspects all 4M+1E 1 factors from control plans, work standards, inspection criteria, previous quality problems, and feedback from previous audits, which affect process quality. Nonconformities identified during an audit are incorporated into improvement tasks and the progress of such tasks is checked until improvements are completed. In addition, through the MES, Mottrol is preparing to operate a notification system, which sends text message notifications to responsible officers if any problems arise from processes beyond control limits. The real-time process control system will contribute to computerized prevention and unified quality control. 1. 4M + 1E : 4M(Man, Machine, Material, Method), 1E(Environment) Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 42 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability Supporting Process Stability for Suppliers Doosan Corp provides support for upgrading quality management systems of suppliers, which not only helps strengthen partners’ capabilities but also improves quality stability through the uniformity of products received by Doosan Corp. Industrial Vehicle BG, for instance, carries out the Single PPM1 initiative in which the BG works with the Korean Chamber of Commerce & Industry to ensure the stability of suppliers’ quality management systems by appointing independent quality control advisors. In 2014, Doosan Corp conducted 15 sessions of Single PPM at each of 7 suppliers, and 5 suppliers among them will carry out related activities to establish their own management systems. Furthermore, Doosan Corp holds monthly quality meetings with key suppliers under supervision, to analyze root causes of quality problems arising from processes each month and discuss improvement plans. Through these activities, Doosan Corp is reducing the recurrences of defects across processes. Advance quality improvement activities implemented by the key suppliers have reduced process defects by 64%, compared with the previous year at 7 suppliers, and has contributed to higher customer satisfaction. R&D Activities Doosan Corp is strengthening R&D capabilities by developing unique technologies through external collaboration with a wide range of industrial, academic, and research organizations. Doosan Corp committed to providing customers with desired products through process and product innovation resulting from continuous R&D activities. Product Release for DDR4 Memory : Electro-Materials BG released a product for DDR4 memory applications to meet the rising demand for materials aimed at transmitting and processing big data on mobile devices and servers. By reducing electric loss and increasing memory capacity and allowed consumers were able to use thinner products. The product was also made eco-friendly, without containing halogen. Doosan Corp continues R&D activities to develop convergence products that combine multiple features and to expand its product line-up. Improving Abnormal Wear on Safety Valves through Joint R&D : Mottrol BG conducted joint R&D with the Korea Institute of Machinery & Materials’ Reliability Test Center to improve product quality. Mottrol BG encountered the problem that, when a relief valve, a key component of a swing motor produced by Mottrol BG, was used for a long time in equipment powered by highly contaminated working fluids, abnormal wear occurred on the valve, deteriorating the equipment’s performance. However, even after conducting an audit to identify the cause, Mottrol BG had difficulty providing proper test conditions. To recreate the same type of wear, Mottrol BG conducted joint R&D with KIMM for a year and three months, successfully reproduced the wear during a bench test process, and came up with a solution to the problem arising. Developing New Forklift Model :Industrial Vehicle BG develops diesel engine forklifts suitable for regulations for hazardous substances, such as carbon monoxide(CO), nitrogen oxides(NOx), and particulate matter(PM) from exhaust gases, and launches the products in domestic and international markets. During the second half of 2013, Industrial Vehicle BG began to export the 2.5-ton diesel engine forklift featuring the tier-4 engine. Using these qualified technical skills, Industrial Vehicle BG aims to develop 4-ton, 7-ton, 16-ton, 18-ton, and 25-ton Tier 4 diesel engine forklifts and launches them in 2015. In 2014, Industrial Vehicle BG also developed the stand-up electric forklift for the North American market and added it to the product lineup. Currently, it is developing a next-generation electric forklift and planning to release it in 2015. Functional Food Launch : Using the phosphatidylserine ingredient developed through R&D investment, Glonet BG launched a functional food product called “Vivid perception 1899” As a food material that helps neurotransmitter activation by protecting brain cells when eaten, the ingrediStand-Up Electric Forklift for North America Market(BR18SP-7) ent has been recognized by US Food and Drug Administration(FDA) for its effectiveness in preventing Alzheimer’s disease. The ingredient has already been widely recognised and used. The phosphatidylserine developed by Glonet BG, in particular, became the first material in Korea to obtain an “Individual authorization2” from the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety allowing its effectiveness to be indicated on the product. It was also registered as a New Resource Food in China and will reach global markets soon. 1. PPM(Parts Per Million) : Number of defects per million pieces 2. Individual authorization: a regulation of funcional food newly recognized by MFDS through safety and functional testing Vivid perception 1899 for new ingredients Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 43 Minimize Environmental Footprints through Green Management I Reinforce Fair Operations I Improve Product & Service Accountability Ensuring Activities to Ensure Product Safety Doosan Corp carries out a wide range of activities to ensure product safety across all processes, from product development to customer purchase. Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle Product Safety BG performed product inspections in advance through Before Service. Through the service, Industrial Vehiacross All cle BG prevented accidents that might have occurred during product use by inspecting about 600 vehicles for 2 months in 2014, and has helped customers use their products in the best possible condition. Furthermore, Processes in 2014, Industrial Vehicle BG provided 25 sessions of training to 400 service employees to improve the techniques of customer interface service employees. By providing the best technical services, Industrial Vehicle BG ensured product safety and satisfied customer needs. Doosan Corp Glonet BG performs inspections on hazardous substances used in products. By conducting inspections based on the legal requirements and the company’s quality requirements for received materials, Glonet BG selects materials with high levels of hygiene and safety. Glonet BG also prevents cross-contamination in products through visual inspection and swab test of manufacturing equipment, regular environmental monitoring in the clean room, and hygiene control of workers. Glonet BG inspects products and determines whether they contain hazardous materials like microorganisms, heavy metals, or residual solvents, thereby strengthening product safety management until the products are delivered to customers. Doosan Corp Fuel Cell BG received certification for product performance and safety after developing new products through testing by product certification bodies Korea Gas Safety Corporation(KGS) and the Korea Institute of Energy Research(KIER). Fuel Cell BG also makes sure that the safety and performance of products have been assured inspections carried out by KGS at the production stage. Fuel Cell BG leads such activities aimed at ensuring product safety and increasing customer satisfaction. Product Technology and Safety Disclosures Doosan Corp discloses technical and safety information on all products to customers in order to prevent accidents that may arise in connection with products. Electro-Materials BG discloses its business functions, from new product development to service management, as well as its safety inspection procedure to customers and provides technical data of all products and information about regulated substances under international standards. Such disclosures allow customers to access technical data annually updated for substances subject to environmental regulations used in all products, and check the safety of products in the latest version of a brochure containing technical information about new products. Furthermore, Electro-Materials BG attends annual domestic and international PCB exhibitions(e.g. KPCA, JPCA, and CPCA) and gives presentations about its proprietary and new technologies as part of its efforts to improve communication with customers. Fuel Cell BG provides advance one-on-one training and presentations to customers when installing products. Glonet BG prepares material safety data sheets(MSDS) containing product safety information, from the stage of new product development and makes them available to customers so that products can be used more safely. Doosan Corp increases customer satisfaction and improves product value by incorporating customer feedback into prodCustomer uct development. Doosan Corp organizes annual technical review meeting inviting customers and determines the quality Communication requirements of customers. Doosan Corp also conducts quality inspection to evaluate customer satisfaction, and improve during Product on inspection results through customer satisfaction surveys. Development Electro-Materials BG held about 40 sessions of technical review meeting in 2014, through which participating companies shared business results, future development trends, and new development projects. Industrial Vehicle BG incorporates VoCs into its quality and user convenience improvement activities, and provides high-quality products that meet customer needs. In 2014, Industrial Vehicle BG incorporated 73 VoCs into its quality improvements(79% of VoCs incorporated), which represents an increase from 59 VoCs incorporated into quality improvements in 2013(73% incorporated). Through a variety of channels, Doosan Corp receives customer feedback, identifies customer needs thoroughly, reflects them in its product quality requirements, and ensures development and production quality that satisfies customer needs. 59 incidents 80 incidents Reflected ratio 73% for quality improvement 2013 2014 79% Received Completion 73 incidents 92 incidents Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 44 Develop Strategic Community Involvement & Development Responsible Engagement Doosan Corporation is sharing warmth, fostering hope, and building a sustainable society that everyone dreams of. Strategic Community Involvement and Development 46 Doosan Corporation carries out educational, cultural, and sharing activities to fulfill its duties as an exemplary member of society and contribute to enhancing the future capabilities of local communities through the “Growth of People.” Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 45 Develop Strategic Community Involvement & Development Growth and Independence of people Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 46 Develop Strategic Community Involvement & Development 3.1 Strategic Community Involvement and Development Business & Social Context Recent Corporate Community Involvement(CCI) activities carried out by companies have provided support to donations and volunteering activities in local communities and have contributed to resolving social problems. More specifically, companies utilize their technologies and capabilities to make contributions to society in the best way they can. Our Approach Future Action Doosan Corporation develops and operates strategic Corporate ComDoosan Corporation will provide tangible support to changes in local munity Involvement(CCI) programs to acquire a sustainable competicommunities by developing strategic programs that help establish its tive advantage and to contribute to the growth of local communities, unique Corporate Community Involvement(CCI) identity reflecting Dooin addition to caring and sharing activities for socially disadvantaged san Corp’s business philosophy and characteristics and that can be congroups. Based on objective measurements of CCI performances, Doosan tinuously expanded. Corp tries to create programs that can provide tangible support to local 1 Establish Doosan Corp’s own CCI philosophy and strategic direction communities. Doosan Corp is also expanding stakeholder engagement from employees, government, local governments, and residents thereby 2 Operate strategic CCI programs from long-term perspectives increasing their understanding and sympathy of CCI. 3 Build infrastructure for active voluntary employee participation 1 Develop and operating programs that utilize Doosan Corp’s core capabilities 2 Build internal and external stakeholder engagement infrastructure and process 3 Create a corporate CCI performance management system Our Efforts Doosan Corporation carries out educational, cultural, and sharing activities to fulfill its duties as an exemplary member of society and contrib10,379 hours ute to enhancing the future capabilities of local communities through the Hours of employee participation in CCI 2,371 people “Growth of People.” Number of employees participating in CCI 1 Provide education to support the healthy growth of future generations 2 Support arts and cultural education and arts organizations 3 Community volunteering led by employees 81 billion KRW CCI expenditure Manager Since 2013, Seoul Scholarship Foundation has operated the Youth Growth Scholarship Project since 2013, with Choi Jun-Geun financial support from the Social Contribution Fund created voluntarily by Doosan Corporation’s employees. Seoul Scholarship Doosan Corp’s employees are actively involved in the selection of eligible recipients and volunteering activFoundation ities. Students receiving scholarships are also experiencing positive changes. I personally think that Doosan Corp’s Corporate Community Involvement(CCI) process is well established and, particularly, employee participation in CCI activities is highly commendable. Most of all, Doosan Corp’s future generation educational programs that reflect its philosophy, “People are the Future,” helped me trust Doosan more as a company. I believe that Doosan Corp will continue to operate its outstanding CCI programs that reflect its value system and will strengthen educational activities such as a creativity program for children. I hope that Doosan Corp will continue its commitment to corporate social responsibility activities on the basis of the UN Global Compact Principles. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 47 Develop Strategic Community Involvement & Development Corporate Corporate Community Involvement Strategy and Principles To achieve its vision, “2020 Global Social Responsibility Management Leader,” Doosan Corp defined its mission as “Improvement of Community ComCommunity petitiveness and Company Value through Strategic Corporate Community Involvement(CCI)” and carries out Involvement systematic CCI activities. Doosan Corp focuses on supporting activities aligned with the needs of communities, and strive to find tangible solutions that can contribute to the shared growth of the company and sociDirection and ety, by identifying social issues and looking for ways to make the best use of its resources. Doosan Corp also Performance operates CCI programs to spread shared beliefs about social responsibility and recruits genuine support by increasing voluntary employee participation. In 2014, Doosan Corp overhauled the performance management system of existing CCI activities , to continuously monitor its CCI activities and objectively analyze the effects of those activities thereby enhancing the rationale and value of CCI activities. 2020 Global Social Responsibility Management Leader: Vision Joining the Fortune Most Admired Companies Improvement of Community Competitiveness and Company Value Mission through Strategic Corporate Community Involvement Pillars Education Culture Sharing Rules Centering on Linking to Continuous Employee Communities Businesses Operations Participation Cost of Investment in CCI Unit: Million KRW 8,078 7,972 Enabler Community Involvement Implementation System / Employees’ Commitment 6,971 Corporate Community Involvement Performance Through future-generation educational support, cultural growth support, and community sharing activities, Doosan Corp provided a total of 8.1 billion KRW in 2014 and continues to increase funding for CCI each year. Employees’ donations and volunteering have also grown steadily. Throughout 2014, 2,371 employees participated 10,379 hours of volunteering and the activi2012 2013 2014 ties are being extended to include talent sharing and mentoring. “Doosan Time Traveler,” Doosan Corp’s leading CCI program since 2012, was selected as the Exemplary Contribution to Doosan Time Traveler People’s Happiness by the South Korean government. Doosan Time Traveler is an excellent CCI program where, a privately Selected as Exemplary owned enterprise collaborates with the government to contribute to people’s happiness. The program was recognized for Contribution to People’s its contribution to supporting the emotional development of teenagHappiness ers and to help them grow as healthy adults. During a discussion with the President about best practices, a participating student in Doosan Time Traveler remarked, “Through Doosan Time Traveler, I was able to develop a positive worldview and increase self-confidence,” adding, “I hope that more teenagers have the same opportunity as I did.” Doosan Corp will organize a wide variety of CCI activities in addition to Doosan Time Traveler and help our future generations to have a good life. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 48 Develop Strategic Community Involvement & Development Corporate Education Community The Youth Growth Scholarship Project: University Student Academic Support Program Since Involvement 2013, Doosan Corp has provided funding to Seoul Scholarship Foundation through the Matching Grants program by which the company and employees contribute an equivalent amount of money to a fund drive created by employees. Youth Growth Scholarship Project provides support to university students facing financial difficulties even after being offered admission. In 2014, Doosan Corp raised funds of 120 million KRW and handed out scholarships to 28 university students. Furthermore, employees serve as mentors to give scholarship recipients advice on campus and social life and encouragement. Doosan Corp also offered a variety of exchange opportunities such as opportunities to watch baseball games and recommendations on good books to help the students in their overall growth to become good adults. Donations to the Youth Growth Scholarship Project The Single Mom’s Independence Support Project : Single Mother Independent and Child Care Support Program The Single Mom’s Independence Support Project has been implemented jointly with the Babonanum Foundation since 2013. Along with the Youth Growth Scholarship Project, the project is financed using the funds created by employees and the company. This project provides employment training and per120 million KRW sonalized counselling services to teenagers and single mothers who are struggling for financial and social independence so that they do not give up on their academic and career ambitions and build better futures. Moreover, the project also provides special independence grants to single mothers who have performed well during employment training. In 2014, Doosan Corp gave donations of 110 million KRW to 9 single mother child centers and 77 single mothers participated in employment training and counselling services. Donations to the Single Mom’s Independence Support Project Dadokgeorim: Reading Education Program Doosan Corp Information & Communications BU launched “Dadokgeorim” a program aimed at treating internet addiction and developing the intellectual and social growth of children through reading. Since February 2014, 22 sessions of reading education were provided to elementary school students who attend the childcare facility, Eden Children Ville. Under the supervisor of a 110 million KRW reading expert, 66 employees participated in the program. By helping the students make their own books, the program changed their reading habits and boosted their self-esteem. Educational Environment Improvement Activities Doosan Corp is helping improve educational environments by providing educational equipment and materials so that socially disadvantaged children receive education in better environments and grow up healthy and strong. Doosan Corp Information & Communications BU established a sisterhood relationship with Seongnam Hyeeun School, a public special needs school to sponsor graduation ceremonies and the Day of People with Disability events and provide educational equipment. Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle BG provided textbooks to Boramae Childcare Center located near its Incheon plant and opened learning rooms to offer learning instructions. The Youth Growth Scholarship Project The Single Mom’s Independence Support Project Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 49 Develop Strategic Community Involvement & Development Culture Doosan Time Traveler :Teenager Emotional Development Program Doosan Time Traveler, Doosan Corp’s leading CCI program since 2012, has offered education on emotional development in which humanities studies are provided for middle and high school students using photographs. Students participating in Doosan Time Traveler attended a variety of activities such as lectures, photo trips, camps, and exhibitions, under the supervision of culture and arts and humanities professionals, including photographer Bae Byeong-Woo, photographer Kim Jung-Man, choreographer Ahn Eun Me, professor Yang Byeong-Yi, professor Shin Byeong-Ju, and professor Ahn Dae-Heo. The program helped the students to broaden their horizons and provided a boost to their self-esteem and sense of belonging. During the third session of Doosan Time Traveler in 2014, 94 students participated under the themes of Gaining Knowledge and Sharing Hearts, and held a year-end exhibition of 300 photographs and essays created over the past 8 months. Art Meets Business :The Mécénat Arts & Business Collaboration. Since 2014, as a participant in the The Mécénat Arts & Business Collaborationorganized by Korea Mecenat Association, Doosan Corp has provided support to the growth of the classical music industry and the development of qualified arts organizations. Seoul Tutti Ensemble that entered into an alliance with Doosan Corp is a competent orchestra with a 26-year history. Through the alliance with Doosan Corp, the orchestra has made a variety of cultural contributions, including the Hope Concert for patients at Chung-Ang University Hospital, and culture and arts education support for children at local child care centers. The alliance has also led to continuous activities aimed at enhancing the capabilities of organizations, including regular concerts at Seoul Arts Center. Culture and Arts Education Program for Local Child Care Centers Since 2013, Administration Center has supported culture and arts education to improve the creativity and social skills of children at local child care centers. Students engage in a wide range of culture and arts activities such as choir, dance, and shadow puppet play, and showcase their acquired skills through presentations at the end of the year. Employees also participate in culture and arts programs, motivate children to engage and improve their morale. Doosan Time Traveler Exhibition Hope Concert To evaluate the social performance of Doosan Time Traveler, Doosan Corp’s leading CCI program, we worked with a research Evaluation of team at Chung-Ang University to measure changes in participating students. Students who attended Doosan Time Traveler the Effectiveness of exhibited higher levels of self-efficacy, social skills, future prospects, and emotional empathy than when compared to other Doosan Time Traveler students under similar conditions, and there was a significant decline in the stress levels of participants as well. The attendees also showed increased interest in learning and improved relationships with their families and friends. Doosan Corp will conduct follow-up surveys, continuously analyze program performances and make improvements to the program. Future Prospects Results Stress Survey Results 4.0 0.3 Test Group Control Group 3.9 3.91 0.210 0.2 0.188 *Stress Survey: 3.8 3.77 0.174 Method of measuring 3.75 3.72 0.1 0.151 change in stress 3.7 levels by analyzing cortisol levels in 3.6 0.0 saliva Before After Before After Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 50 Develop Strategic Community Involvement & Development Sharing Making Stepping Stones : Renovation Program for Social Service Centers Using its employees’ techSending Tea with Love niques and expertise, Doosan Corp FM BU implements the Making Stepping Stones program aimed at improving the education and living conditions at social service centers. In 2014, FM BU provided renovation services at 4 local childcare centers and 1 single mother child facility in Jung-gu, including wallpapering, floorboard and window replacements. In addition, FM BU installed fire protection systems to improve safety preparations. Doosan Corp will continue its activities aligned with the needs of local communities by making the best 36,250,000 use of its capabilities. cups of tea to Sending Tea with Love For the past 24 years, Doosan Corp has sent 36,250,000 cups of tea to 348 military 348 military units units through the Tea with Love service to boost the morale of soldiers serving on the front line and to express appreciation for their services. Doosan Corp also provided instant coffee products and consolation money to (1991~2014) soldiers through visits to military units that formed alliances with Doosan Corp. We also supported cultural activities of soldiers by sending books, PDPs, and TV sets to help establish libraries. Community Volunteering Doosan Day of Community Service : In 2014, Doosan Corp began to engage employees in sharing activities at all global locations to show its commitment to social responsibility and encourage their voluntary participation. On October 24, 1,232 employees at 19 locations participated in community services such as planting trees, cleaning-up activities, renovations at local child care centers, and interacting with senior citizens. In 2015, Doosan Corp aim to organize 2 volunteering sessions in March and September, respectively. Sisterhood Relation with Local Child Care Center : Doosan Corp Mottrol BG established sisterhood relations with Eunsung Child Care Center, a facility for socially disadvantaged children from low-income families, grandparent-headed families, and single-parent families, and organized a range of activities including after-school education, art museum tours, botanical garden tours, play therapy counselling, sexual harassment prevention training, and year-end presentations. Blood Donation and Briquette Sharing : Each year, Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle BG collaborates with Chung-Ang University Blood Donation Center to carry out the Blood Donation of Love service, and practice modest but greatly helpful sharing. Information & Communications BU organizes the Briquette Sharing of Love as part of its year-end activities. In 2014, the BU sent 2,400 briquettes to 8 households in a tent village near Jeolgaeji in Changsin-dong, and a total of 10,000 briquettes were sent in a year. Sending Tea with Love Doosan Day of Community Service Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 51 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Management Report 52 Governance 56 Risk Management 58 Ethical Management 60 Generation and Distribution of Economic Value 61 Talent Management 64 Product Responsibility Management 66 EHS Management Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 52 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Governance Composition and Operation of the Board of Directors Composition of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is Doosan Corporation’s highest-level decision-making body that oversees deliberations and voting on fundamental management issues and makes important decisions on laws and the company’s by-laws, matters delegated by general shareholders’ meetings, and the company’s basic management policies and operations. The board consists of 9 members, 3 inside and 6 outside directors, and operates the Audit Committee, the Internal Transaction Committee, and the Outside Director Nominating Committee to ensure efficient decision-making. Independence of the Board of Directors Doosan Corp appoints 6 outside directors to enable the board to make balanced and objective decisions through checks and balances between the company’s top management and outside directors. Doosan Corp also imposes restrictions on the voting rights of directors who have personal interests in certain issues. The board also operates 3 committees including the Audit Committee, and each committee consists exclusively of outside directors to ensure independence and transparency in decision-making by separating itself from major shareholders and top management. In particular, for the Audit Committee to perform audits effectively, each committee may request reports on operations and examine the company’s financial statements at any time; may request the attendance of related employees and outside auditors whenever such attendance is necessary to perform an audit; and may seek advice from experts at the company’s expense if deemed necessary. Transparency and Expertise in the Selection of Directors Inside and outside directors are appointed at a general shareholders’ meeting pursuant to applicable laws and corporate by-laws. Inside directors are nominated by the board and outside directors are nominated by the Outside Director Candidate Nominating Advisory Panel comprising 5 outside personnel and by the Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee comprising 3 outside directors. Furthermore, Doosan Corp appoints experts from different fields to enhance the board’s expertise. Currently, the board retains 3 professors, 1 expert in administration and diplomacy, 1 legal expert and 1 tax expert, who respectively provide expertise in each specialty area. Inside directors Yongmaan Park Jeong won Park Jae kyung Lee Chairman and CEO of Doosan Group Chairman of Vice Chairman of Chairman of the Board Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation Outside directors Daewon Seo Hi-taek Shin Ickhyun Nam Chairman of Internal Chairman of Audit Committee Member of Internal Transaction Transaction Committee Chairman of Outside Director Committee Current Chairman of Candidate Nominating Committee Member of Outside Director International Cooperation Current Professor of Law at Seoul Candidate Nominating Committee Subcommittee of Presidentail Council National University Current Professor of Business on National Branding Administration at Seoul National University Junki Kim Gwang-su Song Chang-hwan Kim Member of Audit Committee Member of Outside Director Candidate Member of Audit Committee Current Professor & Dean at Graduate Nominating Committee Member of Internal Transaction School of Public Administration, Seoul Current Advisory at Kim & Chang Committee National University Former Director of Busan Regional Tax Office Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 53 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Operation of the Board of Directors Through the Board of Directors, Doosan Corp votes on important issues, incorporates into decision-making shareholders’ opinions and employees’ suggestions received through general shareholders’ meetings and IR sessions, and shares data before the board meets to make deliberations more effective. Pursuant to laws, Doosan Corp allows all directors to participate in decision-making using means of real-time voice communication, and directors so attending are deemed present at the present board meeting. The board may hold special meetings as often as may be necessary. The board also delegates some of its responsibilities to any of its committees for fast and efficient decision-making so that thorough reviews of the issues at hand can be conducted. The affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present is required to convene board meetings and approve resolutions, and if a quorum with weighted voting is required by laws or policies, such a quorum is observed. Directors cannot vote by proxy and directors with personal interests in certain issues cannot vote. In 2014, 12 board meetings were held and 28 agenda items were addressed. Moreover, the attendance of outside directors was 85%. Evaluation and Compensation Directors receive compensation subject to the compensation limit approved at a general shareholders’ meeting and inside directors receive performance-related pay calculated based on the organization’s performance in addition to the base salary in the amount calculated individually. Outside directors only receive salaries, while compensation for inside directors includes salary, incentive pay, and severance pay. Directors are compensated fairly and transparently in accordance with the executive management policy. Communication with Stakeholders The Board of Directors communicates with stakeholders through internal and external communication channels including disclosures and IR sessions. The board makes the highest-level decisions at a general shareholders’ meeting and immediately discloses important decisions made in relation to management to promptly provide shareholders and stakeholders with management-related information. Independence of Outside Directors Doosan Corp established criteria for judging the independence of outside directors based on the Commercial Code so that the Board of Directors can properly perform checks and balances. Criteria for Judging Independence 1 Director, executive officer, or employee engaging in the company’s business operations, or director, auditor, executive officer, or employee who has engaged in the company’s business operations in the past 2 years 2 Majority shareholder, spouse, or direct-line ancestor/descent 3 Director, auditor, executive officer, or employee of the company if the company is a majority shareholder 4 Spouse and direct-line ancestor/descent of a director, auditor, or executive officer 5 Director, auditor, executive officer, or employee of the company’s parent company or subsidiary 6 Director, auditor, executive officer, or employee of the company who has special interests such as a business relationship with the company 7 Director, auditor, executive officer, or employee of another company where the company’s director, executive officer, or employee serves as a director or executive officer Committees under the Board of Directors Audit Internal Transaction Outside Director Candidate Committe Committee Nominating Committee Hi-taek Shin, Chang-hwan Kim, Daewon Seo, Chang-hwan Kim, Hi-taek Shin, Gwang-su Song, Members Junki Kim Ickhyun Nam Ickhyun Nam Auditing the company’s accounting Deliberating on and approving Proposing outside director canand business operations and inspecinternal transactions under fair didates Role tion of the operations of the internal trade laws accounting control system Review of accounting results by Approval of transactions with Proposing outside director outside auditors, consultation on Doosan Tower candidates, etc. Activities non-audited services, and inspection of the operations of the internal accounting control system Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 54 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management CSR Committee Composition and Operation of the CSR Committee The CSR Committee, Doosan Corporation’s highest-level decision-making body regarding CSR, establishes Doosan Corp’s CSR pillars(strategic direction), examines CSR business operations, identifies improvement tasks and reviews implementation plans. Doosan Corp’s CSR Committee consists of representatives of our businesses and Administration Center and key executives Listed on the DJSI from 5 subcommittees. The 5 subcommittees , HR, EHS, Fair Trade Operations, Ethics, and Corporate CommuAsia-Pacific Index nity Involvement, are chaired by representative of Doosan Corp’s all business areas and overseen by key executives in related areas. Representatives of our businesses also serve as members of the CSR Committee to ensure that CSR activities are reinforced by our businesses. Members of the 5 subcommittees are authorized by the CSR Committee to carry out improvement tasks in their respective subcommittees and provide half-yearly reports on performance and future plans through the CSR Committee. Grade A on ESG Evaluation by Korea Corporate Governance CSR Implementation System Doosan Corp’s CSR Team oversees CSR operations. CSR Team conducts an Service annual CSR assessment on the company’s business operations to identify economic, environmental, and social risks and opportunities and reports the results to the Chairman of the CSR Committee and representatives of Doosan Corp's businesses. CSR Team then defines improvement tasks and creates implementation plans through subcommittee comprising the staff of Doosan Corp's businesses. Members of the 5 subcommittees monitor the progress of the subcommittees and report implementation plans to the CSR Committee. In addition, Doosan Corp publishes an annual CSR report to communicate yearly results and plans briefed at CSR Com2 0 13 mittee meetings to internal and external stakeholders and makes sure the report is reviewed and approved by the CSR Committee before publishing it. Communicating CSR to Employees While the creation of the CSR Implementation System and the CSR Committee in 2013 helped raise related staff’s CSR awareness, ordinary employees at Doosan Corp were still unfamiliar with CSR. CSR Team therefore held a presentation about CSR to spread awareness and understanding of CSR to employees. Training consisted of content for office and technical employees aligned with the relevant business characteristics nd was held in 42 sessions at Doosan’s business locations across the country. The CSR presentation greatly assisted participating employees in increasing their awareness and understanding of CSR. Furthermore, as part of its ongoing promotional efforts, Doosan Corp distributed UNGC posters and CSR reports to all business locations so that employees could familiarize themselves with CSR activities. External Evaluations Since the creation of the CSR operations system in 2013, Doosan Corp has continuously upgraded CSR activities by conducting CSR level assessments and identifying improvement tasks. As a result of its efforts, Doosan Corp became the country’s first company to be listed on the DJSI Asia Pacific Class in the Industrial Conglomerates category in 2014. Particularly, the company scored high on environmental policy and management, health and safety, labor practices and human rights. Moreover, Doosan Corp earned Grade A on Korea Corporate Governance Service’s ESG evaluation that assesses the country’s listed companies and selects socially responsible and sustainable companies. CSR Implementation System Chairman of CSR Committee CSR Committee Fair Trade Corporate CommuEthical HR Environment Operations nity Involvement Management Environmental Corporate Human Resources Management/ Fair Competition Community Anti-Corruption CSR SubHealth & Safety Involvement committee Environmental Supply Chain Labor Technology Management Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 55 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Stakeholder Engagement Doosan Corporation classifies stakeholders into groups that directly and indirectly affect and are affected by the company’s business operations. Doosan Corp’s stakeholder groups include shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, local communities, and government. We operate communication channels to incorporate various stakeholders’ feedback into our business operations. Doosan Corp is developing a system for the integrated management of stakeholder engagement which has been individually carried out by our businesses. Doosan Corp will increase the effectiveness of its CSR management through open communication with its stakeholders and disclose stakeholder engagement performance in a CSR report each year. Communication Key Expectations and Communication Key Expectations and Channels Demands Channels Demands General shareholders’ Participation in decisionEmployee surveys, Increasing job satisfaction meeting, investor relations making through general Intranet, newsletter, Laborand benefits, promoting (IR), disclosures, website shareholders’ meeting, Management Council internal communications, healthy corporate building mutuallygovernance reinforcing laborShareholders Employee management relations & Investors VOC, Call Center, Customer Handling customer Community involvement Regularly reflecting satisfaction survey, complaints, reinforcing activities, alliances and community feedback, Technical review meeting customer satisfaction partnerships, community supporting growth of activities meetings communities near plants Improving product quality Local and accountability Customer Community Suppliers cooperative Supporting the Participating in government Complying with laws council, Technical review enhancement of suppliers’ projects, partnerships with and regulations, private meeting, Hot line competitiveness and government agencies and and public collaborative competencies public organizations partnerships Expanding suppliers communication and Suppliers Government information sharing Stakeholder Survey Results Doosan Corp conducted an online surReported Feedback Research Results Doosan Corp conducted vey1 to identify stakeholders’ interests and significance by topic. The surreported feedback research to receive stakeholders’ feedback on the vey consisted of questions about stakeholders’ interests and significance first CSR report and incorporate the feedback into the preparation of the in the 6 areas of CSR general, employees, suppliers, product accountabilnext CSR report. 45% of the respondents said they had read the previous ity, corporate community involvement, and environment, and the comreport and all the respondents showed generally high satisfaction with the ments section. Internal and external stakeholders responded that prod2013 CSR report. It was found that to further increase satisfaction levels, uct accountability should be considered as a top priority and activities improvements should be made to a report’s structure, design elements, related to employees and the environment should be strengthened as and accessibility. Doosan Corp will incorporate these considerations into well. More specifically, “Ensuring product safety,” “Maximizing customer the publication of its future CSR reports. value through quality innovation,” “Fairness in supplier selection,” “Environmental pollution management,” and “Employee communication” Satisfaction with the report2 emerged as important issues, and the stakeholder survey results were incorporated into the materiality test. Very satisfactory 51% Satisfactory Reported Interest 25% (out of 5 points) Neutral 4.02 23% 4.08 4.01 Unsatisfactory 1% 4.00 4.15 3.84 Corporate Product accountability community involvement Employee Supplier 1. Survey period: January 7 to 13, 2015; survey method: Online survey Environment CSR general 2. There were no unsatisfactory responses Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 56 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Risk Management Risk Management Approach To effectively respond to a variety of financial and non-financial risks that may arise as a result of business operations, Doosan Corp manages core potential risks. In addition to financial risks like market and credit risks, the company focuses on managing environmental and safety risks occurring in processes, and fair trade and internal control risks arising from internal and external transactions. Culture of Risk Management Doosan Corp strives to create a culture of risk management across the organization to prevent and minimize risks in all of its business areas through voluntary employee engagement. Doosan Corp has created a system for managing risks that arise from financial and operational processes, conducted regular inspections through internal controls, tried to make the Code of Conduct more specific, and shared examples of recurrence prevention through ethical management training. The Doosan Way, Doosan’s management philosophy, places emphasis on “Integrity and Transparency,” based on which the company’s performance evaluation process operates. Furthermore, during an annual Doosan Way Day event, the company rewards best practices in environmental changes and contributions to Doosan based on “Integrity and Transparency,” among several components of the management philosophy. Through the rewards, Doosan Corp is extending a culture of integrity and business ethics and managing potential risks. Major Risks and Management System Doosan Corp focuses on managing financial risks and other various social and environmental risks. In particular, environmental, safety and health, and fair trade risks characteristic of the industry are classified as “emerging risks” that may potentially affect the company’s business operations, and the company strategically responds to the risks through systematic analysis. Financial Risk Management In managing financial risks, Doosan Corp focuses on improving its capital structure and increasing efficiency in financial management to ensure steady and continuous performance despite a variety of financial risks, such as market, credit, and liquidity risks. Doosan Corp’s Treasury Team oversees financial risk management and collaborates closely with other related teams on activities like establishing a financial risk management policy, identifying, evaluating, and hedging financial risks. In addition, through regular monitoring, the team commits itself to minimizing the impact of financial risks. Environmental Risk Management Doosan Corp develops EHS technologies and conducts an environmental impact assessment to reduce the environmental impacts of its business processes and the business risks caused by such environmental impacts. Doosan Corp also continuously monitor compliance with applicable regulations and policies to respond to policy and economic risks arising from domestic and international environmental regulations and incorporate the results into its business. In 2014, Doosan Corp developed a chemical inventory at each plant to prevent chemical accidents and lay groundwork for systematic management aimed at providing responses tailored to individual chemicals. Fair Trade Risk Management Doosan Corp manages fair trade risks to ensure fair and transparent business operations. Through self monitoring and subcontracting monitoring, Doosan Corp heads off any possible violations of applicable laws. In 2014, Doosan Corp strengthened internal transaction monitoring and began to monitor the compliance of inter-affiliate transactions with law. Doosan Corp also continuously monitor whether inter-affiliate transactions are carried out through a fair process and whether they constitute violations of applicable laws. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Market Credit Liquidity Risk Risk Risk Foreign Exchange Risk Interest Rate Risk Price Risk Foreign Exchange Risk Borrowing Level/ Regular Equity Customer Credit Cash Flow Planning Management Policy Borrowing Structure Measurements Management Secure the Optimal Use of Derivatives Monitoring of Separate Management Credit Enhancement Liquidity Level Interest Rate Trends of Major Investments of Financial Assets Strengthening Approval of Investments Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 57 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Safety and Health Risk Management In the wake of many major accidents and disasters affecting society as a whole, Doosan Corp is striving to manage safety and health risks occurring to its employees and outsiders like visitors. Doosan Corp offers itsemployees and on-site suppliers equal access to training and health care support and provide inspection and facility improvement services so that employees can work in a safe and clean environment. Doosan Corp prevents accidents and spreads its EHS culture to its contract construction suppliers by applying preliminary risk assessments and safety management costs and providing safety training and inspections. Doosan Corp created its Safety and Health Management System to manage related risks and regularly performs advance detection of risks at plants. Internal Control Assessment System In response to growing demand for the reinforcement of internal accounting and internal controls in and outside the organization, Doosan Corp created its own internal control system aimed at enhancing transparency in information and reliability. An internal control system is used to define business processes and assess the implementation of such processes according to established procedure to ensure healthy and stable business performance and operations. Doosan Corp defines controls by including not only internal controls for the legally required internal accounting control system, but also operational efficiency and compliance for risk management. Using its internal control system called DICAS(Doosan Internal Control Assessment System), Doosan Corp assesses all of its business areas, including finance, sales, purchasing, and production. Each team at Doosan Corp's Businesses conducts self-assessments on a quarterly and halfyearly basis, followed by Internal Control Team’s inspections. Then the assessment results are reported to the CFO and CEO, then to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, pursuant to the Act on Internal Accounting Control Systems and External Auditing. Internal Control Assessment Process and Executive Authorization Structure Test Request Test Review Request Test Reporting to Test Retest (Self-Assessand Approval by Planning & Review ment) CFO/CEO Rejection (Re-test Request) Review by Review by Audit Disclosure External Committee and Auditor Board of Directors Doosan Corp created the TFT on the establishment of a BCM1 Risk Management for crisis response system in February 2014 and made a criPreserving core Business Continuity in sis response manual available at each plant to ensure the competencies and assets in Crisis Situations safety of employees and their families in such crisis situasevere crisis situations tions as major disasters and preserve the core competencies of its businesses and its assets. The manual centers on Emergency Management System Response by Area 20 essential infrastructure units in 4 areas(Governance, People, Asset, and Operation). A crisis response action plan for Identifying a crisis People each plant reflects the characteristics of each business area stage and operating (employee safety support) appointed emergency HQ Finance and the response system was established. In October 2014, in (ensuring liquidity) order to test the ability to respond to actual situations, DooGovernance san Corp provided comprehensive crisis response training in (shareholders’ rights protection) various simulated crisis situations caused by earthquakes at Asset plants of Electro-Materials, Industrial Vehicle, and Mottrol, (core asset protection) Operation under the supervision of Emergency Management Team com(planting seeds of recovery) prising Doosan Corp’s CEO and top management. In 2015, Doosan Corp will provide infrastructure improvements and periodic company-wide training to internalize BCM. Preparation and Infrastructure Investment 1. BCM: Business Continuity Management Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 58 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Ethical Principles of Ethical Management As part of its sustainable growth strategy, Doosan Corporation created Management the Code of Conduct and operates it as a set of standard operating procedures for employees to enhance organizational competitiveness and fulfill its social responsibility on the basis of inhwa, customer-oriented business philosophy, transparent management and innovation. Doosan Corp applies the Code of Conduct to all of its employees and recommends that third parties including partners doing business with Doosan also comply with the code. Additionally, Doosan Corp established detailed procedures of the Code of Conduct, which provide specific guidelines for appropriate behavior in the course of doing business, so that employees can practice the Code of Conduct in everyday life and at work. Core Values of the Doosan Credo Full text of the Code of Conduct Establishing procedures and Focus on Integrity and Community philosophy for ethiInhwa Fair Competition Customers, InnoTransparency Development cal conduct aligned vation, Growth with the core values of the Doosan Credo Supplymentary Policies of the Code of Conduct Content • Operating procedure for creating • Operating procedure for avoiding conflict Aspect a healthy organizational culture of interests between the company and • Operating procedure for performing employees Establishing specific open and transparent businesses • Operating procedure for fair competition guidelines for • Anti-corruption Operating procedure • Operating procedure for appropriate appropriate conduct • Operating procedure for asset prointernet use that can be used in tection the course of doing business Operations • Whistleblowing Policy Aspect Ethical Management Activities Ethical Management Training Hours Unit: Hour Ethicsal Management Training Programs for Employees Doosan Corp provided ethics training to raise employee awareness of business ethics. In 2015, the scope of ethics training will be extended to suppliers and 2,392 overseas subsidiaries and the effectiveness of training will be enhanced by diversifying programs, including 2,117 cyber training. Whistleblowing Policy and Cyber Accusation Center Doosan Corp’s Whistleblowing Policy is intended to 1,060 solidify a transparent and fair ethical management system and the company protects persons filing complaints by keeping them strictly confidential. Important issues that have been investigated are reported to the CEO and the Audit Committee. Doosan Corp also operates the Cyber Accusation Center on the company’s website to receive reports from outsiders on employee violations of the Code of Conduct or laws and unfair practices. Anyone can submit a report on a real-time or anonymous basis through a variety of channels including phone, 2012 2013 2014 e-mail, mail, fax, and visit. In 2014, Doosan Corp received 17 complaints through the aforementioned reporting mechanisms, conducted an internal investigation, and issued a disciplinary action for 1 incident. In 2015, Doosan Corp will extend the whistleblowing policy to its overseas subsidiaries so that integrity and transparency can be ensured internationally. Anti-Sexual Harassment Training Hours Unit: Hour Help Desk Operations Doosan Corp operates Help Desk on the official website, a mechanism through which questions are answered and information is provided about the company’s ethical management policy, details 2,392 2,498 of the Code of Conduct, and filing reports and complaints. Through Help Desk, Doosan Corp was able to help its employees and external stakeholders better understand Doosan Corp’s ethical management principles and 1,758 business conduct policy. White Paper Policy Under the White Paper Policy, white papers are prepared and shared about important issues arising from corporate processes such as internal auditing in order to prevent the issues from recurring and improve related business practices. In 2014, a total of five registered white papers helped employees understand the causes of the issues and realize that the same problems should not happen again. In 2015, Doosan Corp will increase white paper registrations regarding internal auditing and important issues so that the purpose of registering and sharing white papers can be widely understood. 2012 2013 2014 Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 59 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Compliance Program CP Training Hours Unit:Hour Compliance Program Organization Doosan Corp created a Compliance Program(CP) organization to expand participation in CP across the organization and ensure systematic Compliance Program operations. 4,475 We also organized CP Managing Team that oversees setting direction for Compliance Program operations and supervising the company-wide CP system and appointed a Compliance Manager. Additionally, we appointed a 3,345 Compliance Officer and created a dedicated Compliance Operating Team from each business group and unit so that Compliance Program activities aligned with the needs of each business group and unit can be carried out. 2,338 CP Organization Compliance Compliance Compliance 2012 2013 2014 CEO Operating Manager Officer Team Number of Employees Attending CP Training Unit:Hour Compliance Managing Team Company-wide 316 Business Groups(Units) 208 218 Distributing a Compliance Program Guidebook In September 2004, Doosan Corp produced and distributed the Compliance Program Guidebook to establish a culture of compliance. Since then, we have published and distributed new versions of the Compliance Program Guidebook every time changes have been made to applicable laws or business operations so that employees can easily consult the Guidebook during their jobs. Furthermore, we also created the Compliance Pledge directed at employees on teams with a high likelihood of 2012 2013 2014 committing legal offenses. Chief Executive Officer’s declaration of commitment to compliance Appointment of a Compliance Manager by a resolution of the Board of Directors Creation and distribution of the Compliance Program Guidebook 7 Major elements of Operation of training programs for employee the Compliance Program1 Establishment of an internal monitoring system Establishment of sanctions system for violator Managing the fair trade-related document 1. C ompliance Program : A program voluntarily adopted and operated by a company to enforce compliance with fair trade laws, and designed to provide behavioral standards for compliance, prevent legal offenses, and identify and correct violations early on. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 60 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Generation and Generation of Economic Value Distribution of Economic Value Doosan Corp has continued to grow by making profits. In 2014, the company reported 3.5 trillion KRW in total assets, a 7% increase from the previous year, and 180 billion KRW in net profit representing a 25% increase. Domestic sales included 33% sales from Electro-Materials BG, 33% from Industrial Vehicle BG, 18% from Mottrol BG, 10% from Information & Communications BU, and 7% from the rest. Doosan Corp will gain a sustainable competitive advantage by strengthening its fundamental competitiveness across all business areas from products, to technologies and to quality. We will also create sustainable economic value by gaining new growth engines through M&A and upgrading ICT-based business infrastructure. Summary of Economic Value Created1 Unit:Million KRW Item 2012 2013 2014 Total assets 3,190,375 3,319,134 3,509,598 Balance Sheet Total liabilities 1,165,531 1,323,744 1,399,060 Operating income 1,487,631 1,652,025 1,995,372 Operating expenses 1,361,343 1,456,584 1,738,925 Operating profit 126,288 195,441 256,448 Income Statement Income before 97,089 158,415 206,080 corporation taxes Corporation tax 23,973 19,173 19,680 expense Net income 85,407 149,688 186,399 1. The past data were re-prepared based on the creation of and amendments to the accounting standards. For details, please see business reports. Distribution of Benefits Doosan Corp makes sure that the value created through its business operations is fairly distributed to internal and external stakeholders. In 2014, the value returned to investors, shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, governments, and communities increased by 6%, compared with the previous year. 41 73 Investors Shareholders Interest expenses Dividends 1,825 1,188 Suppliers Customers Sales1 3,442 Unit: Billion KRW Purchasing cost 282 25 Government Employees Public imposts and Salary, corporate tax expense severance pay, and benefits2 8 Local Community Donations and corporate 1. Excluding dividend income, based on separate financial statements community involvement expenses 2. Based on business reports Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 61 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Talent Talent Recruitment and Cultivation Management Principles of Recruiting Doosan Corp’s recruiting process utilizes a variety of channels, including annual recruiting, special hiring of experienced employees, internships, and university-industry scholarships. The company operates a fair and competency-based recruitment process, without asking applicants to submit information about their families and academic performance. All of the company’s HR programs including recruitment Employee prohibit discrimination on the basis of nationality, gender, religion, race, age, and educational attainment and Information Unit:Person are fairly and reasonably operated. 4,029 3,929 Employee Information As of late December 2014, Doosan Corp has a total of 3,929 employees. 86% of them are men with 3,396 and 14% women with 533. Full-time employees account for 91% of the total workforce, and there are also 51 employees with disabilities and 45 veterans. 3,353 Talent Development System Doosan Corp provides equal educational opportunities to all of its employees. The company established a learning road map(LRM) based on the functional competency model encompassing all job functions and develops and operates in-house programs. The LRM includes all of the company’s training and learning solutions, such as OJT(On-the-Job Training), in-house/external group training, and online classes, which are classified by the level of competency. In 2015, Doosan Corp will launch in-house group courses for all 2012 2013 2014 job functions based on the completed LRM and appoint in-house instructors. Doosan Corporation Education Organization DLI Supervised CC Supervised To Be Developed Classification Executive Team Leader Team Manager Team Member Doosan Way Online Programs New Assistant New Recruit Orientation Program New Executive Course New Team Leader Course New Manager Course Manager Course Course External Recruit Course Doosan Orientation Program – Experienced Recruit Course Insight Executive Insight Team Leader Executive Coaching Group Learning Anchor Program STEPS Executive STEPS STEPS Junior STEPS Online Programs Building Things Seen When Paid Attention D.Talent Master Coach Leadership College A –Team Building Inhwa How to cheer up Active Communication Active Communication Openness Reporting A to Z Buildup Break Through Program Innovation Smart Goal Setting Work Smarter Work Smarter Execution Project Management Priority Focus Strategic Decision Making Business Simulation Winning Doogather – Team Winning Team Program Winning Doogather -Jr. Followership CFO Academy HR Academy R&D/E Academy Expert Program EHS Academy Professional College Content Development Workshop Functional Specialty Education1 Faculty Basics Faculty Program Faculty Advanced Doosan Expatriate Global Program Expatriate Pool Program Core Talent Program Junior MBA Ethical Management Training Others R&D Communication Technical General Technical Deputy Technical Assistant Technical Classification Technical Manager Manager General Manager Manager Employee Production Leadership Training I Technical Technical General Production Leadership Training II New Recruit Course Grievance Counseling 1.CC and BG cooperation Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 62 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Employee Competency and Performance Evaluation Competency and Performance Evaluation Doosan Corp evaluates an individual employee’s competency objectively based on the Doosan Way and the job the employee does through the Doosan Competency Model(DCM) and Development Plan(DP). Doosan Corp’s competency evaluation focuses on each employee’s individual characteristics and competency development, instead of merely ranking employees. Then a development plan is created and examined based on the employee’s individual strengths and developmental needs identified during the evaluation. To carry out fair and objective evaluations, a start-up meeting is held between the evaluation officer and the evaluated employee and a calibration meeting between the employee and an assistant evaluation officer to exchange feedback. The meeting results are then incorporated into the evaluation results. Performance evaluations are conducted using the Management by Objectives(MBO) method. To ensure fairness in evaluations, an objective sharing meeting is held between the evaluation officer and the evaluated person before setting objectives and the evaluated person and the evaluation officer monitor the progress against the annual objectives together. Compensation and Promotion Once competency and performance evaluations have been completed, feedback is provided on the evaluation results to enhance the acceptability of evaluations. Based on the competency and performance evaluation results, compensation and promotions are determined. When linking compensation to evaluations, Doosan Corp incorporates into evaluations both the process of competency improvement and the current level of competency, so that employee competencies can be improved based on the Doosan Way. Doosan Corp also operates a dialogue-based process that takes a variety of factors into consideration, instead of merely scoring and ranking employees. Competency Evaluation DCM &DP Start-up Meeting & Calibration Coaching Meeting / DP Session Feedback Meeting Performance Objectives by Team Leader Team Member MBO Executive Executive MBO Team Objectives Evaluation Department MBO MBO Organizational Culture Employee Benefits Programs Doosan Corp operates a wide range of benefits programs to help employees maintain work-life balance and increase motivation and efficiency at work. We provide various programs for leisure benefits, maternity and parental benefits, residential stability, medical and health benefits, training and professional development across the organization. There are also programs for employee therapy, family summer resorts, commuting flexibility, culture and performances, and lunch with new recruits’ parents, which are aligned with the characteristics of Doosan Corp’s businesses. Summer vacations(paid vacations), year-end vacations, vacations to refresh, Leisure Benefits family event vacations, resorts benefits, club membership benefits, backpacking trips abroad, anniversary gifts, birthday parties Maternity and Child care centers, lounges for female employees, scholarships, birth gifts Parental Benefits Housing allowances and rent for non-homeowners and singles, housing Residential Stability expenses for moving, dormitory benefits, and family event benefits(funerals, Benefits congratulatory events, condolences) Medical and Medical expenses, health check-up benefits, group accident insurance Healthcare coverage, flu shots, fitness center operations and benefits Training and ProfesDoosan Academy and cyber training programs, in-house language classes, sional Development external language classes and qualification examinations(twice a year) Providing year-round medical, security, and online support services for International SOS employees going on business trips abroad Long-service rewards, gifts(New Year, Chuseok, Doosan Corp’s anniversary, Other Labor Day), uniforms, textbooks for children, commuting expenses and commuter bus service Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 63 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Family-Friendly Programs Doosan Corp invites employees’ families to annual concerts to instill a sense of pride among them and expand their cultural experiences. On Children’s Day, the company organizes various events where families are invited to visit the company. Doosan Corp Electro-Materials BG, Industrial Vehicle BG, Mottrol BG and Glonet BG designate a certain day as “Family Day,” allowing employees to leave early, spend some time with their families and achieve work-family life balance. Retirement Pension Plan Doosan Corp operates a pension plan that contributes to employees’ post-retirement financial security. To further ensure post-retirement financial security, Doosan Corp also operates a longterm savings plan along with the pension plan as a fail-safe mechanism, providing subsidies in addition to the employee’s monthly wage. Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle, for instance, operates a transition support program to help soon-to-be retired employees plan their post-retirement lives. 10 sessions of one-on-one counseling are being offered regarding start-ups, re-employment, and investments to help eligible employees plan their lives. Labor-Management Communication System Doosan Corp operates the Labor-Management Council on the basis of trust and mutual respect. Doosan Corp guarantees freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining and ensures transparency in its business operations by regularly disclosing important issues and business information, including legal agreements between labor and management. More importantly, Doosan Corp promotes exchange of ideas between labor and management through different types of communication channels. To build consensus between labor and management about business issues, each business group holds monthly or quarterly business briefing session, quarterly Labor-Management Council meetings, special Labor-Management Council meetings, Labor-Management on-site council meetings, and frequent meetings between BG leaders and technical employees. A variety of labor-management relations events, such as sports games and new recruit mentoring sessions, also contribute to building solidarity between labor and management, which lays the cornerstone for a labor-management culture of shared growth. Doosan Corp Electro-Materials BG and Mottrol BG organize community volunteering involving both technical and support office employees as part of their labor-management cooperative efforts to resolve social problems. Although there was still conflict between labor and management at certain business groups despite the efforts, Doosan Corp will continue to build consensus between labor and management about business issues through ongoing dialogue so that such conflict will not occur again. Key Labor-Management Communication Channels LaborManagement LaborCouncil Business Business Management Information Briefing Council LaborSharing session Channelsv Management Channel On-Site Council Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 64 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Product Product Accountability Management Responsibility Quality Management Principles Doosan Corp strives to deliver quality innovation and maximize customer Management satisfaction using its superior technology. Doosan Corp’s businesses will solidify quality competitiveness by adopting quality management policies and establishing and implementing specific quality strategies. Quality Management Principles by Doosan Corp's Businesses Electro-Materials BG Industrial Vehicle BG Mottrol BG Electro-Materials BG’s basic policy Industrial Vehicle BG established a Under the quality policy of improving consists in improving customer satisquality management system elecustomer satisfaction with the best faction based on quality. Electro-Mavating quality to world-class levproducts and services, Mottrol BG terials BG is meeting international els and strictly abides by its quality considers both safety and environcustomers’ high quality demands by management policy encompassing mental preservation when providing acquiring world-class quality certifimanagement innovation, parts qualproducts and services to stakeholdcates. ity instructions, quality assurance ers including customers. Mottrol BG infrastructure and product reliability created and operates a quality manimprovements, and the implementaagement system to fulfill the quality tion of quality management system policy and commits itself to continuauditing. ous quality improvements. Information&Communications BU Glonet BG Fuel Cell BG To improve service quality, I&C BU Glonet BG aims to meet the expectaUnder the principles of innovation conducts an annual IT service surtions of customers and society by proand adhering to basics, Fuel Cell BG vey and incorporates survey results viding safe, legitimate, reliable and regards customer satisfaction as a into quality improvements. I&C BU high-quality products and conducting top priority and improves product also continuously carries out quality research to develop distinctive comreliability through the process of activities aimed at increasing cuspetencies. By retaining distinctive planning, execution, evaluation, and tomer value, including fault managecompetencies based on technologies corrections based on feedback. ment, prevention and maintenance in demand now and in the future, Glofor project management and operatnet BG practices quality management ing systems in accordance with stanto become a value creator in the living dard procedures. and cultural business. Quality Management System Doosan Corp acquires quality certification to meet global customers’ demands for high quality. Electro-Materials BG operates a quality management system based on ISO 9001 certification and will deploy the TS-16949 automotive quality system to its plants in China. Industrial Vehicle BG, Mottrol BG, Glonet BG, and Fuel Cell BG have also maintained ISO 9001 quality management systems. I&C BU created and operates a quality management system based on ISO 9001/ISO 20000. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 65 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Research and Development(R&D) Customer Satisfaction R&D Performance In 2014, Doosan Corp invested a total of 38 billion KRW in R&D, which represents a 9% Score Out of 5 points increase compared with the previous year. R&D investment as a percentage of sales has continued to grow since 2012 and Doosan Corp will continuously increase R&D investment. 3.7 3.6 3.6 Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Activity Principles Doosan Corp exists to serve its customers and considers customer value a top priority. Doosan Corp is unceasingly committed to providing greater value to customers than competing companies do. Doosan Corp demonstrates its value by respecting customers’ feedback and meeting their expectations. Doosan Corp resolves complaints and products arising in connection with the use of prod2012 2013 2014 ucts through weekly reliability meetings and improve customer satisfaction by quickly responding to complaints and offering highly reliable products. Mottrol BG, Glonet BG, and Fuel Cell BG regularly conduct customer satisData collection range: Doosan Corporation Mottrol faction surveys. Electro-Materials BG will also begin periodic surveys. Information Security Information Security Doosan Corp created the Internal Information Management Plan to prevent damaging Training Hours Unit:Hour data security breaches. This plan applies to personal information collected, used, provided, and managed by the company through digital networks or in writing, and to employees of Doosan Corp and employees of contract 20,556 companies charged with dealing with the aforementioned personal information. Doosan Corp monitors compliance with laws through information security checks and provides information security training to its employees and those of contract companies to raise their security awareness. Training is provided at least twice each year in a variety of forms, such as formal training, internet training, and groupware 13,859 12,699 training. Its commitment to security has led the company to head off security threats and protect personal information. For the past 4 years, there has been no complaint relating to security. 2012 2013 2014 Total R&D Investment Unit:100 million KRW 475 436 47.5 billion KRW 333 2014 2012 2013 2014 Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 66 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management EHS Management Green Management Green Management Strategy Based on the 3 pillars of its green management strategy(Green Culture, Green Value, and Green Communication), Doosan Corp established the “3G Practice and 15 To-Dos” to provide products and services that improve the quality of life of communities and human beings around the world. We also created a long-term road map(Introduction—Growth—Top Tier Entry) with the goal of becoming a “Global Top Green Company” by 2020. Green Management System To abide by its commitment to green management, Doosan Corp created a Green Management System and built diverse infrastructure for green management. Particularly, we established a management system to minimize environmental impacts and have effectively implemented it. Each business group also acquired ISO 14001 environmental certification and created a management system aligned with domestic and international environmental guidelines. Furthermore, the business groups adopted IT systems for systematic management of EHS data and utilize them to support systematic and fast sharing of environmental data such as environmental accounting. In 2007, Doosan Corp created a team dedicated to EHS(Environment, Health, and Safety) to realize systematic and advanced green management and create a green workplace. Doosan Corp’s EHS Team consists of professionals, such as EHS officers each representing the business groups and qualified team members. EHS Team is preparing the company to become a green management leader by minimizing environmental impacts, making ongoing environmental improvements, and pushing ahead with green management initiatives—which include creating and updating annual ESH policies, setting goals, and examining business operations. 2014 2015~2017 2018~2020 Proactive Response to Legal Requirements Establishing and Implementing Strategy Creating and Implementing Green that Reflects Management’s Commitment Purchasing System Act on the allocation and trading of greenhouto Green Management se gas emission permits,, Chemical Control Exploring Green Technologies and and Chemical Registration and Evaluation Acts Creating Green Management Products Organization, Training and Programs Strengthening Legal Risk Management Segmented Management of Green Creating Performance System Management Risks Reinforcing monitoring of environmental pollutants Operating Green Management Support Programs for Suppliers Ensuring Safety of Equipment Proactive environmental investing, continuous improvement Strengthening Emergency Response System Preventing chemical accidents and providing training Creating EHS Competency System Examining detailed performance indicators Environmental Investment Performance Doosan Corp implements environmental investing as part of its environmental protection efforts such as climate change response and environmental pollution management. In 2014, we invested a total of 770 million KRW and will increase environmental investments to respond to environmental regulations and preserve the environments of local communities. Environmental Investment1 Unit :100 million KRW 75 7.5 billion KRW 2014 11 3 1.With the establishment of environmental accounting standards in 2014, the scope of 2012 2013 2014 environmental investing has been extended, resulting in drastic changes in data. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 67 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Environmental Impact Assessment System To reduce environmental impacts and risk-related costs, Doosan Corp conducts a preliminary EHS impact assessment before commencing an investment or construction works from which environmental risks may arise, thereby creating a safe work environment. Doosan Corp sets development objectives that take into consideration target quality, target cost, and environmental impacts at the stage of developmental project planning. At the stage of basic design, we examine whether the design reflects considerations about environmental impacts to enhance reliability in the basic design. At the stage of development completion, Doosan Corp conducts an objective review and evaluation to determine whether the design takes environmental impacts into consideration and receives feedback on the progress of the development project. Doosan Corp will work harder to minimize the environmental impact of its businesses by increasing environmental spending. Responding to Climate Change Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unit:tCO2eq Climate Change Response Strategy and System Doosan Corp is actively engaged in government-led 82,202 greenhouse gas mitigation initiatives and committed to responding to climate change and fulfilling its social 80,421 responsibility to minimize environmental impacts. Under the 3 green management strategic pillars, Doosan Corp established climate change response and energy use reduction systems and organized related activities. 74,558 First, we created a TF dedicated to the target management schemes, and the task force has conducted energy 8% use and GHG emissions surveys and kept track of policy trends for the past 3 years. Doosan Corp thus created Reduction a system for measuring and reporting workplace greenhouse gas emissions as a foundation for more effective response to climate change. Building on this experience, Doosan Corp is enhancing its capabilities to respond to the GHG Emissions Trading Scheme by creating a team dedicated to the GHG Emissions Trading Scheme, dedicated business process and mitigation plan. 2012 2013 2014 Climate Change Response Performance In 2014, Doosan Corp’s greenhouse gas emissions amounted to 74,558tCO2eq, representing a 8% reduction compared to an average year. Based on the Long-Term Climate Change Action Plan, we will develop measures to mitigate GHG emissions and continue to control GHG emissions. Organization1 Manufacturing Business Leader Headquarters EHS Jeungpyeong Gimcheon Plant Plant Manager Manager Facility Team EHS Team Facility Team EHS Team 1. Based on Electro-Materials BG Long-Term Climate Change Action Plan 2014~2015 2016~2018 2019~ Developing and Verifying Inventory Establishing and Implementing a Reduction Plan Greenhouse Gas Management Developing an inventory to identify greenhouse gas Identifying sources of emissions in the workplace Managing greenhouse gas allowances and creating a emissions and sources of emissions where emissions can be reduced and setting targets reduction plan during the phase II period of the GreenEnsuring reliability by verifying Implementing GHG management through house Gas Emissions Trading Scheme emissions trading Creating a corporate GHG management system through CDM2 or emissions trading Developing a greenhouse gas inventory GHG emissions management through Reducing emissions based on the established Creating a dedicated team and providing carryover and borrowing targets training to related staff Defining R&R for emissions trading and Implementing mitigation operations Verifying and reporting greenhouse business process Implementing CDM business gas statements Emissions purchase/sale management Emissions purchase/sale management Identifying BAU1 emissions, consumption, and reduction limits 1. Business as usual(BAU): Expected emissions 2. Clean Development Mechanism(CDM):Clean Development Mechanism is a program for greenhouse gas reduction aimed at mitigating global warming Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 68 Governance I Risk Management I Ethical Management I Generation and Distribution of Economic Value I Talent Management I Product Accountability Management I EHS Management Environmental Pollution Management Waste Generation Unit:Ton Waste Management System and Performance Doosan Corp manages waste produced in each process by classifying it by disposal method, such as recycling, reclamation or incineration. To ensure transparent and legal waste management pursuant to waste laws, Doosan Corp regularly conducts follow-up evaluations and training 14,704 14,768 for waste disposal companies. In 2014, waste generated was disposed of by recycling(79%), reclamation(2%), 13,707 and incineration(19%). Hazardous Waste Management System and Performance Doosan Corp manages hazardous waste according to legal procedures and strives to prevent damage to local communities caused by hazardous waste spills. To head off damage to local communities, Industrial Vehicle BG created a separate control box designed to prevent the spills of toxic substances and made control equipment available to be able to quickly respond to emergencies. Information & Communications BU manages waste safely through a legitimate process by hiring industrial waste disposal companies when industrial waste arises from PCs and servers. 2012 2013 2014 Water Management System and Performance Doosan Corp manages water risks to ensure stable water supply and distribute the risk of water scarcity. Water risk management is being conducted at 3 plants of Electro-Materials BG(Jeungpyeong, Gimcheon, and Iksan), Glonet BG’s Iksan Plant, Mottrol BG’s Changwon Plant, and Industrial Vehicle BG’s Incheon Plant. In 2014, water usage declined by 6%, compared with the previous Water Usage Unit:Ton year. In addition, in 2014, the amount of water reused and recycled by Doosan Corp Electro-Materials increased to 178,510 tons in total, compared with the previous year. 537,584 581,030 544,297 Air Pollution Management System Doosan Corp strictly manages air pollutants arising from plants so that the emissions meet in-house requirements below legal limits. Industrial Vehicle BG conducted twice as many monitoring sessions as legally required to control air pollutants at 18 locations of emission sources and prevention facilities. Furthermore, Industrial Vehicle BG frequently measures emissions at facilities preventing air pollution to see if emissions are below 50% of the allowable emission limits. Moreover, soundproofing walls and chimney cap were installed at prevention facilities near the boundary areas of plants, which helped proactively respond to expected complaints. 2012 2013 2014 Safety and Health Safety and Health System Doosan Corp created a safety and health management system to effectively manage its facilities, make continuous improvements and prevent accidents. In addition, we strive to improve employees’ and stakeholders’ well-being and quality of life by providing support to our internal/external partners and creating a clean, safe, and accident-free workplace. All of Doosan Corp’s plants are equipped with advanced management systems. 5 domestic locations and 2 overseas locations have obtained and maintained safety and health management system certification(KOSHA/OHSAS 18001). Accident Management Process By operating the Accident Management Process, Doosan Corp established measures to respond to accidents early on and prevent additional damage. we create a safe workplace by establishing the best possible measures to resolve the root causes of accidents based on systematic analytics to prevent recurrence. Health and Safety Committee The Health and Safety Committee consists of equal representatives from labor and management and holds quarterly meetings. Through the committee meetings, labor and management cross-examine overall business operations and issues, including working environments, health check-ups, safety facilities and protection equipment, contributing to promoting workplace health and safety. Electro-Materials BG and Industrial Vehicle BG operate Health and Safety Committees each of 54 members and apply the results of discussions to all of their employees. Mottrol BG applies the results of discussions at EHS Improvement Committee meetings to all employees at its plants. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 69 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership Appendix 70 Economic Data 72 Social Data 74 Environmental Data 76 Third Party Verification Statement 78 GRI Indicators 82 UN Global Compacts 83 Awards and Membership Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 70 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership Economic Data Generation of Economic Value Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Balance Sheet Total assets Million KRW 3,149,139 3,291,631 3,509,598 Current assets Million KRW 567,179 571,884 639,610 Non-current assets Million KRW 2,581,960 2,719,748 2,869,988 Total liabilities Million KRW 1,165,531 1,323,744 1,399,060 Current liabilities Million KRW 438,272 487,660 742,714 Non-current liabilities Million KRW 727,259 836,084 656,346 Total Capital Million KRW 1,983,608 1,967,887 2,110,538 Capital Stock Million KRW 132,778 132,894 134,838 Additional Paid In Capital Million KRW 729,523 638,682 667,085 Other capital adjustments Million KRW -333,675 -368,033 -368,143 Other Accumulated income(loss) Million KRW 16,050 39,434 35,661 Earned Surplus Million KRW 1,438,932 1,524,910 1,641,097 Total Liabilities and Capital Million KRW 3,149,139 3,291,631 3,509,598 Income Statement Operating Income Million KRW 1,487,631 1,652,025 1,995,373 Sales Million KRW 1,439,962 1,549,828 1,825,125 Dividends profit Million KRW 47,669 102,196 170,247 Operating Expenses Million KRW 1,361,343 1,456,584 1,738,925 Cost of sales Million KRW 1,104,020 1,187,253 1,434,886 Sales, general, and Million KRW 257,323 269,330 304,038 administrative expenses Operating Profit Million KRW 126,288 195,441 256,448 Non-operating Profit Million KRW 33,415 37,631 32,647 Non-operating Expense Million KRW 62,614 74,657 83,014 Profit(loss) before Corporation Tax Million KRW 97,089 158,415 206,080 Corporation Tax Expense Million KRW 23,973 19,173 19,680 Continuous Operating Profit Million KRW 73,115 139,242 186,400 Discontinuous Operating Profit Million KRW 12,292 10,446 -0.6 Net Income Million KRW 85,407 149,688 186,399 Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 71 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership Economic Data Division of Economic Value Stakeholders Unit 2012 2013 2014 Investors Interest 100 million KRW 357 375 414 Shareholders Dividends 100 million KRW 653 743 735 Customers Sales 100 million KRW 14,400 15,498 18,251 Suppliers Purchasing cost 100 million KRW 8,773 12,794 11,882 Employees Salary, severance pay, benefits, etc. 100 million KRW 2,037 2,828 2,816 Government Public imposts and corporate tax expense 100 million KRW 273 224 245 Donations and Corporate community Local Community 100 million KRW 69 80 81 involvement expenses Total 100 million KRW 26,562 32,542 34,424 R&D Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 R&D 1 R&D investment Million KRW 33,258 43,605 47,530 R&D investment as a percentage of sales % 2.3 2.8 2.6 Credit Rating Category 2012 2013 2014 Korea Investors Service Inc. A＋ A＋ A＋ Korea Ratings Corporation A＋ A＋ A＋ NICE Information Service Co. A＋ A＋ A 1. Data changes were made due to adjustments to data collection range Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 72 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership Social Data Employment and Benefits Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Total Employees people 3,353 4,029 3,929 Employees by Electro-Materials people 1,404 1,477 1,338 Business Group Industrial Vehicle people 528 528 Mottrol people 559 592 564 Glonet people 253 102 73 Information and Communication people 541 569 539 FM1 people 252 263 330 Fuel Cell people 71 CC, Administration Center people 344 498 486 Employment Status Full-time people 3,107 3,716 3,593 Contract people 246 313 336 Gender Male people 2,881 3,477 3,441 Female people 472 552 488 Employment diversity Disabled people 34 39 51 Veteran people 25 33 45 New Recruit Full-time people 363 124 214 Contract people 245 288 245 (excluding dispatched employees) Turnover 2 % 4.9 3.3 8.0 Percentage of employees who receive formal % 99.5 99.3 99.4 performance evaluations3 Trade union membership status4 % 97.0 98.8 98.6 Parental Leave 5 No. of employees who people 22 10 15 used parental leave No. of employees who returned people 16 9 18 to work from parental leave No. of employees who were still employed 12 months after their people 4 8 8 return to work Pension Operational Cost Million KRW 22,739 51,580 81,641 Defined Benef it people 2,972 3,656 3,507 Retirement Pension(DB) Defined Contribution people 0 3 18 Retirement Pension(DC) 1. Excluding employees of business partners employed for security and cleaning purposes 2. Data collection range for turnover: Full-time employees 3. Data collection range for performance evaluations: Support office employees 4. Collective bargaining results applied to those who are members of the trade unions of Electro-Materials BG, Industrial Vehicle BG, and Mottrol BG. 5. Data changes were made due to adjustments to data collection range Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 73 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership Social Data Employee Training Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Employee Training 1 Total cost Million KRW 18,855 11,791 9,616 Total hours Hour 185,619 214,637 260,957 Training cost per person 1,000 KRW per person 5,623 2,927 2,387 Training hours per person Hours per person 105 90 130 Training by Program 2 General training hours Hours per person 89.3 80.5 119.8 Ethical Management Hours per person 0.6 1.0 1.1 training hours Anti-sexual harassment Hours per person 1.0 1.0 1.1 training hours Compliance training hours Hours per person 13.2 6.1 Information security Hours per person 11.6 5.8 6.3 training hours Shared Growth Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 No. of Key Suppliers Company 120 227 278 Total Amount of Purchases by Suppliers 100 million KRW 8,773 12,794 11,882 Amount of Purchases by Key Suppliers 100 million KRW 3,827 8,235 9,081 Amount of Purchases by Small and Medium Enterprises(SME) 100 million KRW 3,722 6,568 5,898 Advance Payments for Holidays to SMEs 100 million KRW 783 1,020 360 Corporate Community Involvement Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Corporate Community Involvement Expenditure Million KRW 6,871 7,972 8,078 Corporate Community Involvement Participants Person 1,354 1,684 2,371 Corporate Community Involvement Hours Hour 7,045 9,241 10,379 1. Data collection rage for employee training : Support office employees, Data changes were made due to adjustments to data collection range 2. Data changes were made due to adjustments to data collection range Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 74 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership Environmental Data Resource and Energy Use Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Raw Material Use Ton 77,093 79,785 65,440 Copper Foil Ton 10,599 9,598 8,544 Glass Fabric Ton 23,793 24,559 19,930 Epoxy Resin Ton 12,963 12,517 11,168 Phenol Ton 2,277 883 756 Methanol Ton 4,696 2,402 2,089 Steel Plate Ton 4,549 4,114 Casting Ton 21,748 24,476 18,572 Egg York Powder Ton 378 295 100 Ethanol Ton 244 213 58 Acetone Ton 396 293 84 SUS Plate Ton 14 SUS Tube Ton 2 Steel Plate Ton 10 Recycled Material Use1 Amount of materials Used Ton 563 447 125 Use Ratio % 55.3 55.8 51.7 Energy Use 2 TJ 1,590 1,593 1,504 Electricity Use TJ 989 1,012 1,001 Gas Use TJ 602 581 503 Energy Intensity(Energy Use/Sales) TJ/Billion KRW 1.1 1.0 Water Use Ton 537,584 581,030 556,315 Water supply Ton 210,487 284,906 316,675 Groundwater Ton 250,907 227,626 190,085 Industrial water Ton 76,190 68,498 49,555 Total Amount of Water Reused and Recycled3 Ton 193,606 181,139 178,510 Environmental Investment 4 Million KRW 282 1,064 7,524 1. Data collection rage for recycled material use data: Based on the use of ethanol and acetone by Glonet 2. Data changes were made as a result of third-party assurance 3. Data changes were made due to adjustments to data collection range 4. With the establishment of environmental accounting standards in 2014, the scope of environmental investing has been extended, resulting in drastic changes in data. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 75 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership Environmental Data Pollution Emissions Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Waste Generation1 Ton 14,704 14,647 13,706 Recycled Ton 11,711 11,714 10,861 Landfill Ton 93 157 196 Incinerated Ton 2,901 2,776 2,648 Hazardous Waste Ton 9,555 9,183 8,265 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2 tCO2e 78,611 78,722 74,558 Scope 1 tCO2e 30,318 29,264 25,945 Scope 2 tCO2e 48,293 49,458 48,624 Greenhouse Gas Intensity(GHG Emissions/Sales) tCO2e/100 million KRW 5.5 5.1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Electro-Materials tCO2e 67,126 62,857 56,981 by Business Area2 Industrial Vehicle tCO2e 4,583 3,665 4,347 Mottrol tCO2e 9,230 9,813 9,000 Glonet tCO2e 2,255 2,386 2,081 Wastewater Generation1 Ton 446,231 431,169 404,774 Chemical Oxygen Demand(COD) ppm 22 24 17 Biochemical Oxygen Demand(BOD) ppm 12 17 11 1. Data changes were made due to adjustments to data collection range 2. Data changes were made as a result of third-party assurance Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 76 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership Third Party Verification Statement This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Doosan Corporation in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. Terms of Engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd.(LRQA) was commissioned by Doosan Corporation to provide independent assurance on its ‘Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014’(“the Report”) against the assurance criteria below to a moderate level of assurance using AccountAbility’s AA1000AS(2008), where the scope was a Type 2 engagement. Our assurance engagement covered Doosan Corporation’s operations and activities in Korea and specifically the following requirements: · Evaluating adherence to AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness · Confirming that the Report is in accordance with GRI G4’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines(core option) and GRI’s sector disclosure for Construction and Real Estate · Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of data and information for only the selected indicators listed below: Environmental:energy(EN3, EN5, EN6, EN7, CRE1), water(EN8, EN9, EN10, CRE2), emissions(EN15, EN16, EN18, EN19, CRE3), effluents and waste(EN22, EN23, EN24), products and services(EN27, EN28) Social:occupational health and safety(LA5, LA6, LA7, LA8, CRE6), training and education(LA9, LA10, LA11), labor practices grievance mechanisms(LA16), local communities(SO1, SO2, CRE7), anti-corruption(SO3, SO4, SO5), anti-competitive behavior(SO7), customer health and safety(PR1, PR2), product and service labelling(PR3, PR4, PR5, CRE8), marketing communications(PR7), customer privacy(PR8) Data and information listed on page 81 of this Report. Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of Doosan Corporation’s suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. LRQA’s responsibility is only to Doosan Corporation. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. Doosan Corporation’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the Report is derived. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of Doosan Corporation. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that Doosan Corporation has not: · Met the requirements above · Disclosed accurate and reliable performance data and information as all errors or omissions identified during the assurance engagement were corrected · Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this Report. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a moderate level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the Verifier. Note : The extent of evidence-gathering for a moderate assurance engagement is less than for a high assurance engagement. Moderate assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. LRQA’s Approach LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with AA1000AS(2008). The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: · Assessing Doosan Corporation’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured correctly. We did this through reviewing documents and associated records. · Reviewing Doosan Corporation’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were included in their Report. We did this by comparing Doosan Corporation’s reported material issues against reports of their peers. We also tested the filters used in determining material issues to evaluate whether Doosan Corporation makes informed business decisions that may create opportunities that contribute towards sustainable development. · Auditing Doosan Corporation’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or mis-statements in the Report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling procedures, instructions and systems, including those for internal verification. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 77 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership We also spoke with those key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the Report. · Visiting Doosan Corporation’s head office in Seoul, Industrial Vehicle Headquarters & Plant in Incheon, Electro-Materials & Glonet Plant in Iksan, Mottrol Plant in Changwon, Elector-Materials R&D Center in Yongin, Fuel Cell BG in Seongnam, Glonet R&D Center in Suwon, FM BU Office in Seoul and I&C BU Office in Seoul. · Checking that the GRI Content Index allows stakeholders to access sustainability performance indicators. Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are: · Stakeholder Inclusivity We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from Doosan Corporation’s stakeholder engagement process. Doosan Corporation has mechanisms in place for stakeholders to express their grievances; these grievances are then considered in Doosan Corporation’s sustainability decisions. · Materiality We are not aware of any material issues concerning Doosan Corporation’s sustainability performance that have been excluded from the Report. It should be noted that Doosan Corporation has established extensive criteria for determining material issues/aspects and that these criteria are not biased to Doosan Corporation’s management. However, Doosan Corporation should be more familiar with GRI’s guidelines in order to apply fully the materiality test as defined in GRI’s guidelines and to disclose all required information for the selected indicators. · Responsiveness Doosan Corporation has developed their sustainability management strategies and programs in 2014. · Reliability Doosan Corporation has developed and improved their internal reporting guidelines by providing extra detail on how to calculate their selected indicators for GRI G4. However, Doosan Corporation should ensure that these guidelines are fully understood and implemented by the people charged with managing sustainability performance to ensure that the quality of data and information is enhanced and free from errors and omissions. LRQA’s Competence and Independence LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. This verification engagement is the only work undertaken by LRQA for Doosan Corporation and as such does not compromise our independence or impartiality. 18 May 2015 Tae-Kyoung Kim LRQA Lead Verifier Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2015. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 78 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership GRI Indicators General Standard Disclosures References and Stated VeriAspect Index Content Page Omissions fied Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 4~7 Analysis G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4~7, 14~17 G4-3 Name of the organization 12 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 14, 15 G4-5 Location of the organization's headquarters 12 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries G4-6 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically 12, 13 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 12, 13 Markets served(including geographic breakdown, sectors served, G4-8 and types of customers and beneficiaries) 12, 13 Scale of the organization(Total number of employees, net sales, total G4-9 capitalization, products and services) 12~15 Organizational Profile G4-10 Total number of employees 72, Business Report 443 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 72 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 60, 36~39, 71 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, G4-13 structure, ownership, or its supply chain About this report Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed G4-14 by the organization 56, 57 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, G4-15 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it 82 endorses Memberships of associations(such as industry associations) and national or G4-16 international advocacy organizations in which the organization 83 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or G4-17 equivalent documents 9, 12, 13, Business Report 4 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 16~17 G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 17 Identified Material Aspects and G4-20 Report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 16~17, 20, 25, 30, 36, 40, 46 Boundaries G4-21 Report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 16~17, 20, 25, 30, 36, 40, 46 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the Restatements of certain CSR G4-22 About this report reasons for such restatements performance data Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect G4-23 Boundaries About this report G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 55 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 55 Stakeholder Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of G4-26 engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of 16~17, 55 Engagement the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, G4-27 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, 17 including through its reporting G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. About this report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About this report G4-30 Reporting cycle(such as annual, biennial) About this report Report Profile G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents About this report G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. About this report Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external G4-33 assurance for the report About this report, 76~77 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest G4-34 governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on 52~54 economic, environmental and social impacts. The process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from G4-35 the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees 54 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or G4-36 positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and 54 Governance whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on G4-37 economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to 53~54 whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 52~53, Business Report 441~442 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer G4-39 (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for 52 this arrangement) Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 79 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership GRI Indicators The nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its G4-40 committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body 52 members Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are G4-41 52, 53 avoided and managed The highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission stateG4-42 52~54 ments, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective G4-43 54 knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics The highest governance body s role in the identification and management of ecoG4-45 52~54 nomic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organizaG4-46 52~54 tion’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmenG4-47 53, 54 tal and social impacts, risks, and opportunities The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organiG4-48 54 zation’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highG4-50 53, Business Report 431~432 est governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for G4-51 53, Business Report 444~445 the below types of remuneration Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individRatio of median salary to G4-54 ual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensacompensation for the hightion for all employees(excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country est-paid:2.34% Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes 58, Website G4-56 of conduct and codes of ethics (Code of Counduct) Ethics and G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behav58 ior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Integrity Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or G4-58 unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escala58 tion through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Specific Standard Disclosures References and Stated VeriAspect Index Content Page Omissions fied Environment G4-DMA Management approach 30, 67 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 34~35 ,74 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 34~35 ,74 Energy G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 31, 68 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 31 CRE1 Building energy intensity(unit:kWh/m2) Energy intensity:2.41 G4-DMA Management approach 30, 66, 68 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 34~35, 74 No water sources significantly Water G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 68 affected by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 68, 73 CRE2 Building water intensity(unit :m3/m2) Incidents of spills:0 G4-DMA Management approach 30, 66, 68 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions(Scope 1) 34~35, 74 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions(Scope 2) 34~35, 74 Emissions G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions intensity 34~35, 74 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions 34~35, 74 Greenhouse gas emissions CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings(Unit:kgCO2eq/ m2) intensity:0.118 G4-DMA Management approach 30, 66, 68 Wastewater and G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 34~35, 74 Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 34~35, 74 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 33, 68 Incidents of spills:0 Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 80 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership GRI Indicators G4-DMA Management approach 40, 64 Products and G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 31, 42 Services Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by G4-EN28 No activities category Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-DMA Management approach 20, 23, 68 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker G4-LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health 68 and safety programs Occupational Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker Health and G4-LA6 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health 24 and safety programs Safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and G4-LA7 24 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA8 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 68 CRE6 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Expected to acquire certification G4-DMA Management approach 25, 61 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee G4-LA9 26~27, 72 category Training and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Education G4-LA10 26~27 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development G4-LA11 62, 72 reviews, by gender and by employee category Labor Practices G4-DMA Management approach 20, 58, 63 and Grievance Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through G4-LA16 21, 58 Mechanisms formal grievance mechanisms Social G4-DMA Management approach 46~47 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact G4-SO1 48~50 Local assessments, and development programs Communities Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local G4-SO2 12, 68 communities Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled by CRE7 Not applicable development, broken down by project G4-DMA Management approach 36, 58~59 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption G4-SO3 57, 58~59 Anti-Corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 58~59 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 58~59 AntiG4-DMA Management approach 36, 39, 59 Competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Business Report G4-SO7 Behavior monopoly practices and their outcomes 478 Product Responsibility G4-DMA Management approach 40, 43, 65 Customer Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and G4-PR1 43 safety impacts are assessed for improvement Health and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-PR2 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life 0 incidents cycle, by type of outcomes G4-DMA Management approach 40~41, 64~65 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures G4-PR3 for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant 43 product and service categories subject to such information requirements Product and Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Service Labeling G4-PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes 0 incidents G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 65 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes for CRE8 Not applicable new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment G4-DMA Management approach 40, 43 Product and Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Service Labeling G4-PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and 0 incidents sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer G4-DMA Management approach 65 Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy G4-PR8 and losses of customer data 65 Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 81 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership GRI Indicators Non-material Aspects Index Content Page Reported Content Verified Economic Generation and distribution of economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 60, 70 value Climate change risks and opportunities, Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to G4-EC2 climate change 30, 32, 33 climate change response through energy efficiency Pension(operational cost, employees G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 63, 72 covered) Business G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from governmen Report 263 Government grants Percentage of average wage for new Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant G4-EC5 locations of operation recruits against national minimum wage: 418% Community involvement activities and G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 46~50 donations Shared growth programs, community G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 38, 46~50, 61 involvement activities, job creation Environment Generation and distribution of economic G4-EN1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 68, 74 value Climate change risks and opportunities, Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to G4-EN2 climate change 34, 35, 74 climate change response through energy efficiency Pension(operational cost, employees G4-EN29 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 33 covered) G4-EN31 Financial assistance received from governmen 30, 74 Government grants Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant 2013 CSR Number of incidents of environmental G4-EN34 locations of operation Report 50~51 impact-related grievances:0 incidents Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 72 New recruitment, turnover Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Employee benefits programs, familyG4-LA2 employees, by significant locations of operation 22, 62, 63 friendly programs, retirement pension plan Parental leave(No. of employees who use it, No. of employees who return to work, G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 72 No. of employees employed 12 months after returning to work) Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Employment diversity G4-LA12 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 72 (gender, disability, veterans) Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, Business Employee salaries G4-LA13 by significant locations of operation Report 443 (by gender and employment status) Human Rights Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of G4-HR2 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained 58 Anti-sexual harassment training hours G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Number of incidents of discrimination:0 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association Membership of trade unions, laborG4-HR4 and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support 63 management communication channels these rights No. of incidents of human rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken violations of residents near operations:0 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or G4-HR9 impact assessments 58 Ethics training hours(for all operations) Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Whistleblowing policy, cyber reporting G4-HR12 grievance mechanisms 38, 58 center operations, 2 incidents Social Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Business Monetary value of significant fines and G4-SO8 for non-compliance with laws and regulations Report 475~476 total number of non-monetary sanctions Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Operations of grievance mechanisms G4-SO11 grievance mechanisms related to social impacts, 6 incidents Product Responsibility Incidents of non-compliance with laws Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning G4-PR9 the provision and use of products and services and regulations concerning products and services:0 Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 82 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership UN Global Compact Since joining the UN Global Compact in 2014, Doosan Corporation abides by the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We reflect global standards for sustainability management and stand firmly on our will to carry out social responsible management, to carry out our social responsibility and our role as a global sustainability management corporate leader representing Korea. Category Principle GRI-G4 Page Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR10 58 Human proclaimed human rights; and Rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR3, HR7 58 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective HR4, LA4, G4-11 63 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; HR6 Labor Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and HR5 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and HR3, LA1, LA9, LA12, LA13 61, 62 occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental G4-14 56, 66, 67 challenges; EnvironPrinciple 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; EN12, EN13, EN19, EN22, EN23, EN27, EN31 33, 67, 68 ment and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of EN6, EN7, EN10, EN19, EN27 31 environmentally friendly technologies. AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including SO3, SO4, SO5 39, 58, 59 Corruption extortion and bribery. Doosan CSR Report 2014 Overview Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Management Report Appendix 83 Economic Data I Social Data I Environmental Data I Third Party Verification Statement I GRI Indicators I UN Global Compact I Awards and Membership Awards and Membership Membership with Associations Category Membership with Associations Maekyung SEL Club, Federation of Korean Industries, Korean Industrial Hygiene Association, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Doosan The Korea Employers' Federation, Korea Economic Research Institute, Korea Advertisers Association, Korea Management Association, Korea Corporation Mecenat Association, Korea Listed Companies Association, Korea IR Service, Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Industrial Technology Promotion Association, Korea Printed Circuit Association, Korea Electronics Association, Electro-Materials Korea Display Industry Association, Institute of Microelectronics Packaging, Macromolecular Research, Korea Chemical Society, Korea Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association Global Fork Lift Truck Association, China Fork Lift Truck Association, North America Fork Lift Truck Association, Industrial Vehicle Korea Industrial Safety Association, Korea Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association, Korea Industrial Technology Promotion Association, Korean Standards Association, Korea Construction Equipment Manufacturers GyeongNam Employers Federation, Changwon Chamber of Commerce and Industry,Korea Association of Machinery Industry, Korea Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association, Korean Nurses Association(Gyeongnam Nurses Association), Korea Industrial Safety Association, Korea Customs Logistics Association, Volvo Construction Machine, Mottrol The Korea Society of Fluid Power and Construction Equipments, Japan Fluid Power Society, Korea Electric Engineers Association, Korea Defense Industry Association, Korea Industrial Complex Corp, Mini-cluster project annual fee, The Korea Institute of Military Science and Technology, Commercial Association Information & Korean Personnel Improvement Association, Korea Information and Communication Contractors Association Communications Korean Society for Horticultural Science, Korea Post-harvest Management, KOITA R&D Directors’ Council, Korean Society for Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Korea Electric Engineers Association, Iksan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Jeonbuk Conference of Environmental Glonet Engineers, Iksan Business Environment Council, Jeonbuk Regional Chemical Plant Council, Iksan Safety and Health Managers’ Council, Iksan Regional Fire and Hazard Managers’ Council, Korean Industrial Health Association Korea Building Owners & Managers Association, Korean Society for Facility Management, Korean Foundation for Quality membership, Korea Building Hygiene Management Association, Korean Security Association, Korea Facility Maintenance and Management Association, Korea FM Construction Engineers Association, Korea Mech. Const. Contractors Association, Korea Fire Facility Association, Korea Fire Safety Association, Korea Electric Engineers Association Korea Hydrogen Association, Korea Renewable Energy Association, Korea International Trade Association, Fuel Cells Korea Industrial Technology Association Awards Category Award Description Awarding Body Award Date Excellence Prize at Employee Health Promotion Best Mottrol Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency July 20, 2014 Practices Presentation Competition President’s Commendation for establishment of Electro-Materials labor-management solidarity and advanced labor-manSeoul Regional Ministry of Employment and Labor May 1, 2014 agement culture Doosan CSR Report 2014 84 Report Publication TF Members Category Team Electro-Materials Business Administration, HR, labor Relation, EHS, technology planning,  strategic purchasing, quality planning, business management Industrial Vehicle Strategy, HR, labor Relation, EHS, product planning, purchasing planning,  quality assurance, domestic sales, management Mottrol Strategy, HR, labor Relation, EHS, R&D 1 team, shared growth, quality planning, sales planning Information & Strategy, HR, purchasing, quality innovation, FA Communications Glonet Management strategy, HR, EHS, management strategic bio planning part, QA, Management, Business Cosme part FM FA, sales HQ, general administration Fuel Cell HR, support, quality/reliability, customer satisfaction, R&D, sales,  sales& marketing Corporate Office Legal , CR Management HQ IR, financing, accounting 1 team, HR, purchase management, planning management, business support, Tax affairs, Communication CC Doosan Way, SPM2, audit, internal controls, EHS, HRD, HRM, OE Doosan CSR Report 2014 85 BUILDING YOUR TOMORROW TODAY Inquiries D oosan Corporation CC CSR Team Doosan Tower Building 17F, 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, 100-730, Korea Email doosancsr@doosan.com Phone 02-3398-0884 DOOSAN CORPORATION 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Report www.doosan.com This report was printed using soy ink and environmentally friendly paper certified by Forest Stewardship Council(FSCTM) Doosan CSR Report 2014 86
