CSR rep o r t 2014 2015 Contents Page 2 4-5 LETTER FROM CEO 6 21 HUMAN RIGHTS 22 31 LABOUR RIGHTS 32 33 ENVIRONMENT 34 -35 ANTI-CORRUPTION 36 39 DONATIONS AND CHARITY 40 42 SOCIAL EVENTS 43 47 GOALS ACHIEVED AND SET FOR THE NEXT YEAR Designed by Henrik Fischlein Contributors: Maria Løkkegaard Alempiew, Jessica O’Sullivan Munck, Camilla Simonsen, Kitty Ng, Amy Millard, Cerri Mac, Daniela Di Gianantonio, Caroline Olsson, Hanne Bjerve, Kate Sygrove, Mike Astrup Nygaard & Marie Langhoff Please mail feedback to Camilla Simonsen / cas@siteimprove.com Page 3 Letter from Ceo For over 10 years, Siteimprove has been using In 2015, we also held our biggest accessibility our values; people-centric, innovative and awareness event to date in Copenhagen, in passionate, to guide us in our mission of making collaboration with the Danish Association the web better for all through our easy to use of the Blind. Promoting Global Accessibility online web management solutions. These values Awareness Day, which occurs annually on and mission are embodied through the strategic 21 May, we organised the world’s largest work we do with corporate social responsibility, tandem cycling event. Promoting an accessible and I encourage reading more about our work and inclusive society for all, regardless of and achievements throughout the year in detail disability, 200 people rode 100 tandem bikes in this report. to display a truly accessible Copenhagen cycling experience. Siteimprove employees, In the last year, our revenue grew by 54 per cent prominent members of the Danish community and we hired 100 new employees, and while and blind or partially sighted members of the rapid growth is not always easy the outcomes Danish Association of the Blind participated. have been absolutely amazing. We have opened three new offices in Norway, Canada and the More than 350 people took part in the festive Netherlands, providing job opportunities and day, including American Ambassador Rufus solutions for real business problems. Gifford and his Canadian counterpart, Ambassador André Francois Giroux. Other Another key growth area for Siteimprove has prominent guests included Klaus Bondam, CEO been the work we do in the accessibility sphere. of the Danish Cyclists’ Federation, and Bjarne Besides updating our tool to the benefit of our Corydon, the Danish Minister of Finance. Upon 2700+ customers, we have also collaborated course completion, Siteimprove donated the with key accessibility consultants to highlight bikes to various blind cycling associations, as how we help make the digital world a better well as blind individuals in need. place for everyone, regardless of ability. The partnerships between Siteimprove and Another significant area of focus for us in the these consultants, all of whom are blind, has past year has been our employees’ wellbeing. cultivated in a number of hugely successful After the success of the 2014 pedometer accessibility events in which people have challenge, we launched a campaign to coincide thrived from seeing first-hand the difficulties an with World Health Day, called Fitimprove15, inaccessible website can cause. which was a series of global fitness challenges to get all Siteimprove employees moving. Page 4 We used a mobile app to monitor participants’ I would like to take this opportunity to thank fitness activities throughout April in two all of our employees for their hard work. We categories cycling and running/walking. The will continue to move forward together toward four Siteimprovers who cycled and ran/walked securing our position as the world’s leading for the longest time and longest distance in provider of web governance tools and solutions. each category were awarded with something that definitely contributed to keep them on the Kind regards. right track: a brand new Apple Watch! MORTEN EBBESEN CEO, Siteimprove Proof of our ongoing employee satisfaction was seen by being named one of Minnesota Business Magazine’s Top 100 Companies to work for, having also achieved the honour in 2012 and 2013. We credit this to having built a company culture that utilises the best of both worlds – the relaxed atmosphere and open office space from Denmark, and the result driven ‘work hard, play hard’ mentality from the US. Page 5 Human Rights GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 1-2: 1. The company should support and respect the protection of internationally declared human rights 2. Ensure that the company does not contribute to the violation of human rights As part of our on-going work to actively put digital accessibility on the public and private agenda, as well as inform people about the challenges that disabled users experience when navigating the web and utilising selfservice solutions, we have partnered with a number of disabled consultants who are able to educate through their own first hand experiences. Read more about our advocacy partners’ valuable engagement with Siteimprove later in this report. CYCLING IN COPENHAGEN A Right for All In our continuous quest to increase awareness about accessibility, we decided to, in RUFUS GIFFORD, AMERICAN AMBASSADOR collaboration with the Danish Association of the Blind (DAB), arrange Denmark’s (probably even the world’s) largest ever tandem bike ride. The goal was to promote an accessible and inclusive More than 350 people took part in the festive day society for all, regardless of disability, and the including Rufus Gifford, American ambassador, date of the event coincided with the yearly Klaus Bondam, CEO of the Danish Cyclists’ celebration of Global Accessibility Awareness Federation, and Bjarne Corydon, the Danish Day (GAAD) on 21 May 2015. Minister of Finance. Covering a beautiful 3.5 kilometre seaside route “Accessibility is a human right. in ‘Amager Strandpark’ east of Copenhagen, May it be access to bike riding Siteimprove employees, prominent members or access to the internet.” of the Danish community and blind or partially Morten Ebbesen, CEO of Siteimprove. sighted members of DAB strapped on a helmet and rode the 100 tandem bikes to showcase a Upon completing the course, Siteimprove truly accessible Copenhagen cycling experience. donated the bikes to various blind cycling It was a spectacular sight! associations, as well as blind individuals in need. “On behalf of the Danish Association of the Blind, I would like to thank Siteimprove for an incredibly well-planned and wellexecuted event. We have received so much positive feedback from our members, it has been a huge success! We thank you for your efforts that THORKILD OLESEN, PRESIDENT OF DAB made it possible. ” Thorkild Olesen, President of DAB Page 7 “At the Danish Association of the Blind, we very much appreciate collaborating with Siteimprove. It makes perfect sense for us to partner up with a SaaS company that works with digital accessibility, since exactly this contains many challenges and difficulties for people with impaired vision. Furthermore, we are extremely thankful for the donation of no less than 100 tandem bikes. Many of our members do not have the financial resources necessary to buy a tandem bike, but now it will be possible for them to take part in the fun and join friends and family on bike rides.“ Tanja Vegeberg Andersen, Executive Committee Member at DAB Page 8 BJARNE CORYDON, THE DANISH MINISTER OF FINANCE THORKILD OLESEN, PRESIDENT OF DAB “Our tandem bike was stolen about six months ago and since then, getting around in Copenhagen has proved quite challenging. My husband, John, is visually impaired and it was truly amazing to see so many happy blind and visually impaired people on bikes in Amager Strandpark. John rode a tandem with the American ambassador, and when it was all over, we brought the beautiful bike with us home. Watch out Copenhagen, we’re back on wheels!“ Nina Faartoft, Member of DAB Page 9 DIGITALLY ACCESSIBLE PDFs In 2014, we continued to increase the overall sustainability of digital accessibility by developing new initiatives towards a more accessible web for our clients, such as the development of our PDF checker. As part of our continued focus on making the web more accessible, we are constantly looking for new ways to improve our accessibility product offering. One major area in which we made substantial improvements was within the field IMPROVEMENTS of checking Portable Document Formats (PDFs) for possible accessibility issues. TO SITEIMPROVE'S It is a common misunderstanding that PDFs are ACCESSIBILITY inaccessible but in fact, a PDF is a document format that can be greatly accessible to many SERVICE users. With an easy and simple layout, the new product enhancement makes it easier for businesses and organisations to ensure that all We firmly believe that websites should be web content meets accessibility standards. accessible for visually impaired users as well as users affected by cognitive and physical Furthermore, in 2014, we developed two online disabilities. With more services becoming accessibility certification courses for our US and available online, and some made exclusively European customers and in doing so became available online, there is an even greater need to the first private company to do this globally. ensure that all users are offered the opportunity The certification is designed for customers who to independently utilise online services. want to enhance their web skills, best practices and develop their knowledge on accessibility. It is rare to encounter an organisation that The two courses, technical and non-technical, does not want to make their website accessible, are offered online and available for the however, the very nature of digital accessibility participant any time anywhere. Each course can make it difficult to start addressing consists of a series of videos and corresponding important accessibility issues. quizzes. The customer has to pass all quizzes with at least an 80 per cent final score to be To make working with accessibility easier to awarded a certificate. our customers, we made significant changes to our Accessibility service in 2014 by assigning accessibility issues to three different roles. This way, our users no longer have to relate to all issues, but are instead presented with a list of issues relating to their skill set and knowledge. Page 10 WEBMASTER Issues assigned to this role focus on making sure that content is created simply and in a way that it can be interpreted by assistive technologies (like screen readers). For example, the <b> tag is often used to emphasise text on a page, but <b> means “bold” and is related to the style of the content which means nothing to a blind user. By using a semantic tag like <strong> instead, you are now giving an indication as to how the content should be understood and if text is being read aloud then this could be displayed through changing the tone. EDITOR Assigned issues that relate to the content creation process. For example, when adding links on a page, the link texts should always make sense when read out of context. Link texts such as ‘Read more,’ ‘Here,’ ‘Click here,’ should be avoided. DEVELOPER As a developer, it is important to ensure as many users as possible can use your web application. For example, the use of colour. In order to make sure that all users are aware that an element on a web page has a certain function or status, it is important not to give information solely by the use of colour. For users who cannot see colours or are affected by colour blindness, that information can be lost. Page 11 OUR ACCESSIBILITY CONFERENCES IN EUROPE Page 12 SWEDEN THE NETHERLANDS On 15 October 2014, Siteimprove held our On 16 April 2015, Siteimprove held its first largest web accessibility conference to date at Dutch focused accessibility event in the tranquil the Quality Hotel Globe in Stockholm. The event neighbourhood of Soest, strategically located raised awareness about the new discrimination between three of Holland’s largest cities. The law that came into effect in Sweden on 1 five hour afternoon seminar, designed primarily January 2015. for those in the Dutch public sector, was attended by over 50 participants eager to learn Stand-up comedian Jesper Odelberg kicked about how to build a business case for having off the event, followed by Kevin Rydberg, an accessible website. With an educational and Siteimprove’s American accessibility specialist, informative line up, participants were given who went through how to get started with the the chance to learn quick tips and tricks from process of making a website accessible. Fredrik a real life case study, as well as hear which Ahlkvist demonstrated how he as a visuallydirection accessibility legislation was heading impaired person navigates the web, and then in. Renowned international accessibility Par Lannerö from the E-delegation spoke about expert Professor Jonathan Hassell was one why it is important to have accessible web as of the day’s most popular speakers with his well as the extended legal requirements. With session on how to tie accessibility and a fantastic speakers, over 130 participants and a return on investment together in a way that 96 per cent satisfaction rating the event was a could convince any management board to great success. make positive changes. A recognised voice of expertise, Jonathan is best known for authoring the BS 8878 Web Accessibility standards in the UK. Blind comedian and Dutch radio host Vincent Bijlo also presented at the event, and was met with squeals of laughter as he brought humour to the stage whilst highlighting the very real difficulties blind users face when accessing the internet. Later on in 2015, Siteimprove will host similar events in Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Ireland. Page 13 SITEIMPROVE'S ADVOCACY PARTNERS However, the life of people with difficulties utilising the web could be significantly improved if companies and institutions worldwide went Over the years, Siteimprove has enjoyed the extra mile and took it upon themselves to collaborating with many amazing partners who make their websites accessible. These men have share our passion for creating awareness about all played important roles at Siteimprove’s accessibility and ultimately trying to make accessibility conferences and we sat down with the web accessible for everyone. Keith Bundy, them to hear their thoughts. Fredrik Ahlkvist and Daniel Gartmann are living proof that being blind or partially sighted does not have to be a hinder for accomplishing dreams and living life to its fullest. Page 14 KEITH BUNDY, USA Keith is the assistant Dean for Student Development at Dakota State University and is a JAWS certified teacher. He has been a guest speaker at several events for Siteimprove where he talked about the importance of digital accessibility and demonstrated live how blind people navigate the internet using a screen reader. What do you think of the accessibility What are the benefits of having an accessible conferences you helped us with in Ontario, website? Canada, in 2014? An accessible company website makes me feel I think both events that I helped Siteimprove valued by that particular company. It makes me with were extremely valuable in showing feel like the company is putting forethought into professionals the need for accessibility in the reaching all members of the general population technology area. There were many valuable – including those of us with special access presentations at the events, and I believe that needs. ours showed that accessibility and usability are very achievable. One of our main talking How do you think Siteimprove helps points was that although it is true that attaining create awareness on the subject of digital accessibility and usability takes extra work, with accessibility? the right forethought and a little dedication, this I believe that Siteimprove helps to create is not a ‘Mission Impossible’. awareness in several ways. The company has hired an eAccessibility consultant, which, Why have you chosen to collaborate with in itself, says that it wishes to promote Siteimprove? accessibility. Secondly, this eAccessibility I have chosen to collaborate with Siteimprove consultant is very visible in attending several for two reasons. One reason is my relationship technology events and doing presentations to with Kevin Rydberg, Siteimprove’s eAccessibility promote accessibility. Finally, the accessibility Consultant, who I previously worked with at certification workshops and the blog posts Dakota State University. I was excited to see dealing with this subject promote an awareness him hired by Siteimprove and when he asked me of accessibility to the technology world. to work with Siteimprove it seemed like a great opportunity to help to promote accessibility and usability of software and technology. The second reason I collaborate with Siteimprove is that it is a very positive, stable, and progressive company. I believe in what Siteimprove does, and I believe very strongly in the accessibility assistance offered by the company. Page 15 FREDRIK AHLKVIST, Sweden Fredrik works as an external consultant advising companies on how to become more accessible in terms of digital information, recruitment, physical accessibility, etc. He has been blind since the age of 15, but he has never let his disability become a hindrance in living his life. Fredrik joined us at our event in Stockholm in October 2014 where a newly passed Swedish accessibility law was discussed. He also joined us in Malmö in May 2014, where he clearly demonstrated how important accessibility is as he browsed websites live using a screen reader. Unsurprisingly, the majority of the randomly chosen websites proved to be partially inaccessible, which made them unreadable to the screen reader and thereby Fredrik. What do you think of the accessibility event What are the benefits of having an accessible you helped us with in Stockholm, Sweden, in website? 2014? It is essential that companies address I thought it was a really good event where all accessibility issues in order for their websites the speakers complemented each other very to be accessible for people with impaired vision. well. Furthermore, I thought it was a great way It is very important to share the knowledge in to combine Siteimprove’s accessibility tool with order for companies to understand that they a living example, me, of why it is important that actually exclude people when they decide to companies make their websites accessible. overlook accessibility issues. Why have you chosen to collaborate with How do you think Siteimprove helps Siteimprove? create awareness on the subject of digital I think that we complement each other very accessibility? well. Siteimprove is trying to make websites From what I could see at the event, Siteimprove more accessible, which is something that I reached a large variety of segments, which I strongly stand for as well. think is very important. Page 16 DANIEL GARTMANN, Denmark Daniel works as a consultant specialised in information and communication technologies at IBOSthe Danish What are the benefits of having an accessible Institute for Blind and Partially Sighted. website? He has a master’s degree in Spanish and I think it is very important to work with the issue social studies and has lived with impaired of making websites accessible. From a consumer vision his entire life. Daniel joined us at perspective, it is essential that the internet is our accessibility conference in Aarhus in accessible in order for no one to be excluded due November 2014 where he helped explain to e.g. impaired vision. But it is also interesting the importance of digitally accessible to look at from a company’s perspective. If a websites. website is accessible to everyone, chances are also higher that more products will be sold. It is a win-win situation! What do think of the accessibility event you helped us with in Aarhus, Denmark, in 2014? How do you think Siteimprove helps I think it was a very exciting event with many create awareness on the subject of digital visitors who showed great interest in what we accessibility? are trying to do with digital accessibility and Siteimprove creates great awareness about making the internet available to everyone. the issue of navigating the internet when blind because their software focuses on making it possible for visually impaired people to independently navigate the internet. Page 17 SITEIMPROVE & THE MINNESOTA WILD HOCKEY TEAM In 2014, a strategic partnership was established The Siteimprove Web Governance Suite will between Siteimprove and the Minnesota Wild also help the Wild manage their website’s Hockey Team, which play within the National accessibility. The NHL and Wild both recognise Hockey League (NHL). that improved accessibility will provide a better experience for all hockey fans whether they Web governance is the practice of managing the are at the game or follow it online. quality and consistency of your online presence through organised systems, policies, and tools, which is exactly why the Minnesota Wild has partnered with Siteimprove. “ A tool like Siteimprove’s will help us provide the best online fan experience possible. ” Matt Minnichsoffer, Manager, Web and Creative Services for the Minnesota Wild. Page 18 188 P LOY EE E M S WORLD WIDE GENDER DIVISION MEN 66% MEN 45% WOMEN 34% WOMEN 55% OVER ALL MANAGEMENT Page 19 8 COUNTRIES COPENHAGEN OSLO LONDON TORONTO AMSTERDAM MINNEAPOLIS FRANKFURT New hires since May 2014: Average employee age: /100 /32 Page 20 8 OFFICES SYDNEY Average time employment Nationalities employed in days: by Siteimprove: /634 /22 Page 21 Labour Rights GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 3-6: 3. The company should support the right to unionise and effectively recognise the right of collective bargaining 4. Support the eradication of all forms of forced labour 5. Support the effective eradication of all forms of child labour 6. Eradicate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation FITIMPROVE 15 Let’s get moving part 2 After the success of the pedometer challenge held in 2014, we decided to renew our commitment towards encouraging a healthier lifestyle among our employees. On 7 April 2015, World Health Day, Siteimprove launched Fitimprove15, a series of global fitness challenges to get all Siteimprove employees moving! We used a mobile app to monitor participants’ fitness activities throughout April. During that time, employees challenged themselves in two categories: cycling and running/walking. At the end of the month, the four Siteimprovers who cycled and/or ran/walked for the longest time and longest distance in each category were awarded with something that definitely contributed to keeping them on the right track: a brand new Apple Watch! Furthermore, all participants were entered into a random drawing for a 70-euro gift card of their choice. The same prize went to the ‘Best Social Ambassador’ award winner for being the one who made the most noise on social media. Under the hashtag #Fitimprove15, we collected beautiful pictures of landscapes from the lakes of Minneapolis, the streets of London, and the Danish countryside, as well as countless selfies of our sweaty Fitimprovers! To further motivate our employees, we also held two short contests on 21 May 2015, when all Siteimprove employees were present in the Copenhagen office for our global meet-up event. Participants from all our offices around the world challenged themselves in a planking and push-up competition with separate categories for men and women. The four global champions each won a massage voucher to help their sore muscles. Page 23 The goal with Fitimprove15 was to motivate Throughout the Fitimprove15 challenge, our all employees to lead a healthier lifestyle with employees ran and cycled more than 500 hours regular exercise, rather than only awarding and more than 6,000 kilometres in total. We are those who could run, walk, or cycle the fastest. very proud of their results, and we look forward We wanted to inspire people to get healthy and to creating new fitness challenges to inspire our get moving, regardless of whether it was a long employees to get moving in the future! run or simply jumping off the bus two stops earlier then they usually would have. “This was a perfect time to initiate a competition! I “This contest showed me I can wanted to start commuting to move more, which I didn’t think work but just needed the push.” was possible.” Sara Krueger, Account Executive, US said Ranee Flory, US Administrative Assistant, who won the walking challenge for the longest time spent moving. “Instead of wearing uncomfortable heels, I just put We walked 6,852 on my sneakers and walked to the office in the morning. I realised I could walk for 60 kilometres kilometres a week instead of taking the metro.” Caroline Olsson, Market Analyst, DK which constitutes the distance between our Copenhagen office and Minneapolis office Page 24 “This initiative has made me go even more to the gym for spinning/training. So it worked! And I lost almost 5 kg in this month!” Frans Doldersum, Senior Account Manager, NL “Normally, I would go cycling as well, but the Fitimprove challenge was a real motivator to bike more often and further than I otherwise would have.” Arend Vosmaer, QA Engineer, DK Page 25 SITEIMPROVE WELLNESS Campaign In 2015, one of Siteimprove’s social responsibility efforts focused on internal staff through promoting health and wellness according to three different parameters: 1/ Cognitive Health Reducing stress and tension and helping colleagues cope with the challenges of the human experience 2/ Physical Health Helping colleagues complete daily activities without undue stresses and pains 3/ Social Wellness Providing a safe space to relate and connect with colleagues and create a positive outlook on life Page 26 Wellness initiatives in US office With the three dimensions of wellness in mind, Siteimprove hosted a variety of in-office activities including an office-wide walking competition to encourage blood circulation. The total number of steps taken among all US staff was 104,576 steps with a covered distance of 73.3 kilometres. In addition to walking for physical health, our staff also attended yoga sessions led by their fellow colleague, Lindsay Makarem, who shared how yoga encourages her to push out of her own physical and cognitive boundaries. Furthermore, two local masseuses provided ten-minute chair massages to help US staff manage stress. Many studies have shown that massage is an effective alternative treatment to manage and reduce stress, and also serves as a supplementary way to decrease anxiety, enhance sleep quality, and improve concentration. To round off these activities, Siteimprove hosted a salad bar lunch to help encourage healthy eating habits among staff. Page 27 The aim was to offer staff more information Wellness initiative in our on hydration, healthy work-life balance, foods headquarters for the brain, healthy alcohol levels and sleep patterns. Relating this back to our role at Positive word of the yoga session quickly Siteimprove, creating the necessary steps to spread, and Siteimprove on the other side of ensure we optimise our working performance the pond arranged for an early morning yoga through nutrition and hydration. session in the Danish office where participants were guided on how to maximise their breathing Individuals also had a one-to-one session with and find inner harmony to energise their bodies Andy and Brett to tailor questions to their and minds. personal circumstances and gain personal nutrition and lifestyle advice. To further support good physical health across Siteimprove offices, European management Minnesota Business Magazine’s has arranged for professional consultants to Top 100 Companies come and perform individual health checks for interested employees. Focus will be on body fat Siteimprove is very proud to have again been percentage, calculations of BMI, blood pressure named one of Minnesota Business Magazine’s and blood sugar and cholesterol levels. Top 100 Companies to work for, having also achieved the honour in 2012 and 2013. Wellness initiatives in UK office We credit this to having built a company culture that utilises the best of both worlds – the In April 2015, the UK and Irish teams took relaxed atmosphere and open office space from some time out to think about a healthy workDenmark, and the result driven ‘work hard, play life balance. Brett Sizeland from Concept hard’ mentality from the US. Fitness, a qualified strength and conditioning coach, as well as Andy Scrags, a qualified nutritionist working with international athletes and performers, were invited into the offices to share their expertise. Page 28 KEEPING A FINGER ON THE PULSE Page 29 ANNUAL EMPLOYEE SURVEY Siteimprove is a fun and successful company, but also a company characterised by many changes and a high pace of work due to our 55 per cent annual growth rate. We rely 100 per cent on the well being of our employees, which is why we try to keep a finger on the pulse by conducting an annual anonymous employee survey that tracks the overall well-being and satisfaction levels of our employees. OVERALL RESULTS FROM 2014/2015 • Management has become better at communicating goals and expectations • Expressions of appreciation and acknowledgement from management have increased compared to last year’s results • The work pace is high and some employees sometimes feel they get behind on their work • Corporate values are not communicated consistently and therefore not well known among employees Page 30 Management shared the results of the 2014/2015 survey with employees including focus areas for the coming year. HERE ARE THE HIGHLIGHTS: • Keep focusing on communicating company progress and goals • Include ‘satellite offices’ in biweekly/monthly staff meetings via video calls • Keep focusing on reducing work-place stress and lowering work pace when too high • Improve communication on Siteimprove’s corporate values: People Centric, Innovative & Passionate Page 31 Environment GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 7-9: 7. The company should support a careful approach to environmental challenges 8. Take initiatives to promote increased environmental responsibility 9. Encourage the development and dispersion of environmentally friendly technologies Page 32 Minimising Our Carbon Footprint DONG Energy Partnership As a SaaS company, Siteimprove is concerned Since 2011, Siteimprove has been a member of with the inevitable C02 emissions caused by our a climate partnership with the largest provider many servers. Storing the data needed to provide of energy in Denmark, DONG Energy. Through our services requires a vast amount of energy, this partnership, we support the production of and we strive to choose the most sustainable sustainable energy in Denmark, along with more solution. In an attempt to leave the smallest than 130 other Danish companies. Together we possible carbon footprint, we have chosen a can make a difference. data centre that fulfils our expectations, both in regards to being sustainably powered and Earth Day energy efficient as well as maintaining optimal data security. Our data centre in Denmark, On Earth Day 2015, Siteimprove staff met Interxion, has received multiple awards for with 10 participants from RISE, a local nonsustainability and supports more than 90 profit organisation dedicated to providing job per cent of its energy consumption through opportunities to over 3,500 people annually who sustainable sources including hydroelectric, are living with a variety of disabilities (cognitive, solar and wind energy. hearing, physical, etc.). As a team, we visited the Como Park Zoo and Conservatory in St. Interxion continues to develop and improve Paul, Minneapolis, to assist with several spring its systems in a manner that affects the gardening tasks including washing garden pots, environment as little as possible. In May 2015, picking up debris, and raking leaves. During this they introduced a new technology that utilises time, Siteimprove staff also had a chance to groundwater as a cooling agent for the data mingle with those from RISE and learn about centre’s servers. Interxion describes the new their personal goals to reduce the stigma around technology as “a system that, both summer and disabilities whilst also promoting environmental winter, delivers continuous cooling to ensure sustainability. the right temperature for the servers alongside reducing the energy consumption significantly.” The new groundwater cooling system allows Interxion to store the cold air from the winter months to cool thousands of servers during the summer. This is yet another step towards their goal of providing a ‘carbon minus’ data centre, preventing any negative impact on the environment. These continuous improvements towards developing environmentally friendly solutions reassure us that we have made the right choice in choosing our data centre. Page 33 Anticorruption GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE 10: 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption including extortion and bribery Despite working in a low risk market, we have a very firm policy in regards to corruption and bribery. In the event that an employee should receive a present, or any form of bribery from a supplier or customer, the employee must notify his or her manager immediately. Failure to report may have consequences for future employment with Siteimprove. DONATIONS AND CHARITY Fundraising for the DKK 5000 (USD 750) amongst Danish Cancer Society the employees this was reached within the first two In connection with the Danish Cancer Society’s annual ‘Knæk Cancer’ campaign, which occurs days! After that we sat the each fall, Siteimprove developer Jesper bar a little higher, and with Bromose suggested a donation pool to help raise money for this good cause. The aim of the Morten doubling the amount, nationwide campaign was to create awareness we reached DKK 20,000 (USD about cancer prevention and to raise money for scientific research. Acknowledging Jesper’s 3,000) by the end of the week.” excellent idea, CEO Morten Ebbesen agreed to double whatever amount Jesper could raise among his colleagues during the designated week. If it ain’t broken – Jesper was ready! Sending encouraging and don’t throw it out informative emails, making himself available As part of our environmental initiatives, for questions and generally sharing the positive Siteimprove donated several used computers initiative, he provided every opportunity for the and switches to CoderDojo, a global volunteeroffice to support the good cause. led community that provides free programming education for youth. Participants learn to code “I was genuinely impressed and develop websites, apps and much more. By passing along the pre-owned hardware to with how much money we the community, more children can learn and managed to raise. Before we participate in the emerging technology industry in addition to reducing electronic waste. started, our goal was to raise Page 37 Sharing a Win In January 2015, Siteimprove kick-started the For our second quarter, Siteimprove partnered New Year with an in-house competition with a with Living Well Disability Services (formerly fantastic prize of DKK 5,000 (USD 750) which the known as Dakota Communities), a 501 ©3 winner could donate to a charity of their choice. founded in West St. Paul in 1972 that focuses Jonathan Peyron from the European Marketing on transforming the lives of people impacted Department won after having completed a by intellectual, developmental and physical tricky obstacle court while blindfolded, forcing disabilities (including Cerebral Palsy, MS, him to rely on his remaining senses. Jonathan Autism, and Alzheimer’s). chose to donate the money to Lidingö Särskola, a Swedish school for children with special needs, Currently operating 33 group homes as well as who used the money for a fun day of bowling for providing in-home services, Living Well hosts the children. many programmes designed to support over 300 adults/young adults in the Minneapolis metro area. “We are so thankful for the donation which made it Siteimprove assisted with Living Well’s ‘Garden possible for us to arrange an Therapy’ programme by removing dead debris, inspiring and fun sports event weeding backyard gardens, and grooming for our children.” raised garden beds. Garden Therapy aims to promote the physical, cognitive and emotional Annika E. Axelsson, well-being of participants by providing a place Headmaster of Lidingö Särskola to reduce stress and encourage free and open thinking. Siteimprove staff also met Julie Manworren, President & CEO of Living Well who discussed the organisation’s mission and the impact of volunteers helping the local non-profit. Living Well Disability Services In 2014, Siteimprove increased its charitable giving in the US through the installation of quarterly community engagement events in which they partner with local philanthropic endeavours. Page 38 The Minnesota Project – Fruit for the People For our third quarter, Siteimprove partnered with the Minnesota Project, a local 501 ©(3) non-profit founded in 1978 dedicated to championing the sustainable production of energy and food in communities from across the state of Minnesota’s rural, suburban, and metro communities through equitable distribution of nature’s bounty. Over 25 Siteimprove staff members gathered at Carver Nature Centre in Hastings to pick apples for the ‘Fruits of the City’ programme, which distributes fresh fruit that would otherwise have gone to waste, to emergency food shelves across the state. As a whole, the Siteimprove staff packed over 2,000 kg of apples in 3 hours! Page 39 Social Events At Siteimprove, we believe it is important to arrange for fun activities outside the office. We prioritise social events because we find that they strengthen personal ties between employees, which in turn creates great memories and facilitates better results. GLOBAL SITEIMPROVE Meet-Up Event HELD IN COPENHAGEN, DENMARK Delicious dinners and social gatherings were also held, including an extravagant gala dinner at one of Denmark’s old renaissance castles called Kronborg. Before the four-course dinner, everyone enjoyed a guided tour of the castle and its dark vaults. After dinner, everyone mingled and danced to live music all night long. Our biggest and most extensive employee event in the past year was the global company meet up that took place in May 2015 in Copenhagen. The event was planned in association with our tandem cycling event that promoted Global Accessibility Awareness Day. Management invited every single employee to come to Copenhagen to participate in the event, which was the company’s biggest accessibility event to date. Over the course of the three-day meet up time was spent on work related teambuilding and getting to know colleagues from across the globe. Activities included a treasure hunt around KRONBORG CASTLE beautiful Copenhagen – designed to challenge Styrelsen for Slotte og Kulturejendomme the minds of the smart Siteimprovers. Photographer: Thomas Rahbek Page 41 ‘DHL Stafetten’ – A little team building and working together in a different setting outside our comfort zones. Afterwards, we Rain Won’t Kill our Spirit had dinner at one of Copenhagen’s many delicious restaurants. We are a competitive bunch who never passes on the opportunity for good food accompanied by a cold drink. Therefore, participating in the DHL Stafet (a yearly five kilometre relay race) in Copenhagen has become a true Siteimprove tradition! The last Friday of August 2014 was a rainy day, however, it did not stop 50 employees from our European offices defying the weather and enjoying a fun afternoon of competitive running and cheering. Eventually, the rain stopped and the rest of the evening was spent barbequing, talking and laughing in the DHL tent. It was indeed a good day and we look forward to doing it again in 2015! World-Class Teamwork Siteimprove highly values teamwork and leading a healthy lifestyle, which is why in August 2014, we sponsored a sailing team that one of our employees was a part of. The sailing team participated in the world championship in ORC sailing in Kiel, Germany. Having trained for the event for three years, the team of 11 put in a great effort and utilised the Siteimprove spirit of excellent cooperation to bring themselves across the finish line after a tough competition. Following the event, Siteimprove chose to give employees a chance to experience sailing for themselves, and the day was a great success with employees enjoying the opportunity to learn new skills, work together and embrace a High-Reaching healthy lifestyle activity. Teambuilding In line with our appreciation of social events with a competitive twist, we decided to take our teambuilding to a whole new level – literally when we went climbing in connection with the 2014 summer party. In groups of four, the goal was to help each other through the climbing obstacles – 15 metres above ground! It was a day of great Page 42 GOALS ACHIEVED AND SET FOR THE NEXT YEAR Page 43 HUMAN RIGHTS GOALS ACHIEVED GOALS FOR 2014/2015 2015/2016 Contribute to making public We improved our Accessibility service, dividing Continue development on the and private websites more issues between three different roles in an Siteimprove Accessibility tool accessible organisation; the webmaster, the editor and to support private and public the developer, to support and simplify the webmasters in quality difficult task of making websites accessible assuring accessible websites Hosted accessibility conferences in We will host accessibility Sweden, the Netherlands and the UK conferences in Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom and To celebrate the annual GAAD, we held Ireland during 2015 Denmark’s largest tandem bike event together with the Danish Association of the Blind. Continue offering and further Siteimprove employees from every office developing our Accessibility together with 100 members from the Danish Certifications Association of the Blind as well as prominent Danes and US and CA ambassadors took part Hire expert eAccessibility in the festive day Consultant for Canadian market Inspired by the successful initiative in the US, we have started offering Accessibility Certifications to all customers in Europe Partnerships within Established advocacy partnerships with Continue to work closely with accessibility accessibility experts with impaired vision for the disabled community in the Danish, Swedish, Dutch and American regards to digital accessibility markets We have established partnerships with: 1. Danish Association of the Blind 2. The International Association of Accessibility Professionals (IAAP) 3. Open Inclusion 4. STIFTUNG barrierefrei kommunizieren! 5. Web for all 6. The Minnesota Wild Hockey Team 7. Wisconsin CESA 7 Page 44 HUMAN RIGHTS GOALS ACHIEVED GOALS FOR 2014/2015 2015/2016 Free consulting and In the past year, we made a total 147 blogs, Continue to offer educational education whitepapers, check-lists, e-books and material on accessibility free webinars concerning accessibility available of charge to customers and prospects free of charge across all markets Facilitation of networks Continued contact with the Accessibility Advisory Board LABOUR RIGHTS GOALS ACHIEVED GOALS FOR 2014/2015 2015/2016 Ensure a healthy psychologDecreased levels of stress globally and Increase overall job satisfacical work environment for increased levels of support and tion across all markets even Siteimprove employees acknowledgement from management acfurther, and continue our cording to most recent annual employee focus on minimising stress survey even though we grow rapidly as a company Ensure and encourage a Fitimprove15 global fitness challenge to enContinue our focus on supphysically healthy work courage employees to increase their physical porting a physically healthy environment for Siteimprove activities work environment for Siteimemployees prove employees Increased general focus on physical and cognitive health amongst employees via yoga Professionally conducted, sessions and expert counselling on nutrition individual health check sesand physical health sions offered to employees in connection with European Visit from ergo-therapist to give advice on office meet up in Copenhagen correct deskwork positions. Ergonomic chairs in August 2015 to ensure correct sitting Our European offices will once Finished work on beautiful outdoor patio with again participate in the yearly flowers and plant life in DK office relay race ‘DHL Stafetten’ in Copenhagen in August 2015 LABOUR RIGHTS GOALS ACHIEVED GOALS FOR 2014/2015 2015/2016 Upgrading of UK office facilities with water dispenser and general improvements to the lunch area and game room Expand our US on-boarding We have set up extensive on-boarding trainWe are planning to develop program to the EU markets ing for all new Siteimprove sales staff the on-boarding program to in order to provide new hires include all departments with better training We have hired professional human resource recruiters for European and North American markets Employee welfare Improved in-house knowledge sharing via Continuous focus on fun, communication software Slack available to social activities to strengthen all employees ties between ‘old’ and new employees as we continue our Thorough update of employee handbook + rapid growth creation of a Siteimprove intranet Arrange for our satellite Biweekly/monthly staff-meetings in DK and offices to join biweekly/ US updating employees on current activities, monthly staff-meetings via developments, new offices, new employees conference/video calls and travel plans Continue training and skill All Customers Success employees completed development of our Customexternal training within customer success er Success teams to ensure management well-designed and rewarding training of Siteimprove customers Bonus scheme Profit sharing from 2014 completed among all To be decided Siteimprove employees in March 2015 Page 46 ENVIRONMENT GOALS ACHIEVED GOALS FOR 2014/2015 2015/2016 Reducing Siteimprove’s Siteimprove has chosen data centres that Continue collaborating with carbon footprint prioritise innovative and sustainable solutions green primary suppliers for cooling our servers in Europa and North America We are still an active DONG Energy climate Continue successful partner climate partnership with DONG Energy Bicycle kit available in DK office allowing employees to mend potential bicycle punctures. Bicycle lights also available for loan during fall and winter months to support traffic safety We try to reduce our food waste by encoring We will continue our efforts employees to bring home left over lunch by to minimise food waste in the the end of the day office More than 25 Siteimprove employees picked 2,000 kg of apples in the US to help redistribute fresh fruit that would otherwise go to waste CHARITY AND GOALS ACHIEVED GOALS FOR SOCIAL 2014/2015 2015/2016 ACTIVITIES We have established a US employee run We will continue to search for board that decides which social activities we charities and initiatives that participate in. Siteimprove has provided fisupport Siteimprove’s ultimate nancial resources for the board as well as the goal of securing an accessible authority to ask employees to volunteer up to web for all three full workdays per year Page 47 W W W.S ITE I MP ROVE .CO M
