Bristol-Myers Squibb UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Bristol-Myers Squibb is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact, which is the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative. To Our Stakeholders It is with great pride that I submit Bristol-Myers Squibb’s fifth annual Communication on Progress report. This report provides us with an opportunity to tell our global compact story – to reaffirm our commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and to highlight the many ways we bring these principles to life through our people and our practices. In so doing, this report underscores the alignment of these principles with the core tenets of our own official company “Commitment,” which places a premium on corporate citizenship, ethical behavior, diversity, fair treatment of all people, and economic, social and environmental sustainability. Thank you for this opportunity. Sincerely, Giovanni Caforio Chief Executive Officer Introduction Bristol-Myers Squibb joined the U.N. Global Compact in December 2010 and this year we further integrated its principles encompassing Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption across our company. Our commitment to the U.N. Global Compact is available to all employees and to the public on our company website. We continue to focus on opportunities for improvement. In 2015, Bristol-Myers Squibb was ranked No. 6 overall on Corporate Responsibility magazine’s annual list of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens, a leading benchmark for socially responsible investors and other stakeholders. Bristol-Myers Squibb is the only company to achieve the No. 1 overall ranking three times including in 2014 and has ranked among the top 10 overall each of the last seven years. We continued to collaborate with Business for Social Responsibility to support the Guiding Principles on Access to Healthcare, which include a principle on respecting human rights. Bristol-Myers Squibb expanded its access strategy for daclatasvir for the treatment of hepatitis C in the developing world. This access approach for low-income countries will utilize tiered pricing and licensing agreements in 112 countries. We also issued a Global Position Statement on Pricing. The company continued its collaboration with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), which promotes Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management among our suppliers and capacity building. We perform environment, health and safety evaluations of third party manufacturers and labor and integrity criteria were added this year. The 2015 California Transparency in Supply Chains Act Guide regarding human trafficking and slavery was reviewed to confirm alignment with the provisions. The Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation in cooperation with Global Sustainable Partnerships completed a clean water project in Tanzania which installed 400 BioSand filters in schools, clinics and homes to proactively support the health of 100,000 people in 18 rural villages. Annual Earth Day celebrations were held at 50 global sites, as part of our Go Green initiative to engage employees to take action to protect the environment and work and at home. BristolMyers Squibb employees around the world demonstrated their commitment to environmental stewardship by participating in activities from planting trees to awareness about wildlife and conservation of energy and water. Several sites held Treasure Hunts to look for project opportunities to reduce energy and water. Bristol-Myers Squibb continued to fund a Center for Green Schools Fellowship at the New Jersey School Boards Association through the U.S. Green Building Council. The Fellow helped New Jersey School districts create healthier, more sustainable learning environments by working with leaders to provide direction, training and resources toward greening school buildings. Bristol-Myers Squibb received a 2015 Energy Star Partner of the Year Award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for its comprehensive policies and programs to manage energy use at its facilities worldwide. Our Green Labs certification program that recognizes and encourages employees to reduce the environmental impact of their work, including energy, water and waste continued to grow with over 400 labs participating. We reported our CO2 emissions and water use through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and Bristol-Myers Squibb was again included in the CDP Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. As members of the CDP Supply Chain Initiative we assessed our carbon footprint from over 50 suppliers. We issued the Principles of Integrity -the new version of our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees. The Principles provide a common framework for how we conduct business, interact with our colleagues and serve our patients and training is required. A section on Anti-Corruption is included. We continued to make progress on our Sustainability 2015 Goals. Following the materiality assessment last year with internal and external stakeholders, we developed a draft of our next set of Sustainability 2020 goals. We expanded the online section of the BMS Foundation to provide more details on initiatives and programs in the areas of philanthropy. Our website contains additional information about our policies, goals and progress relevant to the U.N. Global Compact, as well as our Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility programs. These resources include our Sustainability Report, which follows the format of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), with measurement of outcomes related to various performance indicators and targets. Below is a list of the U.N. Global Compact principles and a table that identifies the relevant content from our website. Human Rights • Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor • Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment • Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption • Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Bristol-Myers Squibb Website References Human AntiLabor Environment Rights Corruption Responsibility Message from CEO Our Mission and Commitment Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics for Third Parties Sustainability Report GRI Index Workplace Policies Our Suppliers Diversity & Inclusion Social Progress Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation Sustainability 2015 Goals Achievements Our Employees Management Approach Environment, Health and Safety Policy Management Systems Sustainability Goals and Key Indicators Environmental Performance Go Green Corporate Governance Our Compliance and Ethics Code of Conduct for U.S. Pharmaceuticals Counterfeit Drugs Human Rights Policy Human Rights Statement California Transparency in Supply Chains Act
