KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 Contents Overview 02 Dialogue with CEO This section introduces ‘Energy for Tomorrow,’ a vision for creating value beyond power generation. 04 KOSPO at a Glance This section presents the progress of KOSPO in the global market at a glance. Readers can review the three components of sustainability management as well as performance in the main strategic sector. 06 Sustainability Indices This section lists the main sustainability indices of KOSPO. Core performances in the economic, environmental, and social sectors are included, in addition to the plan for 2015 and long-term targets. 08 Business Value Chain Business impact in the sustainability context throughout all stages of value chain Key Topics 12 Business Strategy Financial performance, long-term business strategy and the direction of KOSPO’s development 18 Reliable Power Efforts to increase equipment reliability and supply power in a stable manner 24 Climate Change Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and development of new and renewable energy to cope with climate change About This Report 32 Active Integrity Going beyond mechanical and passive integrity, toward active integrity Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd. (KOSPO) has been publishing a biennial Sustainability Report since 2008, and following the last one released in 2012, this is the fourth report, in which stakeholders are shown the results of KOSPO sustainability. Appendix This report contains the sustainability performance of KOSPO for 2013 and 2014. Although it mostly provides data from domestic sites, which take up a large portion of KOSPO’s business, it also reports on matters such as overseas business and other related contents that are considered issues of importance. You can find more information on the business and sustainability of KOSPO by visiting our web site http://www.kospo.co.kr. The information created, acquired and managed by a public institution for operations is disclosed in accordance with the institution’s willingness, regulation or demand by citizens who are also its consumers. If further information is needed, please refer to ‘Government 3.0 Information Disclosure’ on KOSPO’s homepage. 2 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 Dialogue with CEO 3 Creating Value Beyond Power Generation Energy for Tomorrow In order to sustain a business long-term, it is not enough to look at it from a purely economic viewpoint, so in the context of sustainability, what worries are there, and what efforts are being made? During real decision making processes in this business, many aspects of KOSPO is at the turning point of the sustainability issue are confronted. From an economic perspective, its growth as an integrated energy combined cycle power generation carries a profitability problem, company. In becoming a progressive standard of anti-corruption systems and infrastructure compared to but environmentally speaking, also has the advantage of reducing organization, KOSPO is converting greenhouse gas emissions. In reality, while it may seem like a matter of other public institutions. But KOSPO would have never guessed that crises and mistakes into opportunities choosing between one or the other, the more important issue is that it its internal practices, which had been carried out as they always had, and capabilities, moving beyond is impossible to ignore both the economic and environmental aspects of would be highlighted as the problem hindering the integrity of the power generation by creating value for combined cycle power generation. Through the reduction of investments organization. Now, the amount of shame surpasses the pride that came in combined cycle power plants, KOSPO seeks to improve the profit from working in a supposedly clean organization, and this has been a the future in order to achieve a vision structure of domestic business, on the one hand, while delving into new period of reflection. KOSPO is taking issues like this as opportunities for of ‘Energy for Tomorrow.’ and renewable energy, particularly in wind power, becoming immersed in change and reform. Without fail, KOSPO will put the newly announced the development of greenhouse gas emissions reduction technology for reform, or ‘10 Year Plan,’ into practice, enhancing ethnical management, the future of sustainable energy, an ‘Energy for Tomorrow.’ The 10 MW and eradicating unreasonable practices in order to succeed in the high dry carbon capture technology is one of the fruits of such efforts. intensity renovation of personnel. Although the fulfillment of social responsibility is judged to That is certainly something to look forward to. In closing, tell be a necessary element for achieving sustainability, it was us briefly about KOSPO’s resolutions for the future. Recently, it has become clear that KOSPO is taking active steps toward change. With because KOSPO already possessed such a strong image of As an organization that is constantly moving forward, KOSPO is going to regards to the management environment, what changes have been made? integrity that the recent news of its questionable practices continue turning crises and mistakes into opportunities and capabilities. KOSPO is at the turning point of its growth as an integrated energy company. Recent changes have was so shocking. What efforts are being made to regain the Just last year, many of the various difficulties of the power generation originated from this turning point, where KOSPO has a strong will to overcome the difficulties of citizens’ trust as a clean organization? industry were overcome, and KOSPO was awarded the Edison Award, the power market, leaping forward as a globally recognized power generation company. Since its KOSPO has continuously made efforts to improve its constitution with also known as the ‘Nobel Prize’ of the power industry, and was selected establishment in 2001, KOSPO has recorded an increase of more than five times in sales, making an upright and clean organizational culture, and the result was that as the best organization in the areas of improved regulations and safety advancements in the power industry, while playing a role in increasing the rate of combined cycle power in 2014, among 640 public institutions, the company was given an and disaster control. KOSPO is the first public institution to introduce generation in support of the government’s energy policy to relieve anxieties over power supply. As a evaluation ranking of 1 for integrity. Even now, KOSPO has the highest a salary peak system, among other things, in preparation for a new result, although KOSPO is producing 53.9% of its electricity through natural gas-fired combined cycle future. Domestically to globally, from nuclear power generation to clean power generation, with power plant utilization rates decreasing, the stabilization of the power market is energy, KOSPO aims to move beyond power generation and create value, such that even with the increase of combined cycle power generation, increasing natural gas prices will and that value is called sustainability. Running toward the energy for actually bring a decline in profits. To overcome this domestic market crisis, KOSPO has established the tomorrow, KOSPO requests your encouragement and attention. ‘KOSPO 2025 Long-term Management Strategy for Strengthening Competitiveness.’ Through business Thank you. restructuring, expanding overseas business, and focusing on strengthening financial soundness, KOSPO hopes to achieve net revenue of 12 trillion won, with an operating profit of 1 trillion won, by 2025. Chief Executive Officer Kim, Tae Woo 4 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KOSPO at a glance 5 KOSPO STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS at a Glance MILESTONES PERFORMANCE PEEK Domestic Power • Forced Outage Ratio (FOR) 0.16% 0.192 0.160 Generation • Received Gold in the Asian Power Awards Forced Outage Ratio • Received Edison Award (unit: %) • Completed construction of the Andong Combined Cycle Power Plant 2013 2014 Future Growth 158.2 • Pyeongchang On Land Wind Power Generation Complex Sales of New and in construction 66.7 Renewable Energy 11.2 % 9,217 MW • Kelar Project in Chile selected as ‘Deal of the Year’ (unit: KRW billion) 2013 2014 Power Market Share Domestic Installed Capacity Core Competence based on 2014 standard total domestic power generation • Presidential Award in National Quality Contest THE KOSPO WAY and installed capacity • Silver Award in Germany Invention and Patent Contest • Demonstration of 10 MW dry type carbon capture technology KOSPO is a government-owned power generating company with a focus in thermal and combined cycle power plants. Its mission is to contribute to national economic development through the stable supply of power. To accomplish sustainable growth in the future as an integrated energy Increased sales of Trusted Enterprise 8.14 8.17 • Introduction of incentives for integrity suppliers through company, KOSPO has implemented the business in accordance with KOSPO Way ‘Best & Leading, Trustful & Harmony, Passionate & Challenging, • Received outstanding marks in evaluation of shared growth benefit sharing and Creative & Innovative’. • Modified social contribution strategy (unit: KRW billion) 2013 2014 Yeongwol Combined Cycle Power Plant Samcheok Green Power Site Division Shinincheon Combined Cycle Andong Combined Cycle Power Plant Power Site Division Jordan SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Youngnam Thermal Power Plant Hadong Thermal Power Site Division Busan Combined Cycle Vietnam HQ Power Site Division Korea Southern Power Headquarter BIFC B/D, 40 Munhyeongeumyung-ro Net revenue Total power generation Chile 6,244 Nam-gu, Busan Australia Namjeju Thermal Power Plant KRW billion Economic Responsibility 58,599 GWh 3,469 93 158.2 36 KOSPO owns and operates power generators with a total capacity of 9,217MW at 8 sites in Hadong, Shinincheon, Busan, Yeongweol, Youngnam, Namjeju, Andong and Samcheok. A 2,044 MW power generating facility in Samcheok is also being constructed. In other countries, the company people points ENERGY KRW billion million tCO2e successfully completed test operation projects in India, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Israel, and is currently carrying out projects in Australia, Jordan, Job creation Stakeholder Sales of new and renewable Greenhouse gas Chile and Vietnam. KOSPO is also developing new overseas businesses in South America and Asia, including countries such as Panama, Morocco, in local communities satisfaction energy emissions Sri Lanka, and the Philippines. In compliance with a government policy for balanced national development, KOSPO moved its headquarters from Social Environmental Seoul to Busan in 2014, and also permanently ceased operations at the Youngnam Thermal Power Plant Unit 1, which had been supplying energy Responsibility Responsibility to Ulsan Industrial Complex for over 40 years since 1973, as it had reached the end of its lifecycle. 6 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Indices 7 Sustainability Indices Unit 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Long-term Target (Target Year) Unit 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Long-term Target (Target Year) Social Performance Economic Performance CDP-Based Position % 65 70 80 (2020) Assignment Rate4 Net Revenue KRW billion 5,126 5,923 6,975 7,133 6,244 4,673 12,006 (2025) Labor-Management Relations Point 2.62 2.78 3.36 3.55 3.54 3.72 4.5 (2020) Total Power Generation GWh 59,626 60,334 63,393 68,099 58,599 46,929 49,711 (2020) Satisfaction Level Safety Culture Index Point 4.6 5.3 6.3 6.7 7.0 7.3 8.5 (2020) Forced Outage Ratio (FOR)1 % 0.135 1.117 0.111 0.192 0.160 0.100 0.100 (2020) Assessment of Integrity of Unplanned Capability Loss Point 9.56 8.81 9.28 8.81 8.89 9.00 9.00 (2025) % 0.533 1.165 0.484 0.764 0.552 0.250 0.200 (2020) Public Institutions5 Factor (UCLF)2 Assessment of AntiGrade 1 1 1 1 1 1 (2025) corruption Competitiveness6 Environmental Performance Assessment of Shared Grade Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding (2025) Emissions Trading Post-2020 Measures Growth by Public Institutions7 Greenhouse Gas Emissions thousand tCO2e 37,489 38,547 39,475 41,197 36,080 Measures (2020) Job Creation in Local Person 609 687 1,226 3,317 3,469 3,570 5,245 (2025) Communities8 Onsite Power Ratio (OPR)3 % 3.55 3.54 3.48 3.31 3.46 3.79 3.98 (2025) Public-service Customer Point 92 93 94 97 (2025) Green Procurement Rate % 56 95 95 96 93 93 100 (2025) Satisfaction Level9 Sales of New and KRW billion 14.3 21.2 35 66.6 158.2 160 300 (2025) 1. ① The number of hours the unit is on forced outage divided by the total number of hours in a year ② FOR = Forced outage hours / Total number of hours in a year (8,760 hours) 2. ① The rate of Renewable Energy power generation lost due to unforeseen causes, such as equipment failure and related issues ② UCLF = Unplanned energy loss / Base power generation (or stabilized power generation, when there is Coal Ash Recycling Rate % 52 80 86.6 143.6 135.2 100 100 (2025) no decrease due to equipment failure or other problems) 3. ① Ratio of power required for power plant operation ② OPR = Power required for power plant operation / Total power generation 4. Ratio of employees assigned to a specialized position in accordance with the Career Development Program 5, 6. Assessment by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission 7. Assessment by Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership 8. Creation of new jobs for local residents through either technology development with stakeholders, or signing of social enterprise partnerships in communities where power plants are located 9. PCSI (Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index): An indication of satisfaction public institutions by outside stakeholders, as surveyed by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance Installed Capacity Power Generation by Site (unit: MW) by Site (unit: GWh) 47 47 417 113 Installed Capacity Supply of New 848 848 4,527 by Energy Source (unit: MW) and Renewable Energy (unit: GWh) 305 1,461 1,164 102 400 305 2,043 Samcheok Wind power Thermal 2,045 100 210 1,800 1,800 14,414 1,428 41 Power Plant 105 Solar energy 58 6.25 2,044 MW 11,793 0.06 Small hydro New & Renewable 530 currently in 4,865 3,890 Bio construction Andong 943 1,800 1,800 13,145 Waste 9,661 Yeongweol Youngnam Fuel cell Combined Cycle Namjeju 9,217 MW 206 32 2,162 GWh Heavy oil Power Plant Youngnam 60 Pyrolyzed fuel oil 470 MW 33,275 Busan 205 Bituminous coal planned for 4,000 4,000 31,469 Shinincheon construction Natural gas Hadong 186 *Excluding affiliated companies *Including contributions from Deferments affiliated companies and KOSPO purchase amounts * Excluding contributions 2013 2014 2013 2014 from KOSPO affiliates 8 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 Business Value Chain 9 Business Value Chain UPSTREAM Supply Chain KOSPO BUSINESS Construction New power source development R&D Future growth engine Power generation Stable power supply DOWNSTREAM Power market Electricity sales(Korea Power Exchange) Consumer Social Contribution Shared growth for supplier Support for technology development / Eco-friendly design/construction GHG emissions Expansion of new & renewable energy Response to changes Increasing energy efficiency Support for business creation / reduction technology in electricity market policy Construction business management GHG reduction / recycling Strengthening competitiveness / New & renewable energy Support for procurement and marketing Construction safety management Increasing operational efficiency High-efficiency power Construction site supervision and Reduction of air containment emissions Green procurement generation technology management Recycling of thermal effluent Supply fuel Fuel switching Conflict Management Waste recycling Public procurement Generation equipment Environment protection / Cooperation operational technology Management of labor-management Increasing transport efficiency with local community relations Diagnosis & prevention Reduction of used resources technology Diversity promotion Reduction of waste Technology development & Safety management Support connection for power equipment maintenance performance improvement Career Development Path transmission Localization of core equipment Activation of local economy value generated & distributed Net revenue KRW 6,244 billion value generated & distributed value generated & Total procurement Water usage 10,125,282 m3 R&D investment KRW 9.2 billion distributed KRW 353 billion Water recycling 1,469,865 m3 Fuel cost Dividend Total power generation KRW 5,112 billion KRW 10 billion 58,599 GWh Number of employees 1991.3 people Green procurement Total waste 38,514 t Benefits KRW 135.7 billion GHG emissions Taxes and public utility costs Social contribution KRW 3,121 million Waste recycling 8,790 t Training cost KRW 11,675 million 36,080 thousand tCO2e KRW 30 billion expense KRW 4.6 billion 2014 Topics 03 Key Topic P. 24 Climate Change KOSPO, as the thermal power generating company, is particularly At its turning point for growing into an integrated energy company, sensitive to climate change. This section reports on issues related to KOSPO presented a long-term business strategy in 2014 and is green power generation, greenhouse gas reduction technology, as well making efforts toward key areas of sustainability, including the as new and renewable energy. reliable supply of power, measures to counter climate change, and 01 Key Topic establishing the company as an organization based upon active P. 12 integrity. Business Strategy KOSPO’s strategic direction for sustainability includes issues related The long-term business strategy section deals with KOSPO’s efforts to business restructuring, overseas business expansion, and and plan to lead the future of the energy industry while maintaining improvement of the company’s financial position. financial soundness. This section likewise provides a glimpse into 04 Key Topic KOSPO’s image as an established presence in the global market, P. 32 recognized for its outstanding power generation technology. Active Integrity The reliable power supply section discusses KOSPO’s efforts and KOSPO is committed to becoming a company of integrity. This section reports on systems to prevent performance in carrying out its mission of reliably supplying power corruption and the adoption of an anti-corruption as a major power generating company. culture and policy. The section on climate change describes KOSPO’s dilemma between 02 Key Topic profitability and environmental sustainability, and reviews the company’s balanced approach as one of the major domestic thermal P. 18 power generating companies in Korea, which was ranked the 7th Reliable Power largest carbon dioxide emitting country in the world. KOSPO contributes to national economic development by providing a reliable supply of power. This section The last section on active integrity describes KOSPO’s programs to reports on issues related to equipment reliability, prevent corruption and put integrity into practice, in order to create power supply stability, and the improvement of The Other Topics professional operating capabilities. a clean and more transparent organization. P. 44 Aside from the key topics presented above, which are concerned Recycling and Compliance with KOSPO’s efforts and commitment to the ‘Energy for Tomorrow’ This section outlines KOSPO’s efforts to reduce its environmental vision of creating value beyond power generation, other material impact by decreasing outputs of waste water and industrial waste products, while also recycling industrial byproducts. issues related to sustainability in 2014 are also listed in the Appendix. Shared Growth With the competitive strength of its affiliate network, KOSPO strives to create a virtuous cycle within the power generation eco-system, growing together alongside its partners. Community Engagement KOSPO is carrying out various programs to bring prosperity to local communities. Research and Development This section outlines KOSPO’s R&D programs for investing in tomorrow, including the development of domestic technologies and securing global competitiveness. 12 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 13 Business Restructuring Overseas Business Expansion Improvement of Financial Soundness KEY TOPIC Business Strategy KOSPO and its internal/external stakeholders jointly evaluated ‘Financial Performance and Long-term Business Strategy’ as the second most material topic for the 2014 report. Profitability of Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) Power Plants and Debt Reduction Anxieties over Korea’s power Strategic Evaluation by Priority Materiality Stakeholders supply began when the Government’s forecast regarding Financial Performance and electricity demands had missed the mark. In the end, rolling Long-term Business Strategy 95.2 76.6 2 blackouts were implemented in order to prevent a large scale power failure in 2011. To overcome this problem, the Government constructed many CCGT power plants all at The KOSPO Approach once, which could be built quickly and immediately supply power whenever necessary. KOSPO announced the ‘KOSPO 2025 – Long-term Management Plan for Although the operation of CCGT power plants gradually Strengthening Competitiveness’ and has been restructuring its business structure stabilized the balance between supply and demand within the to deal with profitability problems. The long-term business restructuring must power market, they also imposed profitability enhancement include both economic and environmental factors, accounting for sustainability issues upon KOSPO. While KOSPO generates 53.9% of issues. Although CCGT power generation suffers from profitability problems electricity from these CCGT power plants, as the price of when viewed from an economic standpoint, it also creates less greenhouse gases natural gas used for fuel increases, KOSPO has been forced and thus can reduce adverse environmental effects. To improve profitability, into a vicious cycle where plants are kept running and power KOSPO decided that while reducing investments on CCGT power generation, generation has increased, but profitability has unexpectedly declined. Inevitably, this led to the deterioration of KOSPO’s they would expand their business to include new and renewable energy sources, financial indices and an increase in debt ratio which had particularly wind energy, so as to secure long-term sustainability as an energy been stably maintained below 100% since the company was company. All the while, KOSPO would also be developing new opportunities founded but the stability of the debt-to-equity ratio exceeded through business diversification and overseas enterprise, carving out the direction 150%. Despite such inherent difficulties, the Government is of the company’s future. As such, the company is strategically focusing on strongly pushing all public institutions to lower their debt the three areas of business restructuring, overseas business expansion, and ratios as part of a drive to reform the public sector, a key part improvement of financial soundness, in order to achieve its goal of reaching of the agenda for the Government’s 3-Year Plan for Economic KRW 12 trillion in sales and an operating profit of KRW 1 trillion by 2025. Reform. As such, the effort to reduce debt has become an important factor in the assessment of the management and performance of public enterprises, and KOSPO, like any other public enterprise, needs to actively carry out programs to comply with this. Strategic Focus The profitability of CCGT power plants and the soundness of its financial structure are two key issues for KOSPO to Business Restructuring Overseas Business Improvement of Financial Expansion Soundness be concerned with from now on, in the continuation of its 2.2 43.2 151.1 business operations and in coping with Government policies and assessments. % KRW billion % Operating Profit Ratio Overseas Sales Debt Ratio 2015 Target 2.8 % 2017 Target KRW 94.4 billion 2015 Target 165.5 %* * The debt ratio is expected to increase in the short term due to the investments made for the construction of new power plants. 14 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business BusinessStrategy Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 15 Business Restructuring Overseas Business Expansion Improvement of Financial Soundness Business Rate Reduction of Combined Cycle Gas Turbine Power KOSPO plans to decrease its rate of domestic power generation to 87.5% increasing the proportion KOSPO intends to achieve KRW 12 trillion in sales, with an operating profit of KRW 1 trillion by 2025 via a reorganization of its business structure, reducing combined cycle power generation and Restructuring of overseas business to 4.2% and power generation related business to 5.8% by 2025. KOSPO has also adjusted the expected rate of new and renewable energy business to 2.5% by 2025, up from 2% expanding into new business ventures. Operating Profit (unit: KRW billion) by 2020. Currently, the ratio of bituminous thermal power generation and CCGT power generation 1,024 at KOSPO is 55:45, yet KOSPO considers 7:3 to be the optimal ratio under the present market conditions. As such, KOSPO will disperse its investments on Goseong and Samcheok Units 3 and 4 316 following the completed construction of the bituminous thermal power plant Samcheok Units 1 and 2, 199 166 but has no plans to further invest in new CCGT power generation, with the exception of the 470 MW 118 138 131 Youngnam Combined Cycle Power Plant to be completed in 2017. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 Change of Business Structure (unit: %) 0.7 5.8 Strengthening Wind Power Generation 4.2 1.3 2.5 Effors to Expand on Inland and Onshore Wind Farm After negotiating with the Ministry of Industry, 2.5 Trade and Energy, and the Ministry of Environment, KOSPO received a permit for the construction of 95.5 87.5 Domestic Power Generation inland wind farms in Pyeongchang, Jeongam, Taebaek District 2, and Gangreung Anin. The company New and Renewable Energy was able to obtain the consent of local residents by proposing the cultivation of high income crops 2014 2025 New Overseas Business using wind-powered farm grounds in Pyeongchang, as well as the creation of a wild flower garden Business Power Generation to attract tourists to Jeongam. As a result, KOSPO is constructing a 30 MW inland wind power Related Business generator in Pyeongchang and plans to construct a 40 MW inland wind power generator in Jeongam in 2015. Given the construction of 100 units of inland wind power generators, the annual profit will New and Renewable Energy Power Generation Capacity (unit: MW) amount to KRW 8.3 billion, and exports from the wind power industrial sector are expected to bring Based on domestic power generation, the power generation capacity of bio fuel is calculated with the mixed fuel burning ratio, while the power generation capacity of an invested company is calculated on the basis of equity share. in an additional profit of KRW 120 billion. 310 The Daejeong onshore wind farm will consist of twelve 7 MW wind power generators, and its construction will begin in 2016. When the Daejeon wind farm starts generating electricity, the annual revenue is expected to be KRW 56 billion. 210 2014 2025 137.2 Improvements in Wind Power Utilization In 2013, KOSPO developed a system to remotely monitor wind power generators in Taebaek and Changjuk from the Wind Power Generation Control Center 41 and to protect them from lightning. Intensive maintenance from May to August, when the wind 15.3 19 6.25 3.06 10 14.5 is particularly strong, reduced the overall repairs required and increased the utilization rate of wind 0.06 Bio Wind Solar Small SRF2 ESS3 Fuel Cell power generators by 1.1%, from 95.0% to 96.1%. As a result, the profits from electricity generated Power Energy Hydraulic1 by wind power increased by KRW 5.7 billion. Creation of New Revenue Sources Improving the Efficiency of Combined Cycle Equipment Case Study High Value-Added Business Using Coal Ash KOSPO has the technology to produce sand substituting KOSPO is carrying out a scheme that, on the one hand, will increase the efficiency of combined cycle power generators construction materials by combining coal ash, the fine powder left over after electricity is generated 5 in the short term by reinforcing areas vulnerable to failure and improving performance and that, on the other hand, will by burning coal, with CO2. If a factory inside Samcheok Green Power is built in 2015 and produces increase utilization in the long-term by progressing with power generation-related business that incorporates combined KRW Billion 400,000 tons of this eco-friendly material each year, then the KRW 4~6 billion handling fees for cycle technologies. In 2014, KOSPO improved the vacuum mechanism and efficiency of the heat recovery boilers by burying coal ash underground can be saved, and an additional yearly profit of KRW 7 billion is also upgrading poorly performing parts at the Shinincheon, Busan and Andong power plants, as well as by changing the operation of the combined cycle steam turbine expected. and high temperature components, making enhancements to the equipment. These changes resulted in a cost reduction amounting to about KRW 5 billion. The CCGT power plants in Busan and Shinincheon were built as an intended solution to the regional problems of local municipalities through the use of power Participation in Cogeneration Projects Utilizing its experience with operating CCGT power plants, generation technologies. As a solution to water shortages in Busan, the Busan Combined Cycle Power Plant will use sea water as a coolant for power generation, KOSPO participated in cogeneration power generation projects in Daegu Innovation City and Yangju taking the warm water that is discharged and desalinating it before making it available to the community. When the desalination project commences in 2018, New Town, creating additional sales of KRW 21 billion and KRW 44.4 billion, respectively, in 2014. the power plant will generate fresh water and will help keep the utilization rate of the Busan Combined Cycle Power Plant at around 85%. The Shinincheon The Osan Cogeneration Power Plant supplying heat and electricity to Osan New Town has been led by Combined Cycle Power Plant reviews a project to supply electricity to the capital region, where the demand is increasing sharply, and to provide a source of heat KOSPO all the way from construction to operation, and is expected to create sales of KRW 10 billion by reusing the heat waste discharged by power generation. after 2016. KOSPO increased the efficiency of their CCGT power plants, and spent KRW 147.32 on fuel in the production of 1kWh of electricity in 2014, which is the lowest figure among domestic power plants that operate combined cycle power generators. Additionally, the utilization rate of the combined cycle power generators 1. Small hydropower: Hydraulic power plant capable of generating over 10,000 kW of power 2. Solid Refuse Fuel: Composed of disposed plastic, rubber, wood, etc. that has been recycled for use as fuel 3. Energy Storage was maintained at around 61.2%, the highest out of all competitors. System: A system allowing for excess energy to be saved, ready for use whenever more energy is needed 16 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 17 Business Restructuring Overseas Business Expansion Improvement of Financial Soundness Expansion of KOSPO in the World KOSPO is pushing forward with new low-investment and low-risk overseas business developments for Strengthening Improvement of Management Practices Segment Accounting and Debt Management Systems5 KOSPO has clarified the causes and liabilities Overseas sustainable growth in the future. With the success of the Kelar Power Plant in Chile, the company is actively developing new businesses in Chile and Panama, identifying new opportunities in Asia, such Financial of its debt by expanding its segment accounting practices to include the minimum units of the company that are generating a cash flow. Unit debt levels, as well as net increases/decreases are Business as in Sri Lanka and the Philippines, as well as in Africa, such as in Morocco, to solidify its presence in the global power generation markets. Soundness disclosed on the first page of the company portal and shared in real-time with all employees. Debt reduction performance is also evaluated for each business unit. Sales from Overseas Business (unit: KRW billion) Formation of Team Dedicated to Debt Reduction In 2014, KOSPO formed the Emergency Response Committee and Normalization Task Force to respond to the demand for a normalization of the 500 management of public institutions. The Normalization Task Force is an official group dedicated to reducing debt and includes professional accounting personnel. The Emergency Response Committee meets every Monday to discuss debt-related issues and solutions. 94.4 Encouraging the Participation of All Employees To ensure that all employees remain attentive and 43.2 18.8 17.6 20.8 competitively immersed in the task of debt reduction, KOSPO awards pay bonuses according to 15.8 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2017 Target 2025 evaluations of employee performance rates and efforts toward reducing debt. It also operates various programs to encourage debt reduction, such as holding idea contests for strengthening financial Kelar’s Light soundness and monetary incentive systems. KOSPO is participating in the Kelar Combined Cycle Power Plant BOOM (Build, Own, Operating Through these efforts to improve the structure of management, KOSPO has been able to reduce debt and Maintenance) Project to supply 517 MW of electricity to the Antofagasta region of Chile. The levels by KRW 88.1 billion, surpassing the original amount planned for back in 2014. company was able to appeal to the project owner with its outstanding management capabilities, Debt Ratio6 (unit: %) proven by having the world’s lowest forced outage rate and a high operation rate, allowing them to 165.5 secure the project over other renowned competitors. It is notable that 80% of the total project cost 151.1 was raised through PF1. The project was recognized by two of the world’s most respected financial 136 magazines, since both PFI (Project Finance International) and IJ Global (Infrastructure Journal and 2 3 Project Finance Magazine) selected Chile IPP as the Deal of the Year in Power Generation in Central 113.4 and South America Construction of the Kelar Combined Cycle Power Plant will be completed in 2016, supplying 3,400 GWh of power to a nearby copper mine each year. When the power plant 80 78.8 89.1 begins producing electricity, KOSPO expects an annual sales profit of KRW 67 billion. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 Wind in Tafilah The demand for energy is continuously growing in Chile due to the increasing KOSPO plans to build a wind farm consisting of fifteen 3.3 MW wind power generators in Tafilah, Risk Management System Improvement population size and growing urbanization. Jordan, with a total power generation capacity of 49.5 MW. As the Jordanian authority that governs In 2014, KOSPO upgraded its financial risk management system to be able to predict and manage This is a good opportunity for the investors power will purchase all the electricity produced, a stable income is guaranteed. The construction of the financial risk more accurately. KOSPO segmented risk into the four levels of “Safe,” “Cautious,” who are excited about testing the new technologies in the generation of electricity these power generators will start in 2016, and KOSPO expects an annual profit of KRW 10 billion “Alert” and “Critical” (an expansion from the three levels previously used), measuring risks in realand carving out new fields of business. We when the wind turbines begin rotating in Tafilah. time and linking the risk management system with mid-/long-term financial forecast scenarios. The have no doubt that KOSPO will complete the Financial Risk Early Warning System displays warning messages specific to the assumed level of risk. construction of the power plant in time, and will operate it in an outstanding way, w i t h Test Operation Service in Vietnam The Financial Risk Early Warning System the most skillful manpower. As The Mong Duong Power Plant in Vietnam uses fluidized bed boilers4, similar to Samcheok Units 1 and 2. Business Feasibility Assessment you can see, Kelar is contributing, KOSPO provided test operation services for the Mong Duong Power Plant using its prior experience KOSPO has developed a business feasibility analysis tool that comprehensively evaluates public and will continue to contribute, with having performed test operations of Samcheok Units 1 and 2, resulting in a profit of KRW 120 interest toward projects, profitability (IRR7), and risk. The preliminary feasibility of a project is to the energy industry in Chile.” million in 2013 and KRW 7.6 billion in 2014. KOSPO expects an additional profit of KRW 10.4 billion sequentially verified by the Project Selection Committee, Investment Assessment Committee and Fernando Segovia Astorga in 2015. Risk Management Committee before an actual investment is made The investment risk of ongoing Kelar S. A. projects is also managed so that they can be completed without further losses, such as when a project must be terminated due to a change of circumstances. Two year post-construction power plants and ongoing projects are both reevaluated for profitability and business risk to determine whether to maintain them, make improvements, or withdraw investments altogether. 1. Project Financing: A financial transaction in which the financial institution finances a project based only on its profitability and expected future cash flows. 2. PFI and IJ Global: Two of the world’s most renowned financial 5. ① Segment Accounting: Reviewing financial information by dividing the whole business into separate units. ② For example, the account data of a power company may be divided into the separate units of thermal power magazines, which annually select outstanding financial transactions worthy of being deemed ‘Deal of the Year. 3. Independent Power Plant: A project in which a private capital corporation constructs a power plant and generation, CCGT power generation, and new and renewable energy. The divided data will show which business unit the profitability issues are originating from. 6. The debt ratio increased in the short-term, in accordance operates it for a period of time to recoup its investment. 4. Fluidized Bed Combustion: The process of simultaneously injecting coal, limestone, and air, circulating them for combustion. It is an eco-friendly power generation with the construction and investment of new power plants. 7. Internal Rate of Return: IRR is the rate of return at which point the present value of the cash investment is the same as the present value of future cash flows from process, discharging less atmospheric pollutants, such as sulfur dioxides and nitrogen oxides. Since the fuel can be burned stably even at low temperatures, even the low grade coal or debris can be used, and resources can thus the investment. Calculating the IRR using the investment amount and expected future income, and comparing it to the IRR of other investments, reveals which investments will bring in a higher profit. be utilized with less environmental impact. 18 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 19 Enhancement of Equipment Reliability Stable Power Supply Development of Specialized Operating Capabilities KEY TOPIC Reliable Power KOSPO and its internal/external stakeholders jointly evaluated ‘Power Generation Reliability and Stable Power Supply’ as the most material topic for the 2014 report. No Tolerance for Even One Failure Although the government forecasts the demand for power, establishing a Master Plan Strategic Evaluation by Priority Materiality Stakeholders for Power Supply and Demand every two years, power crises Stable Power Supply 95.2 81.6 1 have repeatedly recurred due to an increasing demand that surpasses forecasted levels, in addition to the unprecedented heat waves and cold waves of the past several years. Despite that the supply and demand instability in the power market The KOSPO Approach is gradually subsiding with the construction of CCGT power plants and modification of supply and demand plans, the KOSPO is fully aware of the importance of this subject, as it is directly related to failure and shutdown of a power plant can pose a significant the company’s foundational objective, and presents three strategic directions and risk to stable power supply regardless of the circumstances, achievement indices for stable power supply. The three strategic directions for as seen with the citizens who were greatly inconvenienced stable power supply include lowering the unplanned capability loss factor and following a recent failure of a nuclear power plant. forced outage factor to strengthen the reliability of power generating facilities, Although thermal power plants in Korea are stably operated preparing for power peaks and emergency situations to ensure the long-term with a forced outage factor of 0.2% or less, around 20% of all stability of power supply, and improving workforce expertise in operations for thermal power plant facilities have been running for more than power plants to be constructed in a timely manner and operated. 30 years, and government plans to construct four coal fired thermal power plants were canceled, because they did not meet the greenhouse gas reduction demands. Power plants that are being constructed are already facing difficulties due to resistance from local residents. Power plant operation cannot Strategic Focus afford to be relaxed, since even one failure can shut down a Enhancement of Stable Power Supply Development of Specialized power generator for an extended period of time, the scenario Equipment Reliability Operating Capabilities 0.160 88 38 repeating itself in unforeseen power shortages. As a public institution supplying around 10% of domestic power, KOSPO has a responsibility to provide a stable supply of power by % % people Forced Outage Factor Samcheock Construction Cultivation of specialized lowering the forced outage rate and increasing facility reliability. Progress Rate technical professionals 2015 Target 0.100 % 2015 Target 97.8 % Expansion of cultivation of technical manpower for 2015* * Cultivation of a specialized labor force that incorporates a power market scheme change, including the four technical areas of ETS/power exchange, control systems, combustion tuning, and fluidized bed operation testing. 20 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 21 Enhancement of Equipment Reliability Stable Power Supply Development of Specialized Operating Capabilities Enhancement Enhancement of Vulnerable Aging Facilities The shutdown of a power plant due to an unforeseen failure will interrupt the power supply flow. KOSPO strives to eliminate the root cause of such failures by minimizing the forced outage rate and Identifying vulnerable facilities in advance is an important factor in preventing failures and outages. of Equipment reinforcing potentially vulnerable facilities. At the Asian Power Awards 2013, KOSPO’s Hadong Unit 5 received the Gold Award in Power To be able to increase recognition of parts vulnerable to failure, due to both fatigue from continuous power generator operation, and deterioration5 from frequent operation interruptions6, KOSPO Reliability Generator Operation, for having operated without any failures for 3,000 days. In 2014, KOSPO received the Edison Award, which is known as the ‘Nobel Prize’ of the power industry. has established a reinforcement plan reflecting operation patterns. Failure patterns were analyzed according to changes in operating characteristics and fuel, and 32 of a total of 43 power generators were selected as targets for concentrated reinforcement. Then, the discontinued parts were replaced Towards a 0.0% Forced Outage Factor with the latest equipment, and the vulnerable materials were reinforced. Precision diagnosis and KOSPO’s forced outage factor was 0.192% in 2013, the best level in the world. The forced outage planned preventive maintenance of Hadong Units 1 through 6 and Busan CCGTs were performed. factor indicates the rate at which a power plant is shut down due to failures in single year. KOSPO In May 2014, the Hadong Unit 5 power generator achieved 10 continuous years with no failure was the first Korean power generation company to achieve a forced outage factor of less than 0.2% and the lowest forced outage factor among combined cycle generators. The equipment life of the for three years in a row. However, KOSPO was not content with the result, and intended to further Shinincheon combined cycle power generator steam turbine, which often failed, was diagnosed to widen the gap between it and the rest of the world by achieving even lower forced outage factors. check how much longer it could be operated, and then underwent reinforcement. Using NERC1 FOR Comparison Index2 as an indicator, KOSPO challenged itself to reach the ultimate As 15 units of 35 combined cycle power generators contained aged equipment, with more than 15 limit of 0% by continuously improving vulnerable facilities, and was able to achieve a forced outage Hadong Unit 5 Power Generator: Achieved 10 Continuous Years with No Failure years in operation, the reinforcement of aged equipment is important to ensure that the equipment factor of 0.16%, 0.032%p lower than the previous year. is managed in a reliable and stable fashion. For that purpose, financial resources and manpower Forced Outage Factor (unit: %) must be allocated on an ongoing basis. KOSPO invested KRW 198.8 billion in 2013 and KRW 223.5 billion in 2014 to diagnose and reinforce vulnerable equipment, and increased the number of power 1.117 generators planned for maintenance from 23 to 25 units. Improvement of Power Generator Operation Technology Competitiveness 0.135 0.111 0.1 0.1 KOSPO is strengthening its operation technology by improving predictive diagnosis and using a 0.192 0.16 performance monitoring system combined with the state-of-the-art ICT7 to manage power generators 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 more precisely and scientifically. In 2014, the company selected equipment with a high frequency Achievement of lowest national rate of unplanned loss of failure, developing 12 cases for the improvement of equipment reliability, including pipe vibration KOSPO recorded an unplanned capability loss factor (UCLF) of 0.764% in 2013. This was the lowest absorption, and also obtained patents for making such improvements. KOSPO also developed Korean 3 level among power plants in Korea . The UCLF is the amount of power lost by failure, coastdown , 4 models of key power generator parts in order to become more technologically self-sufficient, such as etc. of facilities, and is used as a reference, along with FOR, to evaluate the reliability of power a gas measuring device with digital bidirectional communication abilities and a high temperature/high generation facilities. In 2014, KOSPO achieved the historically low UCLF of 0.552%, which was pressure condensed water discharge valve. 0.212%p lower than the previous year, by improving power generator performance, operation Strengthening of Safety Management methods, and power trade bidding management systems. To objectively and expertly manage the safety problems that can occur during operation and Unplanned Capability Loss Factor (unit: %) construction, KOSPO has set up a Safety Management Committee chaired by the Chief Risk Officer 1.165 (CRO). KOSPO introduced the Behavior Based Safety (BBS) program, which improves individual behavior for accident prevention, and also allows field workers and supervisors to actively cope with dangers, especially since it is reported that 88% of disasters were caused by unsafe behaviors. This 0.764 program is eliminating safety risks, one by one, by studying the dangerous behaviors of field workers 0.533 0.552 0.484 0.25 and tying them to performance measures. In 2014, the program was expanded company-wide. 0.2 All work in the power plants must receive approval from safety professionals (SAP). A SAP assesses the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2020 risk of work in advance, and supervises a work approval system to prevent accidents caused by the potential for danger and personal error. Moreover, being alert to information leakage from hacking by other power companies, KOSPO is also strengthening its information security. KOSPO was certified Maintenance System Innovation Based on ‘ KOSPO 4-way’ Case Study under the international information security management standard, or the ISO 27001 standard, in KOSPO is developing a next generation maintenance system based on ‘KOSPO 4-way,’ 2013, and put in place a smart security system to increase field security levels in the power plants. Cost Weighted Evaluation Application / of 3 Factors Evaluation the name for KOSPO’s unique maintenance system. The system is an economically Down time efficient maintenance model that schedules maintenance times in accordance with 1. North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC): A non-profit international regulatory organization that seeks to guarantee the reliability of bulk power systems (BPS) in North America. BPS refers to the entire electricity Prediction supply system, including the power plants, substations, and power transmission lines. 2. ① NERC Comparison Index = FOR of power plant/Average FOR of power plants in North America as announced by NERC ② A lower Reliability of Maintenance Time Feedback priority, by using a weighted evaluation of equipment based on the 3 factors of value indicates a power plant with an FOR that surpasses that of the world average. 3. Since NERC does not announce unplanned capability loss factor, it is difficult to compare this figure with the world average. 4. The investment cost, down time due to failure, and equipment reliability. The development of condition of being unable to generate the rated power output due to problems with a power generator (or, abnormal circumstances that lead the system to failing to generate the rated output, but that do not stop power generation altogether, such as in the event of an equipment shutdown). 5. Deterioration: Where performance and quality are undermined due to heat, light, ultra-violet light, radiation, acid, water, ozone, and/or other this new power generation equipment optimal maintenance system will be completed in 2015, and the system will be applied beginning in 2016. To increase its substances. 6. Generally, after a generator commences operation, it can be difficult to cease and recommence operation. However, combined power generation facilities can commence and cease operation relatively quickly, competitiveness in operation maintenance8, private contracting9 will be decreased, while competitive contracting will be increased. Moreover, the spare parts for and their capacity is therefore often utilized in emergencies. 7. Information and Communications Technology 8. Power generation equipment can be divided into the main equipment, such as the turbine directly related to electricity generation, and the mechanical and electrical parts of the main equipment. Operating maintenance means the maintenance of the equipment other than the main equipment. 9. Unlike competitive contracting, maintenance are to be jointly managed with other power plants and suppliers to increase maintenance efficiency. which allows multiple parties to participate in negotiations to evaluate relative competitiveness, a private contracting arbitrarily selects an exclusive party for contracting. 22 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 23 Enhancement of Equipment Reliability Stable Power Supply Development of Specialized Operating Capabilities Stable Power To supply electricity stably, it is crucial to establish a management system to cope with possible supply and demand instability, and to construct new power plants according to schedule, so that electricity Development Development of Specialized Technical Manpower As state-of-the-art control systems are procured, cultivation of specialized technical manpower Supply can be supplied at the planned time. of Specialized to operate the new systems has become even more important. The improvement of specialized skills is important to strengthening not only the skills of the internal labor force, but also for the Management System for Stability of Power Supply In the summer and winter, when power usage sharply increases due to cooling and heating Operating capability of suppliers cooperating in new businesses. KOSPO is supporting OJT2 to strengthen the core maintenance competency of maintenance suppliers. 74 employees of suppliers, such as Iljin requirements, even small failures can cause serious inconveniences for the lives of citizens. Around Capabilities Power, accumulated experience in the maintenance of single shaft gas turbines and cooling towers 37% of failures at power plants are similar to past failures. Under the slogan of “A failure not in Korea, while 54 employees of suppliers like HPS participated in fluidized bed boiler and gas turbine remembered is sure to be repeated,” KOSPO is strengthening its failure management system by maintenance education. sharing forced outage cases and implementing a tracking system for similar failures. As a result of improving the failure management process to prevent such similar failures, the duration of failures Nonstop Emergency Technical Support during peak periods1 was reduced by 83% in 2014. Technical support from the manufacturer is needed at the time of a major failure. KOSPO established Improvement of Failure Management Processes to Prevent Repetition of Similar Failures a system to immediately attain a precision diagnosis and the technical support of manufacturers in case of emergency, and from an analysis of the cause of the failure, can also implement a joint Type Current Condition Improvements Maintenance Target Limited to “Unforeseen outage” Expansion to 4 types of forced outages + Coastdowns + Increased nonstop emergency repair and material procurement. When a gas turbine seal3 at the Yeongweol maintenance of failure due to planned outages Combined Cycle Power Plant was damaged in April 2014, KOSPO jointly analyzed the cause and Sharing Method Information about situation Real-time information given via SMS; development of similar provided after official document management systems for tracking failure quickly repaired the damaged part with the manufacturer, MHI. Excessive turbine vibrations of creation the Hadong Thermal Power Plant in November 2014 were stabilized by adjusting the bearing4 Analysis System Analysis of failure on-site Investigation of failure and joint establishment of counter measures by site + specialized manpower + manufacturer temperature after a precision diagnosis by both Doosan Heavy Industry & Construction, and the Follow-up Evaluation Same responsibility/evaluation Strengthening of internal evaluation scheme (weighted factor Korea Energy and Power Research Institute (KEPRI). scheme for all failures applied to similar failures and failures during peak periods) Emergency Recovery System Timely Construction of New Power Plants KOSPO became the first Korean power generating company to adopt Business Continuity KOSPO is committed to completing the construction of new power plants as scheduled, in order Management (BCM) in 2014. BCM is the crisis management capability of being able to continue to fulfill the National Power Supply and Demand Master Plan’s original objective of stably supplying operations via the timely restoration of the core service and production activity at the time of a crisis, power. The Andong Combined Cycle Power Plant constructed in June 2014 is a CCGT power such as in the event of a natural disaster or terror attack. BCM adoption has implemented a system to plant with a 417 MW power generation capacity and contributes to stabilizing the power supply minimize the interruption of power generation by enabling a quick recovery from serious disaster or in the region during the winter season. Power plants are normally considered an unwanted public crisis, and its capability was verified through ISO 223015 certification. facility, but the architectural design and cultural space reflecting the traditional culture of Andong A joint effort by all of us is needed to transformed the environment of Andong Combined Cycle Power Plant into something more akin accomplish the government goal of a 22% Conflict Management during Construction and Operation to a college campus. KOSPO is accepted as a role model for cultural power plants, communicating reserve ratio in 2029. KOSPO is one of the If the construction or operation of a power plant causes conflict with local communities or affiliates, it domestic power generating companies with local residents and contributing to regional economic development. Moreover, the Samcheok will interrupt power generator operation and eventually create problems with the power supply flow. responsible for supplying power. I ask the Green Power Plant Units 1 and 2, which are fluidized bed power generators with the world’s largest company to do its best in stable facility KOSPO recognizes conflict management as an important issue for the stability of the power supply. commercial capacity, are being constructed on schedule, with the goal of beginning commercial operation, so as not to disrupt the power In 2013, it created a manual to aid in the training of internal conflict management professionals, and supply because of equipment failure or operation in 2016, while the construction to convert the aged Youngnam Thermal Power Plant into a applied different solutions in accordance with the type of conflict. As such, it rationally coordinated unforeseen outages. Moreover, the timely more efficient combined cyle power plant will begin in 2015. construction of power plants is needed to compensation problems for many stakeholders, including local fishermen, during the construction ensure that the power generation capacity Overall Progress Rate of Construction of Consultations among stakeholders for the of Samcheok Green Power, and also attained the consent of local residents who opposed the shortage is supplemented, and it is also Samcheok Units 1 and 2 (unit: %) construction of the Andong Power Plant 97.8 100 construction of a power transmission line in Andong through a combination of communication and important not to create conflict with local 88 residents, which is one of the persuasion. KOSPO will pay a total of KRW 2,133 million won to 45 local households who had to 71.86 main reasons for delaying relocate after the construction of Samcheok Green Power.6 power plant . construction.” 32.43 7.67 Yeong-je Cho, Deputy Director, 15.48 Power Industry Dept., Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2016 1. This indicates a period of rapid increase in electricity demand. In Korea, the summer used to a be a period of peak demand, but of late, the demand for heating in the winter has meant that winter and summer electricity 2. On the Job Training 3. A device to prevent the leakage of vapor and gas from a gas turbine 4. A mechanical element that supports the movement of a rotating or rectilinear moving shaft 5. International standard for demands are now comparable. business continuity management systems 6. The amount is based on the compensation payment to Samcheok City, as the compensation is still being paid. The compensation to local fishermen for damage to the fishing business will be separately paid. 24 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 25 Expansion of Green Power Generation Development of Greenhouse Gas Reduction Technologies Leadership in New and Renewable Energy KEY TOPIC Climate Change KOSPO and its internal/external stakeholders jointly evaluated ‘Greenhouse Gas Reduction’ as the third most material topic and ‘New and Renewable Energy’ as the fifth most material topic in the report for 2014. The Dilemma of Thermal Power Generation The Korean Government submitted the 7th Power Supply and Demand Strategic Evaluation by Priority Materiality Stakeholders Master Plan, which includes a plan to cancel the construction Greenhouse Gas Reduction 88.1 78.9 3 of four coal-fired thermal power plants and to construct New and Renewable Energy 83.3 78.7 5 two new nuclear power plants. The government’s longterm energy policy for decreasing the share of thermal power generation while increasing that of nuclear and new The KOSPO Approach and renewable energy reflects measures to implement the KOSPO recorded the lowest level of operating and net profits, although it showed post-2020 greenhouse gas reduction target, and will be the highest rate of sales among 5 domestic thermal power generating companies submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on in 2014. The reason for this is because KOSPO has a higher share of CCGT Climate Change (UNFCCC) by September of this year. The plan to reduce the share of thermal power generation and power plants which use natural gas in comparison to other domestic thermal to construct additional nuclear power plants is a subject power generating companies. For example, the share of combined cycle power of controversy. This stems from the dilemma concerning generation of domestic power generating company A is less than 5%, while it whether to be more focused on economic factors and is 53.9% at KOSPO. KOSPO recognizes coping with climate change not as an the efficiency of the power generation source as an issue issue related to social responsibility, but as an important issue directly related to of climate change. KOSPO also faces the same dilemma. its sales and future survival, prompting KOSPO to approach climate change from Although combined cycle power generation is helpful in three viewpoints of sustainability. In other words, KOSPO responds to the issues of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the short term, there climate change by implementing programs in strategic directions, including green is a long-term problem with profitability deterioration due to power generation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while also increasing power higher fuel costs, and thus combined cycle power generation is no longer considered an alternative to cope with climate generation efficiency, development of greenhouse gas reduction technologies, and change. As shown by Germany’s plan to gradually close coaltaking a leadership new and renewable energy markets, in which an early foothold fired thermal power plants by 2020, complying with UNFCCC is important, despite the problem with profitability. Therefore, KOSPO plans to is an issue that an enterprise cannot afford to circumvent decrease greenhouse gas emissions by 5.6 million tons by 2020.* when ensuring its long-term survival, since UNFCCC expectations are agreed upon worldwide. It is not realistic for KOSPO to delay relinquishing bituminous coal-fired thermal power generation until new and renewable energy business grows to a certain level, and that is why coping with climate Strategic Focus change is an material issue. Expansion of Green Power Development of Greenhouse Leadership in New and Generation Gas Reduction Technologies Renewable Energy 3.46 On-site Power Ratio % 10 MW Dry CO2 capture technology 100 RPS Implementation Rate % 2015 Target 3.79 %** 2017 Target 300 MW 2015 Target 100 % * Target of emitting 5.6 million tons less greenhouse gas than BAU (Business As Usual), which is the amount of greenhouse gas that would be emitted if there were no reduction efforts, by 2020 ** An increase in on-site power generation due to both increased power reserve rates and decreased equipment utilization rates 26 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 27 Expansion of Green Power Generation Development of Greenhouse Gas Reduction Technologies Leadership in New and Renewable Energy Expansion of To reduce the greenhouse gas emitted during power generation, a fuel that generates less greenhouse gases should be used, or the power generation efficiency should be increased to produce On-site Power5 Saving To reduce on-site power, power consumed by the auxiliary devices of power generation, KOSPO Green Power more electricity with the same amount of fuel. KOSPO strives to increase power generation efficiency, using alternative fuels and designing power plants with due regard for greenhouse gas emissions and monitors energy usage at its Performance Monitoring & Diagnostic Center (PMDC) and encourages company-wide energy saving in accordance with the Energy Target Management scheme. KOSPO is Generation eco-friendliness. upgrading low efficiency equipment to high efficiency models to conform to the government’s energy service company (ESCO) policy for saving energy. Use of Alternative Fuel Onsite Power Ratio6 (unit: %) KOSPO switched the fuel used at Namjeju Thermal Power Plant from heavy oil to bio heavy oil. Bio heavy oil is similar to heavy oil, a fossil fuel, but is created from coconut or animal/vegetable oil. Compared to heavy oil, it can reduce the discharge of atmospheric pollutants, such as sulfur oxides, 3.98 3.79 nitrogen oxides, and other particulate matters, by 70%, 16%, and 33%, respectively, thereby lowering 3.55 3.54 3.48 3.46 the emission of greenhouse gas. The 100 MW Namjeju Thermal Power Plant Unit 1 uses 8.9 kℓ bio 3.31 heavy oil and is expected to reduce 344,000 tons of CO2 emissions each year. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 Improvement of Efficiency of Combined Cycle Power Generation As the reserve margin increases, supply and demand is expected to be more balanced, and the utilization of combined cycle power generation is expected to decrease. With increasing fuel prices CTS Certificate Carbon Low Carbon Low Carbon Management Certification Labeling Mark Certification A reliable standard is needed to measure how much CO2 gas is generated, and from where, as well as and deteriorating profitability, the CCGT power plant is no longer considered as to be the main Mark to systematically manage gas levels. KOSPO adopted the international standard, ISO 14064, companymeans of lowering greenhouse gas emissions. However, when an aged heavy oil-fired power wide, and is certified under the Carbon Trust Standard (CTS) in recognition of its outstanding efforts generator is replaced with a 900 MW combined cycle power generator, a total of KRW 75 billion to reduce greenhouse gas. The carbon labeling system is a scheme for labeling the greenhouse can be saved, including KRW 20 billion for land and construction costs, and KRW 55 billion for gas emitted by all production processes. Although all enterprises do not have the obligation to construction of power transmission lines; additionally, savings of KRW 8.3 billion can be expected include carbon labeling on their products, companies voluntarily displaying the carbon labeling are from the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. KOSPO is converting the Youngnam Thermal showcasing how the government has certified that “This product is an outcome of efforts to prevent Power Plant, currently using heavy oil, into a CCGT power plant that uses natural gas, and is trying to climate change.” For a product that uses technology to cope with climate change, a Carbon Emission increase the efficiency of CCGT power plants currently in operation. Certificate is issued to show that “This product is certified to emit only the amount of CO2 labeled on Minimization of Wind Power Generator Failure the product,” while a product that reduces greenhouse gas emissions by using technology to lower The prolonged use of wind power generators has led to foundation subsidence1 and frequent carbon output in its production processes is issued a Low Carbon Product certificate. Six KOSPO sites transformer failure. KOSPO introduced state-of-the-art displacement monitoring systems to provide received the Carbon Emission Certificate, while the Shinincheon, Busan and Yeongweol Power Plants advanced warning of the possibility of sinking, and to prevent failure, while also applying nonreceived the Low Carbon Product certificate. This represents recognition that KOSPO is generating 2 destructive reinforcement technologies to subsided concrete. As a result, there was no foundation clean electricity. subsidence in 2014, compared to three subsidence events in 2013. Transformer failure was found to be mostly caused by dielectric breakdown3 due to saline (in the form of seawater). The transformers Supercritical Pressure CFBC Boiler were replaced with high performance models with structures not affected by salt, and state-of-theSamcheok Green Power plans to generate electricity from its 2,000 MW power generator, which 500MW art transformer cooling systems that prevented salt damage were also introduced. As a result, cases combines two 500 MW supercritical pressure CFBC (Circulating Fluidized Bed Combustion) boilers 1,000MW of transformer failure decreased from 7 in 2013 to 1 in 2014. The lower number of failures enabled and a 1,000 MW turbine. The meeting point at which the start and end of the evaporation of water 4 wind power generators to produce a total of 197 GWh electricity in 2014, 4 GWh more than the 500MW are the same is referred to as a threshold (225.56 kg/cm2, 374.15℃), and depending on whether previous year, which is equivalent to around 124,000 tons in CO2 emission reductions if the same the steam inside the power plant generators is pressurized at a temperature lower or higher than amount of electricity were to be generated using fossil fuels. this level, the terminology used is subcritical and supercritical pressure, respectively. Since it uses high 2:1 Supercritical Pressure CFBC Boilers and Steam Turbine temperatures and high steam pressure, it offers a higher power generation and reduce greenhouse gas emission compared to thermal power plants7. Greenhouse gas emissions reducing low-carbon electricity The technology that circulates the solid particles released from the burning of coal, in which Case Study oxygen and limestone are mixed together to initiate combustion, is called Circulating Fluidized Bed 4.46 The combined cycle power generator at Shinincheon Power Plant Unit 4 had shown deteriorating performance, as it had been more than 15 years since it was installed, and the aged gas turbine needed to be upgraded. A higher performing Combustion Technology, and is utilized by CFBC boilers where internal heat distribution is uniform % gas turbine can generate more electricity, because the gas produced is hotter. However, the existing heat recovery steam and the combustion temperature is low, at 900℃. Therefore, the discharge of environmental generator (HRSG) could use only a portion of the heat generated by the turbine. According to a KOSPO analysis, power generation could be increased if these pollutants, such as nitrogen oxides, can also be reduced8. two parts were enhanced and made to work in synergy. In other words, the gas turbine could be enhanced to generate more primary electricity, and then the HRSG could be enhanced to recover all the heat produced, generating more secondary electricity. As a result, in 2013, the upgraded Shinincheon Unit 4 Power 1. Circumstances in which foundations that support equipment or structures subside or otherwise become deformed. 2. Construction methods involving the expansion and reinforcement of existing foundations without excavation 3. Circumstances in which a sudden excess flow of current results from too much voltage being applied to an insulator that does not conduct the electricity or heat 4. Wind power generator utilization rate of Generator could generate 9 MW more electricity in one time than before. The amount of CO2 discharged while producing 1 kWh of electricity decreased by 0.022 96.04% 5. Ratio of power required for power plant operation 6. ① OPR = Power required for power plant operation / Total power generation ② OPR increased due to increase of electric power reserve rate and decrease of capacity factor 7. ① According to IEA (International Energy Agency), the worldwide capacity of thermal power generation is 1,000 GW, and 2/3 of them are aged 20 years or longer. Thus the energy efficiency is only 29%. CO2/kWh, and there was a total reduction of 280,000 of CO2 in 2013. As such, the electricity generated by the Shinincheon Power Plant was certified as Low ② These thermal power plants emit total of 3.9 billion tCO2. Assuming that the life of a thermal power plant is 40 years and that the thermal power plants are all converted into the supercritical pressure power plants, which Carbon, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 4.46%. typically have the energy efficiency of 45%, after the life is expired, 1.4 billion tCO2 equivalent to 36% of total can be reduced each year. 8. The nitrogen oxides are generated when the fuel is burnt at a very high temperature. 28 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 29 Expansion of Green Power Generation Development of Greenhouse Gas Reduction Technologies Leadership in New and Renewable Energy Development KOSPO is transforming the issue of CO2 generated during power generation that uses fossil fuels into an opportunity for new growth. Leadership KOSPO promotes the production of new and renewable energy, such as bio energy, wind power, solar energy, hydrothermal energy, waste energy, energy storage systems, and small hydropower of Greenhouse Carbon-dioxide Capture & Reuse in New and systems. In particular, KOSPO is making considerable investments in wind power generation. Gas Reduction Renewable Leadership in RPS Under the Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard (RPS), a power generating company owning Technologies Energy 500,000 kW or more of power generation capacity is obligated to supply 2% or more of that total with new and renewable energy. In 2013, KOSPO had difficulties reaching this quota in areas other Power Plant CO2 Capture than solar energy due to environmental regulations of wind power generation, delayed approvals, and resistance from local residents. However, the company overcame such difficulties and expanded new and renewable energy power generating facilities to supply 100% of its 2,162 GWh quota in 2014. CO2 Village RPS Implementation Rate (unit: %) Crop Cultivation Resource Conversion Microalgae Cultures If CO2 is put into a greenhouse By means of an electrochemical When growing 100 tons of hytoplankton while plants are absorbing sunlight, reaction, CO2 can be converted into microalgae, about 180 tons of CO2 are 100 100 100 98 photosynthesis is strongly activated, formic acid/carbon monoxide. absorbed 93 promoting growth (strengthening CO2 cultivation). ▶ Reducing CO2 levels and increasing ▶ Can be utilized in the preservatives, ▶ Can be utilized as materials profits from farm-related activities nutrients, and medicines that go into for medicine, makeup, health food products for animals, among supplements, chemical products, other diverse usages and bio fuel 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 Widening crop cultivation to include By 2017, production costs for bio seven Korean crops, such as tomatos, diesel will be less than melons, etc. recycles approximately Progress for Construction of 100 Domestically Construction of 100 Domestically Manufactured Inland Wind Power Generators Manufactured Wind Power Generators (unit: unit) KOSPO is currently executing a project for the construction of 100 wind power generators 2 million tCO2/yr 4 dollars/ℓ manufactured in Korea. As most wind farms in Korea operate using imported equipment, KOSPO CO2 capture technology allows for the capture of CO2 generated during power generation before it is 17 is trying to jointly develop Korean models of wind power generators with domestic manufacturers. emitted into the air. Captured CO2 can be used for other meaningful purposes. In other words, CO2 54 KOSPO is currently operating 18 MW and 16 MW wind farms in Taebaek and Changjuk, respectively. can be transformed from a problem into a new resource. Such technology, in which CO2 is captured The Changjuk Wind Farm can produce 37,800 MWh of electricity each year. The figure is sufficient to for reuse, is called CCR (Carbon Capture & Reuse). 29 supply electricity to 10,500 households, replacing 8,130 TOE imported oil, and reducing greenhouse KOSPO has jointly developed 10 MW dry CO2 capture technology1 with the Ministry of Industry, Trade gas emissions by 17,800 tCO₂ each year. The company is additionally constructing 30 MW and 40 and Energy, KEPRI of KEPCO, and the Korea Institute of Energy Research. A pilot plant was installed MW wind farms in Pyeongchang and Jeongam, respectively, and has received a permit for Taebaeck in Unit 8 of the Hadong Thermal Power Plant in 2014, and has been tested through continuous In Construction Construction In Operation District 2, Mt. Yugbaek, Mt. Podo, and Anin, with plans to construct the wind farms sequentially. If operation. This facility can handle 35,000 Nm3/h or 2% of the exhaust gas from Hadong Unit 8, Taebaek Pyeongchang in Planning Changjuk Jeongam wind farms are constructed on schedule, 12 more wind power generators manufactured in Korea will capturing 200 tons of CO2 per day and around 70,000 tons per year. After a year of testing the pilot be installed, for a total of 112 units. The construction of 100 domestically manufactured wind power plan, it was deemed a success, and KOSPO plans to begin designing a 300 MW facility. Compared to other power plants, KOSPO generators will allow KOSPO to attain the technical know-how and operating experience needed for is better at coping with climate change. It entering the global wind power generation markets. also has the frontier spirit for technology CO2 Village development. Investment for the future may Using CCR technology, KOSPO captures CO2 and uses it in various value added businesses that are Export-Linked Domestically Manufactured Offshore Wind Power Generators accompany the pain of deteriorated shortterm profitability. I hope that KOSPO will linked to the livelihood of local residents, such as the cultivation of microalgae, enhanced cultivation The global wind power market is showing more than a 20% rate of growth each year, and the grow out of being just a generator of power of agricultural products using CO2, and production of formic acid. The program, called ‘CO2 Village’, offshore wind power market is expected to surpass the inland wind power market after 2026. by entering the potentially huge CCS2 market, is a project about doing more than just reducing greenhouse gas emissions by responding to the KOSPO plans to establish a 84 MW wind farm off the shore of Daejeong-eup in Jeju Island beginning with the vision of becoming an integrated energy company expectations of local communities that want economic development. in 2015, constructing a total of 723 MW worth of wind farms off the shores of Jeju Island and the and playing a key role in southwestern coast of Korea. Using accumulated wind power know-how, the company also seeks to securing a new engine for national growth.” Turning CO2 into Resources Energy Storage System (ESS)3 Linked with Wind enter overseas wind power markets, such as in Jordan. When coal is burnt at a high temperature in a thermal power plant, it leaves a fine powder called coal Power Generation Chang-geun Lee, PhD Korea Institute of ash. In 2013, the Samcheok Green Power Division combined coal ash with CO2 to develop a new ecoCogeneration Using SRF (Solid Refuse Fuel)4 Energy Research (KIER) KOSPO is developing ESS, a system specific to wind power generation, and plans to implement In 2015,KOSPO will complete the construction of a 66 MW cogeneration power plant that utilizes friendly material that can replace the sand and gravel used for constructing buildings. By recycling coal a trial run of 2MW ESS at the Seongsan Wind waste as fuel in Naepo New Town, Chungnam. The Naepo Cogeneration Power Plant is designed not ash, the company expects an annual reduction of 60,000 tons of CO2 emissions. Farm in 2015. to discharge dioxins, a hormone disrupter. In 2014, KOSPO also released a plan to construct 20 MW SRF power plants using the idle sites at Samcheok Green Power and Youngnam Thermal Power Plant. 1. ① The CO2 capture technology, which separates CO2 from the exhaust gas generated by burning fuel and captures it, is divided into the dry method and wet method, according to which type of absorbent is used. ② 3. ① A device that stores surplus energy so that it can be used later when there is a shortage of electricity. ② Since new and renewable energy using natural resources, like wind power or solar energy, is affected by the weather, it is difficult to Dry capture technology does not capture as much CO2 at once as the wet type, but it is considered an innovative CO2 recycling technology, because it does not produce secondary pollutants and is less costly. 2. ① Carbon always produce a specific amount of electricity. Using ESS helps utilize new and renewable energy more efficiently. 4. Solid fuel recycling of waste resources such as plastic, rubber, and wood. Capture & Storage ② KOSPO pursues CCR, which does more than just storing the captured CO2 by reusing it. 30 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS 31 Facts New and Renewable Energy Facilities including domestic operation and affiliated companies Taebaek Wind Power Changjuk Greenhouse Gas Emissions* (unit: thousand tCO e) 41,197 2 10 MW knH Yeongwol Solar Energy Hadong Thermal Power Plant Shinincheon CO2 Capturing Plant Waterworks 39,475 knH 96.04 % Wind power generator utilization rate knH KS Solar Wind power Solar energy 37,489 38,547 etc 36,080 KS Solar 2,162 GWh KS Solar Hadong Substation knH Hadong-gun Busan Newport Busan Solar KS Solar Energy 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * The amount of greenhouse gas emissions may be somewhat different from Supply of new and renewable energy in 2014 previous reports. This is because greenhouse gas emissions are calculated Hadong Solar Energy with the emission coefficient announced by the government each year, and Jeonnam Solar past emissions are recalculated using the current emission coefficient. 3,800 thousand tCO e Greenhouse gas reduction 2 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (unit: thousand tCO e) 2 41,156 Seongsan Wind Energy Haengwon Solar Energy 640 Hankyong Wind Energy Small hydropower 634 Namjeju Solar Energy 638 Small hydropower 623 39,431 628 616 622 38,503 615 605 37,448 RPS Implementation (unit: GWh) 604 36,033 206 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 111 Generated Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Total Power Generation 292 900 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Power Generation by Fossil Fuels Purchased 2013 2014 Deferred Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (unit: thousand tCO e) 2 93 % 100 % 47 0.808 Generated /purchased 386 solar energy 530 0.73 0.807 0.697 0.702 633 526 0.733 44 44 0.7 0.691 0.607 41 41 0.606 Construction of 100 Domestically Manufactured Inland Wind Power Generators 2018 103 192 30 MW Construction of Pyeongchang 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Total Power Generation Wind Farm Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Power Generation by Fossil Fuels 152 2017 85 Emissions Trading Scheme 112 The emissions trading scheme will begin in Korea in 2015. Enterprises can emit greenhouse gases at the levels specified by the government, and 2016 46 must purchase emissions permits in the market if they generate greenhouse gases that exceed the prescribed level. If reductions in emissions mean that they emit less than the prescribed amount, remaining emissions permits may be sold to other enterprises. In other words, enterprises 72 2015 can make profits by selling emissions permits, as long as they can reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013, the Korea Energy Management 32 Corporation (KEMCO) and 5 domestic power generating companies, including KOSPO, agreed to cooperate with each other in preparation not Accumulated Capacity (unit: MW) 42 only for the rollout of the emissions trading scheme in Korea, but also for the global emissions trading scheme scheduled for implementation 2014 17 Accumulated Number of Units (unit: unit) in 2020. It is expected that the cooperating parties can save on expenses associated with learning and duplicating practices in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, increasing their implementation capability, especially when compared to taking on the task individually. 32 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 33 Improvement of Corruption Risk Analysis and Systems Proliferation of Anti-corruption Culture Strengthening the Anti-corruption System KEY TOPIC Active Integrity KOSPO and its internal/external stakeholder jointly evaluated ‘Anti-corruption’ as the fourth most material topic and ‘Compliance with Social Law and Regulation’ as the ninth most material topic in the report for 2014. Power Supply and Demand are Directly Related to Safety As a power generating company that deals with many suppliers Strategic Evaluation by Priority Materiality Stakeholders in fuel supply and construction because of the characteristics Anti-corruption 83.3 80.8 4 of its supply chain, difficulties can arise in the handling of Compliance with Social Law corruption. The blackout following the shutdown of nuclear and Regulation 76.2 78.3 9 power plants due to irregularities with suppliers in 2013 came as a shock to many, and there were reports of 16 thermal power plants operated by domestic power generating The KOSPO Approach companies using defective parts from suppliers who had KOSPO implements ‘active integrity’ in order to lead the reform of public institutions falsified test reports for 7 years, leading all the way up to in Korea and to practice higher ethical management. Active integrity differs from 2014. This information was astonishing because corruption at ‘passive integrity,’ the concept of faithfully conforming to rules and laws, as well power plants directly led not only to instability in the supply as prescribed ethical practices, in that it is a concept for increasing the productivity and demand balance, but also to serious safety issues. Even and efficiency of an enterprise based on compliance with fairness and integrity companies with clean images and good reputations for in personal and business life. Active integrity improves upon KOSPO practices in sound internal management systems may be shaken by a corruption case if even one employee lacks a sense of ethics. a way that combines both the pursuit of company profit and an anti-corruption Moreover, KOSPO is a public institution that influences many culture. KOSPO’s anti-corruption strategy to practice active integrity focuses on the stakeholders and thus has the social responsibility to improve improvement of corruption risk analysis and systems, proliferation of a culture of its internal integrity, but also to spread a wider culture of integrity, and strengthening of an anti-corruption system. integrity to the private sector. Strategic Focus Improvement of Corruption Proliferation of Culture of Strengthening of AntiRisk Analysis and Systems Integrity corruption System 6 cases* Catching violations 56,673 Employees educated on hours 253 people Employees receiving against code of conduct anti-corruption integrity incentives 2015 Target 0 violations 2015 Target 57,239 hours 2015 Target Expansion of integrity incentives *The violations mostly resulted from inadequate security management and job handling, and the offending employees were reprimanded, cautioned, or given a warning. 34 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 35 Improvement of Corruption Risk Analysis and Systems Proliferation of Anti-corruption Culture Strengthening the Anti-corruption System Improvement of Selection and Management of Jobs Vulnerable to Corruption KOSPO investigated corruption risk throughout its entire business process and determined that Proliferation of Expansion of Integrity Education KOSPO is conducting education on integrity to instill pride in its employees regarding the virtuousness Corruption Risk fuel purchase, material procurement, power plant construction, and expenditure are the four areas (Red Zones) vulnerable to corruption. These red zones are strictly managed with fuel e-bidding Anti-corruption of integrity. In 2014, 2,637 employees completed an integrity education course, and the figure represents a 47% increase over the previous year. 1,713 employees, or 297%p more than in 2013, Analysis and systems, departments dedicated to purchasing, supervision of the legal violations of contractors, and accounting support document management ERP systems. Culture participated in cyber integrity education. In 2014, 13 integrity lecturers conducted 43 classes, while the CEO and standing auditor conducted 35 special lectures at all company sites. 73 employees with Systems Red Zone Corruption Risk Management responsibilities related to contracting, inspection, etc. (which are vulnerable to corruption) participated in a 2-day KOSPO Integrity Healing program, which was initiated to be an experiential learning of Operation of ‘Ubicoal’, the first international e-bidding system for a power generating Fuel Purchase integrity culture, emphasizing participation in in-depth discussions and visitations to historic sites company Material related to integrity. Real-time tracking of materials and prevention of unauthorized checkout at the source Procurement Duration of Employee Education Related to Anti-corruption (unit: hours) Constructor supervision system to strengthen supervision of payment to constructors and Construction worker wages 63,227 56,673 57,239 Strengthening of internal control through constant monitoring of department accounts Expenditure linked with financial institutions 25,011 22,429 19,866 Punishment for Violations of Anti-corruption Policy KOSPO is catching corruption and violations of the code of conduct through audit programs. There were no violations reported by the external monitoring organization in 2013 or 2014. However, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 an internal audit found 12 and 6 employees violating the code of conduct in 2013 and 2014, respectively. The violation cases included inadequate security management, failure to report on the Employees Completing Education Related to Anti-corruption (unit: persons) outside lecture and inadequate job handling. The violating employees were reprimanded, cautioned, or given a warning. 5,756 5,160 5,211 Violations of Code of Conduct (unit: cases) 4,460 3,271 2,310 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 12 6 0 0 0 0 Integrity ⓘDOL Group 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 KOSPO created the Integrity ⓘDOL Group in 2013 to inspire integrity awareness in employees right from the time they are hired. The ⓘDOL Group, composed of 24 employees with fewer than 3 years at KOSPO, is entrusted with the role of propagating outstanding integrity case studies company-wide and presenting integrity-related ideas. In recognition of its performance in 2014, KOSPO expanded the group to 28 people, and the scope of its activities now extends to the management of Integrity Club events and group level integrity activities. The ⓘDOL Group was accepted as an outstanding model by the Anticorruption and Civil Rights Commission and contributed to the improvement of integrity at KOSPO. Every Day Integrity Practices KOSPO encourages employees to practice integrity in accordance with cultural integrity contents. Integrity Rating of 1 Case Study At the beginning of each year, the Integrity Pledge is posted on the company portal, and employees Integrity Survey of Public Institutions KOSPO has been consistently given a rating of 1 in the Integrity Surveys of Public Institutions pledge to act with integrity by attaching the Integrity Pledge to their desk as a constant reminder. 2012 2013 2014 since 2012. The Integrity Survey is conducted by the Anti-corruption and Civil Rights The CEO also sends a Letter of Integrity to newly appointed managers to encourage them to take Overall Integrity 9.28 8.81 8.89 Commission to evaluate the integrity level and corruption-causing factors of public institutions the initiative. The manager is also obligated to respond to the 365 Integrity Pledge message at the External Integrity 9.40 8.88 9.01 under the provisions of the Act on the Prevention of Corruption and the Establishment and end of each business day, taking a moment to look back and reflect upon the day. At 8pm, a brief Internal Integrity 9.21 9.18 9.16 Management of the Anti-corruption and Civil Rights Commission. KOSPO received 8.89 points weekly integrity message is sent to remind the manager of integrity even in personal life outside of the Customer Evaluation in overall integrity and was ranked no. 1 among the 640 public institutions surveyed in 2014. 8.04 8.24 workplace. of Policy Strengthening the implementation of the code of conduct raised the overall integrity score, but the areas ofoutsourcing contacts, supervision, and related job handling were found in need of revision, so KOSPO is in the process of making the necessary improvements. 36 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Business Strategy Reliable Power Climate Change Active Integrity 37 Improvement of Corruption Risk Analysis and Systems Proliferation of Anti-corruption Culture Strengthening the Anti-corruption System Strengthening Corruption is not a problem of specific employees, as everyone can be exposed to it without exception. As such, it is very important to establish a system to eliminate the root cause of corruption. Improvement of Ethical Management Implementation Systems Encouraged by exemplary outcomes in integrity and anti-corruption competitiveness in the public the AntiBeginning of Active Integrity sector, KOSPO strives to spread the concept of integrity as a culture of its own. Integrity as a culture breaks away from top-down methods led by the ethics department and seeks voluntary participation. corruption The government demands that public institutions put in place measures to encourage management efficiency and facilitate anti-corruption management. Realizing that the company was ready to As part of its integrity as a culture strategy, KOSPO added an integrity idea bank called K-ⓘ Bank to its ethical management system. The system recognizes integrity ideas as an asset and allows all System push further, after repeatedly receiving an integrity rating of 1, KOSPO initiated an ‘Active Integrity’ employees to deposit an idea at any time. In 2014, ideas proposed to K-ⓘ Bank and related to program. Active integrity is a part of management innovation, going beyond both the passive the integrated management of materials vendors of domestic power generating companies were K-ⓘ Bank to Turn Integrity Idea into Asset integrity of ‘not giving and not receiving’ and the mechanical integrity limited to laws and regulations, adopted by the government as part of a collaborative agenda. to change the business structure and culture as a whole. Strategic Focus To practice active integrity, KOSPO restructured the organization around the audit office and Improvement of corruption risk analysis and systems integrated the inspection function of some sites with the head office. KOSPO also held a practical Spreading a culture of integrity: Integrity Club / Education Diversification, ideas contest open to all employees and operates an Active Integrity TFT1. Strengthening of Investment Company Transparency Strengthening of anti-corruption systems: strengthening internal check Communication In accordance with the 2020 Long-term Audit Strategy, the direction of auditing also changed systems, expanding integrity incentives Council: from not just internal control and compliance with the law and regulations, but to preventive Evaluation of Results, Integrity Ombudsman, consulting audits for achieving the corporate vision and creating values. Its intention is to go Monitoring System Integrity Idol Group, Incentives beyond the conventional method of centralized audits and to incorporate field visitations for direct e-auditing System, 4 Back System Integrity Club, public + communication. Moreover, employees of auditing offices will pursue problem solving via audits by Internal: Integrity self-Inspection survey, 365 institution cooperation Active Integrity autonomously researching, establishing, and implementing the subjects of audits. online self-diagnosis System: External: Public institution integrity survey, Suggestions, Happy Call, Code of evaluation of anti-corruption measures feedback Fairness Integrity Efficiency Conduct and Corruption Infrastructure Abuse Report and Applying the same standard Matching words (policy) with action Creation of business outcomes by Counseling Centers (impartiality) (practice) changing corporate practice Code of Conduct: Regulation of integrity ethics practices, cultural of Strict separation of public and Handling of company matters as if Saving of resources and integrity contents, integrity ethics pledge personal interests they were personal matters prevention of waste → Increased Leading organization: Ethical management committee, anti-corruption Company interest come first Thoughts and conducts that will not profits managers, corporate ethics organization Breaking away from the cultureof embarrass the ‘self’, ‘company’ or Seeking alternatives → Innovation doing favors and looking the ‘customer’ Leading a culture of integrity in other way Prevention of moral hazard Korea Integrity Incentive Result of Preferred Evaluation for Promotion KOSPO has adopted the integrity incentive scheme and assigns mileage to the individual integrity According to Integrity Incentive in 2014 performance of each employee. Beginning with granting weighted points for 2-level promotion Strengthening the Internal Check System The difficulties of the power market can be Rate of evaluation to employees with outstanding performance in 2013, 12 employees received the KOSPO has appointed outside experts in 31 specialized areas of auditing, such as safety, information Promoted an opportunity, the change needed to turn Extra Points Personnel to Presidential Award and 154 employees received Integrity Merit Awards. Starting in 2014, as a means the crisis into the momentum needed for security, and accounting. Their purpose is to increase audit expertise by strengthening the Baseline for Promotion Recipients of Recipients of Mileage Evaluation Extra Points Extra Points to spread the integrity culture among mid-level managers, the company then introduced extra points taking an even bigger leap forward. Views independence and specialization of internal check systems. Realizing that it is difficult to guarantee 100 points or on integrity and anti-corruption must also more 5 points 32 people 91 % for integrity to mid-level managers subject to promotion, who had received a specific level of integrity independence when the auditing organization of each site belongs to that specific power plant, the change in the same context. Now is the time mileage. to go beyond the mechanical integrity of affiliation of the head of the audit team at each site has been transferred to the head office. As such, simply complying with procedures and laws, the audit independence index2 increased from 98 points in 2013 to 98.5 points in 2014. or the passive integrity of ‘not giving and Strengthening of Management Transparency of Affiliates not receiving,’ instead focusing on the active The integrity of its affiliates is directly related to the integrity of KOSPO. In 2014, KOSPO identified integrity of changing corporate practice areas of improvement for increasing integrity at each business stage, from business development to and culture. KOSPO’s active integrity begins where busioperation of affiliates, and made efforts to improve the business transparency of affiliates to match ness perfor-mance meets the level of the company, including an integrity pledge at the time of establishment and areflection of anti-corruption strategy.” integrity in HR rules. As such, KOSPO is carrying out intermediate feasibility evaluations at the business Jeong-deok Lim, development stage, and has modified the HR rules of four affiliates, including Korea Offshore Wind Standing Auditor Office of Audit, KOSPO Power. This case was adopted by the Anti-corruption and Civil Rights Commission and shared by all public institutions. 1. Task Force Team: A temporary group organized to accomplish a specific goal. 2. Survey of audit independence conducted by an outside surveying agency after auditing each year 38 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 KEY TOPICS Facts Appendix 40 Stakeholder Engagement KOSPO Responds to Public Concern Regarding KOSPO’s stakeholder groups and their participation, and the main cases of participation Determination of Report Content Use of Defective Parts at Domestic Thermal Power 42 Process and result of determining what will be reported in the 2014 Sustainability Report, and how Generation Companies 44 The Other Topics Recycling of industrial byproducts and compliance with environmental regulations Shared growth In May 2013, the irregularities of supply parts at power plants became a social issue after it was reported that defective Social contributions and relations with local communities R&D parts falling below the quality standard had been used for years on end at the nuclear power plants. In order to repair and replace the defective parts, it was necessary to suspend the operation of said nuclear power plants, while work on power 58 Governance plants that were still in construction also had to be temporarily suspended, causing a power crisis. Some factories were Governance and sustainability system of KOSPO shut down, and citizens had to endure the hot summer as cooling systems could not be used at home or in the office. 60 Human Resources Human Resources composition by gender and site Following the incident, five domestic thermal power generating companies conducted external and voluntary internal audits to investigate if any power plant was using defective parts with falsified test reports. At the same time, KOSPO 61 Change in Power Market conducted a voluntary audit. The government decided that a more thorough investigation was needed to eradicate the Understanding the power market and introduction of Approved VC Scheme supply irregularities of power plants as they are directly related to stable power supply and citizen safety. In 2014, the 62 GRI G4 Indices Intergovernmental Group Eradicate Corruption conducted a full investigation of the utilization of parts at all domestic power plants. The group checked all parts used at 32 thermal power plants nationwide since 2008 and discovered that 63 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 12 part manufacturers had supplied defective parts to three domestic power generation companies by falsifying test reports. A case of the falsification of a materials test report for a pulverizing mill motor was also found at KOSPO, and the investigation discovered that the part manufacturer was deceiving KOSPO with illegal information, such that KOSPO was not involved in the illegal activity. KOSPO sanctioned the part manufacturer and reported them to the authorities. In October 2014, KOSPO developed a verification system to check the authenticity of test reports in real-time, so that the quality of power generation and the transparency of contracting are not damaged; KOSPO is now taking the test reports, which used to be submitted by the suppliers, directly from authorized testing agencies. To ensure the fairness of the verification, KOSPO contracts a specializing third party to inspect plants, and also has them survey the supply parts that had problems in their test reports, to find ways to prevent falsification of test reports. The survey results indicated that purchase specifications demanded too many items to be included in the submitted test report, and that it was a burden on suppliers. To solve the problem, purchase specifications were disclosed in advance to adjust for the tested items, and the test expense was separately calculated in the manufacturing cost. KOSPO pays particular attention to the reliability of power supply, so as to ensure that it does not deteriorate at any time due to the use of improper part. 40 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 41 Report Content Market Assurance Statement Stakeholder Engagement Demands of Stakeholders and Responses KOSPO has established and is operating a participating channel for each stakeholder group to increase the communication efficiency. The main issues identified by stakeholders’ participation during this report period, as well as KOSPO’s responses, are as follows: Stakeholder Customized Participating Main Issue Response Stakeholder engagement is the basis for establishing the business direction of KOSPO. The company rejects one-time only and monoGroup Channel Expansion of information disclosure1 and directional communication and seeks the participation of stakeholders in business strategy and actual management activities. Gov’t 3.0 emphasizing openness and development of open information system Policy cooperating consultative communication Implementation of ethical management strategic groups Detailed ethical management action plan programs Re-categorization of Stakeholder Groups Public Sector Public polic y forum External proliferation of integrity culture Sharing of integrity incentive as success cases 3.0 implementation advisory group Gov’t Organization Integrated stakeholders management system Organizing Stakeholders’ Collaboration KOSPO re-categorized stakeholder groups in accordance with the attributes of the interests of each stakeholder, KOSPO’s response Management performance Reflection of social contribution satisfaction Committee National Assembly evaluation to it, and the degree and similarity of their mutual influence upon each other. Each stakeholder is categorized into one of eight survey on social contribution programs Survey of social contribution satisfaction and Government administration Precise business strategy in accordance with demand to identify new projects inspection groups: public sector, shareholders and customers, employees, suppliers, industrial partners, local community, media and NGO. type of scenario Management strategy in accordance with environmental change scenarios Shareholders Integrated Management of Stakeholder Participation and Customers Shareholders’ meeting Expansion of expertise of part-time directors BOD and reorganization of open specialized In 2014, KOSPO organized the Stakeholders Collaboration Committee to manage stakeholders in an integrated way, and also Efficient BOD operation system Shareholders Meeting of company presidents committees participated in by outside experts Results-oriented BOD operation Committees Direct management of 4 key management redesigned the process of stakeholder participation. The Stakeholders Collaboration Committee, which is made up of managers Customers (Power Policy seminar issues by part-time directors Exchange) of relevant departments and outside advisors, performs monthly reviews on the status and efficiency of stakeholder engagement Disclosure of requested information: Actual through the contact point of field departments, integrating the outcome. The main issues discussed at the Stakeholders Collaboration power generation, forced outages, fuel usage, Consumers Online: SNS and homepage Information disclosure purchase of bituminous coal, power trading, Committee are reflected in the establishment of business plans specific to each stakeholder. market shares, and HQ transfer status KOSPO’s stakeholder participation process is as follows: Improvement of business, systems, practices, Implementation of 21 projects, such as Online: Portal, Integrity K-ⓘBank etc. improvement of practices and My KPI Improvement of communication capability Leadership education by level Customized Participation Stakeholders Collaboration Strategic Management Labor-mgmt. conference according to one’s position Management status briefing: twice a year at Sustainability Report Grievance settlement system Explanation and discussion of management each site Channel for Each Group Committee Committee Employees GWP Forum issues Joint inspection by labor and management Operated by the field The council checks the efficiency The committee discusses the The main issues of status and Junior Board Prevention of accidents and stable operation Selection of outstanding work site innovative Integrity ⓘDOL Club of equipment company and outstanding labor-management department in direct contact of stakeholder participation results and related points of outcome of stakeholders’ Labor relation satisfaction survey Improvement of productivity and partnership company (Ministry of Employment with each stakeholder group. channels and shares and stakeholder participation. participation are reported in the organizational efficiency and Labor) When followed up on by evaluates the outcome. The committee establishes Sustainability Report. 365 Communication Relay a department of business The council analyzes the a management strategy, Feedback on the results of Shared Growth Council Suppliers PCSI survey Customized shared growth Completion of 11 programs to jointly develop division, a stakeholder’s opinion stakeholder demands,requiring detailed tasks, and action plan stakeholders’ participation in SMP-30 project Constructors Online: KOCOA Talk2, material Inconveniences of qualification assessment is immediately reflected and a strategic response. (customized projects, etc.) that the process of reporting on Establishment of power plant material supplier integration system, 2nd tier and registration Material Suppliers supply qualifier integration system3 communicated. reflects stakeholder opinions sustainability and 3rd tier vendor payment mgmt. system, and SNS Industrial Partners Proliferation of outstanding cases: Improvement Domestic Power of performance of composite systems and Sharing of outstanding cases Plants Council for each collaboration development of power exchange bidding KOSPO Sustainability Joint response Academia program systems utilizing weather information Improved competitiveness through PCSI survey Suggestion of new and renewable energy R&D and collaboration policy modifications Cooperating Joint operation of high priced spare parts Agencies Management of Stakeholder Satisfaction Online: SNS and homepage KOSPO created the Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) in 2013 as an add-on to measuring the overall satisfaction of Power plant ombudsman Consultation in progress with Samcheok Happy Call residents and about Andong power labor relations. When the satisfaction level is surveyed, the expectations and opinions of KOSPO are also collected. It is part of the Social Contribution Committee Resolution of conflict with local residents transmission line Local Community Meeting with residents related to power plant construction Operation of social enterprise ‘Happy process of carrying out the stakeholder’s specific projects. In 2014, the targets for the satisfaction survey and opinion collection were Various councils: Environment, Local Residents Creation of jobs and contribution to Weondeok’ to provide jobs and increase migration measure, power expanded to local municipalities and industrial partners. increased income of local communities income of local residents Municipalities transmission line, local shared Promotion of local economy in new HQ area Programs to hire local residents in Busan, growth, etc. cultivate vendors, and social contribution Regional Support Project Deliberation services Committee PCSI survey Environmental Forum Specialized social contribution that is Reestablishment of social contribution strategy NGO Social Contribution Committee systematic and continuous, highlighting linked with the characteristics of energy Social contribution demand survey project characteristics business Press The decision making process for what contents to include in the biennial sustainability report Media Media Research reflects sustainability issues derived through media analysis. 1. Expansion of disclosed information in accordance with the stakeholder’s opinions: Additional disclosure of information regarding topics such as year-by-year public purchase, overseas business, new and renewable energy business and information on main contracts requested by vendors; atmospheric pollutant emissions and year-by-year discharge of coal ash requested by local residents; actual power generation, forced outage, fuel usage, purchase of bituminous coal, power trading, market shares, and HQ migration status requested by consumers 2. KOCOA Talk: An app service providing mobile information on SMB support 3. For government-owned power generating companies including KOSPO are normally set to assess qualification for suppliers to be procured. Instead of implementing qualification assessment by each power plant company, it is integrated managed by if a supplier is qualified by one power plant company, then also collectively qualified by other companies. (expected to reduce assessment costs of KRW 2.5 billion and also evaluation events up to 80%) 42 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 43 Report Content Market Assurance Statement Defining the Report Content Issue Review Committee, which is composed of the representatives of each stakeholder group. The results of the review reflect the common opinions agreed upon by many stakeholder groups. Evaluation of Select Material Topics by Stakeholders Stakeholder Evaluation The selected issues were evaluated by stakeholders. For eight days between June 10, 2015 and June 17, KOSPO is operating 8 sites in Hadong, Shinincheon, Busan, Youngnam, Namjeju, Yeongweol, Samcheok and Andong in Korea. In 2003 of KOSPO employees and 835 outside stakeholders who were in direct contact with KOSPO participated in an evaluation to other countries, its Australian unit is participating in resource development projects, whilevarious businesses such as IPP1, operation & exchange opinions. During the same period, local residents and general consumers were also surveyed online through SNS. 707 maintenance (O&M) and test operations are being carried out in South America and Asia by Jordanian and Chilean units. Although KOSPO employees and outside stakeholders responded for a 24.9% response rate2, and 1,456 local residents and general consumers the data in this report mostly focus on domestic sites that take up most of KOSPO’s business, the main issues related to overseas responded through SNS. business are also included. The Youngnam Thermal Power Plant was closed due to aged equipment in 2014, but this report contains its status and data. The Andong Combined Cycle Power Plant constructed in 2014 is also included in this report. Final Prioritization KOSPO prioritized the selected material topics by reflecting upon their strategic materiality as evaluated internally and via assessments by stakeholders. As a result, power generation reliability and stable power supply, financial performance and Report Content Determination Process long-term business strategy, and greenhouse gas reduction and anti-corruption were selected as issues of key priority. In addition, Investigation of Potential Prioritization Assurance Issues new and renewable energy, compliance with environmental regulations, shared growth, social contributions and local community Issue Evaluation Evaluation of Primary Issues Assurance by the third Parties Sustainable Environment Selected by Stakeholders relationship management, compliance with social sector regulations, recycling of industrial byproducts, and R&D were also assessed Impact analysis Defining process for report content Analysis to be important, in that order. Filtering of issues Survey of stakeholder’s opinions Reporting of material issues Strategy and outcome Validity Verification The selected topics include negative issues to ensure that the sustainability of KOSPO is analyzed with balance. Trends and international standards analysis Collection of stakeholders’ Final Prioritization The data collection plan was established by reviewing the impact on sustainability of each issue, and in which area of the inside or Policy regulation opinions on filtered issues Evaluation of materiality outside of the organization that impact would have an effect, in addition to whether any incidents occurred during the report period Industry’s common issues and Sustainability Issue Review Committee Validation preceding cases and an evaluation of the long-term impact of the individual subjects. Stakeholder’s opinions Layout of material topics The four material topics are described in the first half of the report, while the other topics are described Media analysis Selection of Primary Selection of Key Topics Material Issues mostly in the form of results in the second half. Some topics were grouped together when they were found to be more meaningful placed side-side. Grasping KOSPO’s Sustainability Issues Key Topics of the 2014 Sustainability Report Investigation of Potential Issues Report Scope Topics of Sustainability for KOSPO Layout of Material Topics KOSPO investigated all potential issues by analyzing the internal and external environment in the context of sustainability. The issues were investigated by dividing the sustainability environment into six areas. Internal External Strategic Evaluation Priority The energy and utilities industrial value added index by GRI G4 was included for the analysis of international trends and standards, DomeOverSuppPublic ShareConLocal Materialby Stakelier Sector holder/ sumer Comstic seas while issues of policy and regulation were centered aroundthe expectations of the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, the Ministry Customer munity ity holders Power generation reliability and stable power supply 95.2 81.6 1 P. 12 Business Strategy of Trade, Industry, and Energy, the Ministry of Environment, the Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership, and the policy, Financial performance and long-term business strategy 95.2 76.6 2 P. 18 Reliable Power assessments, and findings of the Anti-corruption and Civil Rights Commission. To identify issues, the expectations of stakeholders Greenhouse gas reduction 88.1 78.9 3 P. 24 Climate Change identified during the establishment process for mid-long term management strategy were also considered. Anti-corruption 83.3 80.8 4 P. 32 Active Integrity New and renewable energy 83.3 78.7 5 Compliance with environmental regulations 81.0 79.9 6 P. 44 Recycling and Compliance Prioritization Shared growth 78.6 76.3 7 P. 48 Shared Growth Local community relationship management 78.6 76.3 8 Filtering of Issues Compliance with social regulations 76.2 78.3 9 P. 52 Community Engagement KOSPO and an outside expert group first evaluated the impact of potential report issues and excluded less important issues. For the Recycling of industrial byproducts 73.8 78.9 10 impact analysis, an evaluation matrix including both the impact on sustainability and risk occurrence probability for each issue was P. 55 Research and Development Research and Development 76.2 73.3 11 analyzed, and then the issues deemed to have less impact were excluded. Review of Filtered Issues by Stakeholders Assurance by the Third Parties After filtering, the remaining issues were grouped by subject, and reviewed by in-house experts and outside stakeholders to confirm that the filtering process was transparent, appropriate, and not arbitrary, as well as to correct any possible errors that might have An independent verification agency having no direct interest in KOSPO reviewed the report to check if the process fully reflected the occurred. The reviewers checked whether the issue filtering process was appropriate, whether the selected issues were actually report issuing procedures and criteria of AA1000AS and GRI G4, as well as to see whether the selected subjects were well disclosed important to KOSPO, and whether any important issues were omitted. The review by the outside stakeholders was performed by the in the report. The reader can check the verification opinions of the third party on p.63. 1. Independent Power Plant: A project in which private capital constructs a power plant and operates it for a period of time to recoup its investment 2. 574 out of 2,003 KOSPO employees were surveyed, and 139 out of 835 outside stakeholders that were surveyed responded, while 1,456 people participated in the SNS survey. 44 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 45 Report Content Market Assurance Statement The Other Topics Recycling and Compliance recycles all 400,000 tons of desulfurized gypsum generated annually by the Hadong Thermal Power Plant and Namjeju Thermal If the industrial byproducts, wastewater, and various wastes that come from power plants are to be disposed of into the natural Power Plant which results in income of around KRW 5.0 billion. environment, there are economic and environmental costs related to establishing an area to store and process the waste before Desulfurized Gypsum Recycling Rate (unit: %) disposal. Wastes and industrial by-products, although an annoyance to some individuals, can actually increase social benefits if 102 properly utilized where needed. To KOSPO, recycling waste and wastewater is an opportunity for reducing its environmental impact while finding new sources of profit and increasing the income of local communities. Moreover, as KOSPO is in the business of large scale power generation, which affects the natural environment, including the atmosphere, as well as soil and water quality, 100 100 100 100 100 compliance with environmental regulations must be continuously managed. 98 The KOSPO Approach KOSPO’s green management consists of the four domains of an environmental management system, resources and energy, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 climate change, and social responsibility. The resources and energy domain includes measures for reducing on-site power usage during power plant operation, creating more energy with less fuel by increasing the performance and efficiency of equipment, in addition toreducing the burden on the environment and finding business synergy by recycling industrial byproducts. Complyingwith Discharge of Wastes and Wastewater environmental laws and regulations is the minimum criteria that must be fulfilled in all areas. As for recycling, the strategic focus is on Recycling of Wastewater desulfurized gypsum and coal ash, as well as compliance with environmental regulations. Waste water is generated by power plants during the processes of boiler water quality management, demineralized water2 production, and sulfur dioxide removal from exhaust gas arising from burnt fuel. KOSPO operates wastewater treatment facilities Strategic Focus thatmanage wastewater, by applying treatment that transforms it into clean water. This water is reused to transport coal ash Compliance with Environmental generated by combustion of coal. Recycling of Industrial Byproducts Wastes and Wastewater Discharge Regulations 98 % 135.2 % 0 cases Wastewater3 (unit: m3) Violation of important environmental Desulfurized gypsum recycling rate Coal ash recycling rate regulations 1,535,488 2015 target: 100 % 2015 target: 100 % 2015 target: 0 cases 1,420,346 1,155,794 1,191,341 1,075,361 1,140,126 1,118,231 1,149,310 986,203 874,418 Recycling of Industrial Byproducts 468,346 310,164 206,124 220,767 248,989 Recycling of Condenser Effluent 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 A large amount of cooling water is needed to cool the steam generated by turbine operation, and the temperature of this water Regeneration Recycled Discharged increases by 5~7oC after cooling. It is important to consider the impact of discharging this heated water, called condenser effluent, into sea water. KOSPO chooses to use condenser effluent to increase the income of local residents by providing it for use in the Wasatewater discharge per Power Generation4 (unit: m3/GWh) Wastewater Recycling Rate5 (unit: %) breeding of agricultural products and fish adapted toa warmer environment. Using the recycled condenser effluent, local residents 40.3 saved 80% on heating costs, or KRW 1.5 billion, and gained KRW 530 million in additional income through better products. The 36.7 government selected this as an outstanding case of resource recycling1, and KOSPO is considering applying such methods to other 32.2 power plants, including Hadong, to spread condenser effluent recycling nationwide. 7.855 5.141 18 22.5 Recycling of Desulfurized Gypsum 4.249 3.252 3.242 Limestone slurry is injected into power plant desulfurizing facilities in order to remove sulfur dioxide from exhaust gas. This lime slurry 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 reacts with asulfur dioxide component to become gypsum, which is then used widely in gypsum board and cement making. KOSPO 1. After it was selected as an outstanding management improvement case by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance in 2013, KOSPO signed an Agreement for Recycling of Industrial Byproducts with the Minsitry of Trade, 2. Demineralized water: Water removed of impurities such as metal ions. The water used for generating power is converted into steam by high temperature and pressure inside the power plant. If metal ions are present in the Industry and Energy in 2014. water, pipelines can quickly become corroded. Spent water is changed to demineralized water in an effort to prevent this. 3, 4. The 2012 Sustainability Report incorrectly stated the amount of discharged wastewater. The correct amount is represented here. 5. The wastewater recycling rate decreased in 2014 due to the construction of the new Andong Combined Cycled Thermal Power Plant. 46 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 47 Report Content Market Assurance Statement Recycling of Waste Weight of Waste of Each Type9 (unit: ton) 38,604 Weight of Waste of Each Processing Type (unit: ton) 27,992 Power plants generate more than 30 types of waste including coal ash, a fine powder generated by the incineration of coal, waste oil 29,752 generated by facility maintenance, waste heat insulators and waste synthetic resin. KOSPO contracts specialized companies qualified to handle 18 types of waste, including waste sludge and waste heat insulators, and recycles the other 12 types of waste, including 23,415 13,517 coal ash, into needed resources. It strategically focuses on the recycling of coal ash, which is essential for the continuation of thermal 18,525 9,446 8,691 power plant operation. 9,201 11,786 8,192 5,202 5,245 4,993 7,020 3,815 4,904 8,226 3,377 3,797 Coal Ash Recycling Rate1 (unit: %) 5,902 2,981 1,261 1,921 3,494 577 660 452 622 2,996 579 143.6 1,075 803 541 514 135.2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total wastes Construction wastes General wastes Designated wastes Consignment disposal Recycling Landfill 100 100 86.6 80 Power Generation to Waste Ratio10 (unit: Ton/GWh) Waste Recycling Rate (unit: %) 52 0.659 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 40.3 36.7 0.393 32.2 Filling for Mine Restoration 0.111 18.0 Coal ash is recycled into the materials to be used as fill material2, cement raw material and the mixing material of ready-mixed 22.5 0.173 0.153 concrete. However, the demand for such materials is low when the construction industry is sluggish. The coal ash generated by 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 power generation is stored in a temporary storage area to be recycled later. It is costly both to procure the space for these areas, called ash ponds, and to store the coal ash in them. Limestone mining companies have other problems. Mined space must be filled with other materials to prevent collapse, and only legally approved materials can be used for that purpose. KOSPO cooperated with Mine Reclamation Corp. to test3 the mines in Gangwon Province in accordance with the precautionary principle4. To be objective, the Compliance with Environmental Regulation related policies in Korea and other countries were reviewed, and experts’ opinions were collected and submitted to the Ministry of KOSPO strives to minimize its impact on the environment. Statutory environmental regulation provides the minimum standard for Environment. The Ministry of Environment then inspected the test site with KOSPO. As it was proven that it was possible to restore KOSPO’s environmentally related practices. To manage its impact on the environment, the company complies with the Clean Air the mine using coal ash5 it is expected that the government will be able to secure more resources as 35% more limestone can be Conservation Act, the Special Act on the Improvement of Air Quality in Seoul Metropolitan Area and Guidelines on Greenhouse Gas/ mined, the mining company will be able togain more income, and KOSPO will be able toreduce the cost of ash ponds by KRW 90.0 Energy Target Management Scheme in the atmospheric preservation area; the Water Quality and Aquatic Ecosystem Conservation billion.6 Act in the water preservation area; and the Wastes Controls Act, the Act on the Promotion of Saving and Recycling of Resources, and the Construction Waste Recycling Promotion Act for waste. In addition, it also complies with the Toxic Chemicals Control Act, the Eco-friendly Construction Material Persistent Organic Pollutants Control Act, and the Soil Environment Conservation Act. KOSPO has eco-friendly construction material production technology to mix coal ash with CO2in order to replace construction In 2013 and 2014, KOSPO did not face any fines or non-monetary punishment due to violation of environmental laws or regulation. materials such as sand and gravel. The artificial light-weight aggregate7, which is coal ash processed at 1,200℃ to replace basalt, COD SS is costly and has limited demand. Considering the economic and environmental factors, KOSPO developed the technology to convert coal ash into eco-friendly construction materials by combining it with CO2 at room temperature. Apatent is pending on 2.21 1.01 2 0.9 thistechnology developed as part of anjoint project among members of industry, academia, and research. For commercialization of Discharge (unit: ton) the technology, apilot test, basic facility design, and feasibility study were conducted between April 2013 and April 2014, and KOSPO Discharge ratio per power generation established Samcheok Eco Construction Material Co., Ltd. with outside funding. The eco-friendly construction material factory being (unit: kg/GWh) 1.01 0.51 0.49 0.91 0.45 constructed in Samcheok has the capacity to produce 200,000 tons of fine aggregates8 and 200,000 tons of cement admixture. 0.77 Recycling 400,000 tons of coal ash will lead to an additional income of KRW 7.0 billion, as well as coal ash processing cost savings of 0.04 0.03 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 KRW 6.0 billion and annual greenhouse gas reductions of 80,000 tons. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1. In 2013 and 2014, existing companies even recycled coal ash, pushing the rate of recycling beyond 100%. 2. Fill material: Filling alow area in the ground with soil. (The soil used for filling up is called fill material.) 3. 9, 10. The amount of construction waste and the waste to power generation ratio increased in 2014 because of theAndong Combined Cycle Power Plant construction. Collaborative research for filling ash for recovering mine business (2010~2014) with KOSPO, MIRECO, MOE and Korea Liimestone Cooperative and MOTIE 4. The principle that when there is a possibility that an action or policy can be harmful to the public or environment, the responsibility to prove its harmlessness is assumed by the individual or group taking the action when there is no scientific agreement regarding the level of harm. 5. Amendment of the Enforcement Rule of the Waste Control Act: ‘Mining restoration material’ was added to the purpose of ‘Guideline on Recycling of Cinder Discharge material’. 6. It is expected that 10 million m2 of empty space will be created in the limestone mines along the shores of the East Sea each year, and the coal ash generated by a 8,300 MW power plant for 30 years can be recycled to fill the empty space with coal ash. 7. Artificial material used to reduce the weight of concrete 8. Fine sands or aggregates used as the raw material for concrete 48 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 49 Report Content Market Assurance Statement The Other Topics Shared Growth SMP 30 Project to Develop Hidden Champions Current economic features include the breakdown of industrial boundaries and the intertwining of industry and technology resulting KOSPO realized that providing technological development support to unspecified suppliers would result in an inefficient scattering of from development. To be more competitive, the stakeholders involved in a value chain must form a cooperative network. KOSPO capabilities. What was needed was selection and concentration. As such, the company is carrying out the SMP 30 (Small & Medium must also find ways to have mutual competitiveness with suppliers in a supply chain and to cooperate with others in building the Co. Partnership 30) project to develop world-class companies which are small but strong (hidden champions). It plans to select 30 foundations for long-term development. The domestic power market is limited, so it is important to cultivate and support the joint companies with great potential and invest KRW 10.0 billion by 2020 in addition to providing specific support dependent upon a firm’s entry of small domestic companies into global markets so that they have the technical capability necessary to be accepted in foreign stage of growth. The SMP 30 project has provided grants to 21 suppliers totaling KRW 5.4 billion. markets and expand overseas business. The competitiveness of such networks is essential as KOSPO seeks to expand its business Status of SMP 30 Project internationally. Outcome The KOSPO Approach Type Goal Companies Selected Investment Total (R&D Investment) (Number of company) (KRW billion) (Companies/ Investment) KOSPO’s suppliers can be divided principally into fuel suppliers and construction vendors. KOSPO is implementing a shared growth 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 model under which it creates synergy with a network of suppliers and strengthens the competitiveness of society at large. In other Small Giant 10 companies (KRW 3.0 billion) 2 4 1 0.6 1.1 0.4 7 companies (KRW 2.1 billion) words, it is pursuing more than just achievements for large and small companies; rather it is seeking to provide both national and societal attainment in addition to that reached by firms. KOSPO’s shared growth strategy focuses on three areas – strengthening KOSPO Star 10 companies (KRW 2.0 billion) 7 3 1.2 0.6 0.2 10 companies (KRW 2.0 billion) the industrial eco-system, supporting SMEs and fair competition, and establishing 6 approaches for strengthening the trusted K-10 10 companies (KRW 5.0 billion) 4 0 1.3 4 companies (KRW 1.3 billion) management value system, strengthening benefit sharing, developing world markets, strengthening general competitiveness, and 계 30 companies (KRW 10.0 billion) 13 7 1 3.1 1.7 0.6 21 companies (KRW 5.4 billion) increasing the fair trade implementation system. Strategic Focus Support of Small & Medium Suppliers Strengthening of Industrial Eco-system Support of SMEs Fair Competition FDS Enterprise Development Project 40 cases KRW 34.4 billion 22.8 % KOSPO is carrying out the FDS Development project to support the long-term growth of socially disadvantaged enterprises in Agreement to benefit sharing Purchases from FDS enterprises Rate of private contracts KRW 100.0 billion in joint purchases for 5 power generation, specifically enterprise owned by female or the disabled and Social enterprises (FDS enterprises). Recognizing that 2015 target: 50 cases 2015 target: 20 % years from 2013 to 2017 purchasing of mostly consumables would lead only to limited shared growth, KOSPO decided to provide support for long-term growth through technology transfer, improvement of competitiveness and development of sales channels. KOSPO plans to spend around KRW 100.0 billion to purchase products from FDS enterprises for 5 years from 2013 to 2017 in cooperation with relevant agencies. It has thus far spent KRW 36.9 billion in 2013 and KRW 34.4 billion in 2014, a total of KRW 71.3 billion, to purchase Strengthening of Industrial Eco-system products from FDS enterprises. Benefit Sharing Benefit sharing occurs when a large company helps a supplier lower costs as well as develop technology and then shares the ensuing KOSPO Platform Centered, KRW 10 billion Femaleresults. If a supplier realizes increased profit as a result of the large company aiding in the technological development of the supplier, owned FDS Enterprise Development Project in public procurement Enterprise for 5 years the two parties share the increased profit as agreed in advance. As benefit sharing is a way to improve the competitiveness of both Female-owned Enterprise Disability Enterprise Social Enterprise parties, it is one of the key shared growth programs of KOSPO. The benefit sharing scheme was adopted to help small and medium Social Disability KOVWA KODDI KSEPA (products from FDS Enterprise Enterprise enterprises) suppliers increase sales and has established the largest benefit sharing fund among government-owned power generating companies. Increased Sales at Suppliers Benefit Sharing Fund (unit: KRW million) as the Result of Benefit Sharing (unit: KRW 100 million) As a result of the FDS Enterprise Development project, the consumables centered purchase pattern is changing to a technology based 160 material purchase patternIn addition,10 companies that KOSPO supported for commercial R&D acquired 2 patents. As such, the 91.4 81.4 81.7 140 Ministry of Health and Welfare selected KOSPO as the most outstanding company in preferred purchasingof products from disability enterprises in 2014. 66.6 55.8 97.4 96.2 93.2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 50 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 51 Report Content Market Assurance Statement Joint Technology Development projects to improve systems in 5 areas, including bidding and contracting, after collecting the opinions of 640 suppliers. Currently, 28 In a 2013 shared growth business preferences survey of small and medium companies, the support most preferred by suppliers was projects have been completed through the modification of regulation, etc., and the satisfaction level of suppliers as surveyed by an joint technology development. KOSPO divides R&D with suppliers into three steps: joint R&D, technical problem resolution, and outside survey agency increased by 15% from 7.8 points to 9.0 points. As a result, KOSPO was selected in 2014 by the Ministry of outcome commercialization, and provides support specific to each step. Trade, Industry and Energy as the most outstanding company in improving regulation. New Investment on Joint R&D (unit: KRW 100 million) Joint Certification of Vendor Qualification 73.6 67 A company supplying materials to a power plant is inspected for qualifications and registered as a vendor only when it is qualified. Although all state-owned power 52 48.3 42 generating companies have similar criteria and procedures for registering qualified 31.3 vendors, they manage vendors independently. This means that vendors must repeatedly go through similar processes while power plants waste administrative 15.5 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 resources by separately inspecting the same vendors. To improve the situation, KOSPO developed EASY-U, an integrated system in which 5 government-owned Purchase of Products from SMEs EASY-U System power generating companies can jointly manage vendors. With this system, Recognizing that the individual purchasing of government-owned power generating companies causes inefficiency through schedule a company registered as a vendor with a participating government-owned power generating company is authorized as a vendor duplication and increased cost, KOSPO led efforts for an integrated system of product purchasing from SMEs. As a result, the number for all companies. It is expected that by utilizing EASY-U, vendors will save KRW 1.85 billion while government-owned power of suppliers participating in purchase counseling increased from 40 to 80 and the counseling period drastically decreased from generating companies will save KRW 650 million, thus resulting in total savings of KRW 2.5 billion. Vendors additionally benefit from around 3 months to one day. the simplified registration process as around 80% of procedures for qualification application and inspection/evaluation have been Rate of Purchase of Products from Small and Medium Companies (unit: %) eliminated. This system was selected as an outstanding case of management of public institutions in 2013. 80 Improvement of Transparency and Fairness of Contracting KOSPO discloses private contract information, kept confidential in the past, in the bidding system in advance and allows bidders to 61 57.3 58.9 raise objections. It also operates the Contract Review Committee, in which the majority of members are outside contracting experts, 53.9 to increase the transparency of the contracting process. The integrity supervision system compares past bid winning rates of vendors. 48.9 43.8 Private Contracts1 (unit: %) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 38.7 37.5 35.7 Glocal Power 10 Project ‘Glocal’, a term produced by combining the words global and local, means ‘globalization with local context’. KOSPO has been 25.7 supporting customized growth of emerging small and medium companies in the Busan region since it moved its headquarters to 22.8 Busan in compliance with the government’s policy of moving government-owned companies outside of the capital region. The 20 15 Glocal Power 10 is a venture in which 10 small energy part material companies in the Busan region are selected to receive support for 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 the development and commercialization of specialized technologies. KOSPO plans to invest KRW 5 billion for 3 years and is providing 75% of the total development cost for up to KRW 0.5 billion for each project. In the first phase of the project, 5 companies, including Protection of Subcontractors and Payment of Fair Prices Power Tech, were selected and provided grants totaling KRW 1.9 billion for joint R&D. There are plans to select 5 more companies KOSPO amended the criteria related to contracting and payment in order to protect subcontractors and ensure that they are paid a in the second phase. In 2014, the purchase rate for supplier companies in the Busan area amounted to about 4% of the KOSPO fair price. The subjects of payment supervision were expanded from only 1st tier vendors to include 2nd and 3rd tier vendors, and the total, and from 2015, KOSPO plans for local partners to participate in bids by making regionally-restricted bids mandatory, thus internal evaluation guidelines for the rate of direction payment were changed from full credit for 20% direct payment to full credit strengthening local purchases. for 30% direct payment. Whereas in the past a vendor was only asked to correct a situation if a subcontractor was subjected to fair trade practice violations, the contract now stipulates a stricter termination clause. To firmly establish fair trade practices, the payment Fair Competition supervision system is operated to prevent late or nonpayment to 2nd or 3rd tier suppliers. Improvement of Systems Reflecting the Opinions of Suppliers In recognition of these efforts, KOSPO maintained the highest outstanding grade in assessment of public institutions on shared KOSPO formed the Regulation Improvement Committee, in which experts and supplier representatives participated, and initiated 52 growth given by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy in 2012. 1. The target rate for private contracts is managed with the aim of balancing the two purposes of providing fair competition by having as many participating vendors as possible and providing preferential treatment to small companies in order to protect the disadvantaged. 52 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 53 Report Content Market Assurance Statement The Other Topics Community Engagement Among the programs listed above, KOSPO plans to increase investment in Warm-heart Energy as it most represents the core business Power plant construction and operation can affect the health and life of local residents as well as the natural surroundings. It may values of KOSPO. seriously affect the local environment or even force residents to relocate. Local residents may oppose not only the power plant but Change of Social Contribution Portfolio (unit: %) also auxiliary facilities such as transmission towers which send generated electricity to consumers. They are also uncomfortable with the wastewater and discharge gas produced by power generation. Although electricity generation may result in the emission of 20 unwelcome elements, it is a process that is essential not only to local residents but to all members of society. Therefore, it is important Warm-heart Energy to consider ways in which both power plants and local communities can prosper while continuing to produce electricity, the resource Hope Energy 68.4 2014 26.7 40 2025 which power national economic development. Caring Energy 4.9 40 The KOSPO Approach KOSPO has reformed its social contribution strategy to broaden its perspective on volunteering and donations and to approach social contributions in a more strategic way. Its intention is to participate in solving social issues while utilizing the core capacity of Energy Welfare its business and business strategy. KOSPO’s social contribution strategy can be divided into three parts: the creation of values linked KOSPO has been carrying out ‘CO2 Paparo Residential Environment Improvement’ since 2009. It is a project that involves saving office with business, the development of local manpower and creation of jobs, and assistance for the socially disadvantaged. KOSPO energy and using the savings to establish a fund for improving the energy environment of local residents each year. In 2014, a fund of particularly focuses on the creation of values linked with business and development of local manpower and promotion of economy. KRW 80 million was established with office electricity cost savings for the year 2013 and was used to build the ‘Energy Love House #1’ The outcome of KOSPO’s social contribution and local community relationship management is assessed by PCSI. in Agyang-myeon, Hadong-gun. It was built with the purpose of providing a new residential dwelling for lower income families who may not benefit much from electric equipment replacement. CO2Paparo Residential Environment Improvement Project Budget Strategic Focus (unit: KRW 100 million) 4.4 Creation of Values Linked with Business Promotion of Local Economy KRW 80 million 3,469 persons CO2 Paparo (meaning ‘less and less’) Residential Environment Creation of jobs in local community Improvement Project 0.8 2015 target: KRW 100 million 2015 target: 3,570 persons 0.3 0.341 0.35 0.46 1 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 Creation of Values Linked with Business Local Social Contribution in Overseas Bases Energy ON To solidify its foundation for overseas business, KOSPO is also paying attention to local social contributions. It created the Power KOSPO’s social contribution program consists of Warm-heart Energy, Hope Energy and Caring Energy. Generation Technology Short-term College in Cambodia and provided education on power generation technology to college students in Chile and power industry professionals in both Chile and Jordan in order to improve the company’s global profile and Warmheart Energy Hope Energy Caring Energy develop power generation manpower in areas of potential overseas expansion. Creation of values and energy welfare1 Development of local manpower Assistance for the socially disadvantaged In Cambodia, KOSPO provided solar cell system, LED lighting and educational materials to 3 areas, improved educational facilities and promotion of the economy and provided medical services in a farming village near Phnom Penh. In Vietnam, it carried out the ‘Heemang Light Sharing’ project Energy assistance to low income families: Education on energy: Green Energy Science Voluntary service in new HQ area: 365 CO2paparo residential environment Class Everyday Food Delivery, assistance for people providing youth education, eyesight recovery surgery and assistance in increasing energy efficiency. In 2015, it plans to donate solar improvement and heating support Discovery of local talents in educationally neglected by welfare, food services to low photovoltaic power generation systems and provide technical lectures to Tafilah Technical University located near the Tafilah Wind Safety diagnosis and infrastructure neglected groups: Support for afterschool income senior citizens, school uniform support Farm site in Jordan. All these efforts are the outcome of plans to practice socially responsible management linked with overseas improvement of facilities vulnerable to heat cultural and art classes to students, and assistance in cultural life business development. Energy specialized projects around power Development of regional industrial-academic Joint social contribution with public institutions: plants: 1-power plant-1 specialized project cooperation: Practical energy lectures and Free food for low income groups, sharing of CO2 Village college student supporters for voluntary work rice, and sharing of briquettes Development of Local Manpower and Promotion of Local Economy Heemang (meaning ‘Hope’) Light – Overseas Increased income in local community: Social Energy Sharing Concert Growing Together with Busan voluntary service enterprise – Happy Wondeok KOSPO Angel Crayon Choir Since it moved its HQ office to Busan in 2014, KOSPO has been reviewing measures to contribute to the local economy through Health, Energy and Love Sharing cooperation with local suppliers, social contributions and the employment of local residents. The economy of Busan is struggling with Fence of Love declining employment, an aging population and a deficient welfare infrastructure. KOSPO was able to fill 16.4% of new employee 1. Helping residents experiencing difficulties to efficiently use energy 54 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 55 Report Content Market Assurance Statement The Other Topics Research and Development positions with local residents by giving extra credit to applicants from the Busan region. It has established educational cooperation systems with local colleges to educate local personnel and strives to promote the local economy through social service and shared growth. Life without electricity is unimaginable. From the alarm that wakes us up, to the transportation that carries us to school or work, and the heating devices that keep our homes warm while we sleep energy is a vital part of daily life. Energy powers the medical Creation of New Jobs equipment in emergency rooms, the manufacturing processes of factories and street lights in neighborhood alleys. KOSPO produces 1 Happy Wondeok, located in Wondeok-eup, Samcheok City, is a social enterprise founded by KOSPO in 2013 to provide jobs to local the energy that has become an essential element to life on this planet. To KOSPO, R&D is the study of how to supply needed energy, residents. In 2014, Happy Wondoek provided 27 new jobs and recorded sales of KRW 1.0 billion. In addition to operating this social how to produce better energy more stably and how to prepare the energy needed for the future. R&D can be a burden to the enterprise, KOSPO strives to provide decent new jobs to local communities through outsourcing of operations and maintenance work, financial performance of a company in the short term as it requires the investment of human and financial resources. However, the preferred hiring of local residents at construction sites, and development of new projects through partnership with the private sector. importance of R&D is clear when considering the fact that conveniences based on technologies that hadn’t even been thought of only a few years ago are now part of everyday life. R&D is an investment for the future. New Job Creation in Local Communities (unit: persons) 5,245 The KOSPO Approach The purpose of R&D at KOSPO is to realize the core values of change and innovation to help create sustainable growth. For that, 3,469 3,570 3,317 KOSPO strives to develop technologies for the future and secure global competitiveness with Korean technology. The core of R&D consists of developing next generation key technologies ahead of others, securing the world’s best power plant operation know-how 609 687 1,226 and employing a future growth engine. The main programs for taking early leadership in next generation key technologies include development of technologies to cope with climate change such as greenhouse gas emission reduction, new and renewable energy, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 development of technologies to increase the efficiency of power generation and technologies that use alternative fuel to increase economic efficiency and environmental factors. The main programs for power plant operation know-how include development of Energy Tourism technologies for preventive diagnosis, equipment maintenance and performance improvement and development of Korean models To improve the negative image of power generation and contribute to the promotion of the local economy using the resources of of key equipment. Since the value of such technologies will only be clear after they have been commercialized, KOSPO plans to power plants, KOSPO developed a tourism product based on energy themes. The green energy industry tourism program created encourage commercialization of these technologies by using the Practical Index of each technology as a performance measure. in cooperation with local communities is linked with local history, culture and the nature of the mines, solar photovoltaic power generators and wind farms near the Yeongweol Power Plant. The program, which was selected as a grant project by the Ministry of Strategic Focus Culture, Sports and Tourism, brought 500 more tourists to the region, resulting in economic benefits of KRW 130 million in 2014. Preoccupying with Next Generation Development of Power Plant Operation Performance Management Focusing on Key Technology Know-how Commercialization Outcome Localization of condenser drain valve Support of Neglected Groups 10 MW for high-temperature and high-pressure Introduction of RnDeX Although KOSPO intends to expand Warm-heart Energy and Hope Energy to strategically implement its social contribution programs, CO2 dry capture technology Localization of component R&D commercialization index 2015 target: Expand on technology for gas it does not intend to ignore Caring Energy and its support for neglected groups. The social responsibility of a state-owned energy 2017 target: 300 MW turbine component for high temperature 2015 target: Development of RnDeX company is broader than that of commercial companies (the primary objective of which is to pursue profits) and is partly to play the role of window for government policy designed to assist neglected groups. To meet its social responsibilities, KOSPO is carrying out various social contribution programs such as Energy Sharing Concerts and Fence of Love. It intends to maintain a certain portion of Preoccupying with Next Generation Key Technologies Caring Energy in the future. KOSPO G4 Total Social Contribution Expense (unit: KRW billion) KOSPO is carrying out the KOSPO G4 project to develop the four next generation key technologies through selection and concentration of R&D capabilities, cooperation among industry, academia, and research, strategic alliances and investment. The 4 6.23 next generation key technologies include CCR (carbon capture and reuse), combustion of low-calorific coal, domestic offshore wind power generation and value added technologies utilizing power generation byproducts. The commercialization plan and research for 4.87 4.93 4.6 this project are carried out by a total of 36 experts, 6 for each technology, from industry, academia, and research. 4.02 Selection and Concentration of R&D Capabilities / Industry-Academia-R&D Technical Cooperation / Strategic Alliance and Investment 3.11 3.26 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 Domestic Wind Power Generation High Value Addition of Byproducts CCR(Carbon Capture and Reuse) Combustion of Low-calorific Coal Technology of Power Generation 1. An organization established with the purpose of providing jobs and social services to the socially disadvantaged with income gains through social value activities 56 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 57 Report Content Market Assurance Statement Industrial Property Rights efficiency. The benefits of sliding pressure operation also include the reduction of boiler tube and turbine thermal stress as boiler KOSPO currently owns 262 patents and 57 Industrial Property Rights Ownership temperature can be constantly maintained even during lower load power generation. The Samcheok 2:1 Power Plant is designed for utility models and plans to ensure sustainable Type Description Cases Status flexible operation during an emergency as it can be operated at 1:1 when a boiler is shut down. growth by focusing on the development of Domestic Patent Slurry transport pipe for thermal power plants, etc. 262 Registered Conceptual Drawing of 2:1 Combination at the Samcheok Green Power 2:1 Combination technologies to lead the future. It received Utility Model Conveyor pulley, etc. 57 Registered Trademark ATP-100, etc. 16 Registered the Presidential Award in the National Quality Contest of 2013 and was awarded both a Design Water treatment pipeline for power plants 1 Registered Development of Equipment Operation Technologies International Patent CO2 absorbent for strong dry recycling 9 Registered Silver Medal in the German Invention and Improvement of Equipment Reliability and Early Stabilization of New Equipment Patent Contest and a SME Technology Cooperation Award in 2014. In 2014, KOSPO identified facilities vulnerable to frequent repairs and developed 12 technologies including a pipe vibration absorption technology to improve equipment reliability6 that led to a forced outage ratio7 of 0.16%. In addition, the company CO2 Capture and Reuse developed 33 operation technologies and applied them for process management. KOSPO further introduced a turbine bearing8 KOSPO proved possible a 10 MW CO2 dry capture technology in a 2014 field test.1 Through more than 1,800 hours of operation, it inspection technology that reduced test operations at Samcheok Thermal Power Plant by 55 days. tested which capture equipment was the most efficient and under what kinds of conditions as grounds for new business using CO2. This technology reduces CO2 emissions at a low cost, produces construction materials and chemicals, and enables high efficiency Parts Localization agricultural industry. KOSPO is developing Korean models of key power generation parts to increase long term technology self-sufficiency and economic system efficiency. These efforts led to 69 patents and 30 technology transfers in 2014. Development of Korean models of digital High Capacity Fluidized Bed Power Generation Technology bidirectional communicating gas measurement devices and condensed water discharge valves for high temperature and pressure The Samcheok Thermal Power Plant currently being constructed applies the world’s largest 500 MW ultra-supercritical pressure resulted in cost savings of KRW 3 billion and KRW 8.5 billion won, respectively. circulating fluidized bed combustion (CFBC) boiler. Until now, the CFBC boiler2 at the Lagisza Power Plant in Poland had the largest capacity with 460 MW, but KOSPO has developed CFBC technology with a larger 500 MW capacity. Practicality Oriented Performance Management A CFBC boiler is an eco-friendly power generation system that greatly reduces discharge of pollutants such as sulfur oxides without using a separate desulfurization system. It does so through a desulfurization process inside the boiler during which coal, limestone Practicality Index of R&D and air are simultaneously injected and then cyclically combusted. Moreover, the combustion temperature inside the boiler is kept at KOSPO is developing RnDeX, an indicator of increased productivity resulting from R&D investment, to manage the level of practical around 900℃, lower than a conventional combustion furnace, so that relatively fewer nitrogen oxides, which are generated at high R&D. The RnDex was named by combining the terms R&D and Index, which is used to measure the outcome of R&D. Existing R&D temperatures, are emitted. performance management has only focused on the steps prior to commercialization of developed technology and measured attained As a CFBC boiler can use a wide range of fuels, it can completely combust low grade coals that generally cannot be used in power patents and transferred technologies. The new strategy, however, intends to focus on practical success and measure products sold plants. For that reason, the CFBC technology is more favorably accepted in areas where coal is in short supply, and its demand is and saved costs. When RnDeX development is complete, KOSPO expects to quantitatively and objectively measure and manage the continuously increasing. Particularly, the CFBC boiler operated in Samcheok can create combustion even when bio fuel, such as effectiveness of its R&D investment plan. 3 the barks of trees, is mixed in. Furthermore, it can produce electricity with only low-calorific coals which are cheaper and can thus R&D Investment (unit: KRW 100 million) significantly reduce fuel cost. 165 2:1 Boiler-to-Turbine Combination Technology 121 118 Four 500 MW capacity supercritical pressure CFBC boilers and two 1,000 MW capacity steam turbine power generators are being 107 102 constructed at Samcheok Green Power. They are organized in a 2:1 boiler-to-turbine ratio, meaning the steam generated by two 92 96 boilers powers a single turbine generator. This is the first facility in the world to make use of a 2:1 combination with supercritical 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2025 pressure CFBC boilers and is expected to yield higher efficiency than power plant facilities that use a 2:1 combination of subcritical R&D details regarding CO2 recycling technology and new and renewable energy for coping with climate change can be found on p. 29, pressure boilers. While power plants with a 2:1 combination of subcritical pressure boilers are operated in constant pressure mode4 cases of high value additions to power generation byproducts on p.44~46, and efforts to increase equipment reliability on p. 18~23. under which a constant boiler pressure is maintained, Samcheok Green Power applied the concept of sliding pressure operation to adjust boiler pressure while all steam control values are opened. It reduces throttling loss5 by steam control valve and thus increases 1. The field test included pilot operations to check if the new technology could actually be applied in the field. 2. A critical point (225.56kg/cm2, 374.15℃) is the point where the beginning and ending points of water 5. Throttling loss is the loss of heat and pressure by pressure, velocity and temperature decrease due to friction and turbulence created when vapor suddenly passes through a narrow path such as the valve hole. 6. This is an vaporization are the same. In power generation, it is called subcritical pressure if the main steam pressure of a power plant is lower than the critical point and supercritical pressure if it is higher than the critical point. Power indication of how stably electricity can be supplied without equipment failure or power loss and can be represented by the forced outage rate, unplanned capacity loss rate, heat efficiency or onsite power rate. 7. The rate of plants generally raise steam pressure to increase power generation efficiency. 3. As high-calorific coal generates more heat than low-calorific coal when the same amount is combusted, it is preferred by most power plants power generation lost due to unforeseen causes such as equipment failure or problems. 8. A device which fixes the turbine shaft position and supports the weight to ensure seamless turbine rotation. worldwide which has pushed up the price. As a result, it is actually more economical to use more low-calorific coals than fewer high-calorific coals. However, using low-calorific coals requires a system that can produce electricity with low-calorific coals. 4. This is the control of output by regulating the steam flow rate with the steam control valve while maintaining pressure of main steam out of the boiler. It differs from sliding pressure operation under which the boiler is operated with controlled steam pressure in order to prevent deterioration of thermal efficiency at low load. 58 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 59 Report Content Market Assurance Statement Governance KOSPO is a market based public corporation1 generating electricity mostly from thermal power plants and is fully owned by KEPCO. BOD Operation and Sustainability System The BOD of KOSPO deliberates and decides upon the company’s main policies and major issues including management goals, Board of Directors budgets and settlements, as well as long-term financial management plans. It reports on the findings of parliamentary inspection of KOSPO organizes its Board of Directors (BOD) to decide main management issues in accordance with the Commercial Act, the Act administration, accounting audits and audits by the Board of Audit, in addition to inspections and follow-up measures. The general on the Management of Public Institutions and the Articles of Association. The BOD is the highest level decision making body on administrative office of the BOD implements the system and educational programs to strengthen the roles of the BOD and nonmanagement issues and is composed of four Executive directors including the CEO and 5 Non-executive directors. It operates 5 standing directors. specialized committees including the Financial Soundness Strengthening Committee, Creative Economy Implementation Committee, KOSPO is also strengthening the deliberative functions of the BOD. It operates a 3-tier deliberation system under which an agenda Risk Management Committee, Construction Management Committee and Future Growth Committee. It also operates the Audit item goes through preliminary deliberation by a specialized committee, review of the agenda item, and joint deliberation by NonCommittee to audit the company’s business and accounting. The Audit Committee is composed of the Executive Auditor and standing directors in order to thoroughly review the agenda item in question before it is officially submitted to the BOD. For a project two Non-executive directors. The chairman is selected from the Non-executive directors. The BOD also operates an advisory group that requires heavy investment, field review is mandatory so as to thoroughly review feasibility. composed of lawyers and accountants to support decision making, as well as an administrative office responsible for general BOD KOSPO has also put in place an ‘intermediate monitoring system’ to encourage feedback on BOD decisions. Its purpose is to report administration. and inspect the progress of the approved projects, to speed up sluggish projects and to continuously assess commercial value. Non-standing director candidates are recommended by the Executive Recommendation Committee through open recruitment. The The BOD of KOSPO is particularly focused on 4 issues: stable power supply, anti-corruption and integrity, disasters and accident non-standing director is then appointed by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance after deliberation and decisions made by the public prevention, and future growth creation in the public interest. In addition, it also reviews many issues related to sustainability2. institution operation committee and a meeting of the shareholders. Sustainability Systems Committees under BOD BOD CEO BOD Highest level decision making/responsibility Audit Committee HQ Business Strategy Division/Strategy and Planning Team Coordination and implementation Business Site Financial Soundness Creative Economy Risk Management Construction Management Future Growth Strengthening Committee Implementation Committee Committee Committee Committee Company-wide collaboration BOD Organization Assessment and Compensation of BOD KOSPO assesses the BOD activities using the KOSPO BODI (Board Of Directors' Index). The BODI quantitatively evaluates BOD meeting Executive Director Non-executive Director attendance rates, management suggestions, and contributions made at BOD meetings, and the level of BOD operational satisfaction An, Wang Seon Senior Non-executive Director (Chairman of BOD) Kim, Tae Woo CEO Current Representative Lawyer of Law Firm, Dong Seo is surveyed to continuously improve BOD operations. Nam Buk Former Auditor of KEPCO BOD Operation Status Lim, Jung Duk Executive Auditor Ryu, In Goo Audit Committee Member Unit 2012 2013 2014 Former Professor, Busan University Former Member of the Legislation Budget Committee of Jeonnam BOD meetings times 13 13 14 Former President, Busan Development Institute Former Director Evaluation, Jeonnam Local Officials Resolution cases 40 37 54 Training Institute Lee, Jong Sik Head of Planning and Management Division Preliminary deliberation rate % 100 100 100 Hwang, Ki Cheol Audit Committee Member Former Director of Business Strategy Former CEO of GNK International Co., Ltd. Reported agendas cases 23 19 11 Former Director of Management Support Former Director of Business, KEPID BOD meeting attendance rate % 98 99.1 99.2 Koo, Bon Woo Former SVP Electric Power System of KEPCO Non-executive director attendance rate % 100 100 100 Lee, Geun Tag Head of Technology Division Former SVP Marketing of KEPCO Former Head of Hadong Thermal Power Site Division Former Director of Power Generation Kim, Tae Nyun Former Head of Busan Traffic Broadcasting Network Former Head of Ulsan Traffic Broadcasting Network 1. A public corporation whose asset size reaches or exceeds KRW 2 trillion and whose self-generating revenue in relation to total revenue reaches or exceeds 85% under the provisions of Paragraph 3 of Article 5 of the Act on 2. In addition to 4 key management areas, other sustainability issues such as labor relations, environmental problems, and shared growth are comprehensively deliberated. the Management of Public Institutions 60 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 61 Report Content Market Assurance Statement Human Resources* Changes in the Power Market * ① Domestic employees.② The number of employees is based on the Public Institutions Business Information Disclosure System Alio (http://www.alio.go.kr). If there is a part-time employee who works 4 hours a day, he or she is counted as 0.5 persons. Thus, the total number of employees may not be an integer. Understanding the Power Market Power plants sell electricity, while consumers purchase it. Enterprises, individuals, and the nation itself all purchase and use electricity. Between power Regular Full-time Employees by Gender (unit: persons) plants and consumers, there are intermediate sellers who predict how much electricity will be needed, make orders for it, and distribute the purchased electricity to consumers. Korean Electricity Power Corporation (KEPCO) plays the role of such an intermediate seller. An intermediate seller predicts how 1764.5 186.5 1788.3 203 much electricity will be needed for every hour of the next day and places an order accordingly. After reviewing the order, the power plant submits a plan indicating how much electricity, in relation to the amount requested, it can actually generate and sell on the specified day. Then the intermediate seller 2013 Female 2014 makes an order for power plant A to generate a certain amount of electricity and for power plant B to generate another amount of electricity, and so Male on, so as to ensure that collectively, the power plants are collectively generating electricity at the lowest possible cost. Upon receiving an order, power 1,951 persons 1,991.3 persons plants supply the desired amount of electricity the next day, review the orders for the upcoming day, and submit a plan again. The ordering and selling of electricity are executed at Korea Power Exchange. Power plants generate electricity, while the intermediate sellers buy the electricity and resell it to consumers. A substation changes the features of the electricity so that it is not lost in the process of being delivered to consumers. Producing electricity is called power generation, the sending of electricity to The proportion of regular full-time employees subject to collective agreement was 99.8% in 2013 and 99.7% in 2014. These figures represent all regular a substation is called power transmission, and the sending of electricity processed by the substation to consumers is called power distribution. Hence, the employees except for 4 executives. Temporary employees are not subject to collective agreement. There were 6 contract employees (5 males and 1 female) power plant generates the power, and KEPCO, as an intermediate seller, transmits and distributes the electricity. in 2013, but all personnel were regular full-time employees in 2014. Determination of Electricity Price Employees at Each Business Site by Gender (unit: persons) An intermediate seller determines the price of electricity based on the power plant with the largest variable cost related to generating power when supplying electricity at a particular hour. The price is generally determined in accordance with combined cycle power generation, which uses natural gas, because 123 102 114 185 most of the variable cost is influenced by the fuel prices. Since other power plants supplying electricity at the same hour sell it at the same price, coal thermal 113 92 108 184 88 104 172 power plants using less costly fuel will achieve relatively higher profits, while the intermediate seller paying the same high price for all electricity will sustain a 100 170 78 loss. To rectify this problem, an adjustment factor is applied. This allows the intermediate seller to compare the rate of return on their investment with that of each power plant, so that they can buy electricity at a discount from the power plant with higher profitability. The use of the adjustment factor will be gradually be phased out and terminated following the Government Approved Vesting Contract (VC) Scheme to be implemented in 2016. 37 32 The Vesting Contract Scheme The Government Approved VC Scheme is a framework in which a power generating company and an intermediate seller agree to buy and sell electricity at a predefined price for a specific period, and if a party acquires a gain or loss due to a gap between the agreed price and market price, the profiting 10 5 10 10 8 10 13 14 2013 2014 2013 2014 party compensates for the loss incurred by the other party. Trading in electricity with a long-term contract under the Government Approved VC Scheme 2013 2014 2013 2014 Female Youngnam Andong Yeongweol Namjeju will eliminate the process of having to applying the adjustment factor and calculate the price for each transaction, and is expected to stabilize the price of Male electricity. It is also expected to help increase the competitiveness of power plants as a higher efficiency of power generation will lead to increased profits. 248.8 225.5 However, it is still not yet clear what the actual impact of the new scheme for power generating companies will be. 224 634 230.5 222.8 586 186 210.5 207 584 202.5 540 163 Preparation for Changes in the Power Market 175 KOSPO has included electricity price variations resulting from the Government Approved VC Scheme as components of its long-term business strategy 151 outlook. It has made preparations for the uncertainty of the scheme. The power trade function of the Power Generation Planning Team was used to create a separate Power Trade Team for the development of trade specialists, while a committee of internal and external experts was formed to establish appropriate contract volumes and pricing, so as to ensure stable facility operation and financial soundness. To actively cope with power market changes, company-wide seminars are held to share information, discuss the general status of the Government Approved VC Scheme with all employees, and collect ideas. The company is also carrying out research projects to minimize risks associated with changes in the market environment. 11 28 12 26 15 17 46 50 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Busan Samcheok Shinincheon Hadong 62 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Determination of The Other Topics Governance Human Resources Change in Power GRI G4 Indices Third Party's 63 Report Content Market Assurance Statement GRI G4 Indices(Core) Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014: GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page Number External Page Number External General Standard Disclosures (or Link) Assurance General Standard Disclosures (or Link) Assurance Responsibility and Independence STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Korea Management Association Registration Inc. (hereinafter “the assurer”) has been requested by of Korea Southern Power CO., Ltd. (hereinafter “KOSPO”) G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 2~3 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated G4-17 42 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE financial statements to verify the contents of its Sustainability Report 2014 (hereinafter “the Report”). The assurer is responsible for the assurance of the Report, and KOSPO G4-18 Process for defining report content 42~43 G4-3 Name of the organization 4 G4-19 Material aspects 43 is responsible for the information presented in the Report. As an independent assurance agency, the assurer is not in any conflict of interest that may G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 4 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 43 undermine its independence. G4-5 Headquarter location 4 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 43 G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports 31, 45 G4-6 Countries in operation 4 G4-7 Nature of ownership 58 G4-23 Significant changes in the scope, boundary 42 Verification Methodology STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-8 Markets Served 4 The verification has been conducted in accordance with Type 2, Moderate level using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. The assurer’s G4-24 Stakeholder groups 40~41 G4-9 Scale of the organization 4, 5, 60 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 40 assurance team (hereinafter “the assurance team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness and the reliability of G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 40~41 G4-10 Total workforce by region and gender 60 specified sustainability performance information. In addition, the assurance team checked whether the Report satisfied the ‘Core Option’ requirements Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Percentage of total employees covered by collective G4-27 stakeholder engagement 41 G4-11 bargaining agreements 60 of GRI G4 Guidelines. The data and information of outside of the organization among report boundaries such as suppliers, contractors is excluded from G4-12 Supply chain 48 REPORT PROFILE the verification scope. The assurance team has verified data management system and reporting process, and verified internal documents and data, and G4-28 Reporting period About This Report G4-13 Significant changes regarding size, structure, or ownership 4, 22 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About This Report interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report. G4-14 Precautionary approach 46 G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Report G4-15 Initiatives to which the organization subscribes 65 G4-31 Contact point for questions 64 G4-16 Memberships of associations 65 G4-32 GRI Content Index 62 Findings and Conclusion G4-33 External assurance 43, 63 EU1 Installed capacity 7, 14 The assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below, nor could find any Net energy output broken down by primary energy source GOVERNANCE EU2 and by region 6~7 G4-34 Governance structure 58~59 evidence the Report did not comply with ‘Core Option’ requirements of GRI G4. Transmission and distribution EU3 Number of customer accounts are not applicable to ETHICS AND INTEGRITY KOSPO(refer to p.61) https://www.kospo.co.kr/ ■ Inclusivity: Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. KOSPO EU4 Length of transmission and distribution lines Not applicable G4-56 Codes of conduct ?mn=sub&mcode=06070100 For emission trading scheme is is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for EU5 Allocation of CO₂ emissions permits in early stage, not all companies allocated yet.(refer to p.31) the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder group left out during this procedure. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES ■ Materiality: Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. KOSPO is determining the materiality of issues found Page Number External Page Number External DMA and Indicators (or Link) Assurance DMA and Indicators (or Link) Assurance out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-EN23 Total weight of waste 46~47 issues left out in this process. MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 12~13 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 44 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8~9 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non■ Responsiveness: Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through G4-EN29 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental 47 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the laws and regulations G4-EC2 organization's activities due to climate change 13, 24~26, 28~29 decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any evidence that KOSPO’s MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES CATEGORY: SOCIAL counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 48 MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 52 G4-EC9 locations of operation 50 MATERIAL ASPECT: Availability and Reliability G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 52 Recommendation for improvement G4-DMA Specific disclosures on management approach 18~19 G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative 23, 53~54 The assurer hopes the Report will actively be used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommends the following for improvements. impacts on local communities EU10 Planned Capacity 6, 14 EU22 Number of people displaced and compensation 23 MATERIAL ASPECT: Research and Development MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Specific disclosures on management approach 55 ■ KOSPO needs to utilize power production, its main business activities, through more strategic way from the point of sustainability management, G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 32~33 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL whether the activities have high public concern by themselves. In this respect, the assurer suggests that KOSPO continually harmonize its business Total number and percentage of operations asessed for risks MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-SO3 related to corruption and the significant risks identified 34 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 24~25 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and activities with the mission and strategies of sustainability management activities. G4-SO4 procedures 35 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions 31 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 34, 38 G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions 31 G4-EN19 Reduction GHG emissions 30 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE August, 27th, 2015 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 32~33 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 44 G4-SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and 34 G4-EN22 Total water discharge 45 regulations CEO Ki Ho Park 9 KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX Participation in Principle 2007. 3 Enrolled in UN Global Compact Agreement and signed the agreement to comply with 10 principles. Membership in Associations •Korea Institute of Internal Auditors •Korea Power Exchange •Korea Electrical Engineering & •Business Ethics and Sustainability •Korea Society of Geothermal Energy Science Research Institute management for Top performance Engineers •Korea Electric Power Industry Code •Korea Technology Innovation Society •Small Business Innovation Forum (KEPIC) •Korea Management Association •Edison Electric Institute •The Korean Society for New and •Korea Employers Federation •Korea Plant Industry Association Renewable Energy •Korea International Trade Association •The Korean Society of Mechanical •Korea New & Renewable Energy •Korea Resource Economics Association Engineers Association •Korea Committee of World Petroleum •The Korean Institute of Electrical •Offshore Wind Power Forum Congress Engineers •World Wind Energy Association •The Korea Gas Union •Korea Energy Foundation •Korea Wind Energy Association •Korean Standards Association Our Footprints for Sustainability Energy for Tomorrow 2013. 2 2013 Korea’s Most Respected Companies in Power Industry (Ranked No. 1) KMA Consulting 2013. 7 2013 Korea Global CEO Award Communication is the first step JungAng Daily and Forbes Korea of sustainability for KOSPO. 2013 Green Management Award (Specialized Award) Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Ministry of Environment 2013 Korea Green Economy CEO Award Korea Southern Power Co, Ltd. Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry and DongAIlbo Strategy Planning Team, Business Strategy Dept. 2013. 8 2013 Korea Sustainability Award (Overall Award) 2008 2010 BIFC B/D, 40 Munhyeongeumyung-ro, Nam-gu, Association of Korean Journalists Busan 48400 Republic of Korea 2013.10 2013 Executive Award Korean Academy of Organization and Management 070 7713 8172 2013 Asian Power Awards (CEO Award, Gold Award in Power Generator Technical Management and lateralus@kospo.co.kr Silver Award in Power Generation Improvement) Charlton Media Group 2013.11 39th National Quality Management Contest (Presidential Award) Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy KOSPO Sustainability Report 2014 2013 100 Best Companies to Work for GWP Korea 2012 2014 2013.12 2013 Global Energy Award (Power Industry Leader Company Award) Platts 2014. 1 2014 Korea’s Most Respected Companies in Power Industry (Ranked No. 1) KMA Consulting 2014. 6 2014 Edison Award US EEI (Edison Electric Institute) 2014. 7 Social Enterprise Development Merit (Presidential Award) Ministry of Employment and Labor 2014. 9 2014 Asian Power Awards (Gold Award in Operation of Power Generator Using Clean Energy) Charlton Media Group 2014.11 2014 German International Invention Exhibit (Silver Award and Special Award) AFAG Messen und Ausstellungen GmbH 2014.12 2014 Korea Intellectual Property Right Contest and Korea Invention and Patent Contest (Bronze Award) Korea Industrial Property Office and Korea Invention Promotion Association Korea Invention and Patent Contest and Seoul International Invention Exhibit (Semi Grand Award) Korea Industrial Property Office and Korea Invention Promotion Association 22nd Safety Management Award in Electrical/Gas/Water Service Industry (Energy Industry) Sector Ministry of Employment and Labor and Maeil Business Newspaper Presidential Merit for Family-Friendly Management Ministry of Gender Equality & Family 2015. 2 2014 National Infrastructure System Disaster Management Assessment (Presidential Award) Ministry of Public Safety and Security SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd. Strategy Planning Team, Business Strategy Department BIFC B/D, 40 Munhyeongeumyung-ro, Nam-gu, Busan 48400 Republic of Korea Telephone +82. (0)70. 7713. 8172 E-Mail lateralus@kospo.co.kr https://www.kospo.co.kr ??? 93050 Eco-Design To minimize environmental impact throughout the entire lifecycle of this eco-design report, KOSPO has used soybean oil and 9 7the shunned 9 1use 19 of5spot6color 1 9 printing 0 0 9 or coating. ISBN 979-11-956190-0-9
