Communication on Progress (COP) 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that the Green Ventures International reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. With this communication, we re-express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Green Ventures International will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. Yours sincerely, ________________ Mr. Krish R. Krishnan CEO 2 2. About Green Ventures Green Ventures was established in 2007 to focus on renewable energy project development, energy efficiency and carbon credit generation as well as basic rural energy services. Green Ventures main focus areas include:  Rural social energy projects (Green Village Ventures)  Climate change advising  Run-of-the river hydropower projects 3 2.1 About Green Village Ventures Green Village Ventures (GVV), a subsidiary of Green Ventures, is a for-profit social enterprise whose mission is to supply clean energy to villagers in a cost-effective and sustainable manner. The villages that GVV is targeting aren’t connected to the electricity grid and the people living there use hurricane lamps that run on kerosene on a daily basis. 4 2.2 GVV Approach GVV has teamed-up with India Post in an exemplary public-private partnership that allowed us to supply clean energy to rural India (villages) at a fraction of the cost, by making use of India Post’s network of 130,000 post offices. GVV in Partnership with India Post provide the villagers solar lanterns at half of what they would pay for kerosene. This way, villagers get LED light for the whole night and our solar panels are far safer compared with the hurricane lamps. 5 3. Our Planned Projects A. Rural Social Energy (Solar Lanterns) Project  15 villages in India (Already implemented betn. 2012-2013)  250 villages / ± 30,000 BOP families (By Year 2014)  750 villages / ± 95,000 BOP families (2015 onwards) B. Run-of-the river hydropower Projects  Likhu IV: 120 MW (under construction)  Kali Gandaki Koban: 163 MW (under development) 6 4. Our Approach to the 10 Principles Green Ventures energy projects are guided by Sustainability principles. These principles have been developed over the years through continuous experimentation and learning by doing. The three major stakeholders which we made a difference within the natural context of our business in this tenure are as follows:  People (employees)  Society (locally)  Society (Globally) 7 5. Our Policy/Solution At Green Ventures, we use green technologies and innovative business models to create sustainable energy solutions for us as well to our clients. Our solutions include large-scale renewable energy generation projects, improved energy efficiency schemes, and rural social energy initiatives. At the heart of our approach is the concept that all stakeholders must have a say in a project’s design, implementation and operation for it to be successful. 8 6. Our Future Initiative We are planning to:  Continue our work towards using green technologies and innovative business models to create sustainable energy solutions for us as well to our clients.  Encourage our clients/partners to register within Global Compact Framework.  Set the agenda for diversity and encouraging equal opportunities in recruitment, training and promotion. 9 Green Ventures 1003B, Express Zone Building, Patel Vanika, W.E.Highway, Malad (East), Mumbai 400097, India Telephone No.: +91 9820200867 Fax : +91 22 66459565 www.greenventuresinternational.com
