I MC AG | Scheer Tower |Uni Campus Nord | 66123 Saarbrücken/Germany United Nations Global Compact United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Saarbruecken, 07 January 2015 Communication on Progress IMC information multimedia communication AG Scheer Tower Year: 2014 Uni Campus Nord 66123 Saarbruecken/Germany Tel. +49 (0) 681 9476-0 Fax +49 (0) 681 9476-530 eMail info@im-c.de To whom it may concern: Web www.im-c.com Commercial Register Saarbruecken HRB 13 338 Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels VAT Number: DE 812 187 208 within our company. As a member of a Global Compact, we believe that our business Executive Board: policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working Dr. Tobias Blickle Rudolf Keul towards sustainability goals – in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact Christian Wachter – and endorses the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Chairman of the Supervisory Board Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. mult. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the August-Wilhelm Scheer agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labor rights, the environBank Details ment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Here we summarize the progress Deutsche Bank AG Kto. Nr. 2 545 440 02 we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in the BLZ 590 700 00 IBAN future. DE71590700000254544002 BIC/SWIFT-Code: DEUTDE5M555 Yours sincerely Christian Wachter (Member of the Board, IMC AG) Company Profile IMC is one of Europe’s largest providers of comprehensive solutions for technology-enhanced learning, training, education, and staff development. The company has been established in 1997 by Professor August-Wilhelm Scheer, internationally re-cognized scholar, entrepreneur and expert in business process management. Since then, IMC has developed solutions related to the development of e-learning courses as well as to the design and implementation of technical and professional infrastructures (e.g. learning management system design and implementation; implementation of integrated e-learning infrastructures etc.) for e-learning, distance education, and staff development. IMC operates from its headquarters in Saarbrucken, Germany. Country offices and subsidiaries are located in Graz (Austria), London, Melbourne, Sibiu (Romania), Zurich. Products and Services IMC’s focus is on providing customers with a comprehensive portfolio of innovative products and services:  New Media and e-Learning Content Production: IMC provides professional services covering the whole value chain of bespoke e-learning content design and production. IMC runs content projects from customized planning to instructional design, storyboard development and realization up to the roll-out, dependent on customer’s requirements and time frame. IMC is experienced in working with different learning content formats, i.e. classic e-learning programs (web-based training courses), serious games, smartphone apps, interactive video, e-books, as well as games and training content for mobile websites.  Consulting Services: IMC helps organizations to (re)organize their learning processes and to select, implement, adapt and integrate suitable software systems and technologies. IMC’s consultants perform indepth need analyses before proposing the right learning management strategy, always considering client specific demands and learning cultures. Consulting services range from the technical implementation of our products to the conceptualization of an organization’s complete e-learning offering; they include training and coaching services on the instructional design and technical implementation of interactive training content. Service implementation and project management are based on PRINCE2. IMC Products and Services  E-Learning Authoring tools: The IMC Content Studio is a high-end e-learning authoring tool able to meet the highest demands. It is a multiple test winner in usability, productivity, functionality and price-performance ratio. The authoring environment is also the perfect solution for the easy and efficient creation and evaluation of exercises, tests, exams and assessments.  Learning and Talent Management System: The IMC Learning and Talent Suite (ILS) is one of the leading Learning Management Systems (LMS) on the market. It is a state-of-the-art software solution that enables decentralized implementation of multimedia-enhanced teaching and learning offerings within a centrally coordinated organizational framework and organization-wide administration structures. The ILS is top-ranked in the Gartner Group’s market survey on Corporate Learning Solutions and has received high marks in other market analyses (e.g. Bersin & Associates).  Business Process Guidance Suite, a software solution for the process-oriented, workplace-integrated support of users of software systems, e.g. SAP, MS Office, Peoplesoft, as well as a broad range of legacy systems.  On-demand Learning Services include hosting services for learning environments as well as “Software as a Service” arrangements for our customers. IMC implements ITIL guidelines for IT services; a 24/7 ITILbased service desk for software products is available. Standards Quality management at IMC is organized on the basis of the international ISO 9001 standard. IMC holds a recognized DIN EN ISO 9001:2008 quality management certificate and applies a regular schedule for external audits. To ensure the quality of services we follow the PRINCE2 project management standard. IMC’s consultants are PRINCE2 trained and certified. Finally, IMC supports the United Nations Global Compact principles. Reference Projects with United Nations Organizations Since 1997, IMC has conducted a great number of projects related to the design and development of interactive, multimedia e-learning content. The following figure shows some projects IMC has implemented with UN organizations: Selected Reference Projects with UN Organizations Communication on Progress The following table lists activities and shows progress made toward achieving positive results with regard to the Ten Principles. To the extent available, performance indicators and quantitative data are provided. Different colors highlight the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption, i.e. the core field of actions to which the Ten Principles belong. Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Principle 1: Businesses should support IMC acts in conformity with humans rights legislation and considers its prescriptions especially with  and respect the protection of internationalregards to following points: ly proclaimed human rights Work Conditions It is one of the main objectives of IMC to create safe and healthy work environment for its employees according to existent international standards. Appropriate steps are taken to prevent accidents or injury for health arising out of or occurring during the work. IMC’s headquarters, the Scheer Tower, provides employees with a state-of-the-art working environment. In addition, all IMC subsidiaries meet highest standards for safe and sane working enviGlobal Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year ronments. In each subsidiary there is a security officer, who is trained in first aid and can be contacted in any case of injury. The security officer is also responsible for risks of injury or any dangerous situations. IMC employees have always access to drinkable water. Snack-bar, canteen and small kitchen with drinks are also available in every IMC building. Wages and Salary IMC ensures “equal pay for equal work” using a transparent remuneration scheme for permanent staff irrespective of any personal circumstances such as gender. Requirements to be met for achieving different salary levels are clearly defined and available to all employees. Labor is being paid in conformity with national legal standards. Wages and salaries paid are enough to meet basic needs of the employees. Also IMC employees can benefit from special arrangements concerning retirement provisions and other compensations for capital accumulation purposes. All employees are provided with written information about wages and salaries to be paid during Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year their employment time before they enter the employment. Wages and salaries are to be paid in case of force majeure circumstances, such as natural disaster, resulting in interruption of operations or financial crises influencing financial stability of the firm. Selected performance indicators: The following table shows the current distribution of staff according to gender and age criteria. It also shows IMC’s performance in achieving a gender-balanced workforce: 2011 2012 2013 2014 Gender Female (in %) 29 33 35 37 Male (in %) 71 67 65 63 Age groups < 30 years old 20 24 26 25 30-50 years old 75 71 69 70 >50 years old 5 5 5 5 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Specific plans for 2015: IMC expects significant growth of its work force in 2015. IMC will continue its efforts to ensure favorable working conditions for its entire workforce regardless of the location. IMC will continue to strive for gender-equality and a non-discriminatory working environment for company staff. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure IMC respects and acts in conformity with the norms of applicable legislation in the regions it oper that they are not complicit in human rights ates. abuses; IMC is committed to the concept of fair dealing. Each director, officer and employee should deal fairly with the Company’s suppliers, customers, employees and competitors. No one should take their advantage of another by manipulation, concealing information, misrepresentation or other similar practice. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the IMC accepts the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining in accord freedom of association and the effective ance to local labor legislation. Employees have right to join or to form trade unions. Employees’ recognition of the right to collective barrepresentatives are not discriminated and have an ability to carry out their representative functions gaining; in a work place. Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Principle 4: Businesses should support All labor is sourced from the open labor market, employment is freely chosen and there is no  the elimination of all forms of forced and forced, bonded or involuntary prison labor. All IMC employees are provided with labor contracts compulsory labor; and may resign at any time they consider appropriate. In addition, IMC offers the following benefits to its staff: Accident insurance Company pension scheme. Specific plans for 2015: IMC plans to significantly reduce the number of overtime hours worked especially during peak periods. Plans to increase the company’s workforce and number of staff will address this issue. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child IMC doesn’t source workforce from child labor. It acts in accordance to following rules:  labor; The course of action taken shall be in the best interests of the child, conform to the provisions of ILO Convention 138 and be consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Every employee under 18 should be enabled to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child. Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Children and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at night or in dangerous conditions. Principle 6: Businesses should support It is the policy of IMC to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favorable treatment  the elimination of discrimination in respect on the grounds of sex, race, marital status, disability, age, part-time or fixed term contract status, of employment and occupation. sexual orientation or religion, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements that cannot be shown to be justifiable. Abusive, harassing or offensive conduct by an officer and employee is unacceptable, whether verbal, physical or visual. All employees have to sign an anti-discrimination statement. Officers and employees should report any potential incident of harassment to the Human Resources Manager when it occurs. IMC emphasizes that discrimination is unacceptable conduct which may lead to disciplinary action under the organization’s Disciplinary Procedure. IMC recognizes the great benefits in having a diverse workforce with different backgrounds, solely employed on ability. Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Selected performance indicators: 2011 2012 2013 2014 Nationalities of full-time staff 21 24 29 31 Gender equality (% of female full-time staff) 29 33 35 37 Specific plans for 2015: A culturally, ethnically, and linguistically diverse workforce has turned out beneficial for the company’s overall business performance in the past. IMC will continue its efforts in this regard making sure that making sure that the company’s corporate culture welcomes diversity in all respects. Principle 7: Businesses should support a IMC promotes perceived attitudes to resource management and resource expenditure in relation to  precautionary approach to environmental environmental background. All operations have to be completed undue any negative impacts on challenges; human beings or environmental pollution. In 2014, IMC has cooperated with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on environmental issues, climate change, water and waste management etc. The modules are Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year designed for a global audience; in particular, they address professionals in the Humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake IMC continues the use of an additional line in all employees e-mail signature: “Think again – do you  initiatives to promote greater environmenreally need to print this e-mail?” to avoid waste of paper not only internally, but also outside the tal responsibility; house. Travel policy of IMC underlines that employees must respect environmental standards when booking flights and hiring cars. IMC practices waste separation, according to the German law. In addition, IMC has cooperated, in 2014, with inter-governmental agencies on developing elearning modules on environmental issues, climate change, water and waste management etc. The modules are designed for a global audience; in particular, they address professionals in the Humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage The “Green IT” concept is widely advocated for IMC. Challenges, which result from complexity of  the development and diffusion of environenvironmental protection, have large influence on ITdevelopment and usage spectrum: mentally friendly technologies New media channels for educational programs are offering chances to promote environmental Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year protection. • Learning Solutions become a core competence of Green IT because they can substitute business trips and face-to-face meetings, and hence they reduce CO2 emissions, the travel cost budget and the strain on employees, thus improving their work life balance. • The term “Green IT” marks information technologies which make significant ecologic contribution. Reducing a travel route by 1 km reduces the CO2 emission by an average of approximate 204 gram – in comparison to this, the energy use produced by the IT is negligible. A virtually conducted meeting or an e-learning course with 12 students would reduce the CO2 emission by 244 kg, given an average travel route of 1,200 km. • IMC has increased the use of Web Meetings and Virtual Classroom Sessions for internal communication and cooperation as well as for project coordination meetings with customers. This action reduces the need for travelling and contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions. IMC intends to further expand its activities in this area in the coming years. • IMC supports the DHL GoGreen climate protection projects by combining its shipments with DHL GoGreen services whenever possible. DHL calculates C02 emissions generated Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year by transport using a method based on the ISO 14064 standard. In accordance with the specifications of the Kyoto Protocol; these emissions are offset by climate protection projects. • IMC also has increased and intensified its business operations in the area of “cloud computing”, providing professional services to its customers via hosted IT environments. This allows for synergies in the use of IT systems via shared IT infrastructures; in 2013, IMC has received the “Cloud for Society Award” for its business operations in this area. The award also covers “green IT” aspects of IT operations. • IMC, finally, has reduced the number of company cars with high CO2 emissions. With regard to reducing CO2 emissions, SUVs have been banned completely from IMC’s car pool. Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Performance indicators: 2011 2012 2013 2014 % of cloud-based IT systems 14 29 38 52 # of company cars with high 7 7 0 0 CO2 emissions (SUVs) In addition, IMC has cooperated, in 2014, with inter-governmental agencies on developing elearning modules on environmental issues, climate change, water and waste management etc. The modules are designed for a global audience; in particular, they address professionals in the Humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Specific plans for 2015: In 2015, IMC will complete its endeavors to make sure all its software products are “cloud enabled”. Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Principle 10: Businesses should work All directors, officers or employees shall comply fully with all laws affecting the business of IMC,  against all forms of corruption, including including, without limitation, all laws prohibiting insider trading, money laundering, bribery, improper extortion and bribery. payments and anti-competitive activities. The consequences to the company and its directors, officers and employees of any departure from this policy can be very serious. If a criminal violation has occurred, the company will take appropriate steps to stop the criminal conduct and to prevent such conduct from reoccurring. In order to foster compliance with anti-corruptions rules in a broad range of business operations, IMC has developed an interactive training curriculum available for use in organizations of all kinds. In addition, IMC has broadened its product portfolio with an online compliance management system which is used by IMC customers in order to effectively provide compliance relevant training to their workforce. Specific plans for 2015: IMC is cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing e-learning modules on “corruption prevention”. They are targeted to a global audience of professionals in the HumanitariGlobal Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year an sector. In 2015, we will increase our activities in this area to ensure broad impact of such activities in the community. END OF DOCUMENT
