Zeya & Associates Co., Ltd. z Z&A RGK+Z&A GROUP. 437 A. Pyay Road, Kamayut PO., 11041 , Yangon, Myanmar. t. +95-1-502016-8, 534845-6. f. +95-1-527604. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress From 8 October 2014 to 8 October 20 15 Page lof7 Zeya & Associates Co., Ltd. z Z&A RGK+Z&A GROUP. 437 A, Pyay Road, Kamayut PO., 11041, Yangon, Myanmar t. +95-1-502016-8, 534845-6 f +951-527 604 . 7 October 20 I 5 H.E. Ban Ki-Moon secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr Secretary-General We, Zeya & Associates Co, Ltd. (RGK + ZNA Group) support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We ar e committed to making the Global Compact and its pr inciples part of the strategy. culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goal of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development goals, Zeya & Associates Co, Ltd. (RGK + ZNA Group ) will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize tilat a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Pr ogress (COP) tilat describes our company's efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours Zeya Thura Mon Group CEO Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals We persist to enforce our Standard human resource policies that safeguard non-discrimination and fair employment practices within our employees. We also pursue The Social Security Law which was enacted in 2012 in Myanmar. Regarding with our education policy, that is “Primary and Secondary education for all” to the staff member families. We demonstrate its commitment to employees by responding effectively to employee concerns. Implementation We provide good working environment, great value on diversity and a comprehensive worklife balance. We pay high salaries to our employees and working hours are aligned with the rules and regulation of Myanmar. We provide educational assistance program encourages personal development through formal education so that employees can maintain and improve job related skills or enhance their ability to compete for reasonably attainable jobs. We provide financial support for education not only to staff member families but also the families those who are in difficulties. We work with governments, law firms and NGOs to institute policies to help better protect individual’s right to privacy. Measurement of outcomes We accomplish periodic review of results by management team and the results show there is no case of human right violations, complaints and breaches during this report period. The areas reviewed were Working Condition and Hours, Employment Status, Employee Benefits Programs, Training Development, Performance. And the period is January 2014 to end of September 2015. We have the awareness of right to education, thus our Education Supports for 2015 ~ 2016 Academic year are as follows: Staff members’ children 1. Kindergarten 11 Students 2. Grade 2 ~ 5 33 Students 3. Grade 6 ~ 9 27 Students 4. Grade 10 6 Students 5. Grade 11 5 Students 6. University 1st Yr. 3 Students 7. University before final 12 Students 8. University Final 3 Students ____________ Total 100 Students We contributed about USD 15,000/to above mentioned 100 students on 24 May 2015. Page 3 of 7 South Dagon Utilities and Mayangone Utilities Staff members’ children 1. Kindergarten 10 Students 2. Grade 2 ~ 5 18 Students 3. Grade 6 ~ 9 18 Students 4. Grade 10 1 Student 5. Grade 11 10 Students 6. University 1st Yr. 3 Students 7. University before final 4 Students ____________ Total 64 Students We contributed about USD 10,000/to above mentioned 64 students on 5 July 2015. Contribution for Grade 11 tuition fees 1. ZNA 5 Students 2. South Dagon Utilities 9 Students 3. Mayangone Utilities 1 Student _____________ Total 15 Students Furthermore, we have contributed USD 7,000/to above mentioned15 students for grade 11 tuition fees since June 2015. Page 4 of 7 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Zeya & Associates supports freedom of association and, where applicable, recognize the right to collective bargaining. We have an obligation to respect, protect and fulfill economic, social and cultural rights. Staff members want to work for an organization that encourages and respects individuals, and this is one of our core values across the Zeya & Associates network. We have a strict policy regarding with not employing child labor. Our organization prohibits sub-contractors not to employ child labor. Besides, there are contracts with sub-contractors regarding with not employing child labor. Our Company’s Human Capital Manual clearly reveals that it covers policies concerning employee rights and responsibilities, compensations and benefits. Implementation We make sure that we care socio-economic human rights. We perform financial support for homes for employees as well as health care. According to rules and regulations, we allow staff to take maternity leave, paternity leave and so on. Employees can go to the hospitals (Victoria, Asia Royal, SSC, Aung Yadanar Hospital and so on) for their health care and they can re-claim the expenses according to the principles. We do not execute any discrimination on the basis of racial or ethnic origin in relation. We do not assign any child labor (or) forced labor in our organization. We pursue employ equal opportunity standards, besides offering a healthy lifestyle workplace and appropriate requirement. Measurement of outcomes We performed a 40% random check in all working sites including sub-contractor sites and there was no child labor and force labor. We found out that all employees are above 18 years old. According to the feedback from the staff, they satisfy the health care system. Page 5 of 7 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals We aim to be a paperless organization. Besides, we are trying to increase percentage of recyclable waste and encourage generating power (energy) from waste. We avoid using coal plant power generation which shall impact the environment. Besides, we support in environmental conservation by growing and maintaining trees. We reduce the usage of resources and practice the waste management system. Implementation We educate our employees about the environmental awareness frequently. We are involved in Electric Power Generation and we have fossil-fuel power plants, located in Hlaw Gar, Yangon, however we do not use coal for power generation. Environmental and Social Impact analysis was thorough performed. Furthermore, we educate not only employees but also natives about benefits of growing trees. We have grown trees in the area of 230 acres in Upper Myanmar (along the express way between Nay Pyi Taw (Capital) and Mandalay. We also have grown trees in Mingalar Don township, Yangon. In order to reduce electric power consumption, we installed special glasses in air-conditioned rooms. We do switch-off the unnecessary lights and electrical appliances. We use low emission cars and travelling together instead of using individuals. We try not to print out papers and reuse one-sided papers. We encourage using electronic communication in order to obtain proficiency and conservation of environment. We maintain no leakage water system and safe the water. In addition to this, we have installed reclaimed water system so that it will not harm environment. Measurement of outcomes In accordance with Organization’s policy, Environmental and Social Impact Assessments are conducted. We have been growing trees since 2013 between Nay Pyi Taw and Mandalay Expressway. (Between 238 miles and 239.25 miles) Between 2013 June 8 and 2015 October 1 the following trees were grown Iron-wood trees 107,000 nos.  Gum-kino trees 78,000 nos.  Eucalyptus trees 40,000 nos. _______________ Total 225,000 nos. No cases of impacts on environment and no complaints are reported during the report period. Page 6 of 7 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals We are committed to achieving a high standard of ethical behavior in everything that we do. Restrictions on accepting gifts prevent outside interests from giving things of value to employees. These restrictions prevent outside interests from exercising, an improper influence over decision-making. Implementation We provide Human Capital Manual which supports anticorruption commitment. Furthermore we preserve internal accounting and audition procedures related to anticorruption. We promote anticorruption environment within the organization’s personnel. There is a restriction of accepting gifts in our organization. On the other hand an employee may accept the promotional materials or souvenir or small gifts (not valuable). We effort with consultants, partners to promote Anti-corruption Best Practices. We are the provider of foreign companies such as GUASCOR POWER, Rolls-Royces Power Systems Company and so on. Thus, we are complying with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Other Laws Restricting Bribes through those foreign companies. According to requirements, our company staff also attending training regarding with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Other Law Restricting Bribes. Furthermore, our company will strive to obtain the certification to conduct that kind of training for our employees. Measurement of outcomes Monthly review accomplished by management team. We keep on monitoring for the breach of policies and no case was arisen. In our company, Mr Aung Thu Htoon/ Director of Power Systems, Mr Ravichandran Sabrinathan/ Director of Supply Chain, Mr Martin/ Plant Director, Mr Aung Kyaw Phyo/ EE, Mr Maung Maung Soe/ EE and Mr Tay Zar Lin/ EE have got their FCPA Compliance Certification from DRESSER-RAND on 7 August 2014. The other management members will strive to obtain the Certificates on FCPA Compliance as well. Page 7 of 7
