Annual Report 2014 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Table of contents 1 The year in brief 2 Mekonomen Group in brief 4 CEO’s comments 6 Goals and strategies 7 Vision, business concept and business model 8 Brands and concepts 10 Market 14 MECA Scandinavia 16 Mekonomen Nordic 18 Sørensen og Balchen 20 Sustainable development and social responsibility 26 The share 28 Administration Report 33 – Proposed appropriation of profit 34 – Corporate Governance Report 40 – Board of Directors 41 – Group Management 42 Consolidated income statement 42 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 43 Consolidated balance sheet 45 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 46 Consolidated cash-flow statement 47 Income statement for the Parent Company 47 Statement of comprehensive income for the Parent Company 48 Balance sheet for the Parent Company 50 Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the Parent Company 51 Cash-flow statement for the Parent Company 52 Notes 78 Signatures 79 Auditors’ Report 80 Five-year summary 82 Quarterly overview 83 Information to shareholders 84 Glossary and definitions 85 Addresses Mekonomen’s formal Annual Report comprises pages 28–79. Only the original version of the formal Annual Report has been reviewed by the company’s auditors. The Annual Report is published in Swedish and English. The Swedish version represents the original version, and has been translated into English. 2 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 The year in brief 2014 in brief • In 2014, revenue rose 1 per cent to SEK 5,924 M (5,863). • In the fourth quarter of 2014, a decision was made to restructure the Danish operations, which Significant events affected EBITA negatively with non-recurring costs of SEK 241 M and EBIT with SEK 280 M. per quarter 2014 • EBITA was adversely impacted by total non-recurring effects of SEK 264 M (16) and amounted to SEK 427 M (626). The Group’s workshop • EBIT was adversely impacted by total non-recurring effects of SEK 303 M (61) and amounted Q1 chains continued to win to SEK 274 M (469). The EBIT margin was 5 per cent (8). market share, and sales to our affiliated workshops in Swe• EBIT excluding Denmark (pro forma) amounted to SEK 639 M (527). den, Norway and Finland grew. The EBIT margin was 12 per cent (10). Increased sales to all customer • Profit after financial items amounted to SEK 250 M (429). groups. • Earnings per share before and after dilution amounted to SEK 3.34 (8.56). • Net debt amounted to SEK 1,629 M (1,642). ProMeister Academy • Cash flow from operating activities totalled SEK 413 M (557). Q2 became the leading training centre for ad• The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 (7.00) per share. vanced mechanics in Norway. Implementation of the action plan in Denmark, including the merging Revenue and EBIT Working capital and discontinuation of seven units. SEK M SEK M SEK M % 6 ,000 600 1,400 25 MECA signed a two1,200 Q3 year cooperation 5 ,000 500 20 agreement with the 1,000 Swedish Defence Materiel Ad4 ,000 400 ministration and became supplier 800 15 of spare parts and maintenance 3 ,000 300 600 services for the Administration’s 10 2 ,000 200 vehicles. 400 Mekonomen was voted Swe5 1 ,000 100 200 den’s strongest brand in the “Car parts and workshops” industry by 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 excl. 2010 20111) 20122) 2013 2014 the Swedish Brand Award 2014. Denmark Revenue EBIT Working capital % of sales Mekonomen Group par1) Net sales for Sørensen og Balchen in 2011 have been restated for 12 months. Q4 ticipated in the launch 2) Net sales for MECA in 2012 have been restated for 12 months. of the Lasingoo workshop booking portal. Car owners can now use this digital search engine to locate workshops and make Key figures 2014 2013 2012 service appointments online. Revenue, SEK M 5,924 5,863 5,426 Mekonomen implements signifiEBITA, SEK M 427 626 602 cant restructuring in Denmark. All EBIT, SEK M 274 469 528 28 stores, the regional warehouse Profit for the year, SEK M 127 315 382 and head office in Denmark were Earnings per share, SEK 3.34 8.56 10.80 closed, but the franchise workEBITA margin, % 7 11 11 shops were retained and the focus will be efficient logistics without EBIT margin, % 5 8 10 intermediaries. Cash flow per share1), SEK 11.51 15.51 14.93 Sørensen og Balchen passed Dividend2), SEK 7.00 7.00 7.00 the milestone of NOK 100 M in Return on equity, % 5 14 19 EBITA. Equity/assets ratio, % 39 41 41 1) From operating activities. 2) The Board’s proposal for 2014. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 1 Mekonomen Group in brief ”A simpler and more affordable CarLife” The Group’s core values Business concept Mekonomen Group has more than 2,200 employees. Mekonomen Group shall offer consumers The operations are based on shared core values, which and companies solutions for a simpler and can be summarised as follows: more affordable CarLife by using clear and • Customer orientation innovative concepts, high quality and an • Professionalism efficient logistics chain. • Responsibility Vision • Competence • Flexibility We are the car owner’s first choice and strive for a simpler and more affordable CarLife. Brands Strengths + Strong brands and well-known concepts + Broad customer offering + Purchase and supply chain + ProMeister and the ProMeister Academy + Competent employees Number of employees Number of affiliated Number of stores in the Group workshops 2 ,235 2,304 355 2 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Mekonomen Group in brief Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 3 CEO’s comments 2014 was a great year! 2014 was the year our organic growth gained and players, we have to be on our toes. I am convinced that internal and external competition is beneficial to our Group companies, to us momentum and we implemented structural as a Group and, above all, to our customers. changes in Denmark. Our full-year profitability also improved in 2014, for all Group companies Innovation is in our DNA I see innovation as one of our most important success factors. We excluding Denmark. An accelerated rate of must be innovative in all parts of our business – from product develinnovation throughout the Group led to a broader opment, to the ability to identify new offerings and build relationships ProMeister range, the ProMeister Academy trainwith both new and existing customers. Online sales are increasingly becoming an integral part of our total offering and are driving traffic to ing platform and the Lasingoo workshop portal. our stores and workshops. I am proud of the fact that Mekonomen Group is now a company with a high rate of innovation. Technological progress is crucial to the approach we should be taking in our long-term strategy in terms of business development With our successful concepts, we offer products and solutions that and innovation. It will provide answers to the appearance and our customers request and appreciate. The clearest evidence for this features of future vehicles, and the demands and requests that our is our underlying organic growth with growing sales to all customer customers will make. groups. Some examples that are the result of our innovative company 2014 was an important year for us due to several strategic actions ­culture include our 24-hour customer services Mekonomen Direkt for the future. Our launch of the ProMeister Academy was successand MECA Direct, Mekonomen Fleet, our proprietary spare parts ful, and quickly led to higher quality among mechanics in Norway. brand ProMeister, the ProMeister Academy and the Lasingoo workThe ­effects of other measures, such as the structural changes in our shop portal. All of these are now key parts of our concepts. Danish operations, will not be visible until 2015 and 2016. Best training in the market The right focus in Denmark In 2014, we also expanded and improved our training activities The operations in Sweden and Norway performed favourably in by launching the ProMeister Academy. We have made most 2014. Finland also showed a positive trend. However, to obtain full progress in Norway, where we are now a leader in mechanics value from the operations in Finland we need to grow and reach a training. We offer further training in traditional mechanics, as well critical mass. as specialised courses in, for example, hybrid technology and The Danish operations have suffered profitability problems for diesel. That workshops from across the industry – our franchise a long time. At the end of 2014, we decided to focus fully on workshops as well as other independent workshops and brandour franchise workshops and create efficient logistics without dependent workshops – are sending mechanics to our courses, intermediaries.Stores as well as the regional warehouse and head is confirmation of a successful training platform. The ProMeister office in Denmark were closed. This was a tough decision, but I am Academy is now coming to Sweden and the initiative will grow absolutely convinced it will prove successful. We now have sound substantially in 2015. business operations in Denmark as well, with major opportunities to create both profitability and growth for our workshops. Lasingoo – creating transparency and honesty As a leading player in the industry, we want to drive both compeCoordination creates customer value tence development and innovation. In 2014, we initiated the Lasingoo By coordinating such areas as Logistics, Purchasing and IT, we are workshop portal. Lasingoo is a digital search engine that enables creating economies of scale and greater efficiency, which reduces our customers to find and compare workshops, make service appointcosts and gives us a more competitive position in the market. ments and keep their own diary of the car’s services and costs. Over time, it will help us offer our customers even better terms. Lasingoo has evolved into an industry initiative, which meant that the At the same time as this coordination is taking place, we are working site was launched jointly with five competing industry players. to differentiate our brands and concepts in the stages where they are Lasingoo is a concrete measure for making our sector more visible to customers. Customer target groups and focus differ b ­ etween ­transparent and will help to add customer value and raise trust in our brands, and perfect competition prevails. To stay one step ahead our entire sector. It is important that Mekonomen Group took this of brand-dependent workshops as well as other independent chains initiative. 4 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 CEO’s comments I see innovation as one of our most important success factors. We must be innovative in all parts of our business – from product development, to the ability to identify new offerings and build relationships with both new and existing customers. We are changing in pace with the world The world is changing rapidly. This also applies to the way we use the car. We can see clearly that people who live in cities do not own cars to the same extent as people living in smaller towns and rural areas. As more people choose to live in cities, this will, of course, affect our industry. While I am certain that the car will continue to be our most important means of transport, but the manner in which we own a car will change. We have already seen how carpooling as a type of ownership is growing and I think we will see more types of ownership that give access to cars when they are needed. Based on the innovative strength that exists in Mekonomen Group, I see major opportunities for us to participate in this change and create customer value. We have to monitor trends and create new concepts, and solutions based on the needs that exist. Winning culture holds the key Mekonomen Group has a vision. We aim to exist in 20 countries by 2020. This is not a goal, it is a vision for our future. The European market is undergoing consolidation and Mekonomen Group aims to be part of this trend. When we look at other markets, it is clear that our concepts are very strong by international comparison. In 2015, our focus will be to continue prioritising the things that made us successful in 2014, at the same time as we exceed our customers’ expectations. The ProMeister range will grow and win additional market share in the spare parts area, our training initiative will also be market-leading in Sweden, and Lasingoo will be launched across a broad front in more markets. We will also continue to strengthen our brands through marketing, and by enhancing the way we build relationships with our customers. We now have a winning culture throughout the entire Mekonomen Group, and I would like to thank all employees for their strong performances in 2014. I believe that the balance between collaboration and internal competition makes a real contribution to our success, and I am looking forward to 2015 when our joint efforts will continue to create value for our customers. Håkan Lundstedt President and CEO Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 5 Goals and strategies Clear goals that are driving development For Mekonomen Group, it is important to have clear goals that continuously drive the company’s development forward and ensure that high profitability is achieved. In 2014, non-recurring effects due to restructuring in Denmark had a negative impact on profitability. Excluding Denmark, Mekonomen Group’s profitability goal was surpassed. Goals and outcomes, 2014 Mekonomen Group’s overall goal is to develop with high profitability and thus generate value growth for shareholders. The Group has also set the following growth and financial goals. Area Goal Outcome 2014 Growth goal Annual sales growth of 10 per cent. Expansion Annual sales growth in 2014: 1% (8%) shall occur with retained financial stability. Excluding the Danish operations: 3% Financial goals The EBIT margin shall exceed 8 per cent. The EBIT margin in 2014: 5% (8%) Excluding the Danish operations: 12% (10%) The long-term equity/assets ratio shall be not less than 40 per cent. Equity/assets ratio in 2014: 39% (41%) Comments on the outcome Strategic focus 2015 Shareholders will receive a dividend equal to that of 2013, according to the Board of Directors’ proposal. Furthermore, the share price In 2015, Mekonomen Group’s focus areas will include: performed favourably in 2014. In terms of growth, there is much • Growth and innovation to be done before we reach our goals. In regard to profitability, the Danish operations had a negative impact on the Group in 2014, due • Increased proportion of ProMeister sales to such factors as a restructuring of the Danish operations. Excluding • Continued development of ProMeister Academy Denmark, EBIT (pro forma) amounted to SEK 639 M (527). • Continued development and quality assurance of our workshops and concepts • Increased coordination and efficiency 6 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Vision, business concept and business model The first choice for car-owners Mekonomen Group is the leading car service chain in the Nordic region with a proprietary wholesale operation, about 350 stores and more than 2,300 workshops operating under our brands in the Nordic region. Simplicity, ­innovation and good value are important keywords in both our business concept and our vision. We aim to be our customers’ first choice – individuals, as well as businesses and organisations. The business model Vision Our business model is simple and logical. High purchasing volumes We are the car owner’s first choice and strive for a simpler and more combined with an efficient wholesale operation, well-known brands affordable CarLife. and concepts, full-range stores and workshops with well-trained personnel, give us a distinct advantage in being able to meet and Business concept exceed our customers’ needs. The keywords are a well-adapted, Mekonomen Group shall offer consumers and companies solutions affordable product range, combined with efficient distribution and a for a simpler and more affordable CarLife by using clear and innovahigh level of service. tive concepts, high quality and an efficient logistics chain. Purchasing Logistics Sales and range 1 Spare parts and car accessories purchased from some 160 suppliers. 2 Efficient transportation with three central warehouses in Eskilstuna, 3 Sales of spare parts, tyres, accessories and workshop services through three store concepts, five workshop concepts and direct sales. Strängnäs and Oslo. è From wholesaler to stores 1 Purchasing and range 2 Logistics Some 160 suppliers, all over the The wholesale operation is è From store to workshop world, currently account for 80 managed via three central wareper cent of the supply. Due to the houses in Eskilstuna, Strängnäs Group’s large volume purchasing, and Oslo, as well as strategic è From store to end customer we are able to purchase directly regional warehouses in Luleå from producers that supply car and Helsinki, which serve stores plants. This, in turn, entails that and affiliated workshops as well we can offer an attractive price as other workshop customers. è From workshop to end customer to customers who can always With highly efficient logisfind an affordable solution in our tics solutions, we can deliver stores or workshops. fast and effectively with a high We continuously monitor the level of service to our workshop global market in search of new customers across the Nordic and innovative products and region. 3 Sales services that can help make our Mekonomen Group generates shops are conducted by our offerings even more attractive. sales through sales of spare approximately 350 stores, which In Poland, we co-own a test lab parts, tyres, accessories and also serve as local warehouses. with auto parts company Inter workshop services. Sales to Sales to end customers, Cars, where we test and evaluate our more than 2,300 franchise ­consumers or companies, are products, especially under our ­workshops and proprietary conducted through stores, ProMeister and CarWise brands. workshops, and to other work­online and in our workshops. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 7 Brands and concepts Strong brands are our most important asset Mekonomen Group’s brands is our most important asset. The Group’s brand strategy entails a differentiation of our brands in terms of concepts, offerings and target groups. Stores Workshops Different target groups for these brands About 350 stores and departMore than 2,300 workshops The three Group companies MECA, Mekonomen Nordic and ments throughout the Nordic are affiliated with one of the five Sørensen og Balchen operate in much the same geographic m ­ arkets, region are operated under these workshop chains under these but have a clear differentiation in terms of concepts, offerings and brands: brands: target groups. MECA has a B2B focus and caters mainly to the • MECA • Mekonomen Bilverkstad workshops as a business partner. In addition to its relationship with • Mekonomen • MECA Car Service affiliated concept workshops, Mekonomen Nordic’s target group is • BilXtra • BilXtra consumers – with a strong focus on families with young children, and • MekoPartner women. Sørensen og Balchen, which operates the BilXtra spare-parts • Speedy chain, has a strong focus on, and leading position in, car accessories. The target group i­ncludes young drivers who want to personalise the appearance of their cars. In addition to the operations of Group companies, Mekonomen Group operates proprietary workshops under the Mekonomen ­Bilverkstad and Speedy brands. Speedy offers fast and efficient car service and qualified car repairs in central locations. The concepts of our three Group companies will be further differentiated. An important success formula is that each brand has its own business model with different solutions to meet customer needs. We are convinced that growth lies in a combination of strong central purchasing functions and differentiated concepts and brands in the eyes of our customers. Our brands in the retail sector are shining examples that clear concepts toward selected target groups can create growth. Geographic distribution of the brands Brand Sweden Norway Finland Denmark Iceland ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Mekonomen – Sweden’s strongest brand Mekonomen was voted Sweden’s strongest brand in the “Car ✔ parts and workshops” industry at the Swedish Brand Awards 2014. The award was based on an extensive survey among Swedish consumers regarding customer satisfaction and brand ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ awareness. 8 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Brands and concepts ProMeister – the Group’s proprietary brand for spare parts and training Growth of Mekonomen Group in recent years, organically and through acquisitions, enabled the development of a proprietary spare parts and training concept. The result was ProMeister – a Group-wide brand. Since 2012, Mekonomen Group has pursued intensive development with the aim of presenting a proprietary brand for spare parts, synonymous with safety, professionalism and world-class quality. The aim has always been that: • the spare parts concept should be equally adapted to all geographic markets for MECA, Mekonomen and BilXtra • the range should include high-quality and affordable spare parts for the European car fleet, with the market’s most generous warranties • the spare-parts range should be affordable without compromising quality ProMeister Global • the spare parts should be produced in large volumes to Through the establishment of a purchasing company in Hong reduce production costs – and therefore be affordable Kong, Mekonomen Group further boosted its p ­ urchasing for consumers power in 2014. ProMeister Global holds a key role in c­ reating ­purchasing partnerships with quality suppliers in Asia for Affordable products with a five-year warranty ProMeister products, in which several categories were The result was ProMeister – a combination of “professional ­developed in 2014. and progressive” and the German word for teacher (“meister”). In addition, ProMeister Global is a spearhead for generating The concept was launched in the summer of 2013 and quickly long-term sales of ProMeister products in selected geographic became a hit among workshops and consumers. ProMeister areas outside the Nordic region. is the only spare parts brand in the market to offer a five-year warranty. At the same time, average prices are 15 per cent lower than equivalent brand products, and significantly lower than in brand-dependent workshops. The ProMeister concept is also offered to independent workshops. ProMeister Academy The ProMeister Academy – our training platform – is responsible for the continuous professional development of our mechanics. The aim of the academy is to ensure excellence in our workshops, to ensure that we have the best mechanics and that their knowledge always complies with the latest developments in technology and mechanics. The academy was launched in Norway in 2013 and is now spreading to all markets. The ProMeister Academy has been a success, and both brand-dependent and independent workshops are now requesting training. As a result, the courses are also offered to workshops not affiliated with the Group’s concept. As more people use our training concept, awareness and confidence in our expertise will grow. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 9 Market Market performance and trends The most important positive trends • The European car parts and workshop market is consolidating, with fewer but stronger players • Chain affiliation is becoming increasingly attractive to independent workshops • The differences between brand-dependent and independent players are increasingly blurred • The independent players are claiming a larger share of the aftermarket • The service life of the European car fleet is growing • Demand for car-related services is growing 10 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Market The Nordic and European aftermarket for passenger cars is stable, and growing at a rate of 1–2 per cent annually. At the same time, these cars are becoming increasingly advanced and connected, which, in turn, is driving the need for more services. The European car parts market is not as cyclical as many other industhis trend in the European market, since it is driven by customers’ tries. While there may be short-term upward or downward swings, the growing needs for flexibility and affordable services. The difference curve will point steadily upwards over the next few years. At the same between brand-dependent and brand-independent players will time, a consolidation is taking place in which major players are being ­decrease dramatically. Customers choose the workshop they trust, bought up. Synergies through high purchasing volumes combined with with a price level they consider affordable. more efficient logistics solutions are driving this trend. This trend started The EU plays a key role by ensuring the free movement of goods in the Nordic region and the rest of Europe is now following suit. and services in a single European market, while contributing to The European workshop market is growing steadily. The trend is greater transparency – which benefits the end customer. The clear: the number of workshops is falling, while large workshops and competition between brand-independent and brand-dependent chains are claiming a bigger piece of the cake. One important explasuppliers will generate more affordable services and more freedom nation is that small and medium-sized independent workshops are to choose for customers. The EU is committed to a level playing finding it more difficult to compete. There are growing demands on field for all market players and to consumer protection from unfair further training for mechanics and increased investment in advanced competition. equipment. Major chains that can offer adapted concepts, customised professional development, smart logistics solutions with an Electric cars and plug-in hybrids adapted product range and technical support are becoming increasThe market for cars that run on alternative fuels is growing. This trend ingly attractive for this group of workshops. This benefits car-owners, is driven by growing environmental awareness among c ­ onsumers, since the economies of scale contribute to more affordable services while emission requirements are being tightened. The EU has and products. ­decided that from 2021, emission limits for new cars will be 95 grams of CO2 per kilometre, which has forced car manufacturers to proFlexible car ownership duce smarter, more energy-efficient and greener engines. A distinct trend in Europe is less driving. Rising petrol prices, generally Although the popularity of electric cars is growing, sales remain weak economic conditions and continued migration to metropolitan at modest levels. In 2020, the electric car market is expected to regions are three important factors. Many people, particularly young represent a mere one per cent of the total market. Plug-in hybrids are people, want access to a car without necessarily owning it. At the another alternative, with both an electric engine that recharges via an same time, there is major demand for shorter car journeys in European electrical outlet, and a traditional petrol-powered engine. Experts also cities as a complement to public transport. We see a trend toward disagree on the exact green technology that will lead the way. Political “flexible mobility,” in which many players are offering clever solutions will also play a major role in this. Norway, for example, has decided to such as carpooling, car sharing, and so forth. Co-sharing is expected become a global leader in super fuel-efficient cars. Thanks to generto rise sharply, with an estimated five million users globally in 2015. ous government subsidies, the market is growing fast. One in seven The trend toward more carpooling will favour workshop chains with new cars in Norway is now exhaust-free and the target of 50,000 a geographic spread and the administrative tools to serve major electric cars is within reach. fleets. This new development is creating business opportunities, since collective ownership requires more services, such as service Smartphone on four wheels and repair agreements, pick-up/drop-off services in conjunction with The connected car is already a reality, and will grow sharply. Some maintenance, and so forth. analysts believe that many people do not want a car, but a smartphone on four wheels. They want to “talk” to their car and keep Cars are getting older track using apps. The car is automatically booked into the workshop In Europe, the average age of car fleets is rising. This fact underlies when the service light goes on. Your driving style is analysed and the assessment of stable growth for the car parts market, since the you receive feedback on how to reduce your fuel consumption, while need for replacement and spare parts is constantly growing. another app gives you information about available parking spaces Although the consolidation process is well under way, the in the area. Cars can communicate with each other over wireless European market is still largely immature in the sense that many network (V2X technology), and warn if someone has driven through a markets maintain a traditional structure with car dealers and red light or is about to cross the opposite carriageway. GM will launch dedicated spare parts wholesalers. Full integration with end this technology within two years. customers does not exist to a great extent. Analysts believe that the market for connected cars will be worth SEK The car parts market in the US has evolved considerably faster 130 billion in just a few years. There is major potential for those who than in Europe – particularly in terms of brand-independent and are innovative and can produce new concepts. On the whole, the brand-dependent suppliers. Brand-independent suppliers now market for digital services with new business models and offerings is account for 70 per cent of the car parts market. We will also see growing fast. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 11 Market Mekonomen Group and the market Due to its size and strong position in the European market, investment in further training and general knowledge raising is a vital Mekonomen Group is well-positioned for creating growth ­weapon for maintaining customer confidence in a rapidly changing and developing new services and business to retain world. Our specialised training platform – the ProMeister Academy – is a existing, and attract new, customers in a market undergoing Group-wide initiative to ensure the continuous professional developchange. Our successes in the Nordic market are a striking ment of our mechanics. One example is the changing car fleet, where example of the lead that the Mekonomen Group enjoys, plug-in hybrids and electric cars will become increasingly stronger. where knowledge, trust and the brand are key in attracting The Norwegian market may already account for the fastest growing customers. electric car fleet in the world. Mekonomen Group is matching this development by offering relevant technical training for workshops affiliated with one of Mekonomen Group’s concepts, independent Mekonomen Group’s economies of scale in the form of high purchasworkshops and brand-dependent workshops. ing volumes, smart logistics solutions combined with a local presence This requires innovative thinking in terms of both Mekonomen and high levels of expertise, have given us clear advantages where Group’s product and service offerings, and the further training of our we compete with affordable products and services which, in turn, employees. benefits the end customer. The Group’s business model suits both private and business Online sales are growing customers. Private customers see major value in our ability to serve Customers require simplicity, transparency and constant availability. the customer and his or her car with affordable products and efficient Mekonomen Group’s joint launch of the Lasingoo workshop portal service. Business customers appreciate the same things. However, with five other competing chains in 2014 is one example of how we the preferences may vary somewhat between the groups, in that are always trying to make life easier for our customers. our ability to serve a large number of cars with a national network Car owners are able to compare workshops, quality, ratings and of workshops is more important for business customers. Service prices in a way that was never previously possible. This transparto business customers is an important focus area for Mekonomen ency will benefit workshops with affordable, high-quality products. Group. Although online sales of accessories and spare parts will increase, this area will account for a minor share of the total market. Online Expertise increasingly significant sales are increasingly becoming an integral part of our total offering Quality combined with affordability in all of the Group’s workshop and are driving traffic to our stores and workshops. At the same concepts is important in the battle for customers, while the signifitime the rapid digitisation will lead to new business opportunities cance of flexibility and capacity for innovation is growing. While cars and Mekonomen Group wants, and aims, to be at the forefront of are undergoing constant technical development, joint platforms this development. mean that many models are technically similar to each other. The Mekonomen Group’s market share Approx. Approx. 15% 25% of the spare parts submarket of the spare parts submarket to workshops in Sweden to workshops in Norway 12 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Market The market trend in 2014 in Nordic countries Norway • Historically best growth in the Nordic region. Was adversely ­impacted by macroeconomic effects at the end of 2014 Finland • Tough macro­ economic conditions impacted market growth Sweden • Decline in car driving, yet higher number of cars • Higher proportion of online sales compared with other Nordic markets Denmark • Intensely competitive market, which led to price pressure and weak profitability Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 13 MECA Scandinavia Intensive sales work generates results Pehr Oscarson, CEO, MECA MECA Scandinavia is a market leader in auto spare parts, tools and workshop equipment. The operation is based on an efficient distribution network via 91 MECA Scandinavia continues its successful efforts to develop departments in Sweden and Norway to professional workshops. Logistics are the workshop concept and distribution logistics. Combined controlled from a central warehouse in with a dedicated sales team that drives sales to independent Eskilstuna. MECA is also the fastest growing workshops and secures commercial agreements, this has workshop concept in Sweden and further strengthened MECA’s position in 2014. Norway, with 628 affiliated workshops under the MECA Car Service brand. In Denmark, sales in the workshop market are conducted under the Mekonomen The distribution network and workshop which led to a higher market share. Technical Autoteknik and MekoPartner brands. concept are two structural components of expertise continued to maintain a very high MECA’s success. The third component is the level. One point of interest is that demand for Number of workshops Number of stores 976 91 sales team, which is totally unique. Some 30 courses in hybrid technology and electrical team members frequently scour the market vehicle technology is growing rapidly as for suitable workshops, establish personal electric cars become increasingly established relationships and spread the MECA brand. in the Norwegian market. The standards are high – workshops must Share of the Group’s have an efficient base, high quality and the Structural changes in Denmark revenue right expertise before moving forwards. The Danish market did not meet ­expectations, and Mekonomen Group New workshops in Sweden therefore implemented major structural Intensive sales work also generates results. changes to secure profitability in 2015. All During 2014, the number of workshops 28 stores, which are also local warehouses, 38% ­affiliated to MECA’s brand increased by and the regional warehouse and head office slightly more than 30 in Sweden, and three in Odense were closed. The Group retained auto parts stores were acquired. franchise workshops and is focusing on MECA’s strength in the workshop concept efficient logistics without intermediaries. In is primarily very strong technical expertise, in future, spare parts to Mekonomen Autoteknik 2014* 2013* which technical training and support is also and MekoPartner will be delivered directly Net sales (external), 2,205 2,211 offered to the affiliated workshops. from the central warehouse in Sweden. SEK M (1,679) (1,599) MECA also secured a number of major EBITA, SEK M -68 156 contracts under intense competition, includ(268) (213) ing the vehicle fleet of the Swedish Defence EBIT, SEK M -182 84 Materiel Administration. This shows that MECA’s strength (183) (142) MECA has the ability to handle large-scale, EBITA margin, % -3 7 in the workshop (16) (13) complex assignments, with high demands on eligibility, such as environmental certification. ­concept is primarily very EBIT margin, % -8 4 (11) (9) strong technical expertise, Number of stores/of 91/75 131/108 Growing market share in Norway in which technical training which proprietary (87/72) (86/68) The Norwegian market also developed positively, with 25 new workshops under and support is also offered Number of MECA Car 628 570 Service workshops (628) (570) the MECA name. Sales were very favorable, to the affiliated workshops. Number of Mekonomen Service Centres 195 212 (Denmark only) Number of MekoPartner workshops 153 190 (Denmark only) Average number of 987 1,000 employees (614) (603) *Figures in parentheses are excluding the Danish 14 operations. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 MECA Scandinavia Focus in 2015 • continued recruitment of new workshops, which boosts competitiveness and contributes to high purchasing volumes • increased sales in the workshops through more fleet agreements • higher level of car-owner satisfaction through a systematic focus on quality in all stages Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 15 Mekonomen Nordic A high level of service and customer interaction Magnus Johansson, CEO, Mekonomen Nordic High availability through Scandinavia’s largest store network Mekonomen Nordic is one of the leading industry players in the Nordic for auto spare parts, combined with high delivery capability, is region, with operations in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Iceland. Through a building growth for Mekonomen Nordic. 2014 was no exception. nationwide store network, Mekonomen The proprietary workshop concept, in particular, developed offers the best availability in the industry with a total of 192 stores across strongly in all markets, mainly through increased sales per Sweden, Norway, Finland and Iceland. concept workshop. Mekonomen Nordic has more than one thousand affiliated workshops under the Mekonomen Bilverkstad brand in Sweden, Norway and Finland, Mekonomen Nordic has the market’s strongthere are six stores in Finland and 17 concept and the MekoPartner brand in Sweden est brand in the workshop sector in Sweden, workshops. In 2015, the focus will lie on and Norway. A central warehouse in Strängnäs and is also number one in Norway. As in expanding the number of stores in order to is responsible for logistics and stocks Sweden, the Norwegian concept workshops increase availability, and to continue growing some 67,000 items. are developing strongly, and Mekonomen sales to concept workshops. Nordic consistently gains new market share. Number of workshops Number of stores A strong performance in sales of spare High delivery capacity parts from the proprietary ProMeister brand contributed to increased margins and higher affordability. Mekonomen Nordic’s service to independent workshops is a conscious choice, aimed at strengthening the proprietary brand and increasing sales. High delivery capac1,065 192 Full-service store concept ity, affordable products and an offering of Share of the Group’s The full-service store concept in Sweden high technical expertise not only supports revenue and Norway plays two key roles. Primarily, a Mekonomen Nordic’s own organisation but full-service store offers both private and busialso makes a major contribution to promoting ness customers assistance with all of their new workshop affiliations, or to becoming a car-ownership needs. The store also serves customer. as a decentralised hub for service to Mekonomen Nordic’s concept workshops, while Private consumers include families with young children and women – two important 47% also offering spare parts and accessories to target groups for Mekonomen Nordic’s conindependent workshops. The combination cepts. At the same time, Mekonomen Nordic has proven highly successful for Mekonomen is continuously developing new business Nordic, where local expertise and access to and seeking new customer groups. One spare parts builds business in the two neighexample is the focus on providing service for 2014 2013 bouring countries. the major vehicle fleets of companies and In Sweden, there are 137 stores and 597 organisations. Customers that have chosen Net sales (external), SEK M 2,692 2,656 workshops under the Mekonomen name. Mekonomen Fleet include the Stockholm EBITA, SEK M 422 390 The search for new and qualified candidates County Police, Leaseplan, Bravida and EBIT, SEK M 401 323 constantly continues. Samhall. In Norway, there are currently 46 stores EBITA margin, % 15 14 and 451 concept workshops. Concept workEBIT margin, % 14 12 shops showed a very strong trend in 2014, Number of stores/of while Mekonomen advanced its positions The concept workwhich proprietary 192/151 193/146 with new market share. shops enjoyed excellent Number of Mekonomen Service Centres 863 871 development during 2014, Number of MekoPartner Finnish expansion The Finnish expansion moved forward with while Mekonomen advanced workshops 202 188 Average number of strong growth in existing stores. At present, its positions. employees 1,089 1,122 16 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Mekonomen Nordic Focus in 2015 • continued quality development • development of the workshop concept • investment in training through the ProMeister Academy • continued investment in ProMeister spare parts • increased sales initiatives and sales promotions in the workshop market Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 17 Sørensen og Balchen New record year with higher sales Morten Birkeland, CEO, Sørensen og Balchen Sørensen og Balchen delivered a highly favourable performance Sørensen og Balchen conducts wholesale, store and workshop operin 2014, despite a market characterised by dramatic changes ations in Norway. The company is a leading distributor of spare parts and in the car fleet, weak retail sales and a substantially weakened accessories and now represents many NOK. Increased sales to consumers via BilXtra, a streamlined of the most renowned manufacturers in the world. The company has 71 stores store network and growth in sales to workshops led to the best and 232 affiliated workshops under the results ever and Sørensen og Balchen passed the milestone of BilXtra brand in Norway. Logistics are controlled from a central warehouse in NOK 100 M in EBITA. Oslo, which stocks more than 60,000 items. In 2004, retail sales in Norway showed a The store network was further streamlined, generally weak trend. The workshop sector while the workshop sector showed a positive Number of workshops Number of stores is cyclical, with both favourable and less overall trend despite a much tougher market favourable periods throughout the year. At the same time, the negative trend for the NOK continues, affecting the entire market. at present. Service intervals on cars are getting longer, the quality of products is higher, and competition from the branded 232 71 As in 2013, however, Sørensen og Balchen workshops is intensifying. As part of the performed well in a weak market – mainly process to continually fine-tune costs, moniShare of the Group’s due to improved earnings in the proprietary toring procedures in workshops were further revenue BilXtra operation. refined. One specific example is the matching of inventory levels with purchasing frequency Higher retail sales to achieve a better flow of goods. There are several reasons for the company’s Another positive factor is that independent success during the year, and that helped to further strengthen the BilXtra brand. The workshops accounted for a higher proportion of Sørensen og Balchen’s sales. 12% range was expanded with a steady stream of new product launches, combined with effective storage. Radiators, air conditioners and turbos were launched, for example. The “Children in Car” and “Sound in Car” initia2014 2013 tives began to generate results. The market position was strengthened Net sales (external), SEK M 712 701 due to a highly successful year for the BilXtra operations, in particular, in 2014. Online sales EBITA, SEK M 109 99 The key success factors were also added. EBIT, SEK M 92 81 were significantly EBITA margin, % 15 14 Streamlined store network increased sales, coupled with The BilXtra stores enjoyed their best year EBIT margin, % 13 11 effective cost control and ever, historically, with record earnings. Number of stores/of The key success factors were significantly many dedicated employees which proprietary 71/34 74/34 increased sales, coupled with effective cost who showed they were both Number of BilXtra control and many dedicated employees able and willing to do the right workshops 232 243 who showed they were both able and willing to do the right thing to achieve favourable thing to achieve favourable Average number of employees 252 259 results. results. 18 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Sørensen og Balchen Focus in 2015 • increase the profitability of the operation • develop the product range of new products, balance the right product mix while refining logistics are other key issues for strengthening the brand • attract more customers, both workshops and consumers • be at the forefront in terms of professional development, with a strong focus on plug-in hybrids and electric cars Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 19 Sustainable development and social responsibility Sustainable development and social responsibility Mekonomen Group is the leading car service chain Mekonomen Group is growing rapidly as a compain the Nordic region. Our decisions and priorities ny and we are also establishing a gradual presence affect not only employees but also the rest of the in new markets. This means that our approach to community, including our customers, our industry, the outside world becomes increasingly important, as a company and as individual employees. Mekonomen Group’s the society and the environment. It is therefore core values form the basis for how all Group employees a natural step for us to take responsibility and should act – and how we want the outside world to perceive ­engage with the community in which we operate. us as a company. These core values also form the basis for our Code of Conduct. In 2014, we conducted a materiality analysis and Internal and external communication plays a central role in identified seven areas of focus for the Group’s these values and is an important tool for achieving our objecsustainability efforts in 2015 and onwards. tives. Our journey has just begun and in future, our communication will be even more transparent and clear, while we maintain the greatest respect for our business environment. Based on Mekonomen Group’s common values, Group Management initiated a process in autumn 2014 to identify the Group’s key focus Håkan Lundstedt areas for continued sustainability efforts. President and CEO Materiality analysis as the starting point The starting point is the materiality analysis conducted with Group Management, managers and employees in Mekonomen Group. The materiality analysis is an important tool for identifying internal and exOur common values ternal stakeholders’ views on the sustainability factors that are most Responsibility important for Mekonomen Group. We assume responsibility for our operating environment, The materiality analysis was supplemented with a gap analysis, shared resources and have confidence in the knowledge and which shows the Group’s work in relation to the United Nations ability of our employees. Our customers associate us with high Global Compact, to which Mekonomen has been affiliated with quality. since 2013. Affiliation means that the Group commits to the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the Competency environment and anti-corruption. We have high professional qualification within the areas in The materiality analysis was also translated into a wider perspecwhich we operate and this means that our customers perceive tive, in which consideration was given to national and international us as reliable and knowledgeable. trends, standards, expectations, guidelines and laws that are relevant to a responsible and sustainable business. Customer orientation We place the customer first and satisfy our customers’ expecSeven focus areas tations, which means that our customers understand that we The materiality analysis led to a division of the Group’s sustainability have a comprehensive view. efforts into seven focus areas as of 2015, accounting for environFlexibility mental, quality and social conditions at all stages – from production We seek new ideas and continuously evolve to meet the needs to sales. of our existing and prospective customers. This means that • With a customer focus our customers perceive us as innovative. • Quality in the workshop • Safe products and solutions Business orientation • Managers and employees We generate good financial results, with a balance between • Responsible purchasing short and long-term earnings. We are perceived as affordable • Market leader with clear goals by the customer. • Engaged social partner 20 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Hållbarhet Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 21 Sustainable development and social responsibility Sustainability efforts in 2014 Overall responsibility for sustainability and social responsiDiversity bility lies with Group management within Mekonomen Group. Our workplaces should reflect our customer groups and society at However, all employees are affected by the specific efforts large. We work actively to achieve a high degree of diversity among carried out at various levels of the Group. Here is an overview our managers and employees, with clear guidelines in our recruitment of our sustainability work with some specific examples of our policy and continuous monitoring of internal diversity goals. work in 2014. Training – the ProMeister Academy We are continuously working to coordinate environmental activities Mekonomen Group’s skills and development initiatives are intended within the Group. The progress of our activities in a broad number not only to meet today’s needs but also to anticipate the future chalof sustainability areas varies, which poses a challenge for the Group lenges of tomorrow’s society: a fossil-free car fleet, a service society, when reporting at a general level. Best practices and the seven urbanisation and a shared economy. This is how Mekonomen Group focus areas will drive our overall sustainability efforts forward, in secures the future competitiveness of the Group as well as individorder to reach a minimum level for all operations in the longer term. ual employees. A fundamental approach at Mekonomen Group is However, the coordination process should not impact or slow the to capitalise on the skills available in the Group and develop them successful initiatives that already exist locally in our operations. The through further training and opportunities for new challenges within differentiation in our brands and in each target group are a strength the Group. Internal recruitment within and between Group companies for the Group, and sustainability efforts for each operation should is highly successful. reflect the actual target groups and be relevant for the operation. The ProMeister Academy training platform secures the quality and skills of our mechanics in all of the Group’s workshop chains. More Working at Mekonomen than 1,400 mechanics have received further training at the ProMeister Mekonomen Group has an entrepreneurial spirit characterised by Academy since it was founded in 2013. commitment, in which all employees have opportunities for personal development and new challenges in their working life. We are highly adaptable and pragmatic and have great confidence in the ability of The ProMeister Academy training each individual. The commitment of our managers and employees is platform secures the quality and a pre-requisite for the Group’s success and we want all employees to skills of our mechanics in all of the Group’s see Mekonomen Group as a long-term employer that offers opportunities for both professional and personal development. workshop chains. The Group’s employee surveys include questions about job satisfaction and working conditions, and whether individual employees are able to influence their work situation. Since the employee survey Here are some of the tools currently used by Mekonomen Group: captures the views of all employees, the results can be used at several • The Group’s common values levels to introduce operational improvements, from an overall level • The Code of Conduct down to individual group/unit level. Employee surveys takes place • Employee surveys every other year since 2013, and the most recent survey was imple• The Equality and Diversity Plan mented in 2013. • Action Plan to Eliminate Discrimination in the Workplace • Clear individual goals and monitoring Employment Satisfaction Index (ESI) 2007–2013 • The rights of companies and employees regarding employment conditions in the form of collective agreements, salaried employ% % 100 100 ees’ contracts, and so forth • Labour laws in each country 95 95 • Regular monitoring of absenteeism, accidents and incidents • Active health and safety work to prevent accidents and minimise 90 90 risks 85 85 • Continuous skills and development initiatives to meet current and future needs (including the ProMeister Academy) 80 80 75 75 Control of supply chains and products All of our Group companies have extensive experience in purchasing 70 70 spare parts and accessories from major European players in the 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 automotive industry. By being a customer of major and recognised Global benchmark suppliers with excellent references, the Group benefits from the strict environmental, health and safety and quality requirements already Employee surveys are used to measure employment satisfaction. Mekonomen exercised by these players. Group has a positive work environment that developed favourably between Suppliers in Europe account for most purchasing and in 2014, 2007–2013 (In 2013, the response rate totalled 93%). direct imports from Asia accounted for only a minor portion of 22 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development and social responsibility p ­ urchasing. The focus on proprietary products – ProMeister for spare Environmental activities and certifications parts, and Carwise for accessories – contributes to increased direct The Group’s environmental impact in the Nordic region mainly takes purchasing from Asia. place in the areas of energy, transportation and the handling of chemIn 2013, a collaboration with Polish company Inter Cars was initiicals. Our proprietary operations in MECA Sweden, MECA Norway ated to broaden the supplier base in terms of direct purchasing and and Mekonomen Sweden have made the most progress in environlogistics from Asia. Through this collaboration, we are also part-ownmental work, and all of these facilities hold ISO 14001 certification. er of a testing lab in Poland, where the quality and functionality of Mekonomen’s proprietary operations in Sweden have come one spare parts and accessories is tested. We have also established our step further by also holding occupational health and safety (OHSAS own purchasing office in Hong Kong, which brings us closer to pro18001) and quality management (ISO 9001) certifications. duction and speeds up the development of our proprietary products. Environmental work includes surveys of the most significant Our supplier agreements are Group-wide, which aims to secure a environmental impact of the operations, and includes environmental shared view of sustainability parameters, whether we purchase from policies, certified environmental management systems and environEurope or Asia. The agreements include a clearly enforceable statemental manuals describing procedures, monitoring and responsibilment that suppliers undertake to comply with the UN Global Impact’s ities. Environmental management systems undergo external audits ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment every year, and environmental goals and monitoring procedures are and anti-corruption. We make regular risk assessments of suppliers determined for each financial year. and products and follow up with site visits and visual inspection of Internally, the Group offers several courses in the environmental supply chains considered to be at higher risk in terms of complying area, such as the handling and transportation of hazardous goods with environmental and human rights requirements. (ADR) and national legislation related to chemicals and CE marking. As one of the major purchasing players in Europe with a growing Products are checked at several stages regarding, for example, their presence in Asia, we aim to make demands on suppliers and ensure compliance with national requirements and registration. Specificaopportunities for monitoring all aspects of the agreement. In the comtions on content, labelling and safety data are also produced. ing year, we will develop a specific Code of Conduct for our suppliers The agreements signed with suppliers include a number of docuand ensure opportunities for monitoring the agreed sustainability paments concerning environmental standards, such as the EU REACH rameters. Our presence in Asia through the purchasing office in Hong regulation, which also require compliance. Kong also provides opportunities to develop our spot checks in terms of both sustainability, and faster quality-assurance of products on site. Anti-corruption Although the risk is considered higher in certain markets and certain During the year, efforts to replace the Group’s industries, corruption is not geographically limited. Mekonomen Group vehicle fleet with low emission vehicles conhas adopted a zero tolerance approach to corruption, and since we tinued. make purchases from markets where corruption is a well-known problem, we have to actively distance ourselves from these practices. Electricity from renewables (hydro and wind Through a central purchasing organisation that secures all major power) are used more diligently in the Group. purchasing agreements for our three Group companies, we have In 2014, Mekonomen received the EcoOnline better control over suppliers and the flow of products throughout the Award. The EcoOnline Award was established in Group. All agreements contain clauses that address corruption by 2011 with the objective of encouraging efficient referring to the United Nations Global Compact. handling of chemicals that generates results. The Business ethics are addressed internally in employment contracts EcoOnline Award highlights companies that work and the Code of Conduct – the latter also provides information on the actively in a preventive capacity and conduct risk whistle-blower function. Mekonomen Group’s whistleblowing function assessments in the area. started in 2011 and the head of internal audit is responsible for this function. Number of certified units at 31 Dec 2014 Offices/ wholesale Stores Workshops warehouses Total Type of certification Mekonomen Nordic 129 86 6 221 ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9001 MECA 65 – 4 69 ISO 14001 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 23 Sustainable development and social responsibility Community project Mekonomen Group is actively engaged in a community project with a diversity and inclusion theme. We want to ensure that marginalised social groups that find it difficult to enter the labour market receive support and opportunities to do so. As a partner of Telge Tillväxt, we help young people find jobs by offering traineeships or employment in our stores and warehouses, or in administration. In partnership with schools and training programmes, we offer traineeships that correspond to the interests of students. In addition to traineeships in our stores and workshops, an established trainee programme has evolved in the Group’s marketing department, in which the traineeship has often led to employment. Mitt Liv – to promote diversity and inclusion In spring 2013, Mekonomen Group became affiliated with Mitt Liv (My Life), a social enterprise with the objective of increasing diversity and inclusion. The Linus Kjellander was 22 when he came to Mekonomen in 2011 via Telge goal is to open doors to the Swedish labour market for people with Tillväxt, and was recruited as a project employee in northern Norway to digitise foreign and academic backgrounds, which mainly takes place through a catalogue. Linus is now a permanent employee, and works as the Sourcing & mentoring, further training and a broad contact network. Eight people Product Development Manager at the head office in Stockholm. from the Group have been making an active contribution to Mitt Liv for a period of two years. Each person has acted as mentor to a mentee schools, some 600 physical activities are offered per school year, and this involvement has increased opportunities for taking advantage ­alternated with knowledge and motivation to improve families’ of the skills that exist in the community, as well as offering work and ­attitudes toward lifestyle and health. enabling people to work with something they have been trained for. Diversity project with the Swedish Public The Healthy Generation Foundation – Employment Service promoting a healthier lifestyle In cooperation with the Swedish Public Employment Service, MeThe Healthy Generation (En frisk generation) konomen Group has initiated a diversity project aimed at integrating Foundation was founded in 2011. The Foundation foreign-born Swedes into the Swedish labour market, while ensuring is a joint initiative by researchers from Karolinska a future supply of mechanics to the Group’s workshops in the Nordic Institute, private companies and various voluntary region. People with a specific technical or mechanic skill are offered associations. The goal is to establish a long-term, viable method for traineeships and individualised training to complement their existing influencing public health by engaging and motivating entire families, knowledge, with the aim of becoming a qualified car mechanic. at an early age, to adopt a healthier and more enjoyable lifestyle. The trend in recent years indicates a growing need for mechanics The initiative originally targeted families with students in Grade 2 at in the workshops, while interest in mechanics as a career has fallen, two schools in Södertälje but has now been extended to Haninge with fewer qualified mechanics as a result. Within a three-year period, and Kungsbacka municipalities. In cooperation with the children’s more than 5,000 new car mechanics will be needed in the industry. Future mechanics, 2015 24 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development and social responsibility About this report on sustainability work in 2014 Mekonomen Group became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact The table below presents the categories that we disclosed in 2014 with a in 2013. Since 2013, we have also been inspired by the Global Reporting Initiacross-reference to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. tive’s G4 Guidelines, and this report contains major parts of GRI G4. However, it The sustainability information has not been audited by a third party. is not a comprehensive report in accordance with the GRI’s Guidelines. Disclosures from GRI G4 Page Comments Cross-reference to reference the United Nations in the AR1) Global Compact’s ten principles General standard disclosures Strategy and Analysis G4-1: Statement from the CEO 20 Organisational Profile G4-3: Name of the organisation 28 G4-4: Primary brands, products and services 3, 8 G4-5: Location of the organisation’s headquarters 28, 85 G4-6: Number of countries where the organisation operates 3, 13, 34 G4-7: The nature of ownership and legal form 26-27 G4-8: Markets served 3, 13 G4-9: Scale of the organisation 1, 3, 12 G4-10: Total number of employees 58 G4-11: The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 22 Principle 3 G4-12: The organisation’s supply chain 6, 23 G4-13: Significant changes during the reporting period 1 G4-14: The precautionary approach 52 G4-15: Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, 20 Principles 1-10 or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. Governance G4-34: Report the governance structure 34-41 G4-37: Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body 22, 34-35 Ethics and Integrity G4-56: : Description of the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms 3, 20, 22-24 Principles 1–10 of behaviour G4-58: Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour 23 Principles 10 (whistleblowing) Specific standard disclosures Economic G4-EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 42-44 G4-EC4: VFinancial assistance received from government. Mekonomen Group did not receive any significant financial assistance from the government in 2014 G4-EC7: Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 24 Environmental G4-EN24: Significant spills There were no significant spills in 2014 G4-EN27: Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 23 Principles 7-9 G4-EN29: Fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with No significant cases were reported environmental laws and regulations in 2014 G4-EN32: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 23 Principle 8 Social G4-LA1: Employee turnover 58 G4-LA9: Average hours of training per year per employee 4, 9, 22, 30 G4-LA12: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees according to indicators 40-41, 58 Mekonomen Group reports the of diversity breakdown of employees by gender and age. G4-LA14: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria 23 Principles 3-5 G4-HR3: Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No cases of discrimination were Principle 6 reported in 2014 G4-HR10: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 23 Principles 1-2, 4-5 G4-SO4: Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 22-23 Principle 10 G4-SO5: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents of corruption were Principle 10 reported in 2014 1) AR=Mekonomen Group’s 2014 Annual Report Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 25 The share The Mekonomen share The Mekonomen AB (publ) share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, Mid Cap segment since May 2000 and is traded under the MEKO ticker. The share price rose sharply at the end of 2014 and the year’s highest closing price, SEK 204 per share, was listed on the last trading day of the year. At 31 December 2014, the total market value of the company was Dividend and profit per share SEK 7.3 billion. In 2014, the share’s highest closing price was SEK SEK SEK 204.00 on 30 December, the last trading day of the year, and the 11 11 lowest closing price was SEK 140.25 on 10 October. The average 10 10 9 9 share price was SEK 171.03. The number of shareholders at 31 8 8 December 2014 was 9,664. 7 7 As per 31 December 2014, the share capital of Mekonomen AB 6 6 (publ) amounted to SEK 90 M (90) and comprised 35,901,487 shares 5 5 (35,901,487) at a quotient value of SEK 2.50 per share (2.50). 4 4 Each share carries one vote at the Annual General Meeting and 3 3 2 2 all shares carry equal entitlement to a share in the company’s profits 1 1 and assets. Each shareholder is entitled to vote for all their shares 0 0 with no restrictions and the shares are not included in any transfer 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 restrictions. Dividend/share Profit/share Market value SEK 7.3 billion Share capital development Holding per ownership category1) Year Transaction Nominal Shares, total Share capital, value, SEK total, SEK 1990 Formation of company 100.00 1,000 100,000.00 1998 Bonus issue 100.00 400,000 40,000,000.00 1998 Split 1:10 10.00 4,000,000 40,000,000.00 1999 New share issue 10.00 5,434,444 54,344,440.00 2000 New share issue 10.00 7,252,626 72,526,260.00 2001 Redemption of convertible bonds 10.00 7,286,626 72,866,260.00 2002 Redemption of convertible bonds 10.00 7,385,226 73,852,260.00 2003 Redemption of convertible bonds 10.00 7,397,326 73,973,260.00 2003 Split 2:1 5.00 14,794,652 73,973,260.00 2003 Redemption of convertible bonds 5.00 14,869,150 74,345,750.00 2004 Redemption of convertible bonds 5.00 15,304,618 76,523,090.00 n Swedish private owners 48% 2004 New share issue 5.00 15,434,411 77,172,055.00 n Foreign owners 28% 2005 Split 2:1 2.50 30,868,822 77,172,055.00 n Swedish equity funds 15% 2011 New share issue 2.50 32,814,605 82,036,512.50 n Swedish institutions 9% 2012 New share issue 2.50 35,901,487 89,753,717.50 1) Source: SIS Ownership Data Corp 26 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 The share 15 largest shareholders, 30 Dec 20141) Holding per size class, 30 Dec 20141) Number Votes and Number of Number Holding, Name of shares capital, % Size class shareholders of shares % Axel Johnson AB with subsidiaries 9,516,235 26.5 1 – 100 4,037 186,912 0.5 Eva Fraim-Påhlman 2,009,176 5.6 101 – 200 1,497 258,449 0.7 SHB fonder 1,945,205 5.4 201 – 300 638 173,542 0.5 Norges Bank Investment Management 1,600,047 4.5 301 – 400 999 391,372 1.1 Swedbank Robur fonder 1,513,671 4.2 401 – 500 465 227,528 0.6 Kempen & Co fonder 1,025,868 2.9 501 – 1,000 964 793,538 2.2 Ing-Marie Fraim-Sefastsson 1,000,000 2.8 1,001 – 2,000 511 800,613 2.2 Fjärde AP-fonden 735,181 2.0 2,001 – 5,000 308 1,019,529 2.8 Skandia Liv 646,191 1.8 5,001 – 10,000 91 665,628 1.9 Otto Olsen Invest AS 615,770 1.7 10,001 – 20,000 52 747,940 2.1 SEB fonder 561,914 1.6 20,001 – 50,000 40 1,268,439 3.5 Catella fonder 550,679 1.5 Leif Möller 319,700 0.9 50,001 – 100,000 21 1,457,913 4.1 Oslo Pensjonsforsikring AS 310,000 0.9 100,001 – 500,000 29 6,531,288 18.2 Avanza Pension och Försäkring AB 198,182 0.6 500,001 – 1,000,000 6 4,435,433 12.4 Total 15 largest shareholders 22,547,819 62.9 1,000,001 – 5,000,000 5 7,427,128 20.7 Others 13,353,668 37.1 5,000,001 – 10,000,000 1 9,516,235 26.5 Total 35,901,487 100.0 Total 9,664 35,901,487 100.0 Data per share 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Average number of shares after full dilution 35,901,487 35,901,487 34,692,458 32,436,258 30,868,822 30,868,822 30,868,822 Number of shares at year-end after full dilution 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 32,814,605 30,868,822 30,868,822 30,868,822 Profit per share after full dilution, SEK 3.34 8.56 10.80 11.39 10.95 7.38 5.84 Shareholders’ equity, SEK 57.55 62.10 64.20 46.90 30.90 28.40 27.00 Cash flow, SEK 11.51 15.51 14.93 7.98 11.60 9.38 6.77 Dividend , SEK 2) 7.00 7.00 7.00 8.00 8.00 7.00 6.00 Dividend proportion, % 210 82 65 69 73 95 103 1) Source: SIS Ownership Data Corp 2) The Board’s proposal for 2014. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 27 Administration Report Administration Report The Board of Directors and President of affiliated workshops is a key factor behind this growth. The investment in ProMeister is our other growth engine. In the ProMeister ­Mekonomen AB (publ.), Corporate Registration venture, we are benefiting from our purchasing office in Hong Kong, Number 556392-1971, hereby submit the Annual which was strengthened during the year. At the same time, continuReport and consolidated financial statements for ous efficiency enhancements are being implemented, for example, in the coordination of central functions, which was in focus in 2014. the 2014 financial year. The basis for the Group’s long-term growth is innovation, which involves both products and services as well as the way in which we General can ease the way for our customers through smart services. In 2014, Mekonomen Group is the leading automotive spare-parts chain in focus was on ProMeister, our training venture ProMeister Academy the Nordic region and comprises the three Group companies MECA and Lasingoo, the car portal that we own jointly with other industry Scandinavia, Mekonomen Nordic and Sørensen og Balchen. We offer players. a broad and accessible range of affordable and innovative solutions The total number of stores in the chains at the end of the period and products for consumers and companies. Mekonomen Group was 355 (399), of which 261 (289) were proprietary stores. The numhas approximately 350 stores and more than 2,300 affiliated workber of affiliated workshops totalled 2,304 (2,300), of which 28 were shops under the Group brands. proprietary workshops. The Parent Company has its registered office in Stockholm. The address of the head office is Box 19542, SE-104 32 Stockholm, Revenue Sweden. Visiting address: Solnavägen 4, 10th floor. The Parent ComRevenue rose 1 per cent to SEK 5,924 M (5,863). Adjusted for pany’s share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap segment. The negative currency effects of SEK 18 M, revenue increased 1 per three largest owners in the Parent Company as per 31 December cent. Excluding Denmark and adjusted for currency effects, revenue 2014 are the Axel Johnson AB Group, with 26.5 per cent, Eva Fraim increased 4 per cent. The number of working days was one day less Påhlman, with 5.6 per cent and SHB fonder, with 5.4 per cent. in Sweden, unchanged in Finland and one day more in Norway and Denmark, compared with the preceding year. Calculated on compaFinancial year rable workdays and adjusted for currency effects, revenue increased The 2014 financial year was characterised by steady market growth 1 per cent. Sales in comparable units rose 3 per cent. and improved profitability in all Group companies excluding Denmark. Other operating revenue mainly comprises of rental income, marA decision on comprehensive structural changes and repositioning keting subsidies and exchange-rate gains. of the Group’s Danish operations was made in December 2014. All of the stores, which are also local warehouses, the regional wareOperating profit before amortisation and impairment house and the Danish head office are being closed. The franchise of intangible assets, EBITA workshops are retained and these now receive their deliveries of EBITA amounted to SEK 427 M (626) and the EBITA margin amountspare parts directly from the central warehouse in Sweden, meaned to 7 per cent (11). Earnings were negatively impacted by non-reing that efficient logistics are achieved without intermediaries in the curring effects of SEK 264 M (16), of which Denmark accounted for distribution chain. This enables a long-term presence in the Danish SEK 254 M (16). Currency effects had a negative impact on earnings market through the Group’s franchise workshops and will contribute of SEK 9 M (16). positively to Mekonomen Group's profitability and development. The restructuring effort in Denmark led to non-recurring costs of SEK 280 Operating profit, EBIT M that affected operating profit in 2014. EBIT amounted to SEK 274 M (469) and the EBIT margin amounted Mekonomen Group’s revenue for 2014 increased 1 per cent and to 5 per cent (8). Earnings were negatively impacted by non-recurring operating profit (EBIT) amounted to SEK 274 M (469). effects of SEK 303 M (61), of which Denmark accounted for SEK 293 Mekonomen Group’s revenue for 2014, excluding Denmark, rose M (16). Currency effects had a negative impact on earnings of SEK 9 3 per cent. EBIT excluding non-recurring costs increased to SEK 577 M (16). M (530). EBITA excluding non-recurring costs rose to SEK 691 M (642). Profit after financial items Management’s assessment ahead of 2014 was that there would Profit after financial items amounted to SEK 250 M (429). Net interest be no major change in the overall market and the 2014 financial year expense improved to SEK 40 M (43) and other financial items to SEK was characterised by steady market growth. 16 M (4). Other financial items were positively impacted by non-recurIncreased growth combined with effective cost control led to ring effects of SEK 10 M (0). improved profitability for the full-year 2014 in all Group companies, excluding Denmark. Mekonomen Group reported strong growth in the Group’s affiliated workshops during the year. Quality work in our 28 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Administration Report Profit for the year an amount of SEK 68 (pos: 156) and the EBITA margin was negative Profit for the year amounted to SEK 127 M (315) and earnings per 3 per cent (pos: 7). MECA’s operating loss, including Denmark, share to SEK 3.34 (8.56). Of profit for the year, SEK 120 M (307) is amounted to SEK 182 (profit: 84) and the EBIT margin was negative attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders and SEK 7 M (8) 8 per cent (pos: 4). The number of stores amounted to 91 (131), of to non-controlling interests. which 75 (108) are proprietary. The tax expense for 2014 was negatively impacted as the loss perEBITA and EBIT were negatively impacted by non-recurring costs taining to the Danish business is only partly expected to be utilised of SEK 241 M and SEK 280 M pertaining to the restructuring in Denfor tax purposes. Estimated deductible tax pertaining to Denmark mark. EBIT was charged with total non-recurring effects of SEK 302 amounts to SEK 53 M, of which SEK 31 M had a positive effect on M (16), of which Denmark accounted for SEK 293 M (16). the tax expense for the year. The part of the loss not expected to be MECA Denmark’s net sales (external) amounted to SEK 527 M utilised corresponds to SEK 48 M. (612). Operating loss amounted to SEK 365 M (loss: 58). Currency effects in net sales against the DKK were positive and totalled SEK Mekonomen Group excluding Denmark (pro forma) 26 M. The underlying net sales in MECA Denmark declined 19 per A decision on a comprehensive structural changes of Mekonomen cent. Non-recurring effects of SEK 293 M (16) in MECA Denmark Group's operations in Denmark was made in December 2014. were charged against earnings. Mekonomen will retain its franchise workshops and is investing in Net sales (external) for MECA, excluding Denmark, amounted to efficient logistics without intermediaries in the distribution chain. All SEK 1,679 M (1,599). The currency effect in net sales against the of the 28 stores, which are also local warehouses, the regional wareNOK was a negative SEK 15 M. The underlying net sales increased house and the Danish head office are being closed. 6 per cent. As a result of the decision on structural changes, operating profit EBITA for MECA, excluding Denmark, increased to SEK 268 M for the 2014 financial year was charged with non-recurring costs (213) and the EBITA margin rose to 16 per cent (13). EBIT increased of SEK 280 M. The restructuring costs mainly pertain to leasing to SEK 183 M (142) and the EBIT margin rose to 11 per cent (9). commitments of SEK 41 M, personnel-related costs of SEK 67 M, EBIT for MECA, excluding Denmark, was negatively impacted by impairment of intangible fixed assets of SEK 39 M, impairment of tanpersonnel-related non-recurring costs of SEK 9 M (0). EBIT was also gible fixed assets of SEK 22 M, impairment of financial fixed assets charged with amortisation of intangible fixed assets totalling SEK 60 of SEK 12 M, impairment of inventory of SEK 75 M, impairment of M (60) identified in connection with the acquisition. receivables of SEK 12 M and other costs totalling SEK 13 M. EBIT was negatively impacted in an amount of SEK 280 M, EBITA was Mekonomen Nordic negatively impacted in an amount of SEK 241 M and EBITDA was Net sales (external) amounted to SEK 2,692 M (2,656). The undernegatively impacted in an amount of SEK 219 M. lying net sales increased 2 per cent. The currency effect in net sales Mekonomen Group’s income statement pro forma, excluding against the NOK was a negative SEK 15 M. operations in Denmark in 2014 and 2013 is presented below. For a Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible description of the conditions and assumptions applied in compiling fixed assets (EBITA) amounted to SEK 422 M (390) and the EBITA the pro forma accounts, see Note 35. margin increased to 15 per cent (14). Operating profit (EBIT) amounted to SEK 401 M (323) and the EBIT margin rose to 14 per cent (12). EBIT Pro forma accounts excluding Denmark was negatively impacted by non-recurring costs of SEK 1 M (45). Mekonomen Sweden’s net sales (external) amounted to SEK SEK M 2014 2013 1,746 M (1,741) and operating profit was SEK 274 M (288). Net sales 5,262 5,129 Mekonomen Norway’s net sales (external) amounted to SEK 791 Other operating revenue 128 122 M (774) and operating profit was SEK 133 M (120). Total revenue 5,390 5,251 The sales trend for ProMeister contributed to higher volumes to Goods for resale -2,337 -2,275 other workshops. Other external costs -1,044 -1,072 The number of stores amounted to 192 (193), of which 151 (146) Personnel costs -1,185 -1,154 were proprietary. Depreciation and impairment of tangible Mekonomen BilLivet and Speedy, which were previously included in fixed assets -61 -67 Mekonomen Nordic, are included in Meko Service Nordic from 1 JanuAmortisation and impairment of intangible ary 2014, in “Other.” Comparative figures have been recalculated. fixed assets -124 -156 Operating profit (EBIT) 639 527 Sørensen og Balchen Net sales (external) amounted to SEK 712 M (701). The underlying net sales increased 3 per cent. The currency effect in net sales Seasonal effects against the NOK was a negative SEK 13 M. Mekonomen Group has no actual seasonal effects in its operations. Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible However, the number of workdays affects both sales and profit. fixed assets (EBITA) amounted to SEK 109 M (99) and the EBITA margin increased to 15 per cent (14). Operating profit (EBIT) amountMECA ed to SEK 92 M (81) and the EBIT margin increased to 13 per cent Net sales (external) for the entire MECA segment, including MECA (11). EBIT was charged with amortisation of intangible fixed assets Denmark, amounted to SEK 2,205 M (2,211). EBITA was negative in totalling SEK 18 M (18) identified in connection with the acquisition. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 29 Administration Report Enhanced efficiency in stores has contributed to the improved EBIT. Employees Sørensen og Balchen reported a favourable trend in consumer The number of employees at the end of the year was 2,235 (2,541) business. and the average number of employees during the year was 2,504 The number of stores amounted to 71 (74), of which 34 (34) are (2,535). proprietary. The number of employees at year-end fell, mainly due to the structural changes in Denmark decided in the fourth quarter. Acquisitions and start-ups Mekonomen Group has well-developed HRM (Human Resource Mekonomen Nordic in Sweden acquired a store and share in a Management) work that includes equal opportunities plans, action workshop in Valdemarsvik, a store in Torsby, a partner store in Lödprogrammes against discrimination in the workplace, clear goals and deköpinge, a partner store in Strömstad, a partner store in Ängelholm goal follow-ups, reporting and explicit segregation of responsibilities. and the establishment of a store in Töcksfors. In Norway, a partner store was acquired in Larvik. Mekonomen Nordic also acquired Multi-faceted organisation non-controlling interests in seven Swedish stores at a minor amount Mekonomen Group has participated in several external projects during the year. relating to issues in such areas as diversity and the labour market for Sørensen og Balchen acquired one company in Østerås, Norway. a number of years. The aim is for Mekonomen Group’s work sites to In Sweden, MECA acquired stores in Mora and Leksand, Vällingby reflect our customer target groups and the society in which we live, in Stockholm and a partner store in Hässleholm. and thus create business value in a credible manner. Meko Service Nordic acquired three workshops in Sweden. The impact of these acquisitions on consolidated sales and earnEmployee surveys ings was marginal. The Group’s employee surveys include questions on job satisfaction and working conditions and opportunities for individual employees to Investments influence their work situations. Since the employee survey captures Investments in fixed assets for the year amounted to SEK 75 M (63). opinions from all employees, the results can be used at various levels Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets amounted to to make improvements throughout the operations, all the way from SEK 100 M (83). Company and business combinations amounted to an overall level down to individual group/unit level. Employee surveys SEK 65 M (11). Acquired assets totalled SEK 21 M (4) and assumed are carried out every two years, and the most recent survey took liabilities SEK 8 M (0). In addition to goodwill, which amounted to place in 2013. SEK 35 M (4), surplus values on intangible fixed assets of SEK 4 M (0) were identified pertaining to brands and SEK 1 M (0) pertaining to Training – ProMeister Academy capitalised expenditure for IT systems and SEK 13 M (2) for customer Competency and development activities conducted in Mekonomen relations. Deferred tax liabilities attributable to acquired intangible Group are targeted to not only meet current needs but also to meet fixed assets amounted to SEK 1 M (0). Acquired non-controlling future challenges in tomorrow’s society: non-fossil cars, a service interests amounted to SEK 6 M (8) and divested minority shares to society, urbanisation and shared economy. In this way, Mekonomen SEK 3 M (0). Group can ensure future competitiveness for the Group and the skills of individual employees in proprietary and affiliated workshops. Financial position and cash flow A fundamental method at Mekonomen Group is capitalising on the Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 413 M (557). competencies found in the Group and developing them by providing Tax paid amounted to SEK 160 M (139). Cash and cash equivalents continuing professional development and opportunities for new chalat year-end was SEK 258 M (279). The equity/assets ratio was 39 lenges at the Group. Internal recruitment within and between Group per cent (41). Long-term interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK companies is highly successful. 1,404 M (1,660). Current interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK The ProMeister Academy assures quality and ensures the skills 495 M (276). of our mechanics in all of the Group’s workshop chains. More than Net debt amounted to SEK 1,629 (1,642) at the end of the year, 1,400 mechanics have received further training at the ProMeister which entailed a reduction of SEK 13 M since the beginning of the Academy since it was founded in 2013. year. A dividend of SEK 262 M was paid during the year. Loans were amortised by SEK 272 M during the year. In conjunction with Remuneration of senior executives refinancing of SEK 1,100 M during the second quarter, the loans Remuneration of senior executives is presented in Note 5. The Board were increased by SEK 12 M. Net debt was calculated according to of Directors will propose the following guidelines for remuneration of a new definition, from the first quarter of 2014, as interest-bearing senior executives to the 2015 Annual General Meeting. liabilities for borrowing less cash and cash equivalents. Accordingly, The Board considers it very important to ensure that there is a net debt does not include pensions, leasing, derivatives and similar clear link between remuneration and the Group’s values and financial obligations. The new definition entails only a marginal impact on the goals in both the short and the long term. The Board’s proposals net debt calculation. Comparative figures have been recalculated for for guidelines for remuneration entail that the company is to offer earlier periods. market-based remuneration that allows the Group to recruit and retain the right executives, and entail that the criteria for determining remuneration is to be based on the significance of work duties and 30 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Administration Report employees’ competencies, experience and performance. RemuneraSensitivity analysis tion is to comprise: Mekonomen Group’s earnings are impacted by a number of factors, • fixed basic salary such as sales volumes, currency fluctuations on imported goods and • variable remuneration sales to foreign subsidiaries, margins on purchased goods, salary • pension benefits changes, etc. Imports are primarily made from Europe, where the • other benefits and severance pay currencies largely consist of EUR, SEK and NOK. Purchases in EUR The guidelines encompass Group Management, which currently comprised approximately 33 per cent of the purchased volumes. Due comprises seven individuals including the President. to the high correlation between DKK and EUR, sales and purchases in these currencies can be matched; the table below shows the Remuneration is determined by the Board’s Remuneration Commitcurrency effects on the net flow for each currency. NOK and DKK tee. However, remuneration of the President is determined by the impact internal sales from Mekonomen Grossist AB and from MECA Board in its entirety. CarParts AB to each country and profit for the year in Norway and The company is to offer an attractive basic salary in the market, Denmark. Risk exposure to DKK will reduce during 2015 due to in the form of a fixed cash monthly salary. This comprises remunerrestructuring in Denmark. Refer to Note 38 for more detailed informaation for dedicated work performance at a high professional level tion on how the Group manages currency risk. that creates added value for Mekonomen’s customers, owners and employees. Factors pertaining to profit before tax Impact, SEK M1) In addition to basic salary, short-term and long-term variable cash remuneration is to be offered, both of which are based on fulfilment of Sales volumes +1% 31 Mekonomen’s goals for: Exchange-rate fluctuations • the Group’s earnings, and – NOK +1% 8 • individual qualitative parameters. – EUR +1% -8 – DKK +1% -1 The distribution between basic salary and variable remuneration Gross margin plus 1 percentage 58 is to be proportionate to the senior executive’s responsibilities and point authorities. Personnel costs +1% -15 The short-term variable remuneration is maximised to a certain Interest rate2) +1% -7 percentage of fixed annual salary. The percentage is linked to the position of each individual and varies between 33 and 65 percentage 1) All things being equal, profit before tax for the 2014 financial year. points for members of Group Management. 2) The effect is based on the Group’s net debt of SEK 1,629 M as per 31 December 2014 adjusted for the interest-rate swap of SEK 950 M valid until 10 March 2015. Other benefits refer primarily to company cars. Pension premiums are paid in an amount that is based on the ITP plan or a corresponding system for employees outside Sweden. For the President, Risks and uncertainties pension provisions according to the employment agreement are Competition paid in an amount corresponding to 29 per cent of basic salary. Mekonomen Group’s primary competitors are players in the so-called Pensionable salary comprises basic salary. The period of notice is 12 brand-dependent segment, which traditionally had a high market months if employment is terminated by the company, and six months share in the aftermarket for passenger cars. if terminated by the employee. In addition, severance pay of a maxiCompetition in spare-parts sales to workshops is considerable mum of 12 months salary may be paid in the event of termination of from both brand-dependent and brand-independent players. In the employment by the company. brand-independent trade in Sweden, there are slightly more than 400 stores, where the five largest players, including Mekonomen Nordic Furthermore, a long-term variable remuneration programme was and MECA, all have a range that covers most vehicle brands. The sitadopted by the 2014 Annual General Meeting. The long-term uation is similar in both Norway and Denmark with a few large players variable remuneration is to be calculated on the Group’s profit for the offering a comprehensive range but with competition from a number 2014-2016 financial years. A number of selected, business-critical of smaller players. Brand-dependent players also compete with senior executives will be offered the opportunity to participate in this Mekonomen Group in this market. In this market, availability is very long-term programme, in addition to the seven members of Group important, which means that the rate of delivery is a key competitive Management. The criteria for determining the variable remuneration factor. portion for each individual is decided by the Board’s Remuneration In terms of accessories, Mekonomen Group competes with a large Committee, and for the President by the Board in its entirety. The number of players from various industries, such as petrol stations, the company’s total cost for the long-term programme may amount convenience-goods trade, stores for products for children, stores for to a maximum of SEK 24 M for the entire period. Furthermore, an accessories for pets, electronic chains, etc. additional requirement to the above is that the average price paid for the Mekonomen share on Nasdaq Stockholm on the last trading day Operational risks in December 2016 is to exceed the Nasdaq Stockholm PI index for The company is highly aware that the increasingly centralised IT the programme period. structure could provide the Group with major advantages and The right to receive variable remuneration expires if the senior improved opportunities. This also entails major risks in the form of opexecutive resigns (before payment). Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 31 Administration Report erational stops in central functions pertaining to the Group’s systems one step further with by securing both healthy and safety and quality for order and inventory management. certification (OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9001). Major emphasis is placed on the Group’s fire prevention work since Environmental activities comprise analyses of the most significant a fire at any of the Group’s central warehouses would have a major environmental impact of the operations, and include environmental impact on the service to the Group’s customers. policies, certified environmental management systems and environmental manuals that describe procedures, follow-up and responsiCash management risk bilities. The environmental management system is reviewed by an Since the Group’s operations include cash management, this entails external party every year and environmental goals and follow-up a risk of theft, with respect to stores and transportation of cash to the procedures are set for each financial year. bank. Mekonomen Group strives to provide the same level of solutions for security services, security systems and cash management Events after the end of the year for all companies within the Group. A decision was made on changes to Group Management after the end of the financial year. As of 12 February 2015, Group ManageShrinkage ment comprises the following individuals: The Group’s operations include sales and storage of a large number of products. Since a large portion of these products are theft-prone, Håkan Lundstedt, President and CEO of Mekonomen AB there is always a risk of shrinkage. At Mekonomen Group, work is Marcus Larsson, Executive Vice President, Mekonomen AB continuously in progress to define scrapping, internal consumption Morten Birkeland, CEO, Sørensen og Balchen and actual theft. The work to combat shrinkage is based on the idea Per Hedblom, CFO, Mekonomen AB. that it is important to focus on all types of shrinkage, for example, Magnus Johansson, CEO, Mekonomen Nordic by reviewing order procedures, delivery checks and unpacking of Pehr Oscarson, CEO, MECA goods. This will improve knowledge of procedures to manage shrinkGunilla Spongh, International Business Director, Mekonomen AB. age, while providing a basis for higher vigilance on goods that are particularly theft-prone. As announced in a press release on 17 March 2015, Mekonomen’s President and CEO Håkan Lundstedt has informed the Board of Financial risks Directors of Mekonomen that he intends to leave his position. He Through its operations, Mekonomen Group is exposed to currency, will remain in his current role during his period of notice. The process credit, interest-rate and liquidity risks. Refer to Note 38 for a description to find a new President and CEO for Mekonomen will commence of the financial risks identified and managed by Mekonomen Group. immediately and will be led by the Chairman of Mekonomen, Fredrik Persson. Parent Company and “Other” No other significant events occurred after the end of the financial The Parent Company’s operations comprise mainly Group Manageyear. ment and finance management. The Parent Company’s loss after net financial items amounted SEK 37 M (loss: 41), excluding impairment Future development of participations in subsidiaries of SEK 486 M (0) and excluding diviThe Nordic market showed some increase in the fourth quarter and dends of SEK 888 M (114) from subsidiaries. The average number of expectations for 2015 are for a somewhat stronger market, driven by employees was 15 (13). During the year, Mekonomen AB (publ) sold such factors as lower fuel prices. products and services to Group companies totalling SEK 42 M (45). In 2015, the focus will be on continued initiatives in the Group’s “Other” comprises Mekonomen AB (publ), M by Mekonomen, affiliated workshops and the development of the workshop conthe purchasing company in Hong Kong, Meko Service Nordic, the cepts, an increased share of ProMeister sales and the expansion of joint venture in Poland (Intermeko Europe) as well as Group-wide ProMeister Academy. Coordination of central functions, with further functions and eliminations. Meko Service Nordic is a new unit within efficiency enhancement, is also a focus area. Mekonomen Group, which operates slightly more than 20 proprietary workshops under the Mekonomen Service Centre and Speedy conThe share cepts. Therefore, Mekonomen BilLivet and Speedy were transferred Share capital and ownership structure from the Mekonomen Nordic segment to Meko Service Nordic from As per 31 December 2014, the share capital of Mekonomen AB 1 January 2014. The comparative figures have been recalculated. (publ) amounted to SEK 90 M (90) and comprised 35,901,487 Operating loss for “Other” amounted to SEK 36 M (loss: 19). shares (35,901,487) at a quotient value of SEK 2.50 per share (2.50). Each share carries one vote at the Annual General Meeting and all Environment shares carry equal entitlement to a share in the company’s profits The Group does not conduct any operations that require permits and assets. Each shareholder is entitled to vote for all their shares according to the Swedish Environmental Code. The Group’s environwith no restrictions and the shares are not included in any transfer mental impact in the Nordic region takes place in the areas of energy, restrictions. transportation and chemicals handling. Our wholesale facilities, Axel Johnson AB represents 26.5 per cent of the voting rights. For proprietary stores and workshops in MECA Sweden and Norway and information about the 15 largest shareholders as per 30 December Mekonomen Sweden have achieved the most with their environmen2014, refer to the table on page 27. tal work, for example, all of these facilities hold ISO 14001 certification. The proprietary operations in Mekonomen in Sweden have gone 32 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Administration Report Authorisation Auditors The Annual General Meeting resolved in April 2014 to authorise the The auditors of the company are elected annually at the Annual Board, for the period until the next Annual General Meeting, on one General Meeting. According to a resolution of the Annual General or more occasions, with or without preferential rights for shareMeeting, auditors’ fees are paid according to approved invoices. The holders, to make decisions on new share issues of not more than Group’s auditors report to the Board as required, but at least once a 3,590,149 shares. year. The Group’s external auditors also participate at the meetings of At the end of the financial year, no new shares were issued under the Audit Committee. this authorisation. At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB (PwC), with Authorised Public Accountant Lennart Danielsson Dividend policy as Auditor in Charge, was elected as the auditing firm until the 2015 It is the Board’s intention that Mekonomen Group will pay dividends Annual General Meeting. corresponding to not less than 50 per cent of profit after tax. When determining future dividends, consideration is primarily given to Proposed appropriation of profit investment needs, but other factors deemed significant by the Board Parent Company are also considered. The following profit is available for distribution by the Annual General Shareholder agreements Meeting, SEK 000s: As far as the Board of Mekonomen AB (publ) is aware, no shareholdProfit brought forward 1,610,090 er agreements exist or other agreements between Mekonomen’s shareholders for joint influence over the company. As far as the Board Profit for the year 734,117 of Mekonomen AB (publ) is aware, there are no agreements or similar TOTAL 2,344,207 that may result in a change in the control of the company. The Board of Directors and President propose that Share dividends profits be distributed as follows: The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 (7.00). The Board proDividend to shareholders (SEK 7.00 per share) 251,310 poses 16 April 2015 as the record day for the dividend. If the Annual To be carried forward 2,092,897 General Meeting resolves to approve the proposal, the dividend will TOTAL 2,344,207 be paid on 21 April 2015. Board of Directors’ work 2014 The Board’s statement concerning the The Annual General Meeting on 8 April 2014 resolved that the Board proposed dividend was to comprise seven ordinary members with no deputy members. Following the proposed dividend, the Parent Company’s equity/ The Annual General Meeting resolved to re-elect Fredrik Persson as assets ratio will amount to 53 per cent and the Group’s equity/asChairman of the Board, to re-elect Board members Kenneth Bengtssets ratio to 35 per cent calculated on the balance-sheet date of 31 son, Kenny Bräck, Helena Skåntorp and Marcus Storch and to elect December 2014. The equity/assets ratio is satisfactory considering Caroline Berg and Christer Åberg as new Board members. Antonia that the company’s and the Group’s operations are continuing to Ax:son Johnson and Anders G Carlberg declined re-election at the operate profitably, which means that the equity/assets ratio following 2014 Annual General Meeting. dividend payment in April 2015 will exceed the above-stated levels. It During 2014, the Board held 12 (8) meetings, of which one was a is estimated that cash and cash equivalents in the company and the statutory meeting. The Board meetings during the year addressed Group will remain at a satisfactory level. the fixed items of each meeting agenda, such as business situation, The Board is of the opinion that the proposed dividends do not financial reporting and investments. Other issues discussed by the prohibit the Parent Company or other Group companies from fulfilling Board during the year were strategy, market trends and structural their obligations in the short or long term. Neither do the dividends changes to the Danish operations. influence the Group’s ability to implement required investments. The Board has established a Remuneration Committee and an Taking into account the above and other circumstances known to the Audit Committee. The Committees’ work mainly comprises preparing Board, the Board believes that a comprehensive assessment of the issues and providing consultation, although the Board can delegate company’s and Group’s financial position entails that this dividend is authority to make decisions in specific cases. The members and justified taking into consideration the demands imposed by the naChairmen of the Committees are appointed at the statutory Board ture, scope and risks of the operations on the amount of equity in the meeting held directly after the election of Board members. For more company and the Group, and the other consolidation requirements, information, refer to pages 36 and 37. liquidity and position of the company and the Group operations. For further information regarding the company’s and the Group’s earnings and financial position, refer to the following income statement, balance sheet, cash-flow statements and accompanying notes. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 33 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Principles for corporate governance External regulations Internal regulations Mekonomen Group comprises approximately 200 companies that conduct business operations primarily in Sweden, Norway, Denmark Swedish Companies Act Articles of Association and Finland. The Parent Company of the Group is the Swedish public Annual Accounts Act Board’s rules of procedure limited liability company Mekonomen AB, whose shares are listed Other relevant laws Board's instruction for the President on the Nasdaq Stockholm. Mekonomen Group’s corporate govNasdaq Stockholm AB’s Rule book ernance concerns how the operations are governed, managed and for issuers Policies, guidelines and instructions controlled in order to create value for the company’s shareholders and other stakeholders. The aim of corporate governance is to create Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code) Code of Conduct and Core Values the conditions for active and responsible company bodies, to clarify roles and segregation of responsibilities and to ensure true and fair reporting and information. Mekonomen Group applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Both internal and external regulations are used as a foundation for Code and applied the Code without any deviations in the 2014 finanthe governance of Mekonomen Group. cial year. This Corporate Governance Report is part of the company’s Administration Report. In general terms, Corporate Governance can be illustrated as follows: Shareholders and Annual General Meeting Nomination Committee External auditor Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee President & Group Management Internal audit MECA Mekonomen Nordic Sørensen og Balchen 34 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report Shareholders • to pay a dividend of SEK 7.0 per share to shareholders The Mekonomen share has been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm, • to discharge the members of the Board and the President Mid Cap segment since 29 May 2000. Share capital amounted to from liability SEK 89,753,718 on 31 December 2014, represented by 35,901,487 • that the number of members of the Board elected by the Annual shares. The total market value for the company on 31 December General Meeting be seven with no deputy members 2014 amounted to SEK 7.3 billion, based on the closing price of • to pay total Board fees of SEK 1,950,000, of which SEK 400,000 SEK 204.00. All shares provide the same voting rights and equal relates to fees to the Chairman of the Board and SEK 300,000 rights to the company’s profit and capital. The company’s Articles of relates to the Executive Vice Chairman, and also SEK 250,000 Association do not include any restrictions on how many votes each relates to fees to each of the other Board members elected by shareholder can cast at a General Meeting. the Annual General Meeting who are not employed by the Group. The number of shareholders on 31 December 2014 was 9,664 Furthermore, fees for Committee work are to be paid as follows: (8,355). On the same date, the ten largest shareholders controlled SEK 60,000 to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, SEK 35,000 57.4 per cent (56.0) of the capital and voting rights and the particto each of the other members of the Audit Committee, SEK 35,000 ipation of foreign owners accounted for 28.0 (33.4) per cent of the to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 25,000 capital and voting rights. to each of the other members of the Remuneration Committee. Shareholders which directly or indirectly represent at least one• to re-elect Fredrik Persson as Chairman of the Board tenth of the voting rights for all shares in Mekonomen are Axel • to re-elect Board members Kenneth Bengtsson, Kenny Bräck, Johnson AB and subsidiaries, whose shareholding on 31 December Helena Skåntorp and Marcus Storch and elect Caroline Berg and 2014 amounted to 26.5 per cent (26.5). For further information on Christer Åberg as new Board members Mekonomen’s shares and shareholders, refer to pages 26-27. • to elect the auditing firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers AB as the company’s auditor for the period until the close of the 2015 Annual General Meetings General Meeting. The General Meeting is Mekonomen Group’s highest governing • to adopt proposals for guidelines regarding the composition of the body, at which every shareholder is entitled to participate. The Annual Nomination Committee General Meeting is to be held within six months of the close of the fi• to adopt the Board’s proposals for guidelines regarding remuneranancial year. The Annual General Meeting approves the income statetion of senior executives ment and balance sheet, the appropriation of the company’s profit, • to adopt the Board's proposals concerning employees’ acquisition decides on discharge from liability, elects the Board of Directors and of shares in subsidiaries auditors, and approves fees, addresses other statutory matters as • to adopt authorisation for the Board, for the period until the next well as making decisions pertaining to proposals from the Board and Annual General Meeting, on one or more occasions, with or withshareholders. The company announces the date and location of the out preferential rights for shareholders, to make decisions on new Annual General Meeting as soon as the Board has made its decision, share issues of not more than 3,590,149 shares. but not later than in connection with the third-quarter report. Information pertaining to the location and time is available on the company’s 2015 Annual General Meeting website. Shareholders that are registered in Euroclear’s shareholders The Annual General Meeting will be held at 3:00 p.m. on 14 April register on the record date and have registered participation in ade2015 at Courtyard by Marriott in Stockholm, Sweden. quate time are entitled to participate in the Annual General Meeting and vote according to their shareholdings. All information concerning Nomination Committee the company’s meetings, such as registration, entitlement for items to In accordance with the guidelines established at the Annual General be entered in the agenda in the notification, minutes, etc., is available Meeting on 8 April 2014, Mekonomen Group has established a on the company’s website. Nomination Committee. The company is to have a Nomination With regard to participation in the Annual General Meeting, the Committee comprising four members. The four largest shareholders Board has deemed it is currently not financially justifiable to allow of the company were contacted by the company’s Board based on shareholders to participate in the Annual General Meeting through the list of registered shareholders on 31 August 2014 as provided by any means other than physical presence. It is the company’s aim Euroclear Sweden AB. that the General Meeting be a consummate body for shareholders, Prior to the 2015 Annual General Meeting, the Nomination Comin accordance with the intentions of the, for example, the Swedish mittee consists of Alexandra Mörner representing the Axel Johnson Companies Act, which is why the objective is that the Board in its enAB Group, Anna Ohlsson-Leijon representing SEB fonder, Arne tirety, the representative of the Nomination Committee, the President, Lööw representing the Fjärde AP-fonden, and Annika Andersson auditors and other management executives must always be present representing Swedbank Robur fonder. Alexandra Mörner was elected at the Meeting. Chairman of the Nomination Committee. Mekonomen’s Chairman, Fredrik Persson, was co-opted to the Nomination Committee. Fees Annual General Meeting 2014 are not paid to members of the Nomination Committee. The Annual General Meeting was held in Stockholm on 8 April 2014. In accordance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, The complete minutes of the Annual General Meeting are available the Nomination Committee is to have at least three members, one of on the Mekonomen website at mekonomen.com. In brief, the Annual whom is to be appointed Chairman. The majority of these members General Meeting resolved: are to be independent in relation to the company and company man• to adopt the income statement and balance sheet, the consolidatagement and at least one of the Nomination Committee members is ed income statement and the consolidated balance sheet to be independent in relation to the company’s largest shareholders Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 35 Corporate Governance Report in terms of the number of votes. Mekonomen Group’s Nomination Chairman Committee comprises four members, all of whom are deemed to be The Chairman of the Board, Fredrik Persson, is not employed by the independent in relation to the company and company management. company and does not have any assignments with the company Mekonomen Group’s Nomination Committee also meets other indebeyond his chairmanship. It is the opinion of the Board that Fredrik pendence requirements. Persson ensures that the Board conducts its assignments efficiently and also fulfils its duties in accordance with applicable laws and The Nomination Committee’s task is to present proposes to the regulations. Annual General Meeting concerning: • the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting The Board’s working procedures • the number of members of the Board and deputy members The Board is responsible for the company’s organisation and man• fees to the Board and auditors, and any special remuneration agement and is to also make decisions pertaining to strategic issues. for committee work The Board held 12 meetings in 2014, of which one was a statutory • the Chairman of the Board and other Board members meeting. The minutes of the meetings were recorded by the Board’s • auditors secretary, who is the Group’s CFO. • guidelines on the composition of the Nomination Committee, etc. Relevant meeting documentation was sent to all members prior to each meeting, which were then held in accordance with the In conjunction with its task, the Nominating Committee is to perform approved agenda. On occasions, other senior executives particithe duties incumbent on nomination committees in accordance with pated in Board Meetings in a reporting capacity, as necessary. No the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, and at the request of the dissenting opinions to be recorded in the minutes were expressed Nomination Committee, the company is to provide human resources, at any of the meetings during the year. The Board meetings during such as a secretary function for the Committee, to facilitate its work. the year addressed the fixed items of each meeting agenda, such as If necessary, the company is also to pay reasonable costs for external business situation, financial reporting and investments. Other issues consultants deemed necessary by the Nomination Committee for it discussed by the Board during the year were strategy, market trends to perform its duties. and structural changes to the Danish operations. In addition, selected Mekonomen Group has not established any specific age limit for Board meetings discussed issues relating to annual accounts, interim Board members or time limits pertaining to the length of time Board reports and budget. members may sit on the Board. Auditors are elected annually when the matter is submitted to the Annual General Meeting. Assignments In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Board’s aim Specific information about the Board’s work was to devote particular attention to establishing overall goals for the Size and composition operations and decide on strategies by which to achieve these goals According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors is to and to continuously evaluate the operating management, with the comprise three to seven members and not more than three deputy aim of ensuring the company’s governance, management and conmembers. The company’s Articles of Association have no speciftrol. The Board strives to ensure that functioning systems are in place ic provisions relating to the appointment and discharge of Board for the monitoring and control of the company’s financial position members or amendments to the Articles of Association. The Board of in relation to the established goals, that control of compliance with Directors is to be elected annually at the Annual General Meeting. laws and other regulations is implemented and that the provision of The Annual General Meeting on 8 April 2014 resolved that the external information is open, objective and relevant. Board was to comprise seven ordinary members with no deputy There are written instructions that regulate the distribution of members. The Annual General Meeting resolved to re-elect Fredrik assignments between the Board and the President, and for the Persson as Chairman of the Board, to re-elect Board members reporting process. The instructions are reviewed annually and are Kenneth Bengtsson, Kenny Bräck, Helena Skåntorp and Marcus primarily: the rules of procedure for the Board’s work, instructions for Storch and to elect Caroline Berg and Christer Åberg as new Board the President and authorisation regulations. members. Antonia Ax:son Johnson and Anders G Carlberg declined The Board evaluates its work every year and it is the duty of the re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Chairman of the Board to ensure that evaluation is performed. In All ordinary members are independent in relation to the company 2014, the Chairman organised a written questionnaire for all Board and its management in accordance with the definition in the Swedish members. The collective opinion based on the 2014 evaluation is Corporate Governance Code. Four of the Board members are indethat the Board’s work functioned well and that the Board fulfilled the pendent also in relation to major shareholders. The President is not Code’s requirements regarding assignment of the Board. a member of the Board and neither is any other member of Group The Annual General Meeting resolved, in accordance with the Management. See also the table on page 40. proposal from the Nomination Committee, to allocate Board fees amounting to SEK 1,950,000, of which SEK 400,000 to the ChairBoard members man of the Board and SEK 300,000 to the Executive Vice Chairman, It is the opinion of the Nomination Committee that the Board’s and SEK 250,000 to each of the other Board members. Furthermore, structure in terms of competency, experience and background is fees for Committee work are to be paid as follows: SEK 60,000 to compatible with the company’s operations, development phase and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, SEK 35,000 to each of the circumstances. other members of the Audit Committee, SEK 35,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 25,000 to each of the other members of the Remuneration Committee. 36 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report Board Committees Company management The Board has established a Remuneration Committee and an Audit A more detailed presentation of company management is found on Committee. The Committees’ work mainly comprises preparing page 41. issues and providing consultation, although the Board can delegate authority to make decisions in specific cases. The members and Remuneration of senior executives Chairmen of the Committees are appointed at the statutory Board It is considered very important to ensure that there is a clear link meeting held directly after the election of Board members. between remuneration and the Group’s values and financial goals in both the short and the long term. The guidelines for remuneration Audit Committee of senior executives approved by the 2014 Annual General Meeting The Audit Committee’s main duties comprise: entail that the company is to offer market-based remuneration that • Monitoring the company’s financial reporting and the effectiveness allows the Group to recruit and retain the right executives, and entail of the company’s internal control, internal audit and risk managethat the criteria for determining remuneration is to be based on the ment regarding the financial reporting significance of work duties and employees’ competencies, experi• Performing annual risk analyses together with the President and ence and performance. Group CFO to govern the resources of the internal audit towards key risk areas Remuneration is to comprise: • Preparing an audit plan for the Board for both the external and • fixed basic salary internal audit, and ensuring coordination between these two audits • variable remuneration • Evaluating the work of the external auditors • pension benefits • Preparing guidelines for the other non-audit services that the • other benefits and severance terms company may procure from the company’s auditors and, where necessary, grant pre-approval when the company’s auditors are The guidelines encompass Group Management, which comprised engaged for assignments other than audit assignments. five individuals including the President in 2014. Remuneration is • Evaluating the objectivity and independence of the external auditors determined by the Board’s Remuneration Committee. However, re• Supporting the Nomination Committee by providing proposals on muneration of the President is determined by the Board in its entirety. election of external auditors and fees to auditors Mekonomen Group’s Board of Directors makes decisions pertaining to remuneration of the President Håkan Lundstedt. The President The Audit Committee comprises three Board members: Helena has a fixed cash basic salary per month and a short-term cash varSkåntorp (Chairman), Kenneth Bengtsson and Christer Åberg. iable salary portion, which is based on the company’s earnings and The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2014 and all members individual qualitative parameters and that can amount to a maximum were present at these meetings. The Group’s external auditors and of 60 per cent of the basic annual salary. Under the pension terms, the Group’s CFO and Head of internal audit also participated at the payment of pension premiums is made in the amount corresponding meetings. to 29 per cent of basic salary. Other benefits consist of a company car. The period of notice is 12 months if employment is terminated Remuneration Committee by the company, and six months if terminated by the President. If The task of the Remuneration Committee is to discuss, decide on termination is initiated by the company, severance pay amounting to and present recommendations on the salaries, other employment six months’ salary is paid. terms and incentive programmes for company management. HowThe distribution between basic salary and variable remuneration ever, the Board in its entirety determines the remuneration and other is to be proportionate to the senior executive’s responsibilities and employment terms for the President. The work of the Remuneration authorities. The short-term variable remuneration for other senior Committee is based on resolutions by the Annual General Meeting executives is based on the Group’s earnings and on individual qualpertaining to guidelines for remuneration of senior executives. itative parameters and can amount to a maximum of 33 percentage From 8 April 2014, the Remuneration Committee comprised points of basic salary. Other benefits refer primarily to company cars. Fredrik Persson (Chairman), Marcus Storch and Caroline Berg. The Pension premiums are paid in an amount that is based on the ITP President, Håkan Lundstedt, was co-opted to the Remuneration plan or a corresponding system for employees outside Sweden. Committee. The Remuneration Committee held two meetings in Pensionable salary comprises basic salary. The period of notice is 12 2014 prior to 8 April, and all members were present at these meetmonths if employment is terminated by the company, and six months ings. In addition, the President of the company, Håkan Lundstedt, if terminated by the employee. Severance pay for termination on the was present at one of these meetings. part of the company may amount to a maximum of one annual salary. At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, it was also resolved that Company management Group Management and a number of selected, business-critical President’s assignment senior executives may receive long-term variable remuneration from The President is appointed and may be discharged by the Board and the company. The criteria for determining the variable remuneration his work is continuously evaluated by the Board, which occurs withportion for each individual is decided by the Board’s Remuneration out the presence of company management. Mekonomen Group’s Committee, and for the President by the Board in its entirety. The President and CEO, Håkan Lundstedt, is also a member of the Board long-term variable remuneration is to be profit-based and calculated of Dialect AB, Vanna AB and Intersport Sverige AB, and has no on the Group’s earnings for the 2014-2016 financial years. The entire shareholdings or ownership in companies with significant business bonus programme, as an expense for the company, is to amount ties with Mekonomen Group. to a maximum of SEK 24 M for the period. Furthermore, an addiMekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 37 Corporate Governance Report tional requirement to the above is that the average price paid for the Reporting and audit Mekonomen share on Nasdaq Stockholm on the last trading day Reporting in December 2016 is to exceed the Nasdaq Stockholm PI index for The Board supervises the quality of the financial reporting through the programme period. The right to receive variable remuneration instructions to the President. It is the President’s duty, jointly with the expires if the senior executive resigns (before payment). No bonus Group’s CFO, to review and quality-assure all external financial rewas reserved as per 31 December 2014 pertaining to this bonus porting including financial statements, interim reports, annual reports programme. and press releases with financial content, as well as presentation Other than the above, the Board has not decided on any other material in connection with meetings with the media, shareholders share or share-price based incentive programs for company manand financial institutions. agement. Audit Auditors The rules of procedure decided annually by the Board include deThe auditors are appointed at the Annual General Meeting and are tailed instructions on, for example, the financial reports and the type charged with reviewing the company’s financial reporting and the of financial information to be submitted to the Board. In addition to Board’s and President’s management of the company. At the 2014 financial statements, interim reports and annual reports, the Board Annual General Meeting, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB (PwC), with examines and evaluates comprehensive financial information that Authorised Public Accountant Lennart Danielsson as Auditor in pertains to the Group as a whole and to the various units included in Charge, was appointed as the auditing firm until the 2015 Annual the Group. General Meeting. PwC has an organisation comprising broad and The Board also examines, primarily through the Board’s Audit specialised competency that is well-suited to Mekonomen Group’s Committee, the most significant accounting policies applied to the operations. In addition to Mekonomen Group, Lennart Danielsson is financial reporting by the Group, and significant changes to policies the Auditor in Charge of SWECO AB and Studsvik AB. in the reporting. The Audit Committee’s duties also include examining PwC submits an auditor’s report for Mekonomen AB (publ.) and for internal and external audit reports regarding internal control and the the company’s subsidiaries. The auditors also perform a review of the processes for financial reporting. third-quarter interim report. The audit is conducted in accordance with International Standards The Group’s external auditors report to the Board as required, but on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweat least once a year. At at least one of these meetings, the President den. The audit of annual report documents for legal entities outside and CFO leave after presenting their formal reports to enable Board Sweden is conducted in accordance with statutory requirements and members to conduct discussions with auditors without the participaother applicable rules in each country. tion of senior executives. The Group’s external auditors also participate at the meetings of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee Fees to auditors, SEK M 2014 2013 reports back to the Board after every meeting. All Audit Committee PwC meetings are minuted and the minutes are available for all Board members and the auditors. Fees for audit assignments 6 0 Audit-related services other than the audit 0 0 Internal control assignment Mekonomen Group’s internal control process is designed to manage Tax advice 0 0 and minimise the risk of errors in the financial reporting. In accordOther services 0 0 ance with the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Corporate Total fees to PwC 6 0 Governance Code, the Board of Directors is responsible for internal Deloitte control. This section was prepared in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code and Companies Act. The report is limited to Fees for audit assignments 0 7 addressing internal control over financial reporting. Audit-related services other than the audit 0 0 assignment Control environment Tax advice 0 0 The control environment represents the basis for the internal control Other services 0 0 over financial reporting. An important part of the control environment Total fees to Deloitte 0 7 is that decision paths, authorities and responsibilities must be clearly 38 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report defined and communicated between various levels in the organisaInternal audit tion and that the control documents are available in the form of interMekonomen Group has an internal audit function, which is an indenal policies, handbooks, guidelines and manuals. Thus, a key part of pendent and objective hedging and advice unit that generates value the Board’s work is to prepare and approve a number of fundamental and improves the Group’s operations. This is done by evaluating and policies, guidelines and frameworks. These include the Board’s rules proposing improvement in such areas as risk management, compliof procedure, Instructions for the President, Investment policies, ance with policies and efficiency in the internal control over the finanFinancial policies and the Insider policy. The aim of these policies is cial reporting. The function works throughout the Group. The Head of to create a basis for sound internal control. Furthermore, the Board the internal audit reports to the Audit Committee, the President and focuses on ensuring that the organisational structure provides the CFO and informs management in each business area and other distinct roles, responsibilities and processes that benefit the effective units on the results of the audits performed. management of the operation’s risks and facilitate goal fulfilment. Part of the responsibility structure includes an obligation for the Board to Information and communications evaluate the operation’s performance and results on a monthly basis, Policies and guidelines are particularly important for accurate through appropriate report packages containing income statements, accounting, reporting and dissemination of information. Policies balance sheets, analyses of important key figures, comments pertainand guidelines on the financial process are continuously updated at ing to the business status of each operation and also quarterly foreMekonomen Group. Such updates mainly take place in each Group casts for future periods. The Board has established an Audit Commitfunction for the various operations through e-mails, but also at regular tee to assist the Board specifically in the financial reporting. To help CFO meetings in which representatives from the Group finance strengthen the internal control, Mekonomen Group has prepared a function participate. For communication with internal and external financial handbook that provides an overall view of existing policies, parties, a communications policy is in place that states guidelines for rules and regulations and procedures within the financial area. This is conducting communication. The aim of the policy is to ensure that all a living document, which will be updated continuously and adapted information obligations are complied with in a correct and complete to changes within Mekonomen Group’s operations. In addition to manner. the financial handbook, there are instructions that provide guidance on daily work in stores and the rest of the organisation, for example, Follow-up pertaining to stock taking and cash-register reconciliation, etc. The Board continuously evaluates the information submitted by company management and auditors. The CEO and CFO hold monthly Risk assessment reviews of financial position with each Head of Operations. Group Mekonomen Group conducts continuous surveys of the Group’s finance function also cooperates closely with the CFOs and controlrisks. During these surveys, a number of items were identified in the lers of Group companies on matters pertaining to accounting and reincome statement and balance sheet in which the risks of errors in porting. The follow-up and feedback concerning possible deviations the financial reporting are elevated. The company works continuousarising in the internal controls are a key part of the internal control ly on these risks by strengthening controls. Furthermore, risks are work, since this is an efficient manner for the company to ensure that addressed in a special forum, including questions related to start-ups errors are corrected and that the control is further strengthened. and acquisitions. Additional information Control activities The company website at mekonomen.com includes: Risks of errors in the financial reporting are reduced through a high • Articles of Association level of internal control over the financial reporting, with specific focus • Code of Conduct on significant areas defined by the Board. The aim of the appropriate • Information from previous Annual General Meetings, from 2006 control activities is to detect, prevent and correct errors and devia• Information about the Nomination Committee tions in the reporting. The control activities include reconciliation of • Information about principles of remuneration of senior accounts, analytic follow-up, comparison between income stateexecutives ments and balance sheets and control stock-taking in warehouses • The Board's evaluation of guidelines for remuneration of and stores. programmes for variable remuneration • Corporate Governance Reports from 2006 • Information about the 2015 Annual General Meeting Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 39 Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors Fredrik Persson Marcus Storch Caroline Berg Kenneth Bengtsson Kenny Bräck Helena Skåntorp Christer Åberg Board position Chairman of the Board. Executive Vice Chairman. Board member. Board member. Board member. Board member. Board member. Chairman of Mekonomen’s Member of Mekonomen’s Member of Mekonomen’s Member of Mekonomen’s Chairman of Mekonomen’s Member of Mekonomen’s Remuneration Committee. Remuneration Committee. Remuneration Committee. Audit Committee. Audit Committee. Audit Committee. Role President and CEO of Axel Self-employed. President of Lernia AB. President of Orkla ConfecJohnson AB. tionery & Snacks. Education Graduate in Business Graduate Engineer, B.A. Media/CommuniUpper secondary school Upper secondary school Graduate in Business IHM Business School StockAdministration, The Stockholm Royal Swedish Institute of cation and psychology, education and training in education. Administration, Stockholm holm and training courses School of Economics and stuTechnology, Stockholm, Middlebury College, the ICA system. University. at Unilever. dies at Wharton School, US. Medicine Dr h.c. Vermont, US. Elected in 2006 2006 2014 2013 2007 2004 2014 Born 1968 1942 1968 1961 1966 1960 1966 Other assignments Chairman of the Board of Chairman of the Board of Chairman of the Board Chairman of the Board Minority owner and Board Board member of 2E Board member of AB Axfood AB (publ), Axstores Storch & Storch AB and of the Erik and Göran of Ahlsell AB (publ), Clas member of Motorsport Group AB and BemanSvenska Spel. AB and the Swedish Trade KEBRIS AB. Board memEnnerfelt Foundation for Ohlson AB (publ), Ersta Auctions Ltd. ningsföretagen. Chairman Federation. Vice Chairman ber of Axel Johnson AB, International Studies for diakoni, Eurocommerce, of the Board of a number of Martin & Servera AB. Investment AB Öresund, Young Swedes. Vice Suomen Lähikauppa Oy, of Lernia AB subsidiaries, Board member of Axel as well as member of the Chairman of Axel Johnson Systembolaget, Junior and Chairman of the Board Johnson International AB, Royal Swedish Academy AB. Board member of Achievement Sweden and and President of Skåntorp Lancelot Asset Manageof Sciences (KVA) and the AxFast AB, Axfood AB World Childhood Foun& Co AB. ment, the Confederation Royal Swedish Academy of (publ), Axstores AB, Åhléns dation. Board member of of Swedish Enterprise and Engineering Sciences (IVA). AB and Stockholm School Synsam. Electrolux AB. Former Chairman of the of Economics Advisory Nobel Foundation. Board. Work experience ABB’s financial operations. President and CEO of Employed at Axel Johnson Employed at ICA for more Former professional racing Former President and CEO President of Arla Foods AB, Head of Analysis at Aros AGA. AB since 2005, most than 30 years, 11 of which driver. of SBC Sveriges BostadsPresident of Atria ScandinaSecurities. Employed by the recently as Vice President as CEO. rättsCentrum AB. President via AB, senior positions at Axel Johnson Group since Human Resources and CEO of Jarowskij, CFO Unilever. 2000. Former Deputy CEO and Communications of Arla, Authorised Public and CFO of Axel Johnson and member of Group Accountant at Öhrlings/ AB. President of Axel JohnManagement 2006-2014. PwC. son AB since 2007. Prior to that, many years of experience in film, television, and media in Sweden and the US. Total remuneration, SEK 435,000 325,000 275,000 285,000 250,000 310,000 285,000 Attendance at Board meetings 12/12 12/12 9/9 (newly elected). 10/12 12/12 12/12 8/9 (newly elected). Attendance at Audit Committee meetings – – – 4/4 – 4/4 4/4 Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings 2/2 2/2 0/0 (newly elected). – – – – Own shareholdings and shareholdings of related parties 1,000 None None 2,000 1,000 2,000 2,500 Independent of the company/company management Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Independent of major shareholders No, dependent in relation to No, dependent in relation No, dependent in relation Yes Yes Yes Yes major shareholders of the to major shareholders of to major shareholders of company. the company. the company. Antonia Ax:son Johnson and Anders G Carlberg declined re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Antonia Ax:son Johnson participated at one and Anders G Carlberg participated at two of the two meetings held prior to the Annual General Meeting. 40 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report Group Management Håkan Lundstedt Gunilla Spongh Per Hedblom Marcus Larsson Morten Birkeland Magnus Johansson Pehr Oscarsson Role President and CEO. International Business CFO. Executive Vice President. President President President Director. Sørensen og Balchen. Mekonomen Nordic. MECA Scandinavia. Born 1966 1966 1967 1970 1964 1972 1963 Education Upper secondary school MSc in Industrial EngineMSc in Industrial EngineMaster of Economics, Degree in Economics, Oslo Master of Science in Technical upper secondary education and training in the ering and Management, ering and Management, School of Economics and Business School. Business and Economics, school, ICA, Orkla Institute of Technology at Chalmers University of Management, Lund UniverLund University. supplemented with short and Lantmännen systems. Linköping University. Technology. sity, FEM programme, IFL economics and manageMBA INSEAD. Sigtuna. ment courses. Employed 2007 2007 2007 2003 2008 2014 2001 Work experience President of Lantmännen CFO of Mekonomen AB Partner of Centigo, AssoSelf-employed consultant, Head of Marketing Nordic President of Coop Senior positions at AXA AB, Cerealia Foods (publ), Finance Director of ciate Director of Arkwright, Head of Purchasing, Head at Stabburet, Marketing Purchasing & Category, MECA since 2001, AB and Kungsörnen AB. CashGuard AB, Finance Consultant at Accenture, of Business Development Director and Operations Acting President of Coop President of Swecar AB. Founder and Chairman of Director of Enea AB (publ), Invest in Sweden Agency. at Volkswagen Group. Director at Intersport, Marketing, Marketing the Board of Gooh AB. Vice President Finance & Sales Director at Tine, DiDirector at Lantmännen Controlling Fresenius Kabi vision Director at NetCom AXA, President of LantParenteral Nutrition, FinanCommercial and Private männen Cerealia. ce Manager of Electrolux markets, Professional AB, Finance Group Director Sales and Manager of Electrolux Marketing at ISS. Storkök AB. Board appointments Board member of Dialect Board member of B&B Chairman of the Board Board member of Chairman of Fresks AB, Vanna AB, Intersport Tools AB (publ), AQ Group of Intermeko Europe, A Healthy Generation Försäljnings AB and Gärdin Sverige AB. AB (publ), Infranord AB. Lasingoo Sverige AB and Foundation. & Persson AB. Deputy Lasingoo Norge AS. Board member of Chairman of Association Intermeko Europe. of Swedish Wholesalers of Automotive Parts and Accessories (SBF). Board member of Oscarson Invest Aktiebolag. Shares in Mekonomen 53,100 6,000 1,000 3,000 0 1,500 2,000 During the 2014 financial year, Group Management comprises the following individuals: Håkan Lundstedt, Gunilla Spongh, Per Hedblom, Marcus Larsson and Nils-Erik Brattlund. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 41 Financial statements Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2014 2013 Net sales 3 5,789 5,740 Other operating revenue 135 123 Total revenue 5,924 5,863 Operating expenses Goods for resale 18 -2,706 -2,632 Other external costs 4 -1,264 -1,187 Personnel costs 5 -1,427 -1,336 Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets 6 -100 -83 Amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets 6 -152 -157 EBIT 7, 10 274 469 Financial income and expenses Interest income 5 9 Interest expenses -45 -52 Other financial items 10 16 4 Profit after financial items 250 429 Tax on profit for the year 11 -123 -114 Profit for the year 127 315 Profit for the year attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 120 307 Non-controlling interests 7 8 Total profit for the year 127 315 Earnings per share attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders, SEK1) 3.34 8.56 Average number of shares1) 35,901,487 35,901,487 1) No dilution is applicable. For further information on data per share, refer to pages 26-27. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2014 2013 Profit for the year 127 315 Other comprehensive income: Components that will not be reclassified to profit for the year: Actuarial gains and losses -7 5 Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: Exchange-rate differences from translation of foreign subsidiaries -20 -128 Cash-flow hedging 1) 0 -1 Other comprehensive income, net after tax2) -27 -124 Comprehensive income for the year 100 191 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 93 183 Non-controlling interests 7 8 100 191 1) Holding of financial interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes, valued according to level 2 defined in IFRS 13. 2) For information about tax recognised directly against items in other comprehensive income, refer to Note 16. 42 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 ASSETS Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 13 Goodwill 1,862 1,856 Brands 328 325 Franchise contracts 27 32 Customer relations 538 599 Capitalised expenditure for IT systems 57 69 Total intangible fixed assets 2,813 2,881 Tangible fixed assets Improvement costs, third-party property 14 38 42 Equipment and transport 15 163 207 Total tangible fixed assets 201 249 Financial fixed assets Deferred tax assets 16 55 23 Investments accounted for using the equity method 28 3 – Other financial fixed assets 12, 17 62 75 Total financial fixed assets 120 98 Total fixed assets 3,134 3,228 Current assets Goods for resale 18 1,223 1,213 Current receivables 12, 19, 20 769 724 Cash and cash equivalents 12, 21 258 279 Total current assets 2,250 2,216 TOTAL ASSETS 5,384 5,444 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 43 Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity 29 Share capital 90 90 Other capital contributions 1,456 1,456 Reserves -145 -125 Profit brought forward including profit for the year 665 807 Total shareholders’ equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 2,066 2,228 Non-controlling interest 14 12 Total shareholders’ equity 2,080 2,240 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 12, 22 1,397 1,660 Deferred tax liabilities 16 168 211 Provisions 23 10 1 Total long-term liabilities 1,575 1,872 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 12, 22 495 276 Tax liabilities 96 63 Other current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 12, 24, 25 1,016 993 Provisions 23 121 – Total current liabilities 1,728 1,332 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 5,384 5,444 Memorandum items Pledged assets 26 3 8 Contingent liabilities 26 62 22 44 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity Total attributaProfit ble to Parent NonTotal Share Other capital brought Company’s controlling shareholders’ SEK M capital contributions Reserves forward owners interest equity OPENING BALANCE ON 1 JANUARY 2013 90 1,456 4 753 2,303 13 2,316 Comprehensive income for the year: Profit for the year 307 307 8 315 Other comprehensive income: Components that will not be reclassified to profit for the year: – Actuarial gains and losses 5 5 5 Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: – Exchange-rate differences from translation of -128 -128 -128 foreign subsidiaries – Cash-flow hedging1) -1 -1 -1 Other comprehensive income, net after tax2) -129 5 -124 0 -124 Comprehensive income for the year -129 312 183 8 191 Dividends -251 -251 -8 -259 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -7 -7 -1 -8 CLOSING BALANCE ON 31 DECEMBER 2013 90 1,456 -125 807 2,228 12 2,240 OPENING BALANCE ON 1 JANUARY 2014 90 1,456 -125 807 2,228 12 2,240 Comprehensive income for the year: Profit for the year 120 120 7 127 Other comprehensive income: Components that will not be reclassified to profit for the year: – Actuarial gains and losses -7 -7 -7 Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: – Exchange-rate differences from translation of -20 -20 -20 foreign subsidiaries – Cash-flow hedging1) 0 0 0 Other comprehensive income, net after tax2) -20 -7 -27 0 -27 Comprehensive income for the year -20 113 93 7 100 Dividends -251 -251 -11 -262 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -4 -4 6 2 CLOSING BALANCE ON 31 DECEMBER 2014 90 1,456 -145 665 2,066 14 2,080 1) Holding of financial interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes, valued according to level 2 defined in IFRS 13. 2) For information about tax recognised directly against items in other comprehensive income, refer to Note 16. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 45 Financial statements Consolidated cash-flow statement SEK M Note 2014 2013 Operating activities Profit after financial items 250 429 Adjusted for items not affecting liquidity 31 461 235 711 664 Tax paid -160 -139 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 552 525 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / increase (–) of inventories -59 -43 Decrease (+) / increase (–) of receivables -62 10 Decrease (–) / increase (+) of liabilities -17 65 Increase (–) / decrease (+) in working capital -138 32 Cash flow from operating activities 413 557 Investments Acquisition of subsidiaries 32 -63 -11 Divestment of subsidiaries 32 0 2 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 14,15 -56 -43 Divestment of tangible fixed assets 6 0 Acquisition of intangible fixed assets 13 -19 -20 Acquisition of participations in associated companies and joint ventures 28 -3 – Divestment of financial fixed assets 6 – Increase (–) / decrease (+) of long-term receivables 8 18 Cash flow from investing activities -121 -54 Financing activities Acquisition of non-controlling interests 32 -6 -8 Divestment of non-controlling interests 32 3 0 Change in overdraft facilities 227 34 Loans raised 22 12 – Amortisation of loans -284 -209 Dividends paid -262 -259 Cash flow from financing activities -309 -442 Cash flow for the year -17 61 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 279 241 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents -4 -23 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 21 258 279 Interest received amounted to SEK 5 M (9) and interest paid amounted to SEK 45 M (52). 46 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Income statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2014 2013 Net sales 3, 33 40 46 Other operating revenue 55 52 Total revenue 95 98 Operating expenses Goods for resale -2 -8 Other external costs 4 -78 -66 Personnel costs 5 -44 -37 Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and intangible fixed assets 6 0 0 EBIT -29 -13 Financial income and expenses Result from participations in Group companies 8 403 114 Interest income 42 25 Interest expenses -50 -56 Other financial items 10 1 3 Profit after financial items 365 73 Appropriations 9 396 270 Profit before tax 761 343 Tax on profit for the year 11 -27 -51 Profit for the year 734 292 Statement of comprehensive income for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2014 2013 Profit for the year 734 292 Other comprehensive income: Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: – Exchange-rate differences, net investments in foreign operations 3 1 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax 3 1 Comprehensive income for the year 737 293 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 47 Financial statements Balance sheet for the Parent Company SEK M Note 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 ASSETS Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets Improvement costs, third-party property 14 1 0 Equipment and transport 15 0 0 Total tangible fixed assets 1 0 Financial fixed assets Participations in Group companies 27 3,031 3,154 Receivables from Group companies 55 42 Deferred tax assets 16 53 – Total financial fixed assets 3,139 3,196 Total fixed assets 3,140 3,196 Current assets Current receivables Accounts receivable 8 17 Receivables from Group companies1) 1,207 651 Tax assets – 31 Other receivables 9 0 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 20 12 5 Total current receivables 1,235 704 Cash and cash equivalents1) 21 162 181 Total current assets 1,397 885 TOTAL ASSETS 4,537 4,081 1) A reclassification was made in the balance sheet regarding shared Group bank accounts. Comparative figures have been recalculated. 48 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Balance sheet for the Parent Company SEK M Note 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity 29 Restricted shareholders’ equity Share capital 90 90 Statutory reserve 3 3 Total restricted shareholders’ equity 93 93 Non-restricted shareholders’ equity Fair value reserve 3 0 Profit brought forward 1,607 1,566 Profit for the year 734 292 Total non-restricted shareholders’ equity 2,344 1,858 Total shareholders’ equity 2,437 1,951 Untaxed reserves 114 160 Provisions 23 0 1 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 22 1,396 1,656 Total long-term liabilities 1,396 1,656 Current liabilities Overdraft facilities1) 22 355 127 Other liabilities to credit institutions 22 136 136 Accounts payable 7 6 Liabilities to Group companies 67 31 Current tax liabilities 4 – Other liabilities 1 1 Accrued expenses and deferred income 25 19 13 Total current liabilities 590 313 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 4,537 4,081 Memorandum items Pledged assets 26 None None Contingent liabilities 26 79 64 1) A reclassification was made in the balance sheet regarding shared Group bank accounts. Comparative figures have been recalculated. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 49 Financial statements Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the Parent Company Restricted shareholders’ equity Non-restricted shareholders’ equity Total shareStatutory Fair value Share premium Profit brought holders’ SEK M Share capital reserve reserve reserve forward equity OPENING BALANCE ON 1 JANUARY 2013 90 3 -1 651 1,167 1,910 Profit for the year 292 292 Other comprehensive income: Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: – Exchange-rate differences, net investments in foreign 1 1 operations Total other comprehensive income 1 1 Comprehensive income for the year 1 292 293 Reversal according to appropriation of profit -651 651 0 Transactions with shareholders Dividends -251 -251 Other total transactions with shareholders -251 -251 CLOSING BALANCE ON 31 DECEMBER 2013 90 3 0 0 1,858 1,951 OPENING BALANCE ON 1 JANUARY 2014 90 3 0 0 1,858 1,951 Profit for the year 734 734 Other comprehensive income: Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: – Exchange-rate differences, net investments in foreign 3 3 operations Total other comprehensive income 3 3 Comprehensive income for the year 3 734 737 Transactions with shareholders Dividends -251 -251 Other total transactions with shareholders 0 0 -251 -251 CLOSING BALANCE ON 31 DECEMBER 2014 90 3 3 0 2,341 2,437 The number of shares as at 31 December 2014 amounted to 35,901,487 (35,901,487) with a quotient value of SEK 2.50 (2.50) per share. 50 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Cash-flow statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2014 2013 Operating activities Profit after financial items 365 73 Adjusted for items not affecting liquidity 31 485 0 850 73 Tax paid -45 -34 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 805 39 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / increase (–) of receivables -192 547 Decrease (–) / increase (+) of liabilities 26 -82 Increase (–) / decrease (+) in working capital -166 465 Cash flow from operating activities 639 504 Investments Capital contributions paid 27 -363 – Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 14 -1 – Increase (–) / decrease (+) of long-term receivables -10 -17 Cash flow from investing activities -374 -17 Financing activities Change in overdraft facilities 227 49 Loans raised 22 12 – Amortisation of loans -272 -201 Dividends paid -251 -251 Cash flow from financing activities -284 -403 Cash flow for the year -19 84 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 181 97 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 21 162 181 Compared with the 2013 Annual Report, a reclassification was made in the balance sheet regarding shared Group bank accounts. Comparative figures have been recalculated. Profit after financial items includes dividends received from subsidiaries of SEK 888 M (114). Interest received amounted to SEK 42 M (25) and interest paid amounted to SEK 50 M (56). Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 51 Notes Notes NOTE 1 Accounting policies Other new standards, amendments or interpretations of existing standards that have not come into effect are not relevant to the Group at present or are Accounting and measurement policies deemed to have any material effect on the Group’s earnings or financial position. The most important accounting policies that were applied to the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are stated below. These policies were Consolidated financial statements consistently applied for all years presented, unless otherwise stated. The consolidated financial statements include the Parent Company and all comThe consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the panies (including structured companies) over which the Parent Company has a Annual Accounts Act, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as controlling influence. The Group controls a company when the Group is exposed approved by the EU and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Comto, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has mittee that apply for financial years beginning on 1 January 2014. Furthermore, the ability to affect those returns through its power over a company. Subsidiaries the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementaare included in the consolidated financial statements from the point in time at ry Accounting Regulations for Groups was applied. which controlling influence is achieved and excluded from the consolidated finanThe functional currency of the Parent Company is Swedish kronor (SEK), cial statements from the point in time at which the controlling influence ceases. which is also the Group’s presentation currency. All amounts are stated in SEK The purchase method was used for recognising the Group’s business M, unless otherwise stated. combinations. The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary is The items in the Annual Report are measured at cost, with the exception of measured at fair value on transferred assets, liabilities arising in the Group from certain financial instruments, which are measured at fair value. previous owners of the acquired company and the shares issued by the Group. The Parent Company’s financial statements were prepared in accordance with The purchase consideration also includes the fair value of all assets or liabilities the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. resulting from an agreement on contingent consideration. Identifiable acquired Preparing financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of assets and assumed liabilities in a business combination are initially measured at certain key estimates for accounting purposes. Furthermore, management is fair value on the date of acquisition. For each acquisition meaning, acquisition required to make certain assessments in the application of the consolidated acby acquisition the Group decides whether the non-controlling interests in the counting policies. The areas that include a high degree of complicated assessacquired company are measured at fair value or proportionate to the holding’s ments or areas where assumptions and estimates are of material significance to share of the carrying amount of the acquired company’s identifiable net assets. the consolidated financial statements are stated in Note 2. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as they arise. If the business combination is a step acquisition, the earlier equity shares in Amended and new accounting policies for 2014 the acquired company are re-measured to its fair value on the date of acquisiThe Group applies a number of new standards and interpretations with effect tion. Any gains or losses arising are recognised in profit or loss. from 1 January 2014, which comprise primarily pertaining to consolidation Each contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is measured (including: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangeat fair value on the date of acquisition. The subsequent changes in fair value of ments, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, IAS 27 Separate Financontingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Contingent considercial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures). None ation classified as shareholders’ equity is not re-measured and the subsequent of the new standards and interpretations applied by Mekonomen Group as of adjustment is recognised in shareholders’ equity. 1 January 2014 has had any significant impact on the consolidated financial Goodwill is initially measured at the amount by which the total purchase constatements. sideration and fair value for the non-controlling interests exceeds the fair value of identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities. If the purchase consideration Amended accounting policies 2015 and later is lower than the fair value of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference A number of new standards and amendments of interpretations and existing is recognised directly in profit or loss. standards come into effect for financial years beginning on 1 January 2014 and Where necessary, subsidiaries’ accounting is adjusted to comply with the were not applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The same policies applied by the other Group companies. All internal transactions most important amendments for Mekonomen Group are: between Group companies and Group intermediaries are eliminated when preparing the consolidated financial statements. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Transactions with non-controlling interests that will not result in a loss of conIFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers regulates how revenue is to trol are recognised as shareholders’ equity transactions – meaning, transactions be recognised. The principles on which IFRS 15 is based are to provide users of with shareholders in their roles as owners. In acquisitions from non-controlling financial statements with more informative, relevant disclosures of the company’s interests, the difference between the fair value of purchase consideration paid revenue. The expanded disclosure requirements entail that information is to be and the actual acquired portion of the carrying amount of the subsidiary’s net provided about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash assets is recognised in shareholders’ equity. Profits or losses from divestments flows arising from a contract with a customer. Under IFRS 15, revenue is to be to non-controlling interests are also recognised in shareholders’ equity. recognised when the customer controls the sold good or service and can use When the Group no longer has controlling influence, each remaining holding and obtain the benefits from the good or service. is measured at fair value on the date controlling influence ceases. The change in IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts, and the carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss. The fair value is used as the associated SICs and IFRICs. IFRS 15 will come into effect on 1 January 2017. initial carrying amount and is the basis for continued recognition of the remaining Early adoption is permitted. The Group is yet to assess the effect of the standholding in associated companies, joint ventures or financial assets. All amounts ard. The standard has not yet been approved by the EU. pertaining to the divested unit previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised as if the Group had directly divested the assets or liaIFRS 9 Financial Instruments bilities in question. This may result in the amount previously recognised in other The standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of ficomprehensive income being reclassified to profit or loss. nancial assets and financial liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued Associated companies are all companies over which the Group has significant in July 2014. It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that addressed the classification and influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20 measurement of financial instruments. The standard is to be applied to financial per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights. Investments in associated compayears beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The nies are recognised using the equity method. Mekonomen Group has only one Group is yet to assess the effect of the standard. The standard has not yet been small associated company with a marginal impact on the Group. approved by the EU. The Group applies IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements from 1 January 2014. Under IFRS 11, holdings in a joint arrangement are to be classified as either a joint 52 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes operation or a joint venture depending on each investor’s contractual rights and Lease fees that are paid during operating lease agreements are systematically obligations. Mekonomen Group has only one small joint arrangement with a expensed over the leasing period. marginal impact on the Group and has determined that it is a joint venture. Joint ventures are recognised in accordance with the equity method. Remuneration of employees The Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. A Translation of transactions in foreign currencies defined-benefit pension plan is a pension plan whereby the Group guarantees Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Swedish Kronor (SEK) an amount, which the employee receives as pension benefits upon retirement, based on the exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Monetary items normally based on several different factors, for example, salary and period of (assets and liabilities) in foreign currencies are translated into SEK according to service. A defined-contribution pension plan is a pension plan in which the the exchange rate on the balance-sheet date. Exchange-rate gains and losses Group, after having paid its pension premium to a separate legal entity, has that arise in connection with such translations are recognised in profit or loss as fulfilled its commitments towards the employee. Other operating revenue and/or Other operating expenses. Exchange-rate differDefined-contribution plans are recognised as an expense in the period to ences that arise in foreign long-term loans and liabilities, and in the translation of which the premiums paid are attributable. bank accounts in currencies other than the accounting currency, are recognised Pension expenses for defined-benefit plans are calculated using the Projected in financial income and expenses. Unit Credit Method whereby expenses are distributed over the employee’s period of employment. These commitments, meaning the liabilities that are Translation of foreign subsidiaries recognised, are measured at the present value of expected future payments, When the consolidated financial statements were prepared, the Group’s foreign taking estimated future salary increases into account, applying a discount operations’ balance sheets were translated from their functional currencies rate corresponding to the interest on first-class corporate bonds issued in the to SEK based on the exchange rates on the balance-sheet date. The income same currency as the pension is to be paid in, with a remaining duration that is statements and other comprehensive income were translated at the average comparable to the current commitment and with deductions for the fair value of exchange rate for the period. Translation differences that arose were recognised plan assets. In countries where there are no functioning markets for corporate in other comprehensive income against the translation reserve in shareholders’ bonds, a discount rate corresponding to the interest rate on mortgage bonds equity. The accumulated translation differences were transferred and recognised is used. Consequently, a discount rate established by referring to the interest as part of capital gains or capital losses in cases where foreign operations were rate on mortgage bonds is used for the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans divested. Goodwill and adjustments to fair values attributable to acquisitions of in Norway. The most important actuarial assumptions are stated in Note 23. If operations using functional currencies other than SEK are treated as assets and a net asset arises, it is be recognised only to the extent that it represents future liabilities in the acquired operations’ currencies and translated at the exchange financial benefits, for example, in the form of repayments or reduced future rates on the balance-sheet date. premiums. One of the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans comprises a so-called mulSegment reporting ti-employer defined-benefit pension plan (ITP plan in Alecta). In accordance with Operating segments are reported to correspond with the internal reporting proMekonomen Group’s accounting policies, a multi-employer defined-benefit plan vided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is recognised based on the rules of the plans and recognises its proportional is the function responsible for the allocation of resources and assessing the share of the defined-benefit pension obligations and of plan assets and expensearnings of the operating segments. In the Group, this function has been identies related to the plan in the same manner as for any other similar defined-benefit fied as the company’s President and CEO. pension plan. However, Alecta has not been able to present sufficient information to facilitate reporting as a defined-benefit plan, which is why the ITP plan is Revenue recognition recognised as a defined-contribution plan in accordance with IAS 19.34. Revenue from external customers derives primarily from the sale of goods, In addition to the defined-benefit pension plans via Alecta described above, representing approximately 97 per cent (97) of net sales. The remaining net sales the Group has defined-benefit pension plans for employees in Norway. Calcuderive from workshop services, as well as annual and license fees to affiliated lation and measurement according to the Projected Unit Credit Method was stores and workshops. performed on the date of acquisition and taken into account in each acquisition Sales of goods are recognised at delivery/handover of products to the analysis. Actuarial gains and losses arising thereafter are recognised in their customer, in accordance with conditions of sale. Sales are recognised net after entirety in other comprehensive income during the period in which they arise. deduction of discounts, returns and value-added tax. Remuneration in connection with termination of employment can be paid Revenue from the sale of workshop services is recognised in the period in when an employee has been served notice of termination prior to the expiration which the service took place. Revenue is recognised based on the degree of of the normal date of retirement or when an employee accepts voluntary retirecompletion on the balance-sheet date (percentage of completion). ment. The Group recognises liabilities and expenses in connection with a termiRevenue from licensing agreements is allocated over the term of the agreenation of employment, when Mekonomen Group is unquestionably obligated to ment. either terminate employment prior to the normal termination date or to voluntarily Other operating revenue mainly comprises of rental income, marketing subsipay remuneration to encourage early retirement. dies and exchange-rate gains. Mekonomen Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses when Interest income is recognised over the term by applying the effective interest there are legal or informal obligations, based on earlier practice, to pay bonuses method. to employees. Leasing Tax A financial lease agreement is an agreement according to which the financial The Group’s total tax expense comprises current tax and deferred tax. Current risks and benefits associated with ownership of an object are essentially transtax is tax that is to be paid or received pertaining to the current year and ferred from the lessor to the lessee. Leasing objects mainly comprise company adjustments of prior years’ current tax. Deferred tax is calculated based on vehicles and distribution vehicles. the difference between the carrying amounts and the values for tax purposes Operational lease agreements primarily comprise to leased premises. of company assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is recognised according to the balance-sheet method. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised in principle on all Group as lessee taxable temporary differences, while deferred tax assets are recognised to the Assets held under financial lease agreements are measured as fixed assets in extent that is probable that the amount can be utilised against future taxable the consolidated balance sheets at fair value at the beginning of the leasing surplus. period or at the present value of minimum leasing fees if this is lower. The liability The carrying amount on deferred tax assets is assessed at each accounting that the lessee has to the lessor is recognised in the balance sheet under the year-end and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient heading “Lease agreement” divided into long-term and short-term liabilities. taxable surplus will be available to be utilised either in its entirety or partially Leasing payments are divided between interest and amortisation of liabilities. Inagainst the deferred tax asset. terest is divided over the leasing period so that each reporting period is charged Deferred tax is calculated based on the tax rates that are expected to apply with an amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate of the liability recognised for the period when the asset is recovered or the debt settled. Deferred tax is during each period. Interest expenses are recognised directly in profit or loss. recognised as revenue or expenses in profit or loss, except in cases when it Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 53 Notes pertains to transactions or events that are recognised against other comprelives, which is why these are also tested at least annually for any impairment hensive income or directly against shareholders’ equity. The deferred tax is requirements. then also recognised against other comprehensive income or directly against Assets impaired are measured in terms of value decline whenever events or shareholders’ equity. Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are offset when they changes in conditions indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. are attributable to income tax that is charged by the same authority and when If this occurs, a calculation of the asset’s recoverable amount is performed. the Group intends to pay the tax with a net amount. The recoverable amount comprises the highest of the value in use of the asset in the operation and the value that would be received if the asset was divested Goodwill to an independent party, net realisable value. The value in use comprises the Goodwill is initially measured at the amount by which the total purchase considpresent value of all in and out payments attributable to the asset during the perieration and fair value for the non-controlling interests exceeds the fair value of od it is anticipated to be used in the operation, plus the present value of the net identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities. If the purchase consideration realisable value at the end of the useful life. If the estimated recoverable amount is lower than the fair value of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference falls below the carrying amount, the asset is impaired to the recoverable amount. is recognised directly in profit or loss. Goodwill has an indefinite useful life and The impairment is recognised in profit or loss in the period it is determined. is recognised at cost less any accumulated impairment. In the divestment of an Refer also to Note 13 for information on how impairment testing is performed. operation, the portion of goodwill attributable to this operation is recognised in Previously recognised impairment is reversed only if there has been a change the calculation of gain or loss on the divestment. to the assumptions that served as the basis for determining the recoverable amount in connection with the impairment. If this is the case, a reversal will be Other intangible assets conducted to increase the carrying amount of the impaired asset to its recovExpenditure for the development and implementation of IT systems can be caperable amount. A reversal of an earlier impairment takes place in an amount italised if it is probable that future financial benefits will accrue to the company that does not allow the new carrying amount to exceed what would have been and the cost for the asset can be calculated in a reliable manner. the carrying amount (after impairment) if the impairment had not taken place. Brands, customer relations and franchise contracts acquired through busiImpairment of goodwill is never reversed. ness combinations are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. Acquired brands attributable to the acquisitions of Sørensen og Balchen and Inventories MECA have been deemed to have an indefinite useful life and are recognised at Inventories are recognised at the lower of the cost and net realisable value. The cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Customer relations, other brands, cost is established by using the first in/first out principle (FIFO). franchise contracts and strategic IT investments have definite useful lives and A provision for estimated obsolescence in inventories is established when are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is applied there is an objective basis to assume that the Group will be unable to receive the according to the straight-line method over the assets’ estimated useful life. carrying amount when inventories are sold in the future. The size of the provision Customer relations, other brands and franchise contracts are deemed to have a amounts to the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the value of useful life of five to ten years. expected future cash flows. The reserved amount is recognised in profit or loss. IT investments are deemed to have a useful life of three to ten years from the The inventory value was reduced by the value included in the inter-company start of operation. profit from goods sold from the Group’s central warehouse to the company’s own stores on the goods that are still in stock. Furthermore, the inventory value Tangible fixed assets was also reduced by the value of the remaining portion of the supplier bonus on Tangible fixed assets are recognised as assets in the balance sheet if it is probagoods that are still in stock. ble that future financial benefits will be accrued to the company and the cost of the asset can be calculated in a reliable manner. Tangible fixed assets, primarily Financial instruments comprising equipment, computers and transport, are recognised at cost less Financial assets recognised as assets in the balance sheet include loan receivaccumulated depreciation and any impairment. Depreciation of tangible fixed ables, accounts receivable and cash and cash equivalents. Liabilities in the assets is recognised as an expense so that the asset’s value is depreciated balance sheet include long-term and short-term loans and accounts payable. according to the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. A currency derivative is recognised either as an asset or liability, depending on The following percentages were applied for depreciation: changes in the exchange rate. A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the company becomes party to the contractual conditions. Accounts receivable are recognised when an invoice is sent and Fixed assets % accounts payable are recognised when an invoice has been received. With the Improvement costs, third-party property1) 10 exception of cash and cash equivalents, only an insignificant portion of the financial assets is interest-bearing, which is why interest exposure is not recognised. Equipment 10–20 The maximum credit risk corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial Vehicles 20 assets. The terms for long-term and short-term loans are stated in separate Servers 20 note disclosures; other financial liabilities are non-interest-bearing. A financial asset, or portion thereof, is eliminated when the rights contained in the contract Workplace computers 33 are realised or mature. A financial liability, or portion thereof, is eliminated as it is regulated when the commitment in the agreement has been fulfilled or has been 1) Depreciation takes place over the shorter period corresponding to 10 per cent per year and terminated in another manner. the remaining duration of the contract. Calculation of fair value, financial instruments The residual value of assets and useful life are tested at the end of each reportWhen establishing the fair value of derivatives, official market listings at year-end ing period and adjusted when necessary. are used. If no such information is available, a measurement is conducted applyAn asset’s carrying amount is immediately depreciated to its recoverable ing established methods, such as discounting future cash flows to the quoted amount if the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its assessed recoverable market rate for each term. Translation to SEK is based on the quoted exchange amount. rate at year-end. Gains and losses from divestments are determined by comparing the proceeds and the carrying amount and recognised net in profit or loss. Long-term receivables Long-term receivables comprise primarily deposits and lease-purchase agreements. Impairment These are recognised at the amortised cost. A provision for probable losses on Assets with an indefinite useful life, for example, goodwill and intangible assets accounts receivable is made when there are objective indications to assume that that are not ready for use are not impaired but tested annually for any impairthe Group will not receive all the amounts that are due for payment in accordance ment requirements. The brands that were added through the acquisitions of with the receivables’ original conditions. The size of the provision amounts to the Sørensen og Balchen and MECA have been deemed to have indefinite useful difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of expected future cash flows. The reserved amount is recognised in profit or loss. 54 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes Accounts receivable Parent Company accounting policies Accounts receivable are recognised net after provisions for probable bad debts. The Parent Company complies with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the The expected term of accounts receivable is short, which is why the amount is Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for recognised at nominal value without discounting in accordance with the method Legal Entities. Application of RFR 2 means that, in the annual accounts for a for amortised cost. A provision for probable bad debts on accounts receivable legal entity, the Parent Company is to apply all of the IFRS and statements that is made when there are objective indications to assume that the Group will not have been approved by the EU where this is possible within the framework of be able to receive all the amounts that are due for payment in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the receivables’ original conditions. The size of the provision amounts to the taking into account the link between accounting and taxation. The recommendifference between the asset’s carrying amount and the value of expected future dation specifies the exceptions and additions that are to be made from IFRS. cash flows. The reserved amount is recognised in profit or loss. The differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting policies are stated below. Cash and cash equivalents Financial instruments exist to a limited extent and are recognised in the Parent Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash funds held at financial institutions and Company based on cost in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. current liquid investments with a term from the date of acquisition of less than The policies have been applied consistently for all years presented, unless three months, which are exposed to only an insignificant risk of fluctuations in otherwise stipulated. value. Cash and cash equivalents are recognised at nominal amounts. Amended accounting policies 2014 Derivative instruments During 2014, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board issued a new version of the Mekonomen Group applies hedge accounting to receivables in foreign currenRFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. The amendments to RFR 2 did not have cies. Hedging is conducted using currency derivatives with a maximum term of any material impact on the Parent Company’s financial statements. three months. Hedged receivables in foreign currencies are recognised at the closing day rate and hedging instruments are recognised separately at fair value Classification and presentation format in the balance sheet and the change in value is recognised in profit or loss. The income statement and balance sheet comply with the presentation format The Group signed derivative instruments aimed at hedging interest payments specified in the Annual Accounts Act. This means they are slightly different to the attributable to loans at floating interest rates (cash-flow hedges). The Group consolidated financial statements, for example, balance-sheet items are more applies hedge accounting to these derivative agreements. The derivatives are specified and subitems are given different designations in shareholders’ equity measured at fair value in the balance sheet. Value changes are recognised in Other comprehensive income to the extent they are effective and accumulated Shares and participations in subsidiaries as a separate component in shareholders’ equity until the hedged item impacts Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company according to earnings. The portion of unrealised value changes that is ineffective is recogthe cost method. Acquisition-related costs for subsidiaries, expensed in the connised in profit or loss. solidated financial statements, are included as part of the cost for participations in subsidiaries. Accounts payable Contingent considerations are measured based on the probability that the The expected term for accounts payable is short, which is why the debt is purchase consideration will be paid. Any changes in the provision/receivable recognised at nominal amount without discounting according to the method for will be added/deducted from the cost. In the consolidated financial statements, amortised cost. contingent consideration is measured at fair value with changes in value in profit or loss. The carrying amount for participations in subsidiaries is tested pertaining Loans to any impairment requirements when there are indications of impairment needs. Liabilities to credit institutions, overdraft facilities and other liabilities (loans) are initially measured at fair value net after transaction costs. Thereafter, loans are Tax recognised at amortised cost. Any transaction costs are distributed over the The amounts reserved as untaxed reserves consist of taxable temporary differloan period applying the effective interest method. Long-term liabilities have an ences. Due to the link between accounting and taxation, the deferred tax liabilities estimated term longer than one year while short-term liabilities have a term of that are attributable to the untaxed reserves are not recognised separately in a less than one year. legal entity. The changes in untaxed reserves are recognised in accordance with Swedish practice in profit or loss for individual companies under the heading “ApShare capital propriations.” The accumulated value of provisions are recognised in the balance Ordinary shares are classified as share capital. Transaction costs in connecsheet under the heading “Untaxed reserves,” of which 22 per cent is regarded as tion with a new rights issue are recognised as a deduction, net after tax, from deferred tax liabilities and 78 per cent as restricted shareholders’ equity. proceeds from the rights issue. Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions Provisions Shareholders’ contributions paid are recognised as an increase in the value Provisions differ from other liabilities since there is uncertainty regarding the date of shares and participations. An assessment is then conducted as to whether of payment and the amount for settling the provision. Provisions are recognised impairment requirements exist for the value of the shares and participations in in the statement of financial position when Mekonomen Group has a legal or question. informal obligation as a result of an event that has occurred and it is probable Group contributions are recognised according to the alternative rule, entailing that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable that all Group contributions, both paid and received, are recognised as approestimate of the amounts can be made. Provisions are recognised in an amount priations. corresponding to the most reliable estimate of the payment required to settle the commitment. When an outflow of resources is expected to be required far Pensions later in the future, the expected future cash flow and provision are recognised at Defined-benefit and defined-contribution pension plans are recognised in acpresent value. cordance with the current Swedish accounting standard, which is based on the Restructuring reserves are recognised when the Group has both decided on regulations in the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. a detailed restructuring plan and implementation has begun or the main features have been announced to the parties concerned. Leasing All lease agreements, regardless of whether they are financial or operational, are Cash-flow statement recognised as operational lease agreements (rental agreements), which means The cash-flow statement was prepared in accordance with the indirect method. that the leasing charges are distributed according to the straight-line method The recognised cash flow comprises only transactions that result in inward and across the leasing period. outward payments. Other information The financial statements are in SEK M, unless otherwise stated . Rounding off may result in some tables not tallying. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 55 Notes NOTE 2 Significant estimates and assessments Deferred tax When preparing the financial statements, Mekonomen Group calculates the inThe preparation of the annual accounts and application of various accounting come tax for each tax jurisdiction in which the Group operates and the deferred standards are based to a certain extent on management’s assessments or taxes attributable to temporary differences. Deferred tax assets that are primarily assumptions and estimates that are considered reasonable under the circumattributable to loss carryforwards and temporary differences are recognised if stances. These assumptions and estimates are frequently based on historic tax assets can be expected to be recovered based on future taxable income. experience but also on other factors, including expectations on future events. Changes in assumptions regarding forecast future taxable earnings, and The results could differ if other assumptions and estimates were used and changes in tax rates, may result in significant differences in the measurement the actual outcome will, in terms of definition, rarely agree with the estimated of deferred taxes. As per 31 December 2014, Mekonomen Group recognised outcome. The assumptions and appreciations made by Mekonomen Group in deferred tax liabilities exceeding deferred tax assets by a net amount of SEK 113 the 2014 annual accounts, and which had the greatest impact on earnings and M. More detailed information about deferred taxes is found in Note 16. assets and liabilities, are discussed below. Goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible fixed assets When assessing the impairment requirement for goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, the carrying amount is compared with the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the highest of an asset’s net NOTE 3 Segment information realisable value and the value in use. Since there are normally no listed prices Operating segments are reported to correspond with the internal reporting prothat may be used to assess the net realisable value of an asset, the value in use vided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker will normally be the value that is used to compare with the carrying amount. is the function responsible for the allocation of resources and assessing the Calculation of the value in use is based on assumptions and assessments. Key earnings of the operating segments. In Mekonomen Group, this function has assumptions are the future trends for revenue and margins, including trends for been identified as the company’s President and CEO. prices and volumes, utilisation of operating capital employed, as well as yield Mekonomen Group is divided into three Group companies: MECA, Merequirements, which are used to discount future cash flows. These assumptions konomen Nordic and Sørensen og Balchen. The Group companies have separe described in more detail in Note 13 Intangible fixed assets. arate organisations that act independently in the market with individual brands, On the whole, this means that the measurement of goodwill and intangible competition between themselves and governed through Boards. The chief assets items with an indefinite useful life is subject to significant estimates and operating decision maker monitors the operation based on this distribution. assessments. Mekonomen Nordic includes Mekonomen Sweden, Mekonomen Norway, Mekonomen Fleet, Marinshopen, Mekonomen Finland, Mekonomen Services Company acquisitions and Mekonomen Norden AB. In conjunction with acquisitions, analyses are prepared in which all identifiable The operations in Denmark have been included in the MECA Group since assets and liabilities, including intangible assets, are identified and measured at 2012. MECA’s EBIT for 2014 was negatively impacted by non-recurring costs fair value on the date of acquisition. In accordance with IFRS 3, acquired idenof SEK 280 M due to the decision to make structural changes to the Group’s tifiable intangible assets, for example, customers, franchise contracts, brands Danish operations. and customer relations, are to be separated from goodwill. This applies if these “Other” comprises the Parent Company Mekonomen AB (publ), M by Mefulfil the criteria as assets, meaning that it is possible to separate them or they konomen, the purchasing company in Hong Kong, Meko Service Nordic, as well are based on contractual or other formal rights, and that their fair values can be as Group-wide functions and eliminations. Mekonomen AB’s operations mainly established in a reliable manner. An examination is conducted at each acquisicomprise Group Management and finance management. tion. The remaining surplus value is allocated to goodwill. Measuring identifiable Meko Service Nordic is a new unit within Mekonomen Group, which operates assets and liabilities in acquisition assessments is subject to important estimates proprietary workshops under the Mekonomen Service Centre and Speedy and assessments. Information about company acquisitions and acquisition concepts. Therefore, Mekonomen BilLivet and Speedy were transferred from analyses is found in Note 32. the Mekonomen Nordic segment to Meko Service Nordic from 1 January 2014. Meko Service Nordic is included in the presentation of Other below. ComparaReserves for inventories, doubtful receivables and tive figures have been recalculated between Mekonomen Nordic and Other. guarantee commitments The CEO assesses the results of the operating segments at an EBIT level. The Group operates in several geographic markets, with sales to consumers Financial items are not distributed in segments since they are impacted by and companies and with a wide range to many different customer groups. In measures implemented by central finance management. The distribution of order to satisfy customers’ needs, there must be a sufficiently large inventory of assets and liabilities at segment is not reported regularly. products and also various types of guarantees that the products function as they Sales between segments take place on market-based terms and conditions. should. With this type of operation that is conducted within the Group, there is a Revenue from external customers that is reported to Group Management is risk of customer loss and that some of the Group’s stocked products cannot be measured in the same manner as in the income statement. sold at their carrying amounts, and also the risk that the company has guarantee commitments that extend further than the reserves for these commitments. The Group has established policies for reserves for accounts receivable, obsolescence provisions and provisions for guarantee commitments. These policies per se are estimates of historic outcome and evaluated continuously to ensure that they correspond to actual outcome in terms of customer losses, obsolescence and guarantee commitments. Further information about reserves for customer losses and obsolescence provisions is found in Notes 18 and 19. Restructuring costs Restructuring costs include required impairment of assets and other non-cash items, estimated costs for employees redundancies and other direct costs related to the closure of operations. Cost calculations are based on detailed action plans that are expected to improve the Group’s cost structure and productivity. Restructuring reserves amounted to SEK 121 M at year end. Measurement of reserves for restructuring costs is subject to significant estimates and assessments. Information about restructuring costs and associated provisions is found in Notes 7 and 23. 56 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes NOTE 3 (cont.) Mekonomen Sørensen og MECA Nordic1) Balchen Other 1) Group SEK M 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Revenue External net sales 2,205 2,211 2,692 2,656 712 701 180 172 5,789 5,740 Internal revenue 25 39 128 152 26 21 -179 -212 0 0 Other revenue 9 5 68 54 6 5 52 59 135 123 Total revenue 2,239 2,255 2,888 2,863 744 727 53 19 5,924 5,863 Operating profit/loss before amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets (EBITA) -68 156 422 390 109 99 -36 -19 427 626 Operating profit/loss (EBIT)2) -182 84 401 323 92 81 -36 -19 274 469 Financial items – net -24 -39 Profit before tax 250 429 Investments, tangible assets3) 18 21 33 16 3 2 2 3 56 43 Investments, IT systems3) 8 9 11 11 1 0 0 0 19 20 Depreciation and impairment 49 26 41 48 5 5 4 4 100 83 (tangible assets) Amortisation and impairment 114 72 20 67 18 18 1 0 152 157 (intangible assets)4) Average number of employees for the period 987 1,000 1,089 1,122 252 259 176 154 2,504 2,535 Number of proprietary stores 75 108 151 146 34 34 1 1 261 289 Number of partner stores 16 23 41 47 37 40 0 0 94 110 Number of stores in the chain 91 131 192 193 71 74 1 1 355 399 Key figures EBITA margin, %5) -3 7 15 14 15 14 7 11 EBITA margin, %5) -8 4 14 12 13 11 5 8 Change in sales, %5) 0 30 1 -1 2 -6 1 8 Revenue per employees, SEK 000s (recalculated into one-year balance) 2,268 2,255 2,652 2,552 2,952 2,807 2,366 2,313 Operating profit/loss per employee, SEK 000s (converted into one-year balance) -184 84 368 288 365 313 109 185 1) A new unit, Meko Service Nordic, was formed within “Other” on 1 January 2014 and has taken over the BilLivet and Speedy operations from Mekonomen Nordic, comparative figures have been recalculated. 2) MECA’s EBIT for 2014 was negatively impacted by restructuring costs and impairment of SEK 280 M (0) due to the decision to make structural changes to the Group’s Danish operations. For more information about restructuring costs, refer to Note 7. Mekonomen Nordic’s EBIT for 2013 was negatively impacted by the impairment of IT systems totalling SEK 45 M. 3) Investments do not include company and business combinations. 4) Including amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. 5) Internal sales were excluded from the calculation of the operating margin and the sales increase for the segments. Net sales from external customers derived primarily from the sale of goods, The company has its registered office in Sweden. The distribution of revenue representing approximately 97 per cent (97) of net sales. The remaining net sales from external customers in Sweden and other geographic markets is presented derived from workshop services, as well as annual and license fees to affiliated in the table below: stores and workshops. Net sales derived from the sale of goods from external customers are distribNet sales 2014 2013 uted according to the following customer groups: Sweden 2,909 2,841 2014 2013 Norway 2,315 2,262 Analysis of net sales by customer groups, %: Denmark 527 612 Other 38 25 – Affiliated workshops1) 34% 32% Total 5,789 5,740 – Other workshops 40% 41% – Consumers 19% 19% The Group has no individual customers that account for 10 per cent or more – Partner stores 8% 8% of the Group’s revenue. All fixed assets, other than financial instruments and Total net sales 100% 100% deferred tax assets (there are no assets in connection with benefits after terminated employment or rights according to insurance agreements), located in Sweden amounted to SEK 2,284 M (2,323) and the total of such fixed assets 1) Sales in proprietary workshops are included in sales to affiliated workshops. located in other countries amounted to SEK 730 M (807), of which SEK 707 M (721) in Norway and SEK 18 M (78) in Denmark. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 57 Notes NOTE 4 Audit expenses Group Parent Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 PWC Audit assignment 6 0 1 0 Audit-related services other 0 0 0 0 than the audit assignment Tax advice 0 0 0 0 Other services 0 0 0 0 6 0 1 0 Deloitte AB Audit assignment 0 7 0 1 Audit-related services other 0 0 0 0 than the audit assignment Tax advice 0 0 0 0 Other services 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 1 Total 6 7 1 1 NOTE 5 Average number of employees, salaries, other remuneration and social security contributions 2014 2013 Average number of employees No. of employees Of whom, men % No. of employees Of whom, men % Parent Company Sweden 15 60 13 50 Total in Parent Company 15 60 13 50 Subsidiaries Sweden 1,320 83 1,329 82 Denmark 373 84 397 87 Norway 772 83 775 82 Other countries 24 83 21 81 Total in subsidiaries 2,489 83 2,522 84 Group total 2,504 83 2,535 83 Salaries and other Soc. security expenses Salaries and other Soc. security expenses Salaries, remuneration, etc. SEK 000s remuneration (of which pension costs) remuneration (of which pension costs) Parent Company 28,181 14,661 23,359 12,385 (4,657) (3,622) Subsidiaries 1,112,800 269,127 1,034,960 263,111 (60,492) (53,707) Group total 1,140,981 283,788 1,058,319 275,496 (65,149) (57,329) Salaries and other remuneration distributed between the President and Board members and other employees, Board and President1) Board and President1) SEK 000s (of which bonus, etc.) Other employees (of which bonus, etc.) Other employees Parent Company Mekonomen AB 11,161 17,020 8,430 14,929 (2,754) (2,171) (360) (639) Total in Parent Company 11,161 17,020 8,430 14,929 (2,754) (2,171) (360) (639) Subsidiaries in Sweden 33,880 463,233 35,037 441,406 (1,580) (3,416) (3,219) (1,234) Subsidiaries abroad Denmark 1,492 229,395 4,320 166,712 (0) (0) (0) (0) Norway 23,381 350,726 23,808 357,656 (980) (3,912) (693) (721) Other countries 2,744 7,949 0 6,021 (400) (0) (0) (0) Total in subsidiaries 61,497 1,051,303 63,165 971,795 (2,960) (7,328) (3,912) (1,955) Group total 72,658 1,068,323 71,595 986,724 (5,714) (9,499) (4,272) (2,594) 1) Remuneration to the Board and President includes the Parent Company and, where applicable, subsidiaries in each country. 58 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes NOTE 5 (cont.) The President, Håkan Lundstedt, has a basic salary of SEK 510,000 per month and a variable salary portion, which is based on the company’s earnings and can amount to a maximum of 60 per cent of the basic annual salary. Pension proviRemuneration of senior executives sions are paid in an amount corresponding to 29 per cent of the basic salary. Fees are paid to the Chairman of the Board and Board members in accordance Other benefits consist of a company car. The period of notice is 12 months if with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting. The annual Board fee totalling employment is terminated by the company, and six months if terminated by the SEK 1,950,000 (1,950,000) was determined in accordance with the resolution of employee. the 2014 Annual General Meeting. If termination is initiated by the company, severance pay amounting to six months’ Of this, SEK 400,000 (400,000) represents fees to the Chairman of the Board, salary is paid. For other senior executives, remuneration follows the policies adopted SEK 300,000 (300,000) to the Executive Vice Chairman, and SEK 250,000 at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. This means that the company is to strive to (250,000) to each of the remaining Board members. For members of the Board’s offer its senior executives market-based remuneration, that the criteria for this is to Audit Committee, SEK 60,000 (0) is paid to the Chairman of the Audit Commitbe based on the significance of work duties, skills requirements, experience and tee and SEK 35,000 (0) is paid to the other members of the Audit Committee. performance and that remuneration is to comprise the following parts: For members of the Board’s Remuneration Committee, SEK 35,000 (0) is paid – fixed basic salary to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 25,000 (0) is paid to – variable remuneration the other members of the Remuneration Committee. – pension benefits No fees are paid to the Boards of other subsidiaries. – other benefits and severance pay Basic salary1) Bonus Board fees2) Other benefits Pension premiums Executives/category, SEK 000S 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Fredrik Persson, Chairman of the Board 435 400 Marcus Storch, Executive Vice Chairman of the 325 300 Board Antonia Ax:son Johnson, Board member – 250 Kenneth Bengtsson, Board member 285 250 Caroline Berg, Board member 275 – Kenny Bräck, Board member 250 250 Anders G Carlberg, Board member – 250 Helena Skåntorp, Board member 310 250 Christer Åberg, Board member 285 – President 6,242 6,120 2,754 360 90 88 1,720 1,811 Other senior executives, 4 (4) 7,861 7,708 1,907 321 396 396 1,678 1,730 Total 14,103 13,828 4,661 681 2,165 1,950 486 484 3,398 3,541 1) Basic salary in this table includes holiday bonus. 2) Board fees include fees to members of the Board’s Committees. The variable remuneration for other senior executives, excluding the President, NOTE 6 Depreciation/amortisation and is based partly on the Group’s earnings and partly on individual qualitative paimpairment of tangible and intangible fixed assets rameters and can amount to a maximum of four months’ salary. Other benefits refer primarily to company cars. Pension premiums are paid in an amount that is based on the ITP plan or a corresponding system for employees outside Group Parent Company Sweden. Pensionable salary comprises basic salary. Severance pay for termi2014 2013 2014 2013 nation on the part of the company can total a maximum of one annual salary. Matters pertaining to remuneration of company management are resolved by the Depreciation of tangible fixed Board’s Remuneration Committee. However, remuneration of the President is assets according to plan -75 -79 0 0 determined by the Board in its entirety. Impairment of tangible fixed At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, it was also resolved that Group assets -25 -4 – – Management and a number of selected, business-critical senior executives Total depreciation and impairmay receive long-term variable remuneration from the company. The criteria ment of tangible fixed assets -100 -83 0 0 for determining the variable remuneration portion for each individual is decided by the Board’s Remuneration Committee, and for the President by the Board Amortisation, brands 0 -1 – – in its entirety. The long-term variable remuneration is to be profit-based and Amortisation, customer calculated on the Group’s earnings for the 2014-2016 financial years. The entire relationships -75 -73 – – bonus programme, as an expense for the company, is to amount to a maximum Amortisation, franchise of SEK 24 M for the period. Furthermore, an additional requirement to the above contracts -5 -5 – – is that the average price paid for the Mekonomen share on Nasdaq Stockholm Amortisation, capitalised on the last trading day in December 2016 is to exceed the Nasdaq Stockholm expenditure for IT systems -34 -35 – – PI index for the programme period. The right to receive variable remuneration Impairment, capitalised expires if the senior executive resigns (before payment). No bonus was reserved expenditure for IT systems -11 -43 – – as per 31 December 2014 pertaining to this bonus programme. Other than the above, the Board has not decided on any other share or shareImpairment, goodwill -28 – – – price based incentive programs for company management. Total amortisation and Of all the company’s senior executives, one is a woman. The number of senior impairment of intangible fixed executives in 2014 and 2013 was five. These executives also comprised Group assets -152 -157 0 0 Management. In addition to the President, they where the Executive Vice President, the CFO, Total -252 -240 0 0 the International Business Director and the Head of Business Establishment. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 59 Notes NOTE 7 Restructuring costs NOTE 11 Tax on profit for the year Due to the structural changes of Mekonomen Group’s Danish operations Group Parent Company decided in December 2014, EBIT was charged with restructuring costs and impairment totalling SEK 280 M during the financial year. Current tax 2014 2013 2014 2013 The costs are included in each type of cost in the consolidated income stateSweden -97 -70 -80 -51 ment and are distributed as shown in the table below: Other countries -95 -87 – – Group Total current tax -192 -157 -80 -51 Changes in deferred tax, 2014 2013 temporary differences 69 43 53 – Reserve for leasing commitments and associRecognised tax expenses -123 -114 -27 -51 ated costs -41 – Reserve for personnel-related costs -67 – Tax on profit for the year Impairment of intangible fixed assets -39 – Recognised profit before tax 250 429 761 343 Impairment of tangible fixed assets -22 – Tax according to applicable Impairment of financial fixed assets -12 tax rate -62 -109 -167 -75 Impairment of inventories -75 – Tax on standard interest on tax Impairment of accounts receivable -12 allocation reserves 0 0 0 0 Other -13 – Tax effects on expenses that are not tax deductible Total -280 – Other non-deductible expenses -13 -2 -108 -1 Other non-taxable revenue 3 0 195 25 NOTE 8 Result from participations Effects on adjustments from in Group companies preceding year 0 0 – – Effects of non-capitalised loss Parent Company carryforwards -51 -3 – – Effects of capitalised loss 2014 2013 carryforwards1) 0 0 53 – Dividends 888 114 Recognised tax expenses -123 -114 -27 -51 Gains from divestment of participations 0 0 Impairment -486 – 1) Capitalised loss carryforwards in the Parent Company pertain in their entirety to loss Total 403 114 carryforwards attributable to the Danish operations and correspond to the portion of loss carryforwards in Denmark that is deemed to be able to be utilised based on future Group deductions in Sweden. NOTE 9 Appropriations The weighted average tax rate amounted to 24.8 per cent (25.4). The decline is mainly due to the reduction in the tax rate in Norway to 27 per cent (28). Parent Company 2014 2013 Group contributions received 370 348 NOTE 12 Supplementary disclosures, Group contributions paid -20 -96 financial risk management Changes in tax allocation reserve 46 -34 Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value in Changes in excess depreciation/amortisation 0 52 the balance sheet Total 396 270 The financial instruments that were measured at fair value in the balance sheet are showed below. Measurement is divided into three levels: Level 1: Fair value is determined according to listed prices in an active market for the same instrument. NOTE 10 Exchange-rate differences – net Level 2: Fair value is determined based on wither direct (prices) or indirect (derived from prices) observable market data not included in Level 1. Exchange-rate differences were recognised in profit or loss as follows: Level 3: Fair value is determined base on inputs not observable in the market. All of Mekonomen’s financial instruments are included in Level 2. Group Parent Company Calculation of fair value 2014 2013 2014 2013 The following summarises he main methods and assumptions used to deterExchange-rate differences in mined the fair value of the financial instruments shown in the table below. EBIT -9 -16 1 1 Fair value of listed securities, where appropriate, is determined based on the asset’s listed average price on the balance-sheet date with no additions for Exchange-rate differences in transaction costs on the acquisition date. net financial items 12 3 3 3 For currency contracts, fair value is determined on the basis of listed prices. Total 3 -13 4 4 Fair value for interest-rate swaps is based on discounting estimated future cash flows in accordance with the contract terms and due dates, and on the basis of the market interest rate for similar instruments on the balance-sheet date. 60 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes NOTE 12 (cont.) Group’s derivative instruments measured at fair value in balance sheet 2014 2013 If discounted cash flows have been used, future cash flows are calculated on Financial assets company management’s best assessment. The discount rate applied is a marDerivatives: Currency futures 0 0 ket-based interest rate on similar instruments on the balance-sheet date. Total 0 0 All valuation techniques applied are accepted on the market and take into account all parameters which the market would take into consideration when pricing. The techniques are reviewed regularly with a view to ensuring their reliaFinancial liabilities bility. Assumptions applied are followed up against actual results so as to identify Derivatives: Currency swaps 1 3 any need for adjustments to measurements and forecasting tools. For methods of payment, receivables and liabilities with variable interest rates, Interest-rate swaps 2 2 and current assets and liabilities (such as accounts receivable and accounts Total 2 5 payable), fair value is equivalent to the carrying amount. Net gains on derivative instruments, held for trading amounted to SEK 2 M (loss: 3). Financial assets and liabilities Non-financial by measurement category, Derivative Loans and Other financial Total carrying assets and Total 31 December 2014 instruments receivables liabilities amount Fair value liabilities balance sheet Financial assets Other long-term receivables – 62 – 62 62 3 65 Accounts receivable – 450 – 450 450 – 450 Other current receivables – – – 0 0 319 319 Cash and cash equivalents – 258 – 258 258 – 258 Total – 770 – 770 770 322 1,092 Financial liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing – – 1,404 1,404 1,404 – 1,404 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 2 – 493 495 495 – 495 Accounts payable – – 558 558 558 – 558 Other current liabilities – – – 0 0 676 676 Total 2 – 2,455 2,457 2,457 676 3,133 Financial assets and liabilities Non-financial by measurement category, Derivative Loans and Other financial Total carrying assets and Total 31 December 2013 instruments receivables liabilities amount Fair value liabilities balance sheet Financial assets Other long-term receivables – 75 – 75 75 – 75 Accounts receivable – 439 – 439 439 – 439 Other current receivables – – – 0 0 285 285 Cash and cash equivalents – 279 – 279 279 – 279 Total – 793 – 793 793 285 1,078 Financial liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing 2 – 1,658 1,660 1,660 – 1,660 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 3 – 273 276 276 – 276 Accounts payable – – 594 594 594 – 594 Other current liabilities – – – 0 0 399 399 Total 5 – 2,525 2,530 2,530 399 2,929 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 61 Notes NOTE 12 (cont.) Group’s maturity structure for undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities and derivatives 31 December 2014 Nominal amount 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total Liabilities to credit institutions, bank borrowing 160 158 156 649 491 1,615 Liabilities to leasing companies 3 1 0 0 0 4 Overdraft facilities 361 0 0 0 0 361 Derivatives 2 0 0 0 0 2 Accounts payable 558 0 0 0 0 558 Total 1,084 159 156 649 491 2,540 Time when hedged cash flows in the hedging reserve are expected to occur and affect profit for the year 2015 – Q1 2015 – Q2 2015 – Q3 2015 – Q4 2016 2017 and later Total Currency swap -1 0 0 0 0 0 -1 Interest-rate swap -2 0 0 0 0 0 -2 Total -2 0 0 0 0 0 -2 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Derivative contracts are subject to legally binding framework agreements on netting. This information is limited as the amounts are of minor value. NOTE 13 Intangible fixed assets Franchise Customer Goodwill Brands contracts relations IT investments Total Group 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 1,856 1,903 327 332 45 49 729 741 149 180 3,106 3,205 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – 13 – 13 0 Acquisitions – – – – – – – – 19 20 19 20 Acquisitions in connection with acquired operation 35 4 4 – – – 13 2 1 – 53 6 Divestments/disposals – -1 – – – – – – – -51 0 -52 Translation difference, currency 0 -50 0 -5 0 -4 -1 -14 – – -1 -73 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 1,891 1,856 331 327 45 45 741 729 182 149 3,190 3,106 Opening acc. amortisation and impairment, 1 January – – -2 -1 -13 -9 -130 -60 -80 -49 -226 -120 Divestments/scrapping – – – – – – – – – 47 0 47 Amortisation for the year – – 0 -1 -5 -5 -75 -73 -34 -35 -114 -114 Impairment for the year1) 2) -28 – – – – – – – -11 -43 -39 -43 Translation difference, currency – – 0 0 0 1 1 3 – – 1 4 Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment, 31 December -28 – -2 -2 -18 -13 -204 -130 -125 -80 -378 -226 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 1,862 1,856 328 325 27 32 538 599 57 69 2,813 2,881 1) Impairment of goodwill for the year of SEK 28 M and impairment of IT systems for the year of SEK 11 M are attributable to the MECA segment due to the decision to make structural changes to the Group’s Danish operations. 2) Impairment in 2013 pertains to the full phase-out of IT systems in the Mekonomen Nordic segment. 62 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes NOTE 13 (cont.) The carrying amounts of intangible fixed assets are distributed among operating segments as follows: Franchise Customer Goodwill Brands contracts relations IT investments Total Group Carrying amount for operating 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec segment for 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 MECA 1,097 1,120 270 270 – – 453 506 13 17 1,833 1,913 Mekonomen Nordic1) 280 259 – – – – 4 – 42 52 326 311 Sørensen og Balchen 422 421 56 53 27 32 79 93 2 – 586 599 Other1) 64 56 2 2 – – 2 – – – 68 58 1,862 1,856 328 325 27 32 538 599 57 69 2,813 2,881 1) Mekonomen BilLivet and Speedy, which were previously included in Mekonomen Nordic, are included in Meko Service Nordic from 1 January 2014 under “Other.” Comparative figures have been recalculated. Testing of impairment requirement for goodwill and other intangible develop. The brands that have been identified and evaluated essentially pertain assets with indefinite useful period to the acquisition of MECA in 2012 and the acquisition of Sørensen og Balchen Goodwill is distributed among the Group’s cash-generating units (CGU) identified in 2011, with the associated BilXtra brand. Other brands are amortised and by operating segments. In addition to goodwill, the Group has acquired brands their carrying amount at year-end was SEK 2 M (2). A summary of goodwill and that are deemed to have indefinite useful period. brands with indefinite useful period at operating segment level is provided in the The useful period is deemed indefinite when it pertains to well-established table below. brands in their individual markets, which the Group intends to retain and further Goodwill 2014 Brands (indefinite useful period) 2014 TranslaTranslation diftion difOperating Test level AcquisiImpairDivestference, 31/12/ AcquisiImpairference, 31/12/ segments CGU 1/1/2014 tions ment ments currency 2014 1/1/2014 tions ment currency 2014 MECA MECA Group 1,094 3 – – 0 1,097 270 – – – 270 MECA Denmark 26 – -28 – 2 0 – – – – 0 Operating segment 1,120 3 -28 – 2 1,097 270 – – – 270 Mekonomen Mekonomen Nordic 1) Sweden 204 18 – – – 223 – – – – – Mekonomen Norway 55 2 – – 0 57 – – – – – Mekonomen Finland – – – – – – – – – – – Operating segment 259 20 – – 0 280 – – – – – Sørensen og Operating Balchen segment 421 4 – – -2 422 53 4 – 0 56 Operating Other1) segment 56 9 – – – 64 – – – – – 1,856 35 -28 – 0 1,862 323 4 – 0 326 1) Mekonomen BilLivet and Speedy, which were previously included in Mekonomen Nordic, are included in Meko Service Nordic from 1 January 2014 under “Other.” Comparative figures have been recalculated. Impairment of goodwill of SEK 28 M is attributable to the MECA segment’s investing in efficient logistics without intermediaries in the distribution chain. All Danish store operations. Impairment is a result of the decision made in Deof the 28 stores, which are also local warehouses, the regional warehouse and cember 2014 to make structural changes to the Group’s Danish operations, the Danish head office are being closed. In addition to goodwill, impairment of IT which entails that Mekonomen Group will retain its franchise workshops and is investments of SEK 11 M was also identified. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 63 Notes NOTE 13 (cont.) Goodwill 2013 Brands (indefinite useful period) 2013 TranslaTranslation diftion difOperating Test level AcquisiImpairDivestference, 31/12/ AcquisiImpairference, 31/12/ segments CGU 1/1/2013 tions ment ments currency 2013 1/1/2013 tions ment currency 2013 MECA MECA Group 1,091 4 – – -1 1,094 270 – – – 270 MECA Denmark 26 – – – 0 26 – – – – 0 Operating segment 1,117 4 – – -1 1,120 270 – – – 270 Mekonomen Mekonomen Nordic 1) Sweden 205 – – -1 – 204 – – – – – Mekonomen Norway 61 – – – -6 55 – – – – – Mekonomen Finland – – – – – – – – – – – Operating segment 266 – – -1 -6 259 – – – – – Sørensen og Operating Balchen segment 464 – – – -43 421 58 – – -5 53 Operating Other1) segment 56 – – – – 56 – – – – – 1,903 4 – -1 -50 1,856 328 – – -5 323 1) Mekonomen BilLivet and Speedy, which were previously included in Mekonomen Nordic, are included in Meko Service Nordic from 1 January 2014 under “Other.” Comparative figures have been recalculated. Testing impairment requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets with Discount rate (WACC) indefinite useful period takes place in the fourth quarter annually or more freThe present value of the forecast cash flows was calculated by applying a quently if there are indications of value depreciation. discount rate of 7.4 per cent (7.8) after tax, corresponding to a discount rate The recoverable amount for a cash-generating unit is established based on before tax of approximately 9.0 per cent (10.1). The conditions that apply for the calculations of the value in use. The value in use is the present value of the various markets in which Mekonomen operates do not deviate significantly from estimated future cash flows. each other, which is why the same rate is used for all units. Cash-flow forecasts are based on an assessment of the anticipated growth rate and the trend of the EBITDA margin, based on the budget that was adoptGrowth rate ed in December for the next year, forecasts for the next three years, manageThe growth rate does not exceed the long-term growth rate for the market ments’ long-term expectations of the operation, and historic trends. The cashsegments in which each cash-generating unit operates. flow forecasts for the second to fourth years are based on an annual growth rate of 2 per cent (2). Cash flows beyond this four-year period were extrapolated Total price and volume trend using an estimated growth rate of 2.5 per cent (3). In the event of a change, assumptions about future price and volume trends Calculated value in use is most sensitive to changes in assumptions for have a major impact on the cash flow. In plans that are used as the basis for the growth-rate, EBITDA margin and the relevant discount rate (WACC, Weighted cash flows, management assumes that the average price and volume trend over Average Cost of Capital), which is used to discount future cash flows. The the period until 2018 will not exceed 2.0 per cent per year. Assessments are significant assumptions used to calculate the value in use for 2014 and 2013, made taking into account earlier experience and external information sources. respectively, are summarised as follows: Margin trend The gross margin is assumed to be in line with current and historic levels 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 throughout the forecast period. It is assumed that the operations’ other expensDiscount rate (WACC) before tax 9.0% 10.1% es will follow the same rate of growth as revenue. Discount rate (WACC) after tax 7.4% 7.8% Growth rate beyond the forecast period 2.5% 3.0% Sensitivity analysis An increase in the discount rate by 2 percentage points, a reduction in the Total price and volume trend assumed long-term growth rate by 2 percentage points or a decrease in the years 2-4 of forecast period 2.0% 2.0% EBITDA margin by 2 percentage points would not individually result in any impairment requirement arising other than the impairment of MECA Denmark. Besides this impairment of MECA Denmark, impairment tests performed did not reveal any additional impairment requirement for goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives as per 31 December 2014. 64 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes NOTE 13 (cont.) NOTE 14 Improvement costs, third-party property Parent Company Group Parent Company IT investments 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 0 155 Opening accumulated cost, Purchases 0 0 1 January 69 68 0 2 Sales/disposals 0 -155 Purchases, rebuilding and extensions, conversions 7 6 1 0 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 0 0 Sales/disposals -1 -5 – -2 Opening accumulated amortisation, 1 January 0 -44 Translation difference, currency 0 0 – – Sales/disposals 0 44 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 75 69 1 0 Amortisation for the year 0 0 Opening accumulated Closing accumulated amortisation, depreciation, 1 January -27 -21 0 -1 31 December 0 0 Sales/disposals 1 5 – 1 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 0 0 Depreciation for the year -11 -11 0 0 An intra-Group transfer took place in 2013. Translation difference, currency 0 0 – – Closing accumulated depreciation, 31 December -37 -27 0 0 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 38 42 1 0 NOTE 15 Tangible fixed assets Equipment and transport Financial leasing Total Group Group Group 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 542 532 68 63 610 595 Purchases 45 37 5 5 50 42 Purchase in connection with acquired operation 3 0 – – 3 0 Reclassifications1) 26 – -26 – – – Sales/disposals -43 -16 -20 – -63 -16 Translation difference, currency 7 -11 – – 7 -11 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 580 542 27 68 607 610 Opening acc. depreciation and impairment, 1 January -360 -320 -44 -36 -404 -356 Sales/disposals 32 16 20 – 52 16 Reclassifications1) -7 – 7 – – – Depreciation for the year -57 -60 -7 -8 -64 -68 Impairment for the year2) -25 -4 – – -25 -4 Translation difference, currency -3 8 – – -3 8 Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment, 31 December -420 -360 -24 -44 -444 -404 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 161 182 3 25 163 207 1) Pertains to leased equipment acquired during the year. 2) Impairment for the year was impacted by non-recurring costs of SEK 22 M (0) regarding the restructuring in Denmark. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 65 Notes NOTE 15 (cont.) Operational lease agreements Operational lease agreements primarily comprise leased premises. Group Parent Company Information about leasing expenses, operational leasing 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rent for premises1) 355 328 1 1 Leasing expenses, other 30 32 1 0 Total 385 360 2 1 1) Rent for premises was impacted by non-recurring costs of SEK 35 M (0) regarding the restructuring in Denmark. Group Parent Company Future leasing fees for irrevocable lease agreements falling due for payment: 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Within one year 305 318 1 1 Later than one year but within five years 784 670 2 3 After five years 187 165 – – 1,276 1,153 3 4 Of the future lease fees, rent for premises represented SEK 1,225 M (1,102) for the Group and SEK 1 M (1) for the Parent Company. Parent Company Equipment and transport 2014 2013 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 0 34 Purchases 0 0 Sales/disposals 0 -34 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 0 0 Opening accumulated depreciation, 1 January 0 -21 Sales/disposals 0 21 Depreciation for the year 0 0 Closing accumulated depreciation, 31 December 0 0 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 0 0 NOTE 16 Deferred taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when a legal right Group Parent Company of offset exists for current tax assets and tax liabilities and when deferred taxes Gross change in deferred tax refer to the same tax authority. The amounts recognised net are as follows: assets/tax liabilities 2014 2013 2014 2013 Opening balance -188 -230 0 – Group Parent Company Translation difference, currency 4 6 – – Deferred tax assets (+)/tax 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Acquisition of subsidiaries -1 0 – – liabilities (-) 2014 2013 2014 2013 Recognition in profit or loss1) 69 43 53 – Capitalised loss carryforwards1) 60 21 53 – Tax recognised in Temporary differences on comprehensive income 2 -5 – – inter-company profits 56 49 – – Temporary differences, invenAt year-end -113 -188 53 0 tory obsolescence 16 12 – – Temporary differences on 1) Capitalised loss carryforwards in the Parent Company pertain in their entirety to loss carryforpension commitments 2 0 – – wards attributable to the Danish operations and correspond to the portion of loss carryforwards in Denmark that is deemed to be able to be utilised based on future Group deductions Temporary differences, other 10 6 – – in Sweden. Untaxed reserves -33 -43 – – Surplus value in intangible Taxable loss carryforwards fixed assets At the end of the financial year, tax loss carryforwards amounted to SEK 0 M (through acquisition) -205 -219 – – (0) in the Parent Company and SEK 466 M (120) in the Group. There is a a Temporary differences on time limit of ten years for loss carryforwards of up to SEK 48 M. All other loss reversed net asset goodwill -20 -14 – – carryforwards have no deadlines. Deferred tax assets pertaining to tax loss carryforwards in the Group amounted to SEK 60 M (21) on the balance-sheet date, Total -113 -188 53 0 of which SEK 53 M (21) was attributable to the Danish operations. Deferred tax assets on the remaining deficit was not assigned a value in the balance sheet. 66 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes NOTE 17 Other financial fixed assets NOTE 19 Current receivables Group Group 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Rental deposits paid 7 7 Accounts receivable 450 439 Hire-purchase contracts 52 67 Tax assets 25 25 Other 3 1 Other receivables 59 54 Total 62 75 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 235 206 Total 769 724 Group Hire-purchase contracts 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Accounts receivable 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Hire-purchase contracts 80 81 Accounts receivable 513 502 Provisions for doubtful hire-purchase contracts -28 -14 Provisions for bad debts -63 -63 Total 52 67 Total 450 439 Group Group Provisions for doubtful 14Provisions for bad debts 2014 2013 hire-purchase contracts 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Provision for bad debts at Provision for doubtful receivables at the beginthe beginning of the year -63 -48 ning of the year -14 -5 Incurred through acquisitions 0 0 Impairment for the year1) -13 0 Impairment for the year, recognised net in profit Reclassifications from doubtful receivables 0 -8 or loss1) -31 -29 Recovered prior impairment 0 0 Change in provision, net in balance sheet 33 14 Translation difference, currency -1 -1 Translation difference, currency -2 -1 Total -28 -14 Total -63 -63 1) Impairment for the year was impacted by non-recurring costs of SEK 12 M (0) regarding the 1) Impairment for the year was impacted by non-recurring costs of SEK 12 M (0) regarding the restructuring in Denmark. restructuring in Denmark. Interest income on hire-purchase contracts during the year was SEK 1 M (1). Group Receivables that are past due but not impaired 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 NOTE 18 Inventories Accounts receivable Receivables due between 0–30 days 41 39 Group Receivables due between 31–60 days 9 13 Receivables due longer than 61 days 9 11 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Total 59 63 Goods for resale 1,223 1,213 Total 1,223 1,213 Interest income on accounts receivable during the year was SEK 3 M (7). The cost of inventories expensed is included in the item goods for resale in the income statement and amounted to SEK 2,706 M (2,632). Provisions for obsolescence are induced in the value of inventories. In addition NOTE 20 Prepaid expenses and accrued income to standard obsolescence provisions in accordance with the Group’s principle, the amount includes impairment of inventories of SEK 75 M (0) due to the deciGroup Parent Company sion to make structural changes to the Group’s Danish operations. 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 2014 2013 2014 2013 Prepaid rents 44 42 0 0 Prepaid lease fees 1 1 – – Prepaid insurance 3 3 0 0 Accrued supplier bonus 137 113 – – Other interim receivables 50 47 11 5 Total 235 206 12 5 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 67 Notes NOTE 21 Cash and cash equivalents NOTE 23 Provisions Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash and bank balances 258 279 162 181 Provision for restructuring 121 – – – Total 258 279 162 181 Provision guarantees for divested properties 0 1 0 1 A reclassification was made in the balance sheet regarding shared Group bank Provision for pensions 8 0 – – accounts. Comparative figures have been recalculated. Other provisions 2 – – – Total 131 1 0 1 NOTE 22 LLiabilities to credit institutions Provisions comprise: Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Long-term 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Liabilities to credit institutions, Long-term portion 10 1 0 1 bank borrowing 1,396 1,658 1,396 1,656 Short-term portion 121 – 0 0 Liabilities to leasing companies 1 1 – – Total 131 1 0 1 Derivatives, interest-rate swaps – 2 – – Total long-term liabilities, Restructuring interest-bearing 1,397 1,660 1,396 1,656 Restructuring provisions include costs that are expected to arise over forthcoming years as a result of Mekonomen Group’s decision to carry out comprehensive structural changes in the Group’s Danish operations. The recognised Group Parent Company1) restructuring provisions in the Danish operations are primarily attributable to personnel costs and costs for premises. Total restructuring costs for the financial 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ year amounted to SEK 280 M (0), refer also to the information in Note 7. Current 2014 2013 2014 2013 Restructuring provisions are first established when on the balance-sheet date Liabilities to credit institutions, Mekonomen Group has a detailed formal restructuring plan and has also inbank borrowing 136 137 136 136 formed those concerned about the content of the plan. Amounts are calculated based on company management’s best estimates and adjusted when changes Overdraft facilities 355 127 355 127 are made to these estimates. Restructuring provisions are expected to be Liabilities to leasing companies 3 10 – – utilised in 2015. Derivatives, currency and interest-rate swaps 2 3 – – Guarantees In conjunction with the divestment of the Group’s properties in 2007, a guaranTotal current liabilities, tee provision totalling SEK 3 M was made in the Parent Company pertaining to interest-bearing 495 276 491 263 consulting responsibility for property inspections performed. This provision was utilised by an additional SEK 0.3 M (0.4) during the year and amounted to SEK 0.3 M as per 31 December 2014. Mekonomen’s guarantee commitment totalled Total borrowing 1,892 1,936 1,887 1,919 SEK 22 M and was recognised as a contingent liability in memorandum items. Pensions Overdraft facility limit 606 387 606 387 Alecta The ITP 2 scheme’s defined-benefit pension obligations for old-age and family of which, unutilised portion 251 261 251 261 pensions (or family pension) for salaried employees in Sweden are secured through insurance with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish 1) A reclassification was made in the balance sheet regarding shared Group bank accounts. Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10 Recognition of ITP 2 Pension Plans Financed Comparative figures have been recalculated. through Insurance with Alecta, this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. In the 2014 financial year, the company did not have access to such information All interest rates, excluding interest-rate swaps, are variable or have a maximum that made it possible to recognise its proportional share of the plan’s obligations, fixed period of three months. During the financial year, the interest level varied plan assets and costs, which means that it was not possible to recognise this as within the 2–4 per cent interval. a defined-benefit plan. ITP 2 pension plans that are secured through insurRefinancing totalling SEK 1,100 M with a five-year term was signed during ance with Alecta are therefore recognised as defined-contribution plans. The the second quarter of 2014. In conjunction with refinancing, loans were anticipated fees for the next reporting period for ITP 2 policies signed with Alecta increased by SEK 12 M. Loans were amortised by SEK 272 M in 2014. The amounts to SEK 11 M (11). Group’s maturity structure is specified in Note 12. The collective consolidation level comprises the market value of Alecta’s asMekonomen AB’s borrowing from banks is subject to certain conditions, sets as a percentage of insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s known as covenants, all of which Mekonomen AB meets. The Group’s long-term actuarial methods and assumptions, which are not in agreement with IAS 19. borrowing occurs mainly under credit frameworks with long-term lines of credits, Alecta’s surplus, in the form of the collective consolidation level, amounted to but with short-term fixed-interest periods. The Group’s interest payments 144 per cent (148) at year-end 2014. pertaining to borrowing amounted to SEK 45 M (52). Refer also to the sensitivity analysis pertaining to interest-rate risks in the sensitivity analysis section in the Administration Report and in Note 38. Existing overdraft facilities are in SEK, NOK, EUR and DKK. Other loans are essentially in SEK. 68 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes NOTE 23 (cont.) Group Composition of plan assets 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Pension commitments Equities 9% 11% All pension commitments pertain to employees in the subsidiary in Norway. The Group is obliged to provide pension provisions according to the Norwegian act Bonds 73% 70% on occupational pensions. The Group has a total of five defined-benefit pension Property 15% 15% plans which jointly include 65 (66) gainfully employed individuals and 47 (47) Other 3% 4% pensioners. Pension benefits are largely dependent on the number of years of service, salary level at retirement and the amount of the benefit. This obligation Total 100% 100% is covered via insurance companies. Employer contributions are included in the net pension obligation. The amounts recognised in the balance sheet have been Group calculated as follows: Actuarial assumptions 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Group Discount rate 2.30% 4.10% 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Future salary increases 2.75% 3.75% Present value of funded commitments 52 42 Future pension increases 0.00% 0.60% Fair value of plan assets -44 -42 Deficit in funded plans 8 0 Assumptions regarding future length of life are based on public statistics and experience from mortality studies in the country concerned, and set in consultation Present value in unfunded commitments – – with actuarial experts. Net debt in the balance sheet 8 0 Through its post-employment defined-benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed to a number of such risks as asset volatility, changes in returns and length of life commitments. The company actively monitors how terms of and expected returns on investments match expected payments arising from its pension Group commitments. The Group has not changed the processes used to manage its Present value of commitments 2014 2013 risks from previous periods. The Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its risk. Investments are highly diversified. Opening balance 42 52 Contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the 2015 financial year are Gross pension cost for the year 3 2 expected to amount to SEK 3 M. Interest expenses 0 1 A sensitivity analysis and weighted average term for the pension commitments and term analysis for undiscounted payments have not been provided since Pension payment -2 -2 they are deemed to be insignificant. Actuarial gains and losses1) 10 -7 Exchange-rate differences -1 -4 Closing balance 52 42 NOTE 24 Other current liabilities, non-interest-bearing Group Group Fair value of plan assets 2014 2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Opening balance 42 42 Accounts payable 558 594 Expected return 2 1 Other liabilities 131 90 Payments 3 3 Accrued expenses and deferred income 327 309 Pension payment -2 -2 Total 1,016 993 Actuarial gains and losses1) -1 1 Exchange-rate differences 0 -3 Closing balance 44 42 NOTE 25 Accrued expenses and 1) Changes in demographic and financial assumptions are not specified on the basis of a materiality assessment. deferred income Net pension commitments 8 0 Group Parent Company 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 2014 2013 2014 2013 Group Accrued personnel-related Costs recognised in profit or loss 2014 2013 costs 212 197 16 10 Pension vesting for the year including Accrued bonuses/ contributions 2 2 contract fees 62 60 – – Administration fees 0 0 Accrued interest expenses 2 2 2 2 Interest expenses 0 0 Prepaid rental income 6 9 – – 2 2 Other interim liabilities 45 41 1 1 Total 327 309 19 13 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 69 Notes NOTE 26 Memorandum items NOTE 27 Participations in Group companies Group Parent Company Parent Company 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Opening cost 3,179 3,179 Pledged assets Capital contributions paid1) 363 – Chattel mortgages, other Acquisitions during the year – – liabilities – 8 – – Closing accumulated cost 3,542 3,179 Other pledged assets 3 – – – Total 3 8 – – Opening impairment -25 -25 Impairment1) -486 – Contingent liabilities Closing accumulated impairment -511 -25 Guarantee commitments, divested properties 22 21 22 21 Other guarantee commitments 8 – – – Closing residual value according to plan 3,031 3,154 Rental commitments 20 – – – 1) Capital contributions paid and impairment during the financial year refer in their entirety Guarantees for behalf to Mekonomen A/S in Denmark. of subsidiaries – – 57 43 Other sureties 12 1 – – Total 62 22 79 64 NOTE 27 (cont.) No. of Carrying amount, Carrying amount, Name of company/registered office, Sweden Corp. Reg. No. Share of equity, % stores 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 MECA Scandinavia AB/Malmö 556218-3037 100 2,033 2,033 Mekonomen Norden AB/Stockholm 556724-9254 100 0 0 Mekonomen Grossist AB/Stockholm 556062-4875 100 40 40 Mekonomen Detaljist AB/Stockholm 556157-7288 100 5 5 Meko Service Nordic AB/Stockholm 556179-9676 100 1 1 Mekonomen Fleet AB/Stockholm 556720-6031 100 2 2 Speedy Autoservice AB/Malmö 556575-9858 100 31 31 Mekonomen Nya Affärer AB/Stockholm 556821-5981 100 0 0 Mekonomen Services AB/Stockholm 556840-9428 100 0 0 Name of company/registered office, Finland Mekonomen Oy/Helsinki 2259452-4 100 0 0 Name of company/registered office, Denmark Mekonomen A/S/Odense 30 07 81 28 100 3 54 177 Name of company/registered office, Norway Mekonomen AS/Oppegård 980 748 669 100 24 24 Sørensen og Balchen AS/Oslo 916 591 144 100 840 840 Participations in Group companies, total 3,031 3,154 70 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes NOTE 27 (cont.) Indirect participations in Corp. Reg. Share of No. of Cont. subsidiaries No. equity, % stores Indirect participations in Corp. Reg. Share of No. of subsidiaries No. equity, % stores MECA MECA Car Parts AB/Malmö 556169-0412 100 – Mekonomen Farsta AB/Stockholm 556528-4766 100 – MECA Sweden AB/Malmö 556356-5612 100 48 Mekonomen FKV AB/Stockholm 556775-9831 87.5 – MECA Norway AS/Gjøvik 935 682 525 100 24 Mekonomen Flen AB/Flen 556769-8542 100 2 ProMeister Sweden AB/Malmö 556509-7861 100 – Mekonomen Gislaved AB/Gislaved 556261-4676 100 1 72 Mekonomen Globen AB/Stockholm 556794-8905 100 1 Denmark Mekonomen Gränby AB/Uppsala 556821-6062 100 1 Anpartsselskab nr. 5 af 24.05.213/ Mekonomen Gärdet AB/Stockholm 556821-6104 100 1 Odense 34 05 53 86 100 – Mekonomen Gärdet Café AB/ Mekonomen Kolding A/S/Odense 33 49 47 85 100 – Stockholm 556840-9436 100 – Mekonomen OE dele ApS/Padborg 32 88 08 43 51.25 – Mekonomen Gävle AB/Gävle 556353-6803 91 1 Aktieselskab nr. 2 af 24.05.2013/ Mekonomen Hedemora AB/ Odense 33 49 46 45 100 – Hedemora 556308-8011 91 1 Mekonomen Grossist Danmark A/S/ Mekonomen Helsingborg AB/ Odense 33 38 01 27 100 – Helsingborg 556044-4159 75 1 0 Mekonomen Helsingborg Södra AB/ Helsingborg 556613-6007 100 1 Finland – Mekonomen Nordic1) Mekonomen Häggvik AB/Stockholm 556840-9410 100 1 Mekonomen Viiki Oy/Helsinki 2359722-5 100 – Mekonomen Härnösand AB/ Mekonomen Tammisto Oy/Vantaa 2359731-3 100 1 Härnösand 556217-2261 80 1 Mekonomen Renkomäki Oy/Lahti 2429678-2 100 1 Mekonomen Hässleholm AB/ Mekonomen Levänen Oy/Kuopio 2462875-9 100 1 Hässleholm 556678-0622 91 1 Mekonomen Grossist Oy/Vantaa 2445185-0 100 – Mekonomen Högsbo AB/Gothenburg 556887-1999 51 1 3 Mekonomen Infra City AB/Stockholm 556840-4437 100 1 1) All companies in Finland have their registered offices in Helsinki; the place of business Mekonomen Järfälla AB/Stockholm 556660-3196 100 1 is stated above. Mekonomen Jönköping AB/ Jönköping 556237-5500 91 2 Sweden – Mekonomen Nordic1) Mekonomen Kalmar AB/Kalmar 556236-8349 100 1 Mekonomen Alingsås AB/Alingsås 556596-3690 95 1 Mekonomen Karlshamn AB/ Mekonomen Strömstad AB/ Karlshamn 556649-9090 100 1 Strömstad 556775-9849 100 1 Mekonomen Karlskoga AB/Karlskoga 556196-2605 100 – Mekonomen Arvika AB/Arvika 556528-3750 80 5 Mekonomen Karlskrona AB/ Mekonomen B2C AB/Stockholm 556767-7405 100 1 Karlskrona 556649-9082 100 – Mekonomen Backaplan AB/ Mekonomen Karlstad AB/Karlstad 556786-9457 100 1 Gothenburg 556226-1338 91 1 Mekonomen Katrinelund AB/Malmö 556530-7237 100 1 Mekonomen Barkarby AB/Stockholm 556758-7679 100 1 Mekonomen Kramfors AB/Kramfors 556496-1810 91 1 Mekonomen Bilverkstad AB/ Mekonomen Kristianstad AB/ Stockholm 556607-1493 100 – Kristianstad 556171-9203 100 1 Mekonomen Bilverkstad Båstad AB/ Mekonomen Kungsbacka AB/ Båstad 556462-0416 100 – Kungsbacka 556887-2336 51 1 Mekonomen Bilvård AB/Stockholm 556561-6751 100 – Mekonomen Landskrona AB/ Mekonomen Bollnäs AB/Bollnäs 556827-3675 91 1 Landskrona 556646-4813 100 1 Mekonomen Boländerna AB/Uppsala 556767-8916 100 1 Mekonomen Lidköping AB/Lidköping 556761-3012 75 1 Mekonomen Borås City AB/Borås 556078-9447 91 2 Mekonomen Linköping AB/Linköping 556202-9545 91 1 Mekonomen Bromma AB/Stockholm 556230-5101 100 1 Mekonomen Ljungby Odlaren AB/ Mekonomen BV Härlöv AB/Gislaved 556758-7646 100 – Ljungby 556111-9719 100 – Mekonomen Båstad AB/Båstad 556594-1951 100 2 Mekonomen Ljusdal AB/Ljusdal 556786-1066 100 2 Mekonomen Enköping AB/Enköping 556264-2636 91 1 Mekonomen Ludvika AB/Ludvika 556470-4210 91 1 Mekonomen Eskilstuna AB/Eskilstuna 556613-5637 91 1 Mekonomen Luleå AB/Luleå 556338-4071 91 1 Mekonomen Falkenberg AB/ Mekonomen Lund AB/Lund 556531-0108 91 1 Falkenberg 556213-1622 91 1 Mekonomen Lycksele AB/Lycksele 556687-8095 75 1 Mekonomen Falköping AB/Falköping 556272-1497 100 1 Mekonomen Malmö Fosie AB/Malmö 556493-7018 100 1 Mekonomen Falun AB/Falun 556559-3927 100 2 Mekonomen Mariestad AB/Mariestad 556261-0179 75 1 Mekonomen Mjölby AB/Mjölby 556362-0565 91 1 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 71 Notes NOTE 27 (cont.) Cont. Indirect participations in Corp. Reg. Share of No. of subsidiaries No. equity, % stores Cont. Indirect participations in Corp. Reg. Share of No. of Mekonomen Åkersberga AB/ subsidiaries No. equity, % stores Österåker 556632-9966 100 1 Mekonomen Mora AB/Mora 556363-2487 100 1 Mekonomen Älvsjö AB/Huddinge 556758-7661 100 – Mekonomen Motala AB/Motala 556311-8750 91 1 Mekonomen Örebro AB/Örebro 556344-0717 91 3 Mekonomen Märsta AB/Sigtuna 556596-3674 100 1 Mekonomen Örnsköldsvik AB/ Mekonomen Mölndal AB/Mölndal 556887-2294 51 1 Örnsköldsvik 556465-6287 51 1 Mekonomen Nacka AB/Nacka 556204-0294 100 – Mekonomen Östersund AB/ Östersund 556296-5243 100 2 Mekonomen Norrköping AB/ Norrköping 556376-2797 75 2 Primexxa Strängnäs AB/Stockholm 556422-3872 100 1 Mekonomen Norrtull AB/Stockholm 556821-6088 100 – Marinshopen RM AB/Stockholm 556829-5066 100 2 Mekonomen Norrtälje AB/Stockholm 556178-9719 60 1 Mekonomen Utveckling AB/ Stockholm 556777-4871 100 1 Mekonomen Nyköping AB/Nyköping 556244-0650 75 1 Automotive Web Solutions AB/StockMekonomen Nässjö AB/Nässjö 556187-8637 100 1 holm 556982-0805 100 – Mekonomen Osby AB/Osby 556408-8044 91 1 116 Mekonomen Oskarshamn AB/ 1) Including Marinshopen’s two stores and M by Mekonomen. Oskarshamn 556631-8589 75 1 Mekonomen Partille AB/Gothenburg 556731-1401 91 2 Mekonomen Piteå AB/Piteå 556659-8966 100 1 Mekonomen Ronneby AB/Ronneby 556649-9017 100 1 Norway – Mekonomen Nordic Mekonomen Sala AB/Sala 556882-0905 100 1 Mekonomen Arendal AS/Arendal 982 434 696 100 1 Mekonomen Sandviken AB/Sandviken 556201-1295 91 1 Motor Norge AS/Alta 945 481 668 51 1 Mekonomen Segeltorp AB/Huddinge 556580-2351 100 1 Mekonomen Askim AS/Askim 974 209 772 100 1 Mekonomen Skellefteå AB/Skellefteå 556389-4095 91 1 Mekonomen Bjørkelangen AS/ Mekonomen Skåne Ystad AB/Ystad 556565-3085 100 – Bjørkelangen 989 903 551 100 1 Mekonomen Sollefteå AB/Sollefteå 556216-9424 80 1 Mekonomen Bodø AS/Bodø 986 489 576 100 1 Mekonomen Solna AB/Stockholm 556213-3073 100 1 Mekonomen Drammen AS/Drammen 924 843 543 100 1 Mekonomen Sundsvall Birsta AB/ Mekonomen Elverum AS/Elverum 993 562 629 100 1 Sundsvall 556201-1675 91 1 Mekonomen Grenland AS/Porsgrund 984 690 703 100 1 Mekonomen Sundsvall Nacksta AB/ Mekonomen Hadeland AS/Hadeland 996 446 956 100 1 Sundsvall 556777-4863 91 1 Mekonomen Hamar AS/Hamar 984 006 047 100 1 Mekonomen Söderhamn AB/ Söderhamn 556509-4132 100 1 Mekonomen Harstad AS/Harstad 982 952 379 100 1 Mekonomen Södertälje AB/Södertälje 556405-5498 91 1 Mekonomen Haugesund AS/ Haugesund 983 509 622 100 1 Mekonomen Sölvesborg AB/ Sölvesborg 556216-4250 75 1 Mekonomen Horten AS/Horten 990 815 798 100 1 Mekonomen Torslanda AB/Gothenburg 556583-3893 91 1 Mekonomen Jessheim AS/Jessheim 987 696 109 100 1 Mekonomen Tranås AB/Tranås 556770-0041 100 1 Mekonomen Kongsberg AS/ Mekonomen Trollhättan AB/Trollhättan 556515-0298 91 1 Kongsberg 937 161 786 75 1 Mekonomen Täby AB/Täby 556632-9958 100 1 Mekonomen Kongsvinger AS/ Kongsvinger 992 102 217 100 1 Mekonomen Uddevalla AB/Uddevalla 556550-5004 100 1 Mekonomen Larvik AS/Larvik 981 929 276 100 1 Mekonomen Umeå AB/Umeå 556483-3084 81,8 1 Mekonomen Lillestrøm AS/Lillestrøm 993 561 428 100 1 Mekonomen Uppsala AB/Uppsala 556092-4218 100 2 Mekonomen Molde AS/Molde 985 793 417 100 1 Valdemarsvik Butiksbolag AB/ Valdemarsvik 556963-4966 100 1 Mekonomen Moss AS/Moss 939 161 260 100 1 Mekonomen Varberg AB/Varberg 556261-0161 75 1 Mekonomen Oslo AS/Oslo 938 215 103 100 1 Mekonomen Verkstadscenter Luleå AB/ Mekonomen Sandefjord AS/ Luleå 556770-0033 100 – Sandefjord 990 815 844 91 1 Mekonomen Vetlanda AB/Vetlanda 556653-4219 91 1 Mekonomen Sandvika AS/Sandvika 982 707 862 100 1 Mekonomen Vimmerby AB/Vimmerby 556232-5877 100 1 Mekonomen Sarpsborg AS/ Mekonomen Vänersborg AB/ Sarpsborg 910 155 520 100 2 Vänersborg 556770-0058 91 1 Mekonomen Ski AS/Ski 983 098 525 91 1 Mekonomen Värnamo Norra AB/Värnamo 556530-9266 75 1 Mekonomen Stavanger AS/Stavanger 983 935 214 100 1 Mekonomen Verkstadscenter Älvsjö AB/ Mekonomen Steinkjer AS/Steinkjer 984 318 677 100 1 Stockholm 556192-0314 91 1 Mekonomen Sørlandsparken AS/ Mekonomen Västerås AB/Västerås 556344-5492 75 2 Kristiansand 981 508 939 91 1 Mekonomen Växjö AB/Växjö 556192-0439 60 2 Mekonomen Tromsø AS/Tromsø 942 591 322 100 1 72 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes NOTE 27 (cont.) Cont. Indirect participations in Corp. Reg. Share of No. of subsidiaries No. equity, % stores Cont. Indirect participations in Corp. Reg. Share of No. of Mekonomen BilLivet Högsbo AB/ subsidiaries No. equity, % stores Gothenburg 556909-4906 91 – Mekonomen BilLivet Södertälje AB/ Mekonomen Trondheim AS/ Stockholm 556882-0939 100 – Trondheim 979 462 026 100 2 Mekonomen BilLivet Täby AB/ Mekonomen Tønsberg AS/Tønsberg 934 256 867 75 1 Stockholm 556882-0962 91 – Mekonomen Fleet AS/Oppegård 895 917 052 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Backaplan AB/ Lasingoo Norge AS/Oslo 914 835 585 100 – Gothenburg 556756-1146 91 – 33 Mekonomen BilLivet Gärdet AB/ Stockholm 556821-6047 100 – Promotor Åkersberga AB/Åkersberga 556819-5019 91 – Norway – Sørensen og Balchen Speedy Bilservice Östermalm AB/ Rønneberg Autoindustri AS/Ålesund 981 015 150 100 5 Stockholm 556953-2434 91 – BilXtra Kristiansund AS/Kristiansund 999 255 876 91 1 Meko Service Hemmesta AB/ Bilvarehusene Nor AS/Skårer 880 553 852 100 9 Stockholm 556428-1102 100 – BilXtra AS/Moss 983 032 133 100 4 Meko Service Susannes Bilverkstad i Härlöv AB/Stockholm 556964-0641 60 – BilXtra Kristiansand AS/Kristiansand 979 438 761 100 1 Meko Service Tyresö AB/Stockholm 556961-2319 60 – Bilutstyr Arendal AS/Arendal 961 171 067 100 1 0 Østfold Bilutstyr AS/Sarpsborg 987 586 788 100 1 Hong Kong Telemark Bilutstyr AS/Skien 986 980 415 100 1 ProMeister Global Limited/Hong Kong 1988735 100 – Rogaland Rekvisita AS/Stavanger 936 043 119 100 2 0 Jahre Motor Hamar AS/Hamar 935 614 031 91 1 Askim Bilrekvisita AS/Askim 885 049 702 100 1 Total number of stores 261 Steglet Bilutstyr AS/Kongsberg 988 210 196 100 1 Jøntvedt Bilutstyr AS/Tønsberg 887 813 752 100 1 Including the Parent Company, Mekonomen Group comprises a total of 213 Oppland Bilutstyr AS/Gjøvik 987 600 659 100 1 companies, 261 proprietary stores and 28 proprietary workshops. Currently, Høistad Bildeler AS/Lillehammer 981 015 142 100 1 90 wholly-owned companies run 188 stores and 61 partly-owned companies run 73 stores. Furthermore, 11 wholly-owned companies and 11 partly-owned Vest Bilutstyr AS/Bergen 980 281 450 100 2 companies run 28 workshops. Autoproducts AS/Trondheim 995 080 125 50 1 The Group has no subsidiary with non-controlling interests that is of individual DINDEL NORWAY AS/Bærum 913 284 607 75 – significance to Mekonomen Group. BilXtra Autogården Kongsberg AS/ Kongsberg 914 746 345 80 – 34 NOTE 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method Sweden – Meko Service Nordic The amounts recognised in the balance sheet comprise the following: Mekonomen BilLivet AB/Stockholm 556845-2196 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Akalla AB/ Stockholm 556882-0772 100 – Group Mekonomen BilLivet Bromma AB/ 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Stockholm 556864-3455 100 – Associated companies 2 – Mekonomen BilLivet Gävle AB/Gävle 556864-3448 100 – Joint ventures 1 – Mekonomen BilLivet Haninge AB/ Total 3 – Stockholm 556882-0947 91 – Mekonomen BilLivet Infra City AB/ Stockholm 556864-3471 100 – The amounts recognised in profit or loss comprise the following: Mekonomen BilLivet Johanneshov AB/Stockholm 556882-0780 100 – Group Mekonomen BilLivet Katrinelund AB/ Malmö 556882-0954 91 – 2014 2013 Mekonomen BilLivet Sisjön AB/ Associated companies 0 – Gothenburg 556863-9909 91 – Joint ventures 0 – Total 0 – Holdings in joint ventures and associated companies are recognised in accordance with the equity method. The Group has only one small associated company and a small joint venture with a marginal impact on the Group. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 73 Notes NOTE 29 Shareholders’ equity Dividend to Parent Company’s shareholders The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 per share (7.00), leading to a total dividend of SEK 251,310,409 (251,310,409). A specification of changes to shareholders’ equity can be found in the statement of changes in consolidated and Parent Company’s shareholders’ equity (see pages 45 and 50, respectively). NOTE 30 Capital Share capital At the end of the financial year, share capital amounted to SEK 89,754 (89,754) Mekonomen manages its capital to ensure that the units in the Group are able thousand and comprised 35,901,487 shares (35,901,487) at a quotient value of to continue operating, while dividends to shareholders are maximised through a SEK 2.50 per share (2.50). sound balance between liabilities and shareholders’ equity. The Group’s capital There were no outstanding shareholders’ equity instruments that could result comprises shareholders’ equity, as well as short and long-term borrowing. The in a dilution of the share capital as per 31 December 2014 and 31 December proportions of shareholders’ equity and changes during the year are described 2013. in the changes in consolidated shareholders’ equity on page 45 and Note 29 Shareholders’ equity. Other capital contributions At least once per year, the Board reviews the capital structure and takes this Other capital contributions included contributions the company received from into account when making decisions on, for example, dividends or raising new shareholders and which are not recognised as share capital. loans. The long-term equity/assets ratio is to be not less than 40 per cent. Other capital contributions Opening balance on 1 January 2013 1,456 Closing balance on 31 December 2013 1,456 NOTE 31 Adjustments for items not Opening balance on 1 January 2014 1,456 affecting liquidity Closing balance on 31 December 2014 1,456 Group Parent Company Reserves The item consists of translation differences attributable to the translation of 2014 2013 2014 2013 foreign subsidiaries in accordance with IAS 21 and cash-flow hedges as shown Depreciation/Amortisation 188 193 0 0 in the table below: Impairment of intangible fixed assets 39 43 – – Reserves Translation differences Hedges Total Impairment of tangible fixed Opening balance on 1 January 2013 4 – 4 assets 25 4 – – Exchange-rate differences on translation Impairment of financial fixed of foreign subsidiaries -128 – -128 assets 12 – 486 – Cash-flow hedges – -1 -1 Impairment of inventories 75 – – – Closing balance on 31 December 2013 -124 -1 -125 Impairment of accounts Opening balance on 1 January 2014 -124 -1 -125 receivable 12 – – – Exchange-rate differences on translation Provision for discontinuation of foreign subsidiaries -20 – -20 costs 116 – – – Cash-flow hedges – 0 0 Capital gain/loss from divestClosing balance on 31 December 2014 -144 -1 -145 ment of fixed assets -3 -3 – – Other items not affecting Profit brought forward liquidity -1 -2 -1 0 The profit brought forward item corresponds to the accumulated profits and losses generated in total in the Group. 461 235 485 0 Profit brought forward Opening balance on 1 January 2013 753 Comprehensive income for the year: NOTE 32 Effects of acquisitions implemented – Profit for the year 307 Actuarial gains and losses 5 Acquisitions in 2014 Comprehensive income for the year 312 Mekonomen Nordic in Sweden acquired a store and share in a workshop in Dividends -251 Valdemarsvik, a store in Torsby, a partner store in Löddeköpinge, a partner store Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling in Strömstad, a partner store in Ängelholm and the establishment of a store interests -7 in Töcksfors. In Norway, a partner store was acquired in Larvik. Mekonomen Closing balance on 31 December 2013 807 Nordic acquired non-controlling interests in seven Swedish stores for a minor amount during the year. Opening balance on 1 January 2014 807 Sørensen og Balchen acquired one company in Østerås, Norway. Comprehensive income for the year: In Sweden, MECA acquired stores in Mora and Leksand, Vällingby in Stock– Profit for the year 120 holm and a partner store in Hässleholm. Actuarial gains and losses -7 Meko Service Nordic acquired three workshops in Sweden. Comprehensive income for the year 113 The impact of these acquisitions on consolidated sales and earnings was marginal. Information on corporate acquisitions is provided in aggregate form Dividends -251 since each individual acquisition is not deemed to be of such a size as to warAcquisition/divestment of non-controlling rant separate recognition. All acquisitions were paid in cash. interests -4 Closing balance on 31 December 2014 665 74 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes Acquisitions in 2013 NOTE 32 (cont.) A purchasing company was established in Hong Kong during the fourth quarter of 2013. Mekonomen Nordic acquired and divested non-controlling interests Acquisitions in 2014 Total acquisitions in stores and workshops at a small value. Earlier in the year, MECA acquired a partner store in Haninge, Stockholm and a store in Gothenburg. In SweValue of acquired assets and liabilities den, Mekonomen Nordic acquired the minority shares in four stores and the Tangible fixed assets 3 remaining non-controlling interests in Meko Fleet System AB. Furthermore, the Inventories 17 stores in Karlskrona and Ystad changed from proprietary to partner stores, the Current receivables 0 stores in Högsbo and Sisjön merged to form a single store and a new store was established in Båstad. The impact of these acquisitions on consolidated sales Cash and cash equivalents 2 and earnings was marginal. Long-term liabilities 0 Information on corporate acquisitions is provided in aggregate form since Current liabilities -8 each individual acquisition is not deemed to be of such a size as to warrant Acquired net assets 14 separate recognition. All other acquisitions were paid in cash. Brands 4 Customer relations 13 IT systems 1 Acquisitions in 2013 Total acquisitions Goodwill 35 Value of acquired assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets -1 Tangible fixed assets 0 Acquired non-controlling interests, surplus value recognised against shareholders’ equity 6 Inventories 3 Total identifiable net assets Current receivables 1 and goodwill 71 Cash and cash equivalents 0 Total purchase price 71 Long-term liabilities 0 – of which, cash portion 71 Current liabilities 0 Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired companies 2 Acquired net assets 4 Impact on Group’s cash and cash equivalents 69 Customer relations 2 Goodwill 4 In Sweden, 0 (2) store and workshop managers became partners in their store/ workshop companies. Their shareholdings amounted to 9 per cent per company. Deferred tax assets 0 The total purchase consideration for these participations amounted to SEK 0 M (0). Acquired non-controlling interests, surplus value recognised against shareholders’ equity 8 Participating Total identifiable net assets interest and and goodwill 19 Acquired subsidiaries/ Date of share of operations 2014 Country acquisition voting rights Object Total purchase price 19 DINDEL NORWAY AS/ – of which, cash portion 19 Bærum – Sørensen og Assets and Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired companies 0 Balchen Norway Quarter 1 75 liabilities Impact on Group’s cash and cash equivalents 19 Workshop, Tyresö – Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 60 Company In Sweden, 2 (15) store and workshop managers became partners in their Partner store, store/workshop companies. Their shareholdings amounted to 9 per cent per Löddeköpinge – Assets and company. The total purchase consideration for these shareholdings amounted Mekonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities to SEK 0 M (3.5). Store, Torsby – Assets and Mekonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Assets and Store, Mora – MECA Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Participating Assets and interest and Store, Leksand – MECA Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Acquired subsidiaries/ Date of share of Assets and operations 2013 Country acquisition voting rights Object Store, Vällingby – MECA Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Workshop, Härlöv – Assets and Partner store, Assets and Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 2 60 liabilities Stockholm – MECA Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities Workshop, Hemmesta – Assets and Partner store, Assets and Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Gothenburg – MECA Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Partner store, Assets and Hässleholm – MECA Sweden Quarter 3 100 liabilities Partner store, Larvik – Assets and Mekonomen Nordic Norway Quarter 3 100 liabilities Partner store, Strömstad Assets and – Mekonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 3 100 liabilities Partner store, Ängelholm Assets and – Mekonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities Store, Valdemarsvik – Mekonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 4 100 Company Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 75 Notes NOTE 33 Information concerning revenue and NOTE 38 Financial risks expenses between Group companies Through its operations, Mekonomen Group is exposed to currency, credit, interest-rate and liquidity risks. The management of these risks is regulated in During the year, the Parent Company Mekonomen AB sold products and seraccordance with the finance policy adopted by the Board. Credit risk relating vices to Group companies totalling SEK 42 M (45). Purchases relating to goods to customer commitments is managed, according to central frameworks, and services from Group companies amounted to SEK 54 M (54). decentralised locally. Other risks are mainly managed centrally by the Group’s Treasury unit. NOTE 34 Transactions with related parties Currency risk Currency risks occur when currency fluctuations have a negative impact on In 2014, Mekonomen Group acquired goods and services worth SEK 3 M (0) the Group’s earnings and shareholders’ equity. Currency exposure arises in and supplied goods and services worth SEK 0 M (1) to the Axel Johnson comconnection with cash flows in foreign currencies (transaction exposure), as well panies. Agreements on goods and services with related parties are made on as in translation of loans/receivables in foreign currencies and in the translation market-based terms. There were no receivables from or liabilities to related parof foreign subsidiaries’ balance sheets and income statements into SEK (transties as at the balance-sheet date. No other transactions with related parties took lation exposure). place. For information on remuneration of senior executives, refer to Note 5. In 2014, currency fluctuations had a positive impact on the Group’s profit before tax totalling SEK 3 M (neg: 13). The most important currency in terms of transaction exposure is EUR, which represents 33 per cent (31) of goods purchases in the Group, as well as NOK pertaining to internal sales from wholesale NOTE 35 Purpose and structure companies in Mekonomen Nordic and MECA to Norway. NOK and DKK are the most important currencies in terms of translation exposure. Translation exposure of pro forma accounts to DKK will reduce during 2015 due to restructuring in Denmark. The management of currency risks is regulated in the finance policy with a hedging period of The decision to make structural changes in Denmark was made in December between 0 and 3 months. 2014. The operations in Denmark are included in Mekonomen Group’s earnings With regard to foreign shareholders’ equity, the principal rule is that Mefor 2014 and in the comparative year 2013. konomen Group does not hedge this exposure. However, if major foreign The pro forma accounts were prepared based on the accounting policies investments are made that require separate financing, a decision may be made applied by Mekonomen AB (publ). The income statement “Pro forma excluding to recognise all or part of the financing in the acquisition currency. Denmark” on page 29 in the Administration Report shows an income statement For more detailed information on currency exposure, refer also to the sensitiviat EBIT level for Mekonomen Group in which all revenue and expenses for ty analysis section in the Administration Report. MECA Denmark were removed row by row in the income statement. The pro forma accounts were prepared only with the purpose of informing, Credit risk highlighting facts and hypothetically reporting how Mekonomen Group’s income The Group’s financial transactions give rise to credit risks in relation to financial statement, excluding Denmark, would have appeared for 2014 with comparative counterparties. Credit risks or counterparty risks refer to the risk of loss if the figures for 2013. The pro forma accounts are intended to describe a hypotheticounterparty does not fulfil its commitments. Mekonomen Group’s credit risks cal situation and were only prepared for the illustrative purpose of informing and primarily comprise accounts receivable, which are distributed over a large numhighlighting facts. The pro forma accounts are not intended to show the Group’s ber of counterparties and a small portion of long-term hire-purchase contracts. earnings for a future period. For each new customer, or in the event an existing customer wants to increase the credit limit, a credit rating is conducted according to the Group’s established policies. The maximum credit risk corresponds to the carrying amount of finanNOTE 36 Events after year-end cial assets. Specifications of impairment of accounts receivable for the year and long-term hire-purchase contracts are found in Notes 17 and 19. A decision was made on changes to Group Management after the end of the Interest-rate risk financial year. As of 12 February 2015, Group Management comprises the Interest-rate risks refer to the risk that changes in market interest rates will have following individuals: a negative impact on the Group’s net interest expense. The rate at which interest Håkan Lundstedt, President and CEO of Mekonomen AB rate changes affect the net interest expense depends on the period of fixed Marcus Larsson, Executive Vice President, Mekonomen AB interest for the loan. According to the finance policy, the fixed-interest period is Morten Birkeland, CEO, Sørensen og Balchen normally to be 12 months, with an exception mandate of +6/-9 months. Per Hedblom, CFO, Mekonomen AB. As per 31 December 2014, Mekonomen’s net debt is SEK 1,629 (1,642). A Magnus Johansson, CEO, Mekonomen Nordic fixed-interest period is available with a term of less than one year. See also the Pehr Oscarson, CEO, MECA table in the Sensitivity analysis section on page 31. Gunilla Spongh, International Business Director, Mekonomen AB. As announced in a press release on 17 March 2015, Mekonomen’s President and CEO Håkan Lundstedt has informed the Board of Directors of Mekonomen that he intends to leave his position. He will remain in his current role during his period of notice. The process to find a new President and CEO for Mekonomen will commence immediately and will be led by the Chairman of Mekonomen, Fredrik Persson. No other significant events occurred after the end of the financial year. NOTE 37 Approval of the Annual Report The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board for publication on 24 March 2015. The consolidated income statement, statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet and the Parent Company’s income statement, statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet will be subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting on 14 April 2015. 76 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Notes Financing and liquidity risks Mekonomen Group’s external loans without backup facilities Financing risk is seen as the risk of the cost being higher and financing opporas per 31 December 2014. tunities limited when loans are renewed and payment obligations cannot be met MSEK as a result of insufficient liquidity or difficulties in securing financing. According to 600 the finance policy, refinancing risks are to be managed by signing long-term and flexible credit agreements. 500 As per 31 December 2014, the Group’s total loan financing amounted to SEK 1,887 M (1,921), of which the long-term portion is SEK 1,396 M (1,658). 400 See the maturity structure excluding amortisation in the graph below. Total amortisation of the loans is SEK 136 M per year. In addition, the Group 300 has overdraft facilities totalling SEK 606 M (387). The Group’s cash and cash equivalents are invested short term and any excess liquidity is to primarily be 200 used for amortising loans. According to the finance policy, investments may be made in SEK, NOK, EUR and DKK. Investments may be made with or in secu100 rities issued by the Swedish Government or Swedish and foreign banks with at least an A rating, according to the definition of Standard & Poor’s (S&P). 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Fair value No financial assets or liabilities were recognised at a value that significantly Maturity structure excluding amortisation. deviated from fair value. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 77 Signatures The Board of Directors and President hereby certify that the Annual Report was prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 and provides a true and fair view of the company’s financial position and earnings and that the Administration Report provides a true and fair view of the performance of the company’s operations, position and earnings and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the company. The Board of Directors and President hereby certify that the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as approved by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and earnings and that the Administration Report for the Group provides a true and fair view of the performance of the Group’s operations, position and earnings and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the companies included in the Group. Stockholm, 18 March 2015 Fredrik Persson Marcus Storch Caroline Berg Chairman of the Board Executive Vice Chairman Board member Kenneth Bengtsson Kenny Bräck Helena Skåntorp Board member Board member Board member Christer Åberg Håkan Lundstedt Board member President and CEO Our Auditors’ Report was submitted on 23 March 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Lennart Danielsson Authorised Public Accountant 78 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Mekonomen AB, We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt the corporate identity number 556392-1971 income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Other matters We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of MeThe audit of the annual accounts for 2014 was performed by another auditor konomen AB for the year 2014 except for the corporate governance statement who submitted an auditor´s report dated March 14th 2014, with unmodified on pages 34–41. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the comopinions in the Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. pany are included in the printed version of this document on pages 28–78. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts have also audited the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the and the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts in accordance with Mekonomen AB for the year 2014. We have also conducted a statutory examithe Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated accounts in accordance with nation of the corporate governance statement. International Financial Reporting Standards , as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director the Managing Director determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annuThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the al accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Managing Director whether due to fraud or error. are responsible for administration under the Companies Act and that the corporate governance statement has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Auditor’s responsibility Accounts Act. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance Auditor’s responsibility with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethical proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the administrarequirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance tion based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are free from accepted auditing standards in Sweden. material misstatement. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the of the company’s profit or loss, we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. The statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assesswhether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. ment of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and consoliAs a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition to dated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we examined the auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company in order fair presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order to to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the Director is liable to the company. We also examined whether any member of purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal the Board of Directors or the Managing Director has, in any other way, acted in control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policontravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of cies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Association. Directors and the Managing Director, as well as evaluating the overall presentation We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and approof the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. priate to provide a basis for our opinions. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and approFurthermore, we have read the corporate governance statement and based priate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. on that reading and our knowledge of the company and the group we believe that we have a sufficient basis for our opinions. This means that our statutory Opinions examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standthe Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial ards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. position of the parent company as of 31 December 2014 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Opinions the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit be approaccordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material repriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report spects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2014 and of their and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance discharged from liability for the financial year. with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and A corporate governance statement has been prepared, and its statutory conthe Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance tent is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated statement on pages 34–41. The statutory administration report is consistent with accounts. the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Stockholm March 23rd 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Lennart Danielsson Authorised Public Accountant Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 79 Five-year summary Five-year summary SEK M Income statement 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Net sales 5,789 5,740 5,292 4,140 3,374 Other revenue 135 123 134 97 73 Goods for resale -2,706 -2,632 -2,475 -1,866 -1,607 Other operating expenses -2,791 -2,605 -2,349 -1,810 -1,350 Earnings before depreciation and impairments of intangible fixed assets, EBITA 427 626 602 560 490 Amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets -152 -157 -74 -25 -5 Operating profit, EBIT 274 469 528 536 485 Net financial items -24 -39 -54 -13 0 Profit after financial items 250 429 474 523 485 Tax on profit for the year -123 -114 -92 -143 -134 Profit for the year 127 315 382 380 351 Balance sheet 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Assets Intangible fixed assets 2,813 2,881 3,086 1,116 348 Other fixed assets 321 347 381 302 207 Inventories 1,223 1,213 1,203 934 680 Accounts receivable 450 439 495 411 287 Other current assets 319 285 302 225 162 Cash and cash equivalents 258 279 241 67 74 Total assets 5,384 5,444 5,708 3,054 1,758 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity, Parent Company's shareholders 2,066 2,228 2,303 1,539 955 Non-controlling interest 14 12 13 17 19 Long-term liabilities 1,575 1,872 2,059 511 24 Current liabilities 1,728 1,332 1,333 988 760 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 5,384 5,444 5,708 3,054 1,758 Condensed cash-flow statement 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Cash flow from operating activities 413 557 518 259 358 Cash flow from investing activities -121 -54 -1,510 -512 -184 Cash flow from financing activities -309 -442 1,165 246 -160 Cash flow for the year -17 61 173 -7 14 Data per share 1) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Amounts in SEK per share unless otherwise stated Profit 3.34 8.56 10.80 11.39 10.95 Cash flow 11.51 15.51 14.93 7.98 11.60 Shareholders’ equity 57.5 62.1 64.2 46.9 30.9 Dividends2) 7 7 7 8 8 Share of profit paid, % 210 82 65 69 73 Share price at year-end 204 198 206.5 225 223 Share price, highest for the year 207 233 246 257.5 228 Share price, lowest for the year 139 189 180 157 131 Direct yield, % 3.4 3.5 3.4 3.6 3.6 P/E ratio at year-end, multiple 61.1 23.1 19.1 19.8 20.4 Average number of shares after dilution effects3) 35,901,487 35,901,487 34,692,458 32,436,258 30,868,822 Number of shares at end of period 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 32,814,605 30,868,822 Number of shareholders at year-end 9,664 8,355 8,138 7,735 8,024 1) For information on financial definitions, refer to page 84. 2) The Board’s proposal for 2014. 3) No dilution is applicable. 80 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Five-year summary Key figures1) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Sales growth, % 1 8 28 23 8 Gross margin, % 53 54 53 55 52 EBITA margin, % 7 11 11 14 15 EBIT margin, % 5 8 10 13 14 Profit margin, % 4 7 9 12 14 Capital employed, SEK M 3,980 4,176 4,432 2,203 1,060 Operating capital, SEK M 3,722 3,898 4,191 2,136 986 Return on capital employed, % 7 11 15 29 49 Return on operating capital, % 7 12 17 34 52 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 5 14 19 27 37 Return on total capital, % 5 9 11 20 30 Equity/assets ratio, % 39 41 41 51 55 Net debt/equity ratio, multiple 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.4 0 Interest-coverage ratio, multiple 7 9 10 26 151 Net debt, SEK M2) 1,629 1,642 1,849 580 12 Average number of employees Sweden 1,335 1,342 1,287 1,076 850 Norway 772 775 690 475 251 Denmark 373 397 404 392 358 Other countries 24 21 24 15 3 Group 2,504 2,535 2,405 1,958 1,462 Number of stores/of which proprietary Mekonomen Sweden 137/113 137/109 143/115 144/114 141/111 Mekonomen Norway 46/33 47/32 51/35 53/36 47/32 Mekonomen Finland 6/3 6/3 7/4 3/3 2/2 Mekonomen Iceland 1/0 1/0 1/0 1/0 – Marinshopen 2/2 2/2 2/2 1/1 – Total Mekonomen Nordic 192/151 193/146 204/156 202/154 190/145 Sørensen og Balchen – Norway 71/34 74/34 78/36 77/35 – MECA Sweden 63/48 61/44 64/43 – – MECA Norway 24/24 25/24 25/24 – – MECA Denmark3) 4/3 45/40 49/41 54/40 40/37 Total MECA 91/75 131/108 138/108 54/40 40/37 M by Mekonomen 1/1 1/1 1/1 1/1 1/1 Group 355/261 399/289 421/301 334/230 231/183 Number of Mekonomen Service Centres Sweden4) 485 489 484 438 426 Norway 378 384 387 380 352 Denmark 195 212 219 215 195 Finland 17 12 4 3 2 Group 1,075 1,097 1,094 1,036 975 Number of MekoPartner Workshops Sweden 129 116 137 128 128 Norway 73 72 73 78 63 Denmark 153 190 216 214 172 Group 355 378 426 420 363 Number of BilXtra workshops Norway 232 243 225 219 – Group 232 243 225 219 – Number of Speedy workshops Sweden 14 12 11 11 11 Group 14 12 11 11 11 Number of MECA Car Service workshops Sweden 377 344 334 – – Norway 251 226 212 – – Group 628 570 546 – – Total number of affiliated workshops in the Group 2,304 2,300 2,302 1,686 1,349 1) For information on financial definitions, refer to page 84. 2) Net debt was calculated according to a new definition, from the first quarter of 2014, as interest-bearing liabilities for borrowing less cash and cash equivalents. Comparative figures have been recalculated for earlier periods. 3) Partner store on 31 December 2014 pertains to the Faroe Islands. 4) Includes 17 (14) proprietary workshops in Meko Service Nordic. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 81 Quarterly overview Quarterly overview 2014 2013 SEK M Full-year Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Full-year Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Net sales1) MECA 2,205 539 540 564 562 2,211 535 529 593 554 Mekonomen Nordic2) 2,692 685 671 700 634 2,656 673 645 728 609 Sørensen og Balchen 712 176 176 188 171 701 159 174 195 174 Other3) 180 50 45 47 39 172 45 42 48 38 Group 5,789 1,451 1,432 1,499 1,406 5,740 1,412 1,390 1,564 1,375 EBITA MECA -68 -203 60 51 24 156 20 47 51 38 Mekonomen Nordic2) 422 97 121 108 95 390 80 107 119 83 Sørensen og Balchen 109 22 29 34 24 99 24 27 30 19 Other3) -36 -8 -10 -9 -10 -19 0 -3 -5 -11 Group 427 -91 200 184 133 626 124 178 195 129 EBIT MECA -182 -261 41 32 5 84 1 29 33 21 Mekonomen Nordic2) 401 93 117 104 88 323 31 101 112 79 Sørensen og Balchen 92 18 25 29 20 81 19 22 25 15 Other3) -36 -8 -10 -8 -10 -19 0 -3 -4 -12 Group 274 -158 172 157 103 469 52 149 166 103 Investments4) MECA 25 5 7 9 4 30 9 4 12 5 Mekonomen Nordic2) 44 20 6 11 7 28 3 4 12 9 Sørensen og Balchen 4 1 0 1 1 2 0 – 1 1 Other3) 2 0 1 0 1 3 1 – 2 0 Group 75 27 15 21 13 63 13 8 27 15 EBITA margin, % MECA -3 -37 11 9 4 7 4 9 9 7 Mekonomen Nordic 2) 15 14 17 15 14 14 12 17 16 14 Sørensen og Balchen 15 12 16 18 14 14 15 15 15 11 Group 7 -6 14 12 9 11 9 13 12 9 EBIT margin, % MECA -8 -48 7 6 1 4 0 6 6 4 Mekonomen Nordic2) 14 13 17 14 13 12 5 15 15 13 Sørensen og Balchen 13 10 14 15 11 11 12 13 13 8 Group 5 -11 12 10 7 8 4 10 10 7 Quarterly data, Group5) Total revenue 5,924 1,481 1,467 1,534 1,441 5,863 1,450 1,417 1,591 1,405 EBITA 427 -91 200 184 133 626 124 178 195 129 EBIT 274 -158 172 157 103 469 52 149 166 103 Net financial items -24 -4 -13 -3 -4 -39 -2 -16 -5 -16 Profit after financial items 250 -162 159 154 99 429 49 133 160 87 Tax -123 -7 -41 -44 -31 -114 -19 -34 -40 -22 Profit/loss for the period 127 -169 118 110 68 315 31 99 120 65 Gross margin, % 53 49 55 55 54 55 54 55 53 54 EBITA margin, % 7 -6 14 12 9 11 9 13 12 9 EBIT margin, % 5 -11 12 10 7 8 4 10 10 7 Earnings per share, SEK 3.34 -4.68 3.20 2.99 1.83 8.56 0.88 2.67 3.24 1.77 Shareholders’ equity per share, SEK 57.5 57.5 65.0 60.9 64.6 62.1 62.1 61.4 60.4 64.0 Cash flow per share, SEK 11.5 5.0 3.2 5.4 -2.0 15.5 4.8 3.0 7.3 0.4 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 5.4 5.4 14.2 13.5 13.8 13.7 13.7 17.8 17.6 17.3 1) Net sales for each segment are from external customers. 2) The Mekonomen Nordic segment includes Mekonomen Sweden, Mekonomen Norway, Mekonomen Fleet, Marinshopen, Mekonomen Finland, Mekonomen Services and Mekonomen Norden AB. From 2014, Mekonomen BilLivet and Speedy are included in Meko Service Nordic in “Other,” comparative figures have been recalculated. 3) “Other” comprises the Parent Company Mekonomen AB (publ), M by Mekonomen, the purchasing company in Hong Kong, Meko Service Nordic, as well as Group-wide functions and eliminations. Mekonomen AB’s operations mainly comprise Group Management and finance management. On 1 January, 2014, Meko Service Nordic was formed within “Other” and took over management of BilLivet and Speedy operations from Mekonomen Nordic. The comparative figures have been recalculated between “Other” and the Mekonomen Nordic segment. 4) Investments do not include company and business combinations. 5) For information on financial definitions, refer to page 84. 82 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 Information to shareholders Information to shareholders Annual General Meeting Printed Annual Report The shareholders of Mekonomen Aktiebolag (publ), Corporate Printed Annual Reports will be distributed approximately one week be­Registration Number 556392-1971, are hereby invited to attend the fore the Annual General Meeting only to shareholders requesting them. Annual General Meeting on Tuesday, 14 April 2015 at 3:00 p.m. at Courtyard by Marriott, Rålambshovsleden 50, Stockholm, Sweden. Registration for the Annual General Meeting will open at 2:00 p.m. Financial calendar 2015-2016 Information Period Date Registration Interim report January–March 2015 13 May 2015 Shareholders wishing to participate the Annual General Meeting must: • be registered in the shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Interim report January–June 2015 26 August 2015 Sweden AB not later than Wednesday, 8 April 2015. Interim report January–September 2015 11 November 2015 • notify the company of their intention to attend the meeting no later Year-end report January–December 2015 17 February 2016 than by 4:00 p.m. on Wednesday, 8 April 2015. Notification may be given via the company’s website www.mekonomen.com. Notification may also be made in writing Investor relations contacts Håkan Lundstedt to Årsstämma i Mekonomen Aktiebolag, c/o Euroclear Sweden President and CEO AB, PO Box 7842, SE-103 98 Stockholm, Sweden or by phone Mekonomen AB + 46 8 402 90 47 between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on weekdays. Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 E-mail: hakan.lundstedt@mekonomen.se Notification must include the shareholder’s name and personal identity number or company name and company registration number, Per Hedblom address, telephone number and the number of any assistants acCFO companying the shareholder to the Meeting (maximum of two). Mekonomen AB Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 Nominee-registered shares E-mail: per.hedblom@mekonomen.se In addition to notifying their attendance, shareholders who have nominee-registered shares through a bank or other nominee must Gunilla Spongh temporarily re-register the shares in their own name in the share­ International Business Director holders’ register by Wednesday, 8 April 2015 in order to be entitled to Mekonomen AB participate in the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders should notify Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 their nominees of this well in advance of this date. E-mail: gunilla.spongh@mekonomen.se Proxies Shareholders who are represented by proxy must issue a written and dated power of attorney for their proxy. If the power of attorney is issued by a legal entity, copies of authorization documents (certificate Analysts of registration or similar) must be enclosed. To facilitate registration The analysts below continuously monitor Mekonomen. Please at the Annual General Meeting, the power of attorney, in original, and note that these analysts’ estimates, forecasts or other opinions any authorization documents should be sent by post well in advance do not represent Mekonomen or its company management. of the Annual General Meeting to the following address: Årsstämma i Mekonomen Aktiebolag, c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, PO Box 7842, SE-103 98 Stockholm, Sweden. Proxy forms are available for downName Company loading from company’s website: www.mekonomen.com. Andreas Lundberg ABG Sundal Collier Niklas Ekman Carnegie Dividends Bile Daar Danske Bank The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 (7.00) per share to Robin Santavirta Handelsbanken the Annual General Meeting. The Board proposes Thursday, 16 Stellan Hellström Nordea April 2015 as the record day for the dividend. If the Annual General Erik Paulsson Pareto Securities Meeting adopts the proposal, the dividend is expected to be paid Stefan Cederberg SEB on Tuesday, 21 April 2015. The final day for trading the company’s Mats Liss Swedbank shares including the right to dividends is 14 April 2015. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 83 Definitions Glossary and definitions Financial definitions Company-specific definitions Return on shareholders’ Shareholders’ equity Affiliated workshops Group’s concepts, including sales in equity per share Workshops that are not proprietary the Fleet operations. Profit for the period, excluding Shareholders’ equity excluding owned, but conduct business under minority share, as a percentage minority share, in relation to the the Group’s brands/workshop conComparable units of average shareholders’ equity number of shares at the end of cept (Mekonomen Service Centre, Stores, majority-owned workshops excluding minority interest. the period. MekoPartner, MECA Car Service, and Internet sales that have been BilXtra and Speedy). in operation for the past 12 month Return on capital employed Cash flow per share period and throughout the entire Profit after net financial items Cash flow from operating Proprietary stores preceding comparative period. plus interest expenses as a activities in relation to the Stores with operations in subsidipercentage of average capital average number of shares. aries, directly or indirectly majority Concept workshops employed. owned, by Mekonomen AB. Affiliated workshops. Net debt Return on total capital Current and long-term Proprietary workshops Group companies Profit after net financial items interest-bearing liabilities for Workshops with operations in subThe MECA, Mekonomen Nordic plus financial costs as a percentborrowing less cash and cash sidiaries, directly or indirectly majoriand Sørensen og Balchen segage of the average total assets. equivalents, meaning excluding ty owned, by Mekonomen AB. ments. pensions, leasing, derivatives Gross margin and similar obligations. Fleet operations Lasingoo Net sales less costs for goods Mekonomen Group’s offering to The car portal that Mekonomen for resale, as a percentage of Earnings per share business customers comprising Group owns together with net sales. Profit for the period excluding service and repairs of cars, sales of industry players that simplifies the minority shares, in relation to spare parts, tyres, accessories and workshop selection and booking EBIT margin the average number of shares. tyre storage. processes for car owners. EBIT after depreciation/amortisation as a percentage of total Equity/assets ratio Sales in comparable units ProMeister revenue. Shareholders’ equity including Sales in comparable units comprise Mekonomen Group’s proprietary non-controlling interest as a external sales (in local currency) in brand for high quality spare parts EBITA percentage of total assets. majority-owned stores, wholesale with five-year guarantees. EBITA after depreciation accordsales to partner stores, external ing to plan but before amortisaCapital employed sales in majority-owned workshops Spare parts tion and impairment of intangible Total assets less non-interand Internet sales. Parts that are necessary for a car fixed assets. est-bearing liabilities and to function. provisions including Sales to customer group EBITA margin deferred tax liabilities. Affiliated workshops Partner stores EBITA as a percentage of total Sales to affiliated workshops and Stores that are not proprietary, revenue. sales to proprietary workshops. but conduct business under the Group’s brands/store concepts. EBITDA Sales to customer group Operating profit before depreciaConsumers Accessories tion/amortisation and impairCash sales from proprietary stores Products that are not necessary ment of tangible and intangible to other customer groups than for a car to function, but enhance fixed assets. affiliated workshops and other the experience or extend use of workshops, as well as the Group’s the car, for example, car-care EBITDA margin e-commerce sales to consumers. products, roof boxes, car child EBITDA as a percentage of total seats, etc. revenue. Sales to customer group Other workshops Underlying net sales Sales to business customers that are Sales adjusted for the number of not affiliated to any of Mekonomen comparable working days and currency effects. 84 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 xxxxxxxxxx Addresses Mekonomen Group Mekonomen Nordic Postal address: Postal address: Box 19542 Box 19542 SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweden SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Visiting address: Solnavägen 4, 10th floor, Stockholm, Solnavägen 4, 10th floor, Stockholm, Sweden Sweden Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.mekonomen.com www.mekonomen.se MECA Scandinavia Sørensen og Balchen Postal address: Postal address: Box 9225 Postboks 134 Holmlia SE-200 39 Malmö, Sweden NO-1203 Oslo, Norway Visiting address: Visiting address: Stenåldersgatan 27, Malmö, Sweden Rosenholmveien 12, NO-1252 Oslo, Tel: +46 40 671 60 60 Norway E-mail: info@meca.se Tel: +47 22 76 44 00 www.meca.se E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.sogb.no Mekonomen Group’s 2014 Annual Report was produced by Mekonomen Group in cooperation with Narva. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet, Mölndal, 2015. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014 85 NARVA Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2014
