Strength. Performance. Passion. Building on ambition Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Contents 3 Our approach 32 Performance 40 Methodology 3 Summary of progress 32 Economic performance and assurance against current targets 33 Environmental performance 40 System boundaries 4 CEO statement 37 Social performance 40 Reporting cycle 6 Interview with Holcim Chairman, 40 External assurance Dr Wolfgang Reitzle, and Holcim CFO, Thomas Aebischer 8 Strategy and governance 10 Operating with integrity 12 Measuring our value Material Occupational health Our people Sustainability issues and safety (OH&S) PAGE 16 Enhanced Solutions PAGE 13 PAGE 19 Solutions Solutions 2030 2030 Master SDA label Master SDA label with focus area icons Focus ar 13 OH&S performance 16 People development 19 Piloting for success 14 Safety excellence 17 Diversity 20 Innovating to meet 15 Safety Awards 17 Managing contract labor customer needs Solutions Solutions So 18 Respecting human rights 21 Promoting sustainable construction 2030 2030 Master SDA label with Climate icon Master SDA label with Resources icon Master Solutions Solutions So 2030 2030 Master SDA label with Climate and Resources icon Master SDA label with Climate and Communities icon Master Solutions Solutions Climate Resources Communities PAGE 22 PAGE 25 PAGE 29 2030 2030 area icons SDA label with focusMaster Master area icons SDA Focus label 23  withicons: area Tackling focusClimate, area icons climate and Focus area Resources change Communities icons: Climate, and Focus area Resources 25 Alternative Communities Climate, Resources and29  icons: fuels and Communities Inclusive business 24 Energy raw materials 29 Strategic social 26 Alternative aggregates investment performance 27 Water 30 Stakeholder and 28 Reporting our community engagement biodiversity efforts 2 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 Solutions Solutions Solutions Solutions Solutions OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Summary of progress against current targets The following is a summary of our progress against our main sustainable development performance targets. Area Target Progress Target date Status 2014 Holcim Sustainable Development Ambition 2030 SEnSo By 2030, we aspire to generate one-third of our revenue See page 19 2030 7% of revenues (estimated) from our portfolio of Sustainability Enhanced Solutions Climate Achieve no net increase in CO2 emissions vs 20131 See page 22 2030 Methodology to measure this is under development Reduce specific CO2 emissions by 25% compared with 1990 levels See pages 22 & 33 2015 23.9% Reduce specific CO2 emissions by 30% compared with 1990 levels See pages 22 & 33 2020 Resources Use 1 billion tonnes of secondary materials between See page 25 2030 75.1 million tonnes 2013 and 2030 (accumulated) Achieve a Thermal Substitution Rate of 20% See pages 26 & 34 2020 14.0% Use 10 million tonnes of construction and demolition See page 25 2020 2.6 million tonnes waste and other alternative aggregates Positive impact on water resources in water-scarce areas See page 27 2030 Methodology to measure this is under development Define our operational water footprint across all sites See page 27 2015 Work in progress Improve water efficiency by 20% compared with 2012 See page 27 & 36 2020 Cement -30% and meet water-quality criteria in all sites Aggregates -37% 2 Positive change for biodiversity across the Group See page 28 2030 Work in progress Implement Biodiversity Action Plans for all sensitive sites See page 28 & 35 2015 94% Assess the biodiversity quality at all our extraction sites See page 28 2020 In piloting stage Community Impact 100 million people at the base of the pyramid See page 29 2030 By end 2014 10.4 million between 2013 and 2030, progressively focusing on inclusive people had benefitted business solutions from our strategic social investment and inclusive 40 million people at the base of the pyramid to benefit from 2020 business initiatives in 2013 our strategic social investment and inclusive business initiatives and 2014 between 2013 and 2020 Other targets OH&S Reduce lost-time injury frequency rate to below 1 and total injury See pages 13 & 38 2014 LTIFR: 1.6 frequency rate to below 5 TIFR: 4.8 Community Every Group company to have a community engagement plan See pages 30 & 38 2012 92% involvement covering all sites Management ISO 14001 implemented by all cement plants and alternative fuels This is a rolling target as Ongoing Cement 94% systems and raw materials (AFR) pre-treatment platforms newly acquired Group AFR 93% companies require time to implement management systems. See performance data table on page 33. Air emissions Reduce global average specific nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and Holcim’s target to reduce Ongoing NOx – 20% dust emissions (g pollutant/tonne cementitious materials) by 20%, nitrogen oxides (NOx) Dust – 74% using 2004 as reference emissions per tonne of SO2 – 66% cementitious material by 20% by 2013 (against a base year of 2004) was met in 2012. Similarly, our targets to reduce dust and sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions per tonne of cementitious material by 20% were also met ahead of schedule. Efforts are continuing to ensure these reductions are sustained. 1 A  ny increase in CO2 emissions from operations compared to 2013 needs to be compensated by a reduction of emissions resulting from the use of our products and services. 2 I mplementation of the Holcim Water Measurement Protocol is ongoing. See note 12 on page 39. 3 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE CEO statement Measuring our value Solutions In our last Corporate Sustainable Development Report, we published our long-term Solutions sustainability strategy: the Holcim Sustainable Development Ambition 2030. The overarching tenet of the Ambition is to change the paradigm and actively pursue 2030 avenues that enable2030 us to become part of the solution to the problems of our time. Master SDA label Our sustainabilityMaster focus in the last year has beenFocus SDA label with focus area icons onareaintegrating those ambitions into icons: Climate, Resources and Communities our business models and on translating them into tangible actions. Solutions Solutions Solutions Bernard Fontana Chief Executive Officer 2030 2030 2030 Master SDA label with Climate icon Master SDA label with Resources icon Master SDA label with Communities icon Solutions Solutions Solutions 2030 We have conducted pilot projects 2030 in three diverse This is not2030 intended to be a definitive statement of Group companies to help us to better understand what account – after all, this is a very new discipline and many of Master SDA label with Climate and Resources icon Master SDA label with Climate and Communities icon Master SDA label with Resources and Communities icon will be required to achieve our Ambition. These pilots the underlying assumptions can be debated. However, as highlighted the resources required for deployment and, with the pilot companies, it does provide a broad picture more importantly, the opportunities and benefits the of where the Group needs to act to create even more Ambition brings to the Group. It is especially gratifying value for all stakeholders. We will initially use this new tool to see the enthusiasm and engagement of the project internally to guide our decision making processes. teams, and their commitment in contributing to a more sustainable future. Apart from our progress on the Sustainable Development Ambition 2030, this report details our ongoing activities As part of the pilot projects, Integrated Profit and Loss in Sustainable Development (SD), and discloses data (IPL) statements were calculated for the companies. for a number of key performance indicators. I am This helped in identifying where the most potential exists particularly pleased with the progress we have made with to not just reduce impacts, but to add value across the compliance, and the successful implementation of the triple bottom line: the social, the environmental and the Holcim Integrity Line. The report shows that the system financial. As a next step, we are working on preparing the is fully operational, with investigations conducted into first IPL calculation for the Holcim Group as a whole. reported incidents, and that there are consequences to non-compliance. 4 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE As we incorporate our Sustainable Development The imminent proposed merger with Lafarge will be a ambitions into business models focused on our customers, challenging and exciting step in our journey, presenting we now report for the first time a Group Net Promoter many opportunities to be leveraged. Looking forward, Score (NPS). The encouraging NPS level of 56.6, measured I am confident that sustainability, safety and customer in 2014 with around 9000 customers, is a strong focus will continue to be core values, building on the motivation for all our employees to continue their efforts experience and achievements of both Groups so far. to achieve our aim of achieving “customer excellence”. I would like to thank all Holcim employees for their steadfast and unwavering commitment, in sometimes Occupational Health and Safety remains a serious difficult circumstances, to generating value for all concern. Despite our continuing efforts, fatalities and stakeholders. This is clearly demonstrated in the business injuries arising from our activities remain unacceptably results we achieved in 2014 and also in our recent high. We will continue to focus on improving our Sustainable: That’s us campaign, where our employees performance, implement programs, develop a culture from across the globe proudly highlight their contributions of safety in all parts of the organization and apply strict to sustainability. It is this dedication and commitment consequence management practices. At Holcim, we that will ensure that our sustainability agenda goes consider safety management as our license to lead. from strength to strength, and that we will indeed be increasingly part of the solution to the problems of our time. As in previous reports, we have asked for the input of an External Report Review Panel, incorporating the views of a broad range of experts from a number of stakeholder groups. The Panel provided input on the content of the report and a statement with recommendations and observations, which can be found on page 43. We are extremely grateful to the Panel members for their constructive comments and suggestions. Holcim Sustainable Development Ambition 2030 Solutions Solutions Sustainability Enhanced s Solutions Solutions 2030 Solutions 2030 Climate Resources Communities Master SDA label Master SDA label with focus area icons Focus area icons: Climate, Resources and Communities PAGE 19 PAGE 22 PAGE 25 PAGE 29 Solutions Solutions Solutions 2030 2030 2030 2030 2030 Master SDA label with Climate icon Master SDA label with Resources icon Master SDA label with Communities icon ith focusMaster area icons SDA label with focusMaster area icons SDA Focuslabelarea withicons: focusClimate, area icons Resources Focus area and icons: Communities Focus area Climate, Resources and icons: Communities Climate, Resources and Communities Solutions Solutions Solutions 5 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 2030 2030 2030 Master SDA label with Climate and Resources icon Master SDA label with Climate and Communities icon Master SDA label with Resources and Communities icon OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Interview with Holcim Chairman, Dr Wolfgang Reitzle, and Holcim CFO, Thomas Aebischer Dr Wolfgang Reitzle Thomas Aebischer Chairman Chief Financial Officer Q: How important will sustainable development be for the new Group? Given the significant effort it will take to integrate the business operations of Holcim with Lafarge following the proposed merger, how much focus can realistically be placed on sustainability issues? Reitzle: Holcim and Lafarge both have a clear and deep Aebischer: Sustainable development should not be commitment to sustainable development – and this viewed as a cost – it is fundamental to be successful commitment will carry over into the new group. We in our business. I have always said that our global have to ensure a smooth transition and continuity of focus on sustainable development strengthens our operations, and work to realize an attractive return on competitive position in the market, earns our license to invested capital – that is what we have promised the operate and offers an attractive risk–reward relation. market. Sustainable development is critical to achieve This was the rationale for the development of the value creation in the midto long term. We want to Holcim Sustainable Development Ambition 2030, ensure sustainable profits and we can only do this and that rationale remains. by taking a holistic view. We know that resources are not infinite, that we need the goodwill of employees, communities and regulators, and that our customers are increasingly demanding sustainability enhanced products and services. If anything, sustainable practices will need to be further enhanced to reflect the higher responsibility that the merged entity will have as the undisputed leader of our sector. 6 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Q: What about the Holcim Sustainable Development Ambition 2030? Will it be continued post-merger? Aebischer: Of course we will continue on that path. Reitzle: The spirit and the intention of the Ambition There is a huge opportunity for the new group to will certainly be continued. The basic premise of the make a significant difference. We will have a larger Ambition – that we seek to be part of the solution to the geographical footprint, reach more markets, and have problems of our time – remains valid. We cannot just try more operations and resources. Our capacity to make to mitigate our impacts. That simply isn’t enough any a positive contribution will be enhanced. Both groups more. We have to demonstrate a positive contribution. have a well-respected and documented track record in sustainable development and we will leverage the synergies that will emerge. Q: Holcim has recently renewed its partnership with the International Committee of the Red Cross. What are your expectations for this partnership? Reitzle: For me, sustainable development is about Aebischer: I am particularly delighted by the intention creating value, earning trust and generating pride within to work together in developing products and services our organization. The partnership with the ICRC fulfills that can address humanitarian needs. This aligns fully all of these aspects. It clearly demonstrates that private with the Holcim Sustainable Development Ambition companies can be a significant force for good. It is clear 2030, where we aim to improve the quality of life of 100 that we live in an unstable world, and equally clear that million people. With the new merged company we will the many humanitarian issues the world faces cannot be entering some new territories, and this partnership, be fully addressed without the involvement of private together with our existing human rights management enterprises such as Holcim. The initial partnership was, approach, will help to ensure that we effectively and in our view, very successful and broke new ground. In proactively manage the associated risks. providing both financial support and on-the-ground training to ICRC personnel in the use of concrete products, we have made a real difference to the lives of people in conflict affected areas. 7 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Strategy and governance Holcim Sustainable Development Ambition 2030 In June 2014, Holcim published its Sustainable Development Ambition 2030. Aligned with our vision “to provide foundations for society’s future,” the aim of the Ambition is to significantly increase interest in, and the uptake of, our innovative range of sustainability-enhancing solutions. The Ambition states: “By 2030, we aspire to generate one-third of our revenue from our portfolio of Sustainability Enhanced Solutions.” Our solutions have proven sustainability benefits. When compared to other products, they offer Solutions superior environmental and social performance in the manufacturing, use and disposal phases of buildings and other infrastructure. In particular, these solutions will help us to take advantage of the growing number of opportunities arising in the sustainable and resilient 2030 construction segment. Sustainability Enhanced Solutions are defined on page 19, and examples of these products and solutions can be found throughout this report. The Sustainable Development Ambition 2030 contains aspirations and intermediate targets in three main areas – Climate, Resources and Communities – as detailed in the relevant chapters of this report. The diagram opposite outlines the Holcim Sustainable Development Ambition 2030. For more on the Ambition, go to • Achieve no net increase in absolute www.holcim.com/sustainable. carbon emmisions vs 2013 across the lifecycle 8 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Materiality Sustainable development governance structures Our Business Risk Management process identifies Our commitment to sustainable development is driven financial and sustainable development risks at both by the Holcim Executive Committee (Exco) and Board corporate and Group Company levels. of Directors. However, ultimately responsibility for sustainability rests with every employee. The dedication We also conduct material issue reviews to ensure that of line managers and their teams to implementing the full range of sustainability risks and opportunities Group programs and meeting targets is key to achieving are correctly weighted and addressed. These reviews our sustainability ambitions. consider the opinions of external stakeholders through our External Report Review Panel and are conducted at A Sustainable Development Steering Group operates least every two years. The last review was conducted as a Holcim Exco subcommittee. It is chaired by Exco in September 2013 and is reflected in the materiality member Andreas Leu, and comprises senior managers matrix below. including Holcim CEO Bernard Fontana, Exco member Roland Köhler and Holcim Technology CEO Urs Bleisch. As the proposed merger with Lafarge, due to be completed in mid-2015, will present increased A second committee, comprising the CEOs of Holcim sustainability challenges and opportunities, a Group companies and functional experts, advises on comprehensive materiality review will be conducted the design and implementation of our sustainable after completion. development programs. Comparison internal and external ranking Importance of issues – global view Low Medium High Very high Page Economic dimension Holcim view – result of Holcim Business ethics and compliance 10, 11 business risk Economic impact 12, 32 management Customer management 19, 20, 21, 33 process. Supplier management 11, 32 External stakeholder view – Environmental dimension result of interviews with a range of Resource management 25–28 external Water 27, 35, 36 stakeholders. Energy 24, 34 Raw materials 25–28 View from Holcim and external Waste & recycling 25–27, 36, 37 stakeholders Managing environmental impacts 19–28, 33–37 coincide. CO2 22–24, 33 Biodiversity 35, 38 Range of external stakeholder views. Other atmospheric emissions 3, 34 Low: Low level Environmental incidents 33 of concern to Sustainable construction 21 stakeholders and low level of current impact on Holcim. Social dimension High: High level Employment practices 16–18, 37–38 of concern to Human rights 18, 38 stakeholders and high level of current OH&S 13–15, 38 or potential impact Community engagement and stakeholder relations 30, 38 on Holcim. Inclusive business solutions 29 9 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Operating with integrity Strengthening compliance In 2014, we further strengthened our Group Compliance function and capability. Under the leadership of the Chief Legal and Compliance Officer, a team of dedicated regional compliance officers was deployed, working with a network of local compliance officers. We also appointed a Head of Group Investigation and set up a global investigations team. In addition, we revised the Holcim Code of Business Conduct closed, with 20 employees leaving Holcim as part of (CoBC) in 2014. The CoBC centers on integrity in business compliance remediation. The remaining 112 cases were practices, in the workplace and in communities. The revised still under investigation on December 31, 2014. Code is available in 28 languages, and supported by a global campaign focusing on our values – particularly integrity. Integrity training In addition to the CoBC, we have specific directives Integrity Line and programs to deal with anti-bribery, corruption and To support the CoBC, we established a global Integrity fair competition, supported by employee training. All Line. The Integrity Line was rolled out in waves “relevant” employees must attend face-to-face training throughout 2014, with the last group going live in at least once every two years, while the e-learning September; it is available in 50 countries and enables modules need to be completed each year. employees to report their integrity-related concerns in 27 languages by telephone or through an online In 2014, a total of 16,482 employees completed an platform. The Integrity Line, which has an integrated e-learning module on the Anti-Bribery and Corruption case management tool, provides a safe, confidential Directive, while 10,908 participated in our Value environment for anyone who comes forward in good Creation in a Competitive Environment e-learning. faith to ask questions or report violations. Responsible tax In 2014, 292 reports were received by Group Compliance Holcim recognizes the concerns and the calls from civil through the Integrity Line and other channels. Of those society for increased transparency on taxes paid. As a reports, 190 were related to the CoBC and handed over general principle, Holcim pays tax in the jurisdictions for investigation. By the end of 2014, 78 cases had been where business activities generate profits. Holcim Code of Integrity Line Integrity training Business Conduct 10 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE To increase transparency on where we pay taxes, At a global level, Holcim is one of a number of Swiss Holcim will report on taxes paid per region, beginning companies that have pledged to observe the 10 with the half-year 2015 earnings release, and will continue principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) on human to do so on an annual basis. Furthermore, a statement rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. on our position on taxes is being developed and will be available on our website from the end of July 2015. Our business practices are in alignment with the OECD guidelines and we are in close contact with the Swiss Transparent engagement National Contact Point regarding potential claims by Holcim’s vision is to provide foundations for society’s stakeholders in Indonesia, India and Sri Lanka. We are future and to create value for all stakeholders in a always open to dialogue and appreciate the possibility to sustainable manner. In this regard, we are committed investigate and respond to potential non-conformities. to engaging with our stakeholders at global, regional and local levels. These groups include employees, local Sustainable procurement communities, NGOs, think tanks and industry partners, as Holcim recognizes the importance of responsibility well as government bodies and international institutions. along our value chain. We have developed a Supplier Code of Conduct, informed by the UNGC principles, At all levels, engagement is conducted with integrity which has been communicated to all suppliers. and in accordance with the highest ethical standards. Our credibility in the communities where we operate Furthermore, Holcim Group companies identify and depends upon everyone working together fairly and prioritize suppliers that pose a higher sustainability honestly, and is ensured through internal practices, risk. Those suppliers, together with all new suppliers, guidelines and rules, and adherence to external schemes. are evaluated by an independent third party with assessment tools appropriate to the level of perceived Reflecting our relations with government bodies at a risk, ranging from self-assessment questionnaires to full regional level, Holcim is registered with the European audits. Action plans are implemented to address any Union’s voluntary Transparency Register, operated jointly shortfalls discovered. by the European Parliament and the European Commission. Through this registration, we publicly disclose the interests Group companies report annually on the status of we pursue in the EU public policy area, as well as additional their supplier assessments in the annual procurement information on how we organize our work in this field, scorecard (see the performance table on page 32). and commit to strictly adhere to the associated Code of Conduct. Holcim applies this principle of transparent engagement in all the other regions where we operate. Responsible tax Transparent Sustainable engagement procurement 11 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Measuring our value Achieving our long-term sustainability ambitions requires that we establish where we need to focus our efforts to enhance the value we add to people, profit and the planet. With this aim, we are working to establish the impact of our operations across the triple bottom line: social, environmental and financial impacts. In collaboration with KPMG, we are developing a tool The tool has been piloted in our Group companies with which we seek to build an objective and transparent Ambuja Cements and Holcim Indonesia, and the results base for advocacy, demonstrate our license to operate, of the Ambuja Cements exercise can be found in their and engage and mobilize employees and stakeholders. 2013 sustainability report. As a next step, we will extend We believe that the tool will enhance our decisionthis methodology to further Group companies and we making processes in the medium term and sustain value are also working on preparing the first IPL calculation for creation in the long term by raising awareness of the the Group as a whole. We will initially use this new tool risks and opportunities posed by externalities (through internally to guide our decision making processes. quantification). The process will also allow scenario analysis of how externalities may have an impact on the bottom line. The end result will be presented as an Integrated Profit and Loss (IPL) statement. Economic Non-monetary flows Monetary flows impacts along the value chain Goods and services Payments Cement, aggregates, Sales concrete and other construction materials HOLCIM Suppliers Customers Retained in business (CHF 1 billion) and depreciation (CHF 1.5 billion) input costs net sales CHF 11.5 Dividends Capital Interest Capital Taxes Services Salaries Labor Good License to CHF 19.1 billion neighbor operate billion Categories Traders purchased by suppliers: Wholesalers Raw materials Shareholders Creditors Governments Employees Communities Retailers Services Ready-mix including benefit to benefit to benefit to benefit to CHF 33 concrete transport shareholders creditors governments employees producers million Operational (dividends) CHF 0.5 (direct taxes) CHF 3.5 Concrete in community products material CHF 0.7 billion CHF 0.6 billion manufacturers spending Energy billion billion Plant, 67,584 over 6.4 Construction equipment and CHF 23.3 indirect taxes people contractors million infrastructure billion CHF >0.5 directly Individual 2 people customers Holcim’s market billion employed benefiting Capitalization1 Presence directly from in over Holcim 70 countries projects in 2014 Multiplied indirect DIRECT IMPACTS Multiplied indirect impacts impacts 1 On 31.12.2014. 2 Indirect taxes include items such as property taxes, national insurance contributions and municipal levies. 12 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Occupational health and safety (OH&S) Our progress towards zero harm Occupational health and safety (OH&S) is Holcim’s number one priority: we are genuinely committed to the health and safety of our people. We have spent a number of years focusing on our reporting culture to build trust throughout the Group, and the results have started to reflect this change. Since we introduced critical incident reporting, the Key data OH&S number of incidents reported has increased substantially. See CR pages 32–38 for full data tables. This is not because we have experienced more incidents Visit www. holcim.com/sustainable for more information. than before, but rather because our reporting culture has Regional breakdown of LTIFR, TIFR and LTISR performance developed and is becoming embedded. Region Employees LTIFR TIFR LTISR Asia Pacific 31,850 0.9 3.1 42.2 All of our occupational health and safety efforts are Latin America 10,733 2.5 5.0 133.4 designed to improve performance and move the Group Europe 15,399 2.7 5.9 121.0 North America 6,777 1.2 11.1 119.5 toward being a zero-harm organization. We believe this Africa Middle East 1,928 1.4 2.1 68.2 is not simply an aspirational target but an achievable Corporate 897 1.4 3.5 24.6 one, and we will not cease in our endeavors to achieve it. Total 67,584 1.6 4.8 85.2 Regional breakdown of fatalities OH&S performance Fatalities Fatalities In 2014, Holcim recorded a Lost Time Injury Frequency (directly (indirectly Fatalities Region Employees employed) employed) (others) Total Rate (LTIFR) for direct employees of 1.6, and a Total Injury Asia Pacific 31,850 3 14 5 22 Frequency Rate (TIFR) of 4.8. See the table opposite for Latin America 10,733 0 5 4 9 a regional breakdown of LTIFR, TIFR and Lost Time Injury Europe 15,399 2 0 2 4 North America 6,777 0 1 0 1 Severity Rate (LTISR) performance. Africa Middle East 1,928 0 0 5 5 Corporate 897 0 0 0 0 Total 67,584 5 20 16 41 Health and Safety programmes and initiatives: Directives Design Safety and Road Safety Assessment Program Construction Quality Improvement Program Program 13 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Key data Lost-time injury frequency rate GRI LA8 Fatalities – cement, aggregates GRI LA8 OH&S and ready-mix concrete LTIFR See CR pages 32–38 4 4 Number of fatalities 30 30 for full data tables. 3 3 Visit www. holcim. 24 24 com/sustainable for 2 2 18 18 more information. 12 12 1 1 6 6 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 Directly employed Indirectly employed (Own and subcontractors onsite) (third-party service Directly employed Indirectly employed Other* providers on site) * Measured using the new Procurement Scorecard Methodology introduced in 2012. In 2014, 25 individuals lost their lives while working for • the Design Safety and Construction Quality Program Holcim, 20 of whom were indirectly employed through allows us to target support based on the risks contractors or service providers. Seven out of these 25 associated with major hazards such as fires, explosions, were involved in road accidents outside our plants. and geotechnical and structural integrity, tackling A further 16 individuals not connected to Holcim lost issues at their source during the design, construction, their lives, the majority as a result of traffic accidents and operation of quarries and facilities with vehicles carrying Holcim products. • the Road Safety Improvement Program strengthens performance in areas such as leadership and The Group is sincerely saddened by each loss of life. commitment; vehicle, driver, contractor and journey Although these safety figures are disappointing, Holcim management; and road and traffic conditions on our takes some solace from knowing that our increasing own sites. discipline in reporting is helping us to understand the actual situation. This enables us to conduct As a broader measure, we look to our line managers comprehensive risk exposure analyses and to target to demonstrate visible leadership, enabling positive resources accordingly. See the table on page 13 for a behavior changes at all levels of the organization. In regional breakdown of fatalities. addition, all Group companies are required to implement the Holcim OH&S Management System, which is aligned Safety excellence and management systems with international standards such as OSHAS 18001. We continue to work hard to strengthen our safety In 2014, 64% of Group companies reported that they performance, and have a number of programs and audited their OH&S management system. initiatives that allow us to provide targeted support where specific and individual improvements are required: • the Directives Assessments Program assesses each Group company’s capability and understanding in relation to hazard identification and risk management 14 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Holcim Safety Awards 2014 In 2014, a total of 82 entries were received for the third annual Holcim Safety Awards. Twentyeight of these were submitted to the five regional juries for the Americas, Europe, South Asia, East Asia Pacific, and Africa Middle East. Regional winners were then submitted to the global judging panel. The juries assessed the entries against the five excellence criteria: • leveragability (replicability) • traceability of results • investment in people • involvement and innovation. • sustainability The team from Ambuja Cements The 2014 Holcim Safety Award was jointly won by Holcim Ecuador and Ambuja Cements, India. receiving their award from CEO Bernard Fontana Holcim Ecuador received the award for its Safety School, a program that ensures that all staff and contractors are qualified to undertake their duties safely, by reviewing the skills required for each role and providing additional training or qualifications where necessary. The school, which is open seven days a week throughout the year, has certified 100% of staff and contractors with the skills they need to carry out their activities. Ambuja Cements received the award for its We Care campaign, which engages employees on the importance of occupational health and safety through organizational measures, performance management, capability building and communication. Since implementation, the program has led to a reduction in fatalities, increased reporting of critical incidents, greater employee engagement, and personal pride in health and safety achievements. All of the award entries will be entered into the Holcim OH&S Proven Practices Library as a reference for other Group companies. Safety Awards Our annual Safety Awards foster a culture in which safety excellence is recognized and shared for the benefit of all. We are now in our third cycle of rewarding best practices at regional and global levels, and we can see many of these examples being replicated elsewhere in the Group. The case study above features the winning entries in 2014. 15 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Our people Respect and responsibility We know that the success of our organization and our ability to create value depends on the abilities and dedication of our people. With around 68,000 employees in 70 countries, the Group’s reach is global. To benefit from this diversity and spread, we continuously align our people processes to reinforce the right foundation upon which to build and grow. Our aim to be the employer of choice involves efforts to People development implement labor standards throughout our supply chain, We invest in professional and individual development and paying wages that match or exceed local industry programs throughout the Group, and provided standards. At entry level, our Group companies pay a employees with a total of 1,395,503 hours of training median of 50% above the minimum wage. in 2014. Details of training hours can be found in the performance data table on page 38. Our values of strength, performance and passion are integral to our strategy. We focus on behaviors that set The Holcim Learning Institute was launched in 2014. standards against which all employees are measured. The Institute comprises online learning centers for The six behaviors are: each of our functions, known as Functional Academies, and training elements on topics such as Occupational • customer excellence Health & Safety, and Legal and Compliance. Through • drive for results virtual classrooms, and supported by an internal • collaboration training network of 260 mentors, the Institute provides a platform for our people to learn more and share • integrity expertise throughout the Group. • developing yourself and others • change and inspirational leadership. Together, the values and behaviors shape our culture and identity. We aim to be the employer of choice: The Holcim Diversity and equal Human rights Learning Institute opportunities impact assessment 16 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Diversity and inclusion in Costa Rica Since 2013, Holcim Costa Rica has run a strategic program to promote and maintain a work environment that encourages diversity and inclusion. The program was designed to build better working conditions for all employees, but particularly for women and disabled people. • For disabled people, employment opportunities were identified, physical accessibility assessments were carried out in all workplaces and priority improvements were made. Since the program was launched, two disabled interns have joined the Cement Plant and Administration Building teams. • In terms of gender diversity, we revised our Succession Plan, which identifies female candidates who are qualified for management and leadership positions. • The diversity program also included a review of current working hours and the introduction of flexible working plans when applicable, to allow employees to spend more time with their families. Diversity Labor Standards, to inform our policies, directives and We believe that diversity and inclusion are imperative programs, which are binding for all Group companies. to generating the right talent pool for sustainable Our Group companies are also required to report progress performance. Our CSR policy lays down our commitment, against these directives annually. stating: “We value diversity and promote equal opportunities in recruitment, employment, development Our directives include: and retention.” This includes non-discrimination • the Contractor Safety Directive: Issued in 2009, in respect of gender, religion, sexual orientation or this directive sets the minimum requirements for ethnic origin. Contractor Safety Management, which each Holcim Group company must apply when outsourcing services While our workforce is very diverse, particularly in to contractors. The Directive outlines the requirements terms of nationality, we recognize the need to address for ensuring that adequate processes are developed and gender diversity in leadership positions. With this aim, implemented to control or minimize the risks associated we established a Diversity Council in 2014 to help with contracted activities create a workforce that is open, takes a broader view, • the Contract Workers Directive: Issued in 2012, this and embraces diversity in attitude and perspective. Directive refers specifically to the UNGC principles and We believe that diversity leads to inspiring innovations is supported by detailed mandatory implementation and value creation. steps. The implementation process is overseen by the Procurement and CSR departments, and progress is Managing contract labor tracked annually through the CSR Questionnaire. We take our responsibility to contract labor and the UN This data is included in the scope of the assurance for Human Rights frameworks extremely seriously. Holcim is this report, carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers a long-term supporter of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) (see page 41). and is active in local networks in a number of countries. We use these frameworks and related instruments, More details on these Directives can be found at such as the International Labor Organization (ILO) Core www.holcim.com/sustainable 17 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Respecting human rights A Human Our approach to managing human rights is risk-based Rights Impact and fully in line with the internationally recognized UN Assessment Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The workshop being methodology is further based on a categorization of held in India. countries from the UN Human Development Index (HDI) and the Freedom House Index (FHI) according to low-, mediumor high-risk business environments. The 16 Group companies operating in high-risk countries are required to conduct a full human rights impact assessment, supported by a trained facilitator. The To date, Human Rights Impact Assessments (HRIAs) have been conducted assessment consists of a sevento ten-day process of at 39 Group companies. Twelve of these received thorough impact data collection, defining relevant business issues, and assessments, 29 conducted self-assessments, and two companies did conducting interviews and focus groups with various both. Impact assessments in the remaining seven high-risk business internal and external stakeholders (such as the CEO, environments are scheduled for 2015. employees and NGOs). The assessment concludes with a debriefing and a workshop to develop an action plan, The HRIAs indicated that certain recurring themes required attention, including how implementation will be monitored. including contract workers, occupational health and safety, working conditions and community impacts. The remaining 35 Group companies operating in lower-risk environments are required to conduct a Action plans have been drawn up by 21 Group companies to rectify these self-assessment, consisting of a group workshop with and other identified issues, specifically monitoring the implementation of the CEO and function heads to rate the risk level on 14 agreed measures. Examples of actions undertaken or committed to as a business-related human rights issues, and to assess result of the HRIAs include: existing safeguards and mitigation measures. A debrief and the development of an action plan • Madagascar – at the Ibity plant, a restroom and hygiene building were containing monitoring measures are also required. built for truck drivers where no facilities had been available previously • Switzerland – plans have been drafted to close the gender pay gap for These assessments are due to be completed by the end basic salaries and remuneration of 2015. See the case study for a summary of the findings of the assessments conducted to date. • Lebanon – relevant personnel will receive human rights and equal opportunities training, and a human rights clause (including the right to non-discrimination) will be added to supplier contracts • El Salvador – a campaign will be launched to provide opportunities for disabled people in personnel recruitment, selection, hiring and promotion. 18 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE 2030 METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE 2 Master SDA label Master S HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Sustainability Solutions Sol Enhanced Solutions Superior performance by design 2030 2 Master SDA label with Climate icon Master S Our Sustainable Development Ambition 2030 promotes the development and sale of Sustainability Enhanced Solutions (SEnSo), which will allow us to achieve the goals we have set for 2030 and beyond. Our SEnSo focus is a key driver in our Solutions Sol innovation efforts. We define SEnSo as products and/or services with For example, for a low CO2 cement to be classified as a superior environmental and/or social performance SEnSo, it must have specific net CO2 emissions at least 2030 2 compared to the typical or common practices in the 20% lower than the regional average, as defined by market. Sustainability benefits can occur in: the Cement Sustainability Initiative. Master SDA We and label with Climate apply rigorous Resources icon Master S methodologies to measure the contribution of SEnSo to • the manufacturing phase (eg low CO2 cements) our revenue. In 2014, an estimated 7% of total revenue was derived from these solutions. • the construction, use and/or disposal phases of buildings and other infrastructure (eg high-strength concretes or Piloting for success concretes with additional insulation properties) The Sustainable Development Ambition 2030 was • the application they have specifically been designed piloted in 2014 by three Holcim Group companies: for (eg water solutions, waste treatment services). Holcim Costa Rica, Holcim Indonesia and Aggregate A reference guide has been developed for our own Industries (UK). The aim of the pilots was to establish global portfolio, detailing the qualitative or quantitative how we can translate our Ambition into actions, how requirements for products and services to be classified much this will cost and what the Ambition will bring to as “sustainability enhanced.” the Group. The pilots also looked at how to build on our existing experience. Special emphasis was placed on the identification of potential SEnSo, and the drafting of implementation action plans. Where sustainability benefits can occur: Manufacturing Construction, use Their specific application, phase, e.g. low and/or disposal e.g. waste treatment CO2 cements of buildings services 19 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS The Sustainable Development Ambition 2030 serves as an inspiration for our Company and is contributing to integrating our sustainability vision into our business model. It is a turning point from my point of view – it appeals to our coworkers, and motivates them to take stronger action and think how Holcim can contribute to solving society’s major problems and leave a better future for the Manrique Arrea, coming generations. CEO Holcim Costa Rica During the planning phase, we challenged our The Sustainable Development Ambition 2030 paradigms and went for aggressive and very ingrains sustainability as a state of mind. Let me ambitious sustainable development targets. share with you an example that originated from We don’t have all the answers, but it has spurred this process – one of our local Exco members got innovation and thinking outside the box. In our motivated to put solar panels and a rainwater Sustainable Development Ambition workshop, very harvesting system in his house. What would be the creative initiatives were proposed: they are currently impact of replicating this with all our co-workers? being analyzed. Some may not be applicable today, We are inspiring a cultural change that does not but we need to start now to have them ready in 10 end at the company gate, but one that is lived years. How does it add value? Our radar has widened and stays with us at home. and we are looking into new business opportunities and cost-saving initiatives. One of the positive effects of the pilots was the Product transparency in New Zealand enthusiasm and connection generated among our In 2014 Holcim New Zealand worked with one of employees. In the box above, Holcim Costa Rica CEO its main customers, Allied Concrete, to become Manrique Arrea explains the benefits of the program to the first concrete manufacturer in Oceania to his Company. publish an Environmental Product Declaration (EPD). Thanks to this, Allied Concrete won the Innovating to meet customer needs Extra Distance Award 2014 from the New Zealand Our Customer Excellence vision is to be the most Ready Mixed Concrete Association. Since the award customer-focused company with the greatest loyalty announcement, Allied Concrete’s exposure has in our industry, and to create more value for customers increased significantly through extensive media and greater, sustainable returns for our Company. This coverage and requests to attend conferences. vision is complemented by a focus on innovation and product development to benefit customers, society The process of benchmarking on a plant-byand the environment. plant basis brought an unexpected outcome. Discrepancies in production costs were revealed Clear innovation and differentiation turns building as each plant’s resource usage was collated and materials into high-value sustainable products and cross-checked against similar sized operations services, such as the Insulating Concrete Formwork around the country. These discrepancies can help (ICF) building shell systems manufactured by Aggregate us to identify improvements, particularly in terms Industries in the UK. These systems offer significant of water consumption through fewer wash cycles, thermal insulation and, depending upon final door and waste generation through optimized fleet use, and window specification, can be built to meet the and could additionally lead to significant annual Passivhaus Standard. cost savings. 20 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Promoting sustainable construction Green Building Centers in India The Holcim Foundation for Sustainable Construction The quality and sustainability promotes initiatives that combine sustainable of buildings in rural India is construction solutions with architectural excellence generally recognized as poor, and enhanced quality of life. Through initiatives which is a burden on the region’s including the Holcim Awards competition, symposiums economic development, as and publications, the Holcim Foundation encourages well as a welfare issue for local sustainable responses to the technological, communities. We are committed environmental, socioeconomic and cultural issues to improving building practices affecting building and construction around the globe, and contributing to a better and beyond the bounds of our industry: quality of life. ACC Limited, our www.holcimfoundation.org. Group company in India, aims to educate the rural population Furthermore, Holcim has developed methodologies and in construction techniques, competencies to measure and report on the embedded create business opportunities for them, build partnerships with local impacts of products across the entire value chain, to entrepreneurs and governments, and generate a new customer segment. guarantee the responsible sourcing of products and solutions to customers. To facilitate this, ACC Limited established a number of Green Building Centers throughout the country. The ACC Green Building Centers Requests for greater transparency of operations and familiarize customers with sustainability-enhanced rural construction products are gaining importance in business. Customers, techniques, and act as “one-stop shops” with: civil society and governments expect companies to show increased responsibility toward the environmental • locally produced, easy-to-use, reasonably priced construction products and social impacts of their products. We are sensitive to (e.g. bricks, tiles, pavers) this shift, and we have developed internal expertise in • training on how to produce and apply these products in a rural context Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs). As a Group, • well-equipped laboratories to monitor product quality we are committed to marketplace transparency using recognized methodologies. • machinery that enables end-users to manufacture products themselves and save costs Our SEnSo range enables customers to identify • displays that explain the application of sustainability-enhanced rural products and services with sustainability advantages construction elements (e.g. fly ash bricks, roofing, and affordable quickly and clearly when making purchasing decisions. housing solutions). In certain countries, including the UK, certification by a responsible sourcing scheme such as BES 6001 ACC initially set up four Green Building Centers in the states of Uttar is becoming a requirement to retain business. The Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan in 2013. A further 10 centers publication of EPDs is just one way to provide were opened in 2014, bringing the total to 14 by year-end. The company recognized transparency at a product level. has plans to establish 17 more centers in 2015. 21 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE 2030 METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE 2 Master SDA label Master S HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE CLIMATESUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Climate Solutions Sol Acting to cap the carbon footprint across the lifecycle 2030 2 Master SDA label with Climate icon Master S Tackling climate change requires effective carbon stewardship. We engage with governments, associations and other stakeholders to promote new carbon pricing regulations that are environmentally effective, economically efficient, fair and Solutions Sol consistent. Anticipating regulatory change can lead to a competitive advantage – not only through reducing emissions and costs, but also by providing solutions to the challenges set by climate change. 2030 2 In our Sustainable Development Ambition 2030, we We are currently developing a methodology Master SDA label with icon with Climate and Resources Master S stated our intention to maintain net absolute CO2 internal and external stakeholders to monitor and emissions at 2013 levels across the whole lifecycle of measure carbon emission reductions from our products our products. This requires us to reduce emissions from and services. The results of this research will give us the our activities, and to develop and market products that basis for our focus on future innovation, particularly in reduce emissions in the construction, use and disposal the areas of improving energy efficiency for buildings of buildings or infrastructure. and road repair, and extending building durability. As the vast majority of our emissions stem from In 2014, we maintained our focus on the continuous cement production, our commitment to mitigating reduction of clinker in cement through the use of emissions per tonne of cement remains strong. carbon-neutral mineral components such as granulated We aim to do this by improving the energy efficiency blast furnace slag or fly and bottom ash from the power of our own operations, lowering the clinker content industry. Natural pozzolanic material such as volcanic of our products and substituting fossil fuels for rock ash is also used where this is viable. lower-carbon alternatives. This is reflected in our pathway to achieving the Holcim Ambition for By the end of 2014, our cement contained an average Climate targets for 2015 and 2020, as outlined below. of 69.8% clinker, and had achieved a reduction of 23.9% in CO2 emissions per tonne of cement against a 1990 baseline. This puts us well on track to meet our 2015 target of a 25% reduction, and reinforces our position as an industry leader. Our pathway to -25% -30% achieving the Holcim Ambition for Climate: 2015 2020 2030 Reduce specific CO2 emissions Reduce specific CO2 emissions Achieve no net increase by 25% compared to 1990 levels by 30% compared to in CO2 emissions compared 1990 levels to 2013 levels 22 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE CLIMATESUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Tackling climate change Key data Climate Fighting climate change requires an international See CR pages 32–38 for full data tables. agreement to reduce emissions. The United Nations Visit www. holcim.com/sustainable for more information. Climate Change Conference (COP21) 1 is scheduled to be Specific CO2 emissions GRI LA8 held in Paris, France, in December 2015; negotiations kgCO2/tonne cement are underway to ensure that a binding and universal 800 800 750 750 agreement on climate change is achieved. Reaching this 700 700 agreement at COP21 could be a turning point, which 650 650 we advocate for and trust will bring a competitive 600 600 550 550 advantage to those companies in the sector that are 500 500 most carbon efficient. 1990 ... 2000 ... 2005 ... 2011 2012 2013 2014 Specific gross CO2 emissions Specific net CO2 emissions In this context, Holcim has issued a paper outlining its Absolute CO2 emissions (Scope 1) GRI EN16 position. In brief, we believe that addressing climate Million tonnes CO2 change requires an international agreement, with 110 110 binding reduction targets based on the ability of 100 100 90 90 sectors to reduce emissions. To achieve these targets, 80 80 market-based regulations that are environmentally 70 70 effective, economically efficient, fair to competition, 60 60 and internationally consistent are required, along with 50 50 1990 ... 2000 ... 2005 ... 2011 2012 2013 2014 research in energy-efficient technologies. Absolute gross CO2 emissions Absolute net CO2 emissions In addition to climate regulations, international climate Thermal substitution rate by alternative fuels GRI EN5 % of thermal energy from alternative fuels finance (such as the Green Climate Fund) is paramount 15 15 in promoting investment in low-carbon technologies 12 12 and action to increase resilience to climate change. 9 9 The financing of such initiatives should be conditional 6 6 on governments committing to reduce emissions and 3 3 establish regulations. 0 0 1990 ... 2000 ... 2005 ... 2011 2012 2013 2014 The full paper can be found at www.holcim.com/sustainable 1 Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework – Convention on Climate Change. 23 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Energy Cement is manufactured through a large-scale, complex, and capital and energy-intensive process. At the core of the production process is a rotary kiln, in which limestone and clay are heated to approximately 1,450 degrees Celsius. Thus security of energy supply and efficiency are key business drivers. We have increased our cement production by around 120% since 1990; however, in the same period, our annual energy consumption increased by less than 60%, while energy used from traditional fossil fuels increased by only 27%. We have reduced energy consumption per tonne of clinker from 4,578MJ in 1990 to just 3,469MJ in 2014. Low-carbon cement in Croatia This reduction has been achieved by using alternative In April 2014 Holcim Croatia launched a lower fuels and by optimizing equipment, processes and carbon-intensive cement (see page 19). Holcim operations. An example of this is the global “fan Majstor Green cement, developed by the Company’s initiative” implemented by Holcim in 2014. Large process technical competence center, was designed to both fans account for about 30-50% of the total electrical decrease construction costs for customers and energy bill in cement plants. Actual measurements show reduce environmental impact. that these fans often have to cope with large amounts of false air and run below their expected efficiency levels. When tested, the new cement performed similarly Avoiding these undesired false air flows will improve to Holcim Majstor, an existing brand, but with one the fans’ efficiency and save energy consumption key difference: 25% less CO2 was generated during and cost. Implementation has been carried out in 34 its production when compared with regular operating companies, covering 93% of all larger fans in Majstor cement, mainly due to a reduction of the the Holcim Group. Holcim is committed to continuing clinker content. the multiplication of such solutions, thereby substantially reducing the consumption of electrical energy. The Holcim Croatia technical competence center has also helped customers to reduce the carbon intensity As carbon emissions in cement production are directly of their projects by up to 33% through optimizing linked to resource and energy efficiency, lowering our cement and concrete formulae. The center is energy consumption plays a significant role in reducing currently focusing on solutions to lower electricity our carbon footprint and helping us to achieve our consumption at the company’s cement plant. climate goals. 24 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES 2030PERFORMANCE 2030 METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Master SDA label Master SDA label with focus area icons Focus are HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY RESOURCES CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Resources Solutions Solutions Sol Treating resources responsibly 2030 2030 2 Master SDA label with Climate icon Master SDA label with Resources icon Master S We appreciate that our business success depends on nature and ecosystem services. That is why we have set ourselves clear targets to be less dependent on primary materials and to sustainably manage natural resources and ecosystems. Solutions Solutions Sol In our Sustainable Development Ambition 2030, we Using alternative fuels and raw materials to replace stated our aspiration to use 1 billion tonnes of secondary natural resources is a sustainable solution – both for resources by 2030, replacing approximately2030 25% of the waste management and cement 2030 production. Energy 2 primary materials we use. We further aspire to have a and material recovery in the form of waste-derived Master SDA label with Climate and Resources icon Master SDA label with Climate and Communities icon Master S positive impact on water resources in scarce areas by AFR, also called co-processing, provides a solution to 2030 and to create positive changes for biodiversity. society’s waste problem while also offering employment opportunities. Furthermore, co-processing improves the Alternative fuels and raw materials environmental footprint of our operations by reducing The use of waste-derived alternative fuel and resource the use of fossil fuels and natural raw materials, as well as (AFR) contributes significantly to our sustainable lowering emissions. See the case study on page 26 on our development (SD) and economic performance. As a partnership with Unilever. long-time leader in SD, we began to use alternative fuels decades ago, recognizing that there was an alternative way to produce the heat required for the manufacture of cement. Our pathway to achieving the Holcim Ambition for Resources: 20% +20% 2015 2020 2030 Define our operational water Achieve a Thermal Substitution Use 1 billion tonnes of footprint across all sites Rate of 20% secondary materials between 2013 Implement Biodiversity Action Use 10 million tonnes of and 2030 Plans for all sensitive sites construction and demolition waste and other Positively impact on water alternative aggregates resources in water‑scarce areas Improve water efficiency by Demonstrate a positive 20% compared to 2012 and change on biodiversity meet water-quality criteria in across the Group all sites Assess the biodiversity quality at all our extraction sites 25 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Partnering for a zero waste future Our use of waste-derived alternative fuels and raw materials is an important contribution to our 2030 Ambition. To this end, our waste management company Geocycle continually seeks opportunities to work with other parties to create mutual value by offering a tailored waste management solution. One example is Geocycle’s global support for Unilever’s ambition to achieve zero production waste to landfill at more than 240 manufacturing sites across 67 Unilever plants worldwide by 2015. So far, opportunities for further cooperation have been identified in about 10 countries, primarily in emerging markets, which have been translated directly into specific business operations. Areas in which specific measures have been implemented include Sri Lanka and Indonesia, where Geocycle provides bespoke waste management solutions to Unilever and is so helping its local operations to close gaps to achieve the zero landfill policy. Through the cooperation, Geocycle Indonesia is now helping the Wall’s ice cream plant in Cikarang, Indonesia, to responsibly coprocess 150 tonnes of sludge per month, a quantity that was previously landfilled. The initial high moisture of the sludge had led to a calorific value that was below our permitted limit for co-processing. To address this hurdle, Geocycle provided advice and conducted tests to reduce the sludge moisture, thereby reducing transportation cost and bringing the material within the permit limitations for co-processing at the cement plant. Partnering with another third party, Geocycle offered Unilever a complete waste management solution, including the dewatering of the sludge onsite using a filter press, transportation and final waste treatment, enabling Unilever to achieve its zero landfill policy in the Wall’s plant. This successful solution is now being replicated in other Unilever plants in Indonesia and also by Geocycle Vietnam. By achieving full recovery of energy and material in the Alternative aggregates combustion process of the cement kiln, we mitigate the Fine aggregates – material that generally has a grain size risk of rising energy costs, and improve energy security of less than 4mm – are an essential component of both and our production costs. In 2014, 14% of our thermal concrete and asphalt products. These aggregates can energy demand in clinker production was covered by either occur naturally as sand or are manufactured from alternative fuels. hard rocks such as limestone and granite. Replacing natural sand with manufactured sand is our core Through the use of waste-derived materials as strategy to revert the long-term trend of natural sand alternative raw materials products, we can reduce the scarcity, and that of the construction materials industry amount of minerals we consume. The most desirable of as a whole. these waste-derived raw materials are rich in calcium, silica, aluminum or iron, which are similar in composition We also seek innovative solutions to reduce the use of to materials traditionally used during the manufacture scarce natural resources, such as the use of crushed of cement. Specific examples include power plant fly glass and by-products from other industries, including ash, blast furnace slag, foundry sands and steel mill washed copper slag. Copper slag is a by-product wastes. In 2014, we used 198.5 million tonnes of natural from the ship repair industry, and is an appropriate raw materials and 33.5 million tonnes of alternative raw replacement for fine aggregates in both structural and materials to produce 166.2 million tonnes of cement. non-structural concrete. See the case study opposite on Holcim Green. 26 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Key data Water consumption Holcim Green range See CR pages 32–38 for full data tables. Holcim Green and Holcim Green S Visit www. holcim.com/sustainable for more information. are ready-mix concrete developed Water consumption by Holcim Singapore that is Millions m3 produced with washed copper 50 50 slag (WCS) as recycled aggregate 40 40 material to replace natural sand. 30 30 20 20 The positive aspects of Holcim 10 10 N/A N/A Green and Holcim Green S include: 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 Cement Aggregates Ready-mix concrete • high durability – the washed copper slag in Holcim Green makes its In 2011 and 2012 we only measured water withdrawal for aggregates. Water consumption in aggregates was not reported prior to 2013. structure denser than normal concrete, thus increasing its durability • low permeability – the denser structure of Holcim Green also makes it Water less permeable than normal concrete, increasing its resistance to the Our awareness of how precious water is motivates penetration of water and other potential harmful substances that could us to manage water resources efficiently, equitably affect the concrete’s durability and sustainably. It is our ambition that all of our sites in water-scarce areas will provide more water to • early strength – Holcim Green develops its strength at an earlier age communities and to nature than we consume by 2030. compared to normal concrete • high heat resistance – the higher heat resistance of Holcim Green Our aim can be achieved through active intervention, helps minimize temperature fluctuation, eventually reducing energy by rainwater harvesting and providing access to water consumption through air-conditioning. This is suitable for building and sanitation. As an example, Ambuja Cements, our façades with high exposure to direct sunlight. Group company in India, has recently been certified by DNV–GL as being four times water positive. This means There are additional sustainability benefits too. As well as conserving that, in 2014, through rainwater harvesting and other scarce natural resources, the pavement and surrounding stays cooler water initiatives, Ambuja Cements returned to the when used in paving exposed to sunlight. Additionally, the amount of environment and communities four times the quantity water needed to make concrete with washed copper slag is lower than it consumed. conventional concrete. Our interim target in cement and aggregates is to reduce water consumption per tonne of product by 20% by 2020 when compared to 2012. By 2014, we already achieved a reduction of 30% in cement and 37% in aggregates. This is largely due to the continuing implementation of the Holcim Water Measurement Protocol. This has led to more accurate measurement due to the installation of water meters but also a better understanding of definitions and what needs to be measured and reported. See the case study on the following page on water recycling at our Pedro Leopoldo site in Brazil. 27 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Key data Efficiency – Biodiversity Improving water efficiency at the See CR pages 32–38 for full data tables. Pedro Leopoldo site Visit www. holcim.com/sustainable for more information. The Holcim cement plant in Pedro Biodiversity sensitive sites Leopoldo, Brazil, was identified as 60 60 having one of the highest water 50 50 40 40 withdrawal and specific water 30 30 consumption rates in the Latin 20 20 America region. The main reason 10 10 0 0 for this was the process design and the age of the plant, leading to 2011 2012 2013 2014 numerous maintenance challenges. Cement Aggregates Number of biodiversity-sensitive sites Number of biodiversity-sensitive Number of biodiversity-sensitive sites sites with Biodiversity Action Plans Number of biodiversity-sensitive Triggered by increasing water costs and regulatory pressures, together in place sites with Biodiversity Action with Holcim’s target to reduce specific water consumption by 20% by Plans in place 2020, a project was designed to identify water-saving opportunities in Reporting our biodiversity efforts the plant, essentially in those places where water was neither recycled Part of our ambition is to demonstrate a positive change nor reused. The initial target was to reduce water withdrawal from the for biodiversity between 2020 and 2030. By 2020, we river by 10%. will use a biodiversity reporting system developed in conjunction with the International Union for Conservation During the water-mapping process, it was identified that the water of Nature (IUCN) to assess our extraction sites against a used for cooling purposes in the compressor area of the shipping number of habitat indicators. department was discharged directly into the river. The discharged water, which was still of good quality, was neither re-used nor recycled. The Biodiversity Indicator Reporting System (BIRS) has The water flow was re-designed to capture this water and return it been designed by an independent group of experts, in to the existing recirculation system, where it was then reused in the close cooperation with the mineral extraction industry for production process. the building sector, and drawing on the help and advice of a wide circle of biodiversity conservation specialists. By the end of the project, the plant had achieved the reuse of 126,100 m3 of water per year. This represents a reduction in water withdrawal The BIRS will provide information to allow us to answer from the river of nearly 13%, exceeding the target set at the start of three questions: the project. • How do we affect habitats and ecosystems for which An additional three leaks were also identified during the project. Work is we have management responsibility? currently ongoing and, once completed, the plant is expected to further • How effective are our biodiversity mitigation and improve its specific water consumption and, consequently, reduce its habitat rehabilitation measures? total water withdrawal. • How do we measure and report on our biodiversity management activities? Through the BIRS, the indices of all sites in a selected region or country can be aggregated into a regional/ national index, which in turn can be combined on a global level. By reviewing our global results, we will be able to determine whether overall biodiversity suitability is increasing or decreasing in our plants. Full details on the BIRS system can be found at www.holcim.com/sustainable 28 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH 2030 MATERIAL ISSUES 2030PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Master SDA label Master SDA label with focus area icons Focus area icons: Climate, Resources and Communities HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Communities Solutions Solutions Solutions Positive social impact 2030 2030 2030 Master SDA label with Climate icon Master SDA label with Resources icon Master SDA label with Communities icon In our Holcim Sustainable Development Ambition 2030, we stated our ambition to invest strategically and develop “inclusive business models” to create positive social impacts and business returns. As a further aim, we committed to improving the Solutions Solutions Solutions quality of life – in particular with regard to livelihoods and shelter – of 100 million people at the base of the pyramid. 2030 2030 2030 Inclusive business To enable us to measure the number of people who MasterThe core SDA label with Climate andbehind premise inclusive Resources icon business is that Master SDA the label with Climate andbenefit Communities icon these programs, from Master SDA labelwewithhave developed Resources a icon and Communities profitability and competitiveness of a company and the protocol (www.holcim.com/sustainable) in conjunction well-being of its community are interdependent. To be with internal and external stakeholders. The protocol successful, these initiatives must address a social need, will be used from 2015, with the aim of moving forward drive product or service development, be profitable and from our previously conservative estimates. In 2013 and provide measureable benefits to the company. 2014, an estimated 10.4 million people benefited from our initiatives. With this ambition in mind, we have implemented a range of inclusive business initiatives. Examples Strategic social investment performance of inclusive business solutions include housing and Not all social needs can be addressed through sanitation for low-income customers, and of micromarket-based solutions, which is why strategic social enterprise development that provides us with investments remain important. These are investments products and services. that sustainably improve people’s quality of life, by enabling the implementation of activities in the areas of education, community development and infrastructure, contributing to capacity building and empowerment of stakeholders. Our pathway to achieving the Holcim Ambition for Communities 75% 40m 100m 2015 2020 2030 Invest 75% of our CSR 40 million people at the Impact 100 million people spending in strategic social base of the pyramid to benefit at the base of the pyramid and collaborative projects from our strategic social between 2013 and 2030, investment and inclusive progressively focusing on business initiatives between inclusive business solutions 2013 and 2020 29 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS To ascertain that social investments are strategic, Stakeholder and community engagement we encourage Group companies to use our Social We have long recognized the value of engaging with Engagement Scorecard. The Scorecard evaluates the the communities in which we operate and we use feasibility of proposed projects, and the efficiency and a number of platforms to achieve this (details of impact of projects that are under implementation or engagement activities carried out by Group companies concluded. In 2014, 72% of Group companies reported are included in the performance data summary on that they used the Scorecard to evaluate projects. page 38). All Group companies are expected to have a Community Engagement Plan (CEP) in place covering all of their operational sites. By the end of 2014, 92% of Sanitation for life in India Group companies had plans in place. Sanitation is a global issue impacting the lives of millions of The CEP is developed in collaboration with local people. Poor sanitation not only stakeholders, who include representatives from local affects people’s health and dignity, government, associations, schools and NGOs. These but also slows down the economic stakeholders also participate in our Community Advisory and social development of the Panels (CAPs), our local platforms for dialogue, where country. According to UNICEF, 53% community representatives discuss project ideas, of India’s population currently has address conflicts or voice concerns. More details no access to toilets. of the engagements and partnerships undertaken by Group companies can be found at As concrete is an ideal material for the construction of sanitation units, www.holcim.com/sustainable ACC Limited (ACC) and Ambuja Cements Limited (ACL), the Holcim Group companies in India, have initiated the Sanitation for Life (S4L) In 2014, we invested CHF 33m in community project. For this project, ACC and ACL develop concrete sanitary units engagement activities – approximately 1.5% of income for sale to low-income clients in rural India. Subsidies are available from before taxes – and an estimated 6.4 million people local authorities and development agencies, and credit for low-income benefited directly from these projects (full details can clients is obtainable through micro-credit institutions. be found in the performance data table on page 38). With 53% of spend being allocated to strategic projects The project is currently being piloted in two locations while two more in 2014, we are on track to achieve our 2015 target will be added in the coming months, involving local business partners of focusing 75% of the amount we invest in CSR on and the distributor network. The number of units produced and sold in strategic social and collaborative projects. 2015 is targeted at 10,000 by the end of the year and expected to rise to 500,000 annually by 2025. We further engage with key stakeholders at a global level. In various contexts we collaborate with Concurrently, as part of their community outreach programs, both the German Federal Enterprise for International companies are engaging in sanitation education campaigns in the Cooperation (GIZ) and the International Union for relevant areas. It is hoped that nearly 6 million people will have Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Holcim is also a member benefited from the program by 2030. of the Corporate Support Group of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), an organization known for protecting the lives and dignity of victims of conflict and other life-threatening situations. This engagement allows us to implement our commitment to sustainable development in conflict-affected regions where both Holcim and the ICRC operate. 30 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE RESOURCES COMMUNITIES ENHANCED SOLUTIONS Eco-friendly school in Madagascar Poor infrastructure in Madagascar is considered the main cause of very low levels of primary school enrollment, particularly in rural areas (69% in 2012, according to UNICEF). For this reason, building schools has always been a priority for Holcim Madagascar’s social responsibility work. To address this gap and enhance the development of local skills, Holcim Madagascar led the building of an eco-friendly school near a pozzolan quarry in the village of Tritriva, 220 km from the capital Antananarivo and 45 km from our Ibity plant. A masons’ school, educating local people in sustainable construction methods, was also established. Masons undergoing training at Tritriva, Madagascar. Traditional local construction techniques use furnace-prepared or ‘cooked’ bricks in building work, which creates considerable CO2 emissions. When designing the new school, Holcim decided to adopt an environmentally friendly solution based on compressed bricks. The twoclassroom school, which expects to welcome 100 new pupils in the next school year, was built according to sustainable construction standards with compressed bricks, generating just 20 tonnes of CO2. In comparison, a cooked-brick school generates 100 tonnes of CO2 and consumes half a hectare of eucalyptus trees for its furnaces. In addition, 20 local residents began training as masons. Once trained, they will be the main workforce for future social projects in the area. The training was conducted by professional masons, who helped motivate trainees and ensure that they completed their education, while Holcim Madagascar contributed to trainees’ family incomes for the duration of the training. The success of the project was based on its engagement with the local community from the start. Holcim Madagascar intends to repeat the project in two other sites, Ibity and Andranomanelatra. Planned projects include education, health, access to water and sanitation, and income-generating activities, which will be developed taking environmental aspects into account, as well as local community involvement. 31 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Performance Economic performance CSI GRI 2012 2013 2014 Net sales (CHF billion) G4-EC1 21.1 19.7 19.1 Input factor (cost of all goods, materials and services provided) (CHF billion) 13.1 11.7 11.5 Depreciation and amortization (CHF billion) 2.2 1.5 1.4 Value creation for Holcim and key stakeholders Benefit to employees G4-EC1 4.0 3.6 3.5 Benefit to governments (taxes) 0.6 0.7 0.7 Benefit to shareholders (including minorities) 0.5 0.6 0.7 Benefit to creditors 0.7 0.6 0.5 Benefit to communities 0.045 0.036 0.033 Retained in business 0.5 1.0 0.9 Sales of cement (million tonnes) 142.3 138.9 140.3 Sales of mineral components (million tonnes) 4.8 4.1 4.3 Sales of aggregates (million tonnes) 158.2 154.5 153.1 Sales of ready-mix concrete (million m3) 45.3 39.5 37.0 Sales of asphalt (million tonnes) 9.1 8.9 10.0 Sustainable product % revenues from our portfolio of Sustainability Enhanced Solutions Note 1 G4 EN2 n/a n/a 7 Tonnes of secondary materials used (million tonnes) Note 2 n/a 36.9 38.2 % of cement products containing mineral components Note 3 76 79 78 Cement types produced by Holcim Slag cement (%) G4 EN2 10 10 10 Pozzolan cement (%) 8 8 7 Fly ash cement (%) 25 27 27 Limestone cement (%) 16 15 17 Multiple blend cement (%) 13 15 13 Masonry cement, oilwell cement, white cement, special binder, MIC and other (%) 4 4 3 Ordinary Portland cement (%) 24 21 22 Suppliers Goods, services and materials purchased (CHF billion) G4-EC1 13.1 11.7 11.5 % of suppliers identified as High Risk (for sustainability criteria aligned with the Holcim G4-LA14 5.2 6.9 10.4 Supplier Code of Conduct) Note 4 G4-EN32 G4-HR10 G4-SO9 Group companies screening local suppliers for sustainability criteria (%) OH&S (%) G4-LA14 91 91 91 Environment (%) G4-EN32 66 77 75 Human rights and labor (%) G4-HR10 64 75 73 Bribery and corruption (%) G4-SO9 25 52 59 Local suppliers screened OH&S (%) G4-LA14 15 27 38 Environment (%) G4-EN32 10 14 14 Human rights and labor (%) G4-HR10 15 17 22 Bribery and corruption (%) G4-SO9 5 11 31 National market suppliers % of Group companies with a policy to favor national market suppliers G4-EC9 18 20 20 % of suppliers from national markets 88 84 83 Government relations Political contributions (CHF) G4-SO6 91,677 52,295 73,526 Number of Group companies making political donations 2 3 3 Average subsidies from national governments (grants, tax relief and other financial G4-EC4 1.4 1.2 1 benefits) (CHF million) Number of Group companies receiving subsidies 14 11 11 32 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Economic performance (continued) CSI GRI 2012 2013 2014 Customer relations % of Group companies conducting a customer survey 76 75 74 % of those surveyed measuring customer satisfaction 95 100 100 Overall Net Promoter Score Note 5 n/a n/a 56.6 % of Group companies with a specific customer health and safety policy G4-PR1 41 51 44 % of Group companies with a specific product information and labeling policy G4-PR3 45 51 52 Environmental performance CSI GRI 2012 2013 2014 Number of plants included in evaluation Note 6 Cement and grinding plants 152 146 142 Aggregates 332 294 265 Ready-mix concrete 1,143 925 837 Management systems Implementation of ISO 14001 (% of plants) Cement plants 95 96 94 AFR pre-treatment platforms 95 95 93 Aggregate plants 43 45 47 Ready-mix concrete plants 34 40 38 Environmental investments and environmental compliance Environmental investments (CHF million) G4-EN31 42 38 46 Provisions for site restoration and other environmental liabilities (CHF million) 843 719 742 Number of plants/quarries reporting noncompliance cases G4-EN29 Cement 2 3 6 Aggregates 10 2 2 Ready-mix concrete 29 20 14 Noncompliance cases Cement 2 3 8 Aggregates 12 2 2 Ready-mix concrete 32 27 19 Associated fines and penalties (CHF) Cement 80,300 347,000 22,000 Aggregates 150 2,490 425 Ready-mix concrete 131,116 7,860 3,200 Reducing CO2 emissions Cement Absolute gross CO2 emissions (million tonnes) Note 7  G4-EN15 95.9 95.4 98.7 Absolute net CO2 emissions (million tonnes)  93.2 92.6 95.6 Specific gross CO2 emissions (kg CO2/t cementitious materials) Note 7  G4-EN18 595 590 594 Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/t cementitious materials)  578 572 575 Aggregates Absolute gross CO2 emissions (million tonnes) G4-EN15 0.3 0.2 0.2 Specific gross CO2 emissions (kg CO2/tonne of product) G4-EN18 2.0 1.8 1.8 Ready-mix concrete Absolute gross CO2 emissions (million tonnes) G4-EN15 0.1 0.1 0.1 Specific gross CO2 emissions (kg CO2/m3) G4-EN18 1.9 2.2 1.7 Total Scope 1 emissions (cement, aggregates, ready-mix and own power generation) G4-EN15 100.8 100.0 103.2 (million tonnes) Note 8 Total Scope 2 emissions (cement, aggregates and ready-mix) (million tonnes) Note 8 G4-EN16 6.8 6.4 6.9 Total Scope 3 emissions (cement, aggregates and ready-mix)(million tonnes) Note 8 G4-EN17 n/a 21.9 21.7 Energy Thermal energy mix of clinker production (%) G4-EN3 Coal 56 52 52 Petcoke 21 25 25 Heavy fuel 1 0 0 33 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Environmental performance (continued) CSI GRI 2012 2013 2014 Energy (continued) Natural gas 7 7 7 Shale and lignite 2 2 2 Alternative fossil fuels 9 9 10 Alternative biomass fuels  4 5 4 Thermal energy efficiency (MJ/tonne clinker)  G4-EN5 3,499 3,466 3,469 Thermal substitution rate (% thermal energy from alternative fuels)  G4-EN6 12.9 13.7 14 Waste types used as alternative fuels (%) G4-EN6 Waste oil 4 3 3 Tires 9 11 9 Plastics 11 11 13 Solvents 11 9 9 Impregnated sawdust 4 3 3 Industrial waste and other fossil-based wastes 29 29 31 Animal meal and animal fat 3 1 1 Agricultural waste/charcoal 14 15 13 Wood/non-impregnated sawdust 1 1 1 Other biomass 14 16 16 Dried sewage sludge, paper, carton and diaper waste 2 1 1 Clinker factor (average % of clinker in cement)  70.1 69.8 69.8 Fuel consumption (specific MJ/t) G4-EN3 Cement 2,804 2,751 2,743 Aggregates 27 24 25 Ready-mix concrete (MJ/m3) 28 32 26 Fuel consumption (total million GJ/a) G4-EN3 Cement 452 445 456 Aggregates 4 3 3 Ready-mix concrete 1.2 1.2 0.9 Power consumption (specific) kWh/t G4-EN3 Cement 96 94 94 Aggregates 2.6 2.9 2.8 Ready-mix concrete (kWh/m3) 3.5 3.8 3.7 Power consumption (total million kWh/a) G4-EN3 Cement 15,525 15,368 15,608 Aggregates 410 387 378 Ready-mix concrete 157 140 132 Other atmospheric emissions NOx Number of kilns reporting Note 9 G4-EN21 127 122 112 Total emissions (tonne/a)  165,710 154,540 156,740 Average specific concentration (g/tonne cementitious materials)  1,100 1,125 1,120 SO2 Number of kilns reporting Note 9 G4-EN21 130 122 115 Total emissions (tonne/a)  26,330 27,250 29,400 Average specific concentration (g/tonne cementitious materials) Note 10  175 200 210 Dust Number of kilns reporting Note 9 G4-EN21 130 122 115 Total emissions (tonne/a)  6,660 6,260 4,190 Average specific concentration (g/tonne cementitious materials) Note 11  44 46 30 Mercury Number of kilns reporting Note 9 G4-EN21 127 116 112 Total emissions (tonne/a)  1.63 1.2 1.0 Average specific concentration (g/tonne cementitious materials)  0.011 0.009 0.007 Organics Number of kilns reporting Note 9 G4-EN21 129 119 113 Total emissions (tonne/a)  5,540 5,150 4,970 Average specific concentration (g/tonne cementitious materials)  37 38 36 34 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Environmental performance (continued) CSI GRI 2012 2013 2014 Other atmospheric emissions (continued) Dioxins/furans Number of kilns reporting Note 9 G4-EN21 127 117 114 Total emissions (grams/a)  2.6 3.1 2.5 Average specific concentration (micrograms TEQ/tonne cementitious materials)  0.017 0.022 0.018 Implementation rate of continuous emission monitors (%)  91 92 95 Biodiversity and resources conservation Number of biodiversity-sensitive sites G4-EN11 Cement  46 55 54 Aggregates  39 35 40 Number of biodiversity-sensitive sites with Biodiversity Action Plans in place Cement  G4-EN12 28 47 51 Aggregates  20 34 37 Approved mining plans by local authorities (% sites) Cement 100 100 100 Aggregates 99 94 94 % of sites with quarry rehabilitation plans in place Cement  G4-EN12 99 99 99 Aggregates  95 90 92 Water Note 12 Number of sites with water risks Note 13 Cement n/a 51 48 Aggregates n/a 66 62 Ready-mix concrete n/a 226 244 Water withdrawal Cement Total water withdrawal (mio m3) G4-EN8 n/a 48.3 42.7 From public grid n/a 4.0 3.1 From groundwater/springs n/a 18.2 16.7 From surface waters n/a 17.6 14.9 From rainwater harvested n/a 4.1 4.0 Purchased and transported n/a 0.4 0.7 Quarry water used n/a 4.0 3.2 Aggregates Total water withdrawal (mio m3) G4-EN8 93 72.4 64.0 From public grid n/a 6.7 0.8 From groundwater/springs n/a 26.4 15.2 From surface waters n/a 26 26.0 From rainwater harvested n/a 1.2 11.7 Purchased and transported n/a 1.0 0.1 Quarry water used n/a 11.2 10.2 Ready-mix concrete Total water withdrawal (mio m3) G4-EN8 8.4 8.2 From public grid n/a 4.5 4.4 From groundwater/springs n/a 2.3 2.1 From surface waters n/a 0.4 0.3 From rainwater harvested n/a 0.3 0.4 Purchased and transported n/a 0.9 0.9 Water Discharge Cement Total water discharge (mio m3) G4-EN22 n/a 9.78 16.7 To surface water n/a 9.30 14.1 To groundwater n/a 0.14 1.0 To sewers n/a 0.32 0.8 Others n/a 0.20 0.8 35 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Environmental performance (continued) CSI GRI 2012 2013 2014 Water (continued) Aggregates Total water discharge (mio m3) G4-EN22 n/a 16.8 25.4 To surface water n/a 11.7 19.9 To groundwater n/a 4.9 4.3 To sewers n/a 0.03 0.04 Others n/a 0.02 1.2 Ready-mix concrete Total water discharge (mio m3) G4-EN22 n/a 0.75 0.7 To surface water n/a 0.36 0.3 To groundwater n/a 0.08 0.1 To sewers n/a 0.24 0.2 Others n/a 0.08 0.1 Specific water consumption (l/t) Cement 260 281 185 Aggregates n/a 413 282 Ready-mix concrete (l/m3) 244 204 213 Water consumption (total million m3/a) Cement 40 39 26.0 Aggregates n/a 56 38.5 Ready-mix concrete 11 8 7.5 Water recycling systems (%) Cement G4-EN10 85 84 86 Aggregates 63 66 62 Ready-mix concrete 84 83 84 Transport G4-EN29 Road (%) Cement 71 72 71 Aggregates 82 80 81 Ready-mix concrete 100 100 100 Rail (%) Cement 19 19 18 Aggregates 5 5 6 Water (%) Cement 10 9 11 Aggregates 8 9 9 Other (%) Aggregates 5 6 4 Waste management and recycling Waste generated and disposal (tonnes) Note 14 Cement Production waste G4-EN23 n/a 84,620 104,310 Total other waste (hazardous) G4-EN25 n/a 93,950 12,300 Recycled n/a 13,310 7,680 Downcycled n/a 73,670 1,990 Incineration n/a 900 890 Controlled landfill n/a 6,080 1,740 Uncontrolled landfill n/a 0 10 Total other waste (non-hazardous) n/a 273,460 114,060 Recycled n/a 77,200 55,120 Downcycled n/a 138,630 19,690 Incineration n/a 9,440 2,160 Controlled landfill n/a 48,160 37,080 Uncontrolled landfill n/a 30 10 Aggregates Production waste G4-EN23 n/a Total other waste (hazardous) G4-EN25 n/a 9,500 1,210 36 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Environmental performance (continued) CSI GRI 2012 2013 2014 Waste management and recycling (continued) Recycled n/a 3,120 940 Downcycled n/a 140 140 Incineration n/a 6,050 80 Controlled landfill n/a 190 50 Uncontrolled landfill n/a 0 0 Total other waste (non-hazardous) n/a 34,090 9,780 Recycled n/a 24,820 5,370 Downcycled n/a 4,330 200 Incineration n/a 400 140 Controlled landfill n/a 4,540 4,070 Uncontrolled landfill n/a 0 0 Ready-mix concrete Production waste G4-EN23 n/a 735,790 680,100 Total other waste (hazardous) G4-EN25 n/a 640 420 Recycled n/a 420 160 Downcycled n/a 100 130 Incineration n/a 70 80 Controlled landfill n/a 50 50 Uncontrolled landfill n/a 0 0 Total other waste (non-hazardous) n/a 30,080 31,160 Recycled n/a 2,800 10,300 Downcycled n/a 9,960 270 Incineration n/a 9,910 12,700 Controlled landfill n/a 6,940 5,050 Uncontrolled landfill n/a 470 2,840 General waste management system (%) Cement 99 97 99 Aggregates 95 92 97 Ready-mix concrete 87 89 92 Returned concrete recycling system (%) Ready-mix concrete 22 22 22 Social performance CSI GRI 2012 2013 2014 CSR strategy % Group companies with a specific CSR strategy 96 84 91 Employment practices Group employees by region 76,359 70,857 67,584 Asia Pacific 36,523 34,080 31,850 Latin America 11,765 11,181 10,733 Europe 17,924 15,868 15,399 North America 7,136 6,791 6,777 Africa Middle East 2,153 2,128 1,928 Corporate 858 809 897 Employee turnover (%) Note 15 G4-LA1 Asia Pacific 6.7 8.5 7.7 Latin America 19.5 18.5 12 Europe 13.1 16.1 13.3 North America 10.8 13.8 15.9 Africa Middle East 3.0 5.2 5.9 Corporate 15.3 22.9 19.2 Personnel expenses (CHF million) 4,023 3,653 3,538 Asia Pacific 1,090 894 866 Latin America 549 548 468 Europe 1,275 1,122 1,124 North America 779 777 762 Africa Middle East 86 86 94 Corporate 244 227 224 37 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Social performance (continued) CSI GRI 2012 2013 2014 Employment practices (continued) % of female workforce G4-LA12 Top management level 10 11 11 Senior management level 9 9 10 Middle management level 13 13 14 Nonmanagement level 12 12 13 Notice given for operational changes 5–6 5–6 5–6 G4-LA4 weeks weeks weeks % Group companies conducting employee satisfaction surveys Note 18 57 49 10 % Group companies with employee grievance procedures 86 86 96 % where grievances can be submitted anonymously 69 73 92 Training Hours of training per employee G4-LA9 Senior management 37 41 32 Middle management 55 54 56 Other organizational levels 23 28 24 Average all levels 28 32 29 Occupational health and safety Number of fatalities – cement, aggregates and ready-mix concrete G4-LA6 Directly employed  5 7 5 Indirectly employed  22 23 20 Other Note 16  18 17 16 Lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) Directly employed (Own and subcontractors onsite) Note 17  G4-LA6 1.3 1.3 1.6 Indirectly employed (Third-party service providers on site)  1.6 1.2 1.3 Total Injury Frequency Rate (TIFR) Directly employed (Own and subcontractors onsite) G4-LA6 6.6 5.7 4.8 Indirectly employed (Third-party service providers on site) 5.2 5.0 4.1 % Group companies with serious disease programs 94 86 88 % Group companies with joint health and safety committees G4-LA8 96 100 98 % of workforce represented by committees 87 84 85 Human rights % Group companies giving training on equal opportunity policies G4-HR2 47 37 42 % Group companies giving training on human rights policies 37 37 42 Community involvement Community spending total (CHF million) G4-EC1 45 37 33 % Donations and charity 17 19 14 % Education projects 14 21 17 % Community development projects 24 22 23 % Infrastructure community projects 24 10 11 % Low-income housing 2 2 % CSR overhead 16 21 28 % Other 5 5 4 Number of people directly benefitting from inclusive business and strategic social n/a 4.0 6.4 investments (Million) Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement at local level (% of Group companies) G4-SO1 Needs assessment 69 78 85 Stakeholder involvement in CSR planning 80 82 84 CSR/SD memberships 80 71 72 Stakeholder dialogues 82 76 80 Community engagement plans in place 94 90 91 Community advisory panels 74 76 92 Cooperations 76 65 70 38 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Notes to the performance data table Note 1 The definition of Sustainability Enhanced Solutions can be found on our Note 9 We have a universe of 115 kiln lines excluding Gador (Spain) and Prachovice website www.holcim.com/sustainable. The methodology for measuring (Czech Republic) which were divested in January 2015 and did not report. the % of revenues from Sustainability Enhanced Solutions is still under Where data reported was incomplete or unreliable for a specific component, development. The figure reflected is an estimate based on Holcim Group to maintain data integrity that plant was excluded from the calculations Companies, net sales and volume of low CO2 cements sold 2014. Price and this is reflected under “number of kilns reporting”. differentiation by product was not considered. Note 10 The increase is due to increased sulfur content in the raw material mix in Note 2 The figure reflects the amount of secondary materials that Holcim recover some plants. and reuse from other industrial processes or construction activities. These Note 11 The improvement is mainly due to the closure of a kiln line and a filter are industrial mineral components (e.g slag, fly ash, artificial gypsum), upgrade at one of the largest emitting plants. secondary aggregates (e.g. recycled construction Note 12 The improvement in water performance is due to the continuing and demolition waste and asphalt), alternative fuels and alternative implementation of the Holcim Water Measurement Protocol. This has raw materials. led to more accurate measurement due the installation of water meters Note 3 Reflects the % of products other than Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC). and also a better understanding of definitions and what needs to be Note 4 Measured using the Sustainable Procurement Initiative methodology measured and reported. developed in 2012. The increase is due to the inclusion of an additional Note 13 Based on the Holcim water risk matrix developed in conjunction with IUCN. element on contractor safety in the methodology. It is expected that the Note 14 This is only the second year we have reported waste figures in such detail. number of “high risk” suppliers will increase even further as a result of this. The fluctuations in figures are due to improved data quality and a better Note 5 As a measurement of customer intimacy, Holcim relies on Customer Loyalty, understanding of definitions. Furthermore, waste figures are often driven a concept that is stronger than Customer Satisfaction. Holcim applies the by large refurbishment projects and the completion or initiation of a project “Net Promoter Score” Methodology, which allows for a direct dialogue can significantly influence waste volumes. with customers. The figure reflects a consolidated global figure for the Net Note 15 Reflects total number of people leaving – we do not yet collate figures for Promoter Score survey conducted in Holcim Group companies (Promoters voluntary turnover. minus detractors). Note 16 These reflect casualties in areas outside of our direct control and influence, Note 6 The change in the figure is mainly due to divestments resulting from the mainly traffic-related accidents on public roads. CEMEX transaction in Spain and the Czech Republic and also plant closures. The “cement” figure reflects cement plants and grinding stations. Note 17 Holcim believes the increase is not as a result of more incidents than before – rather we are ascertaining more and this advancement in culture is Note 7 The increase in the reported absolute emission is primarily due to the reflected in this increased figure. increase of cement production, notably in China. The stagnation in specific emissions is due to fuel mix adjustments at key plants. Note 18 In addition, a Group-wide employee engagement survey was conducted in the first half of 2015, covering over 50,000 employees. Note 8 • Total scope one emissions include emissions from own power generation at cement plants which are excluded in the absolute emissions figures reported for cement as per the WBCSD/CSI cement CO2 protocol. • Scope two emissions figures for 2012 and 2013 reflect cement only. 2014 includes aggregates and ready-mix. • Scope three emissions include: purchased goods and services, fuel and energy-related activities, upstream transportation and distribution, business travel, employee commuting and downstream transportation and distribution. The largest portion (39%) is downstream transportation and distribution. 39 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Methodology and assurance Methods of data collection We collect information from Group companies using the following tools: Plant Environmental Profile (PEP) questionnaire; equipment data and operating statistics based on annual plant technical reports; corporate CO2 inventory according to the WBCSD/WRI Cement CO2 Protocol; corporate Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) questionnaire; and our Corporate Social Responsibility questionnaire. Our data collection systems enable monitoring of WRI Cement CO2 Protocol. All historical data have been performance at three operational levels: individual recalculated according to the updated Protocol, to enable plant performance; Group company; and corporate comparison of data over time. Historical data are also consolidation of global performance. restated to reflect changes in consolidation of companies and acquisitions/divestments. System boundaries The scope of our reporting is outlined below. Social performance – Personnel data represent consolidated data from Holcim Group plants and companies’ covering Economic performance – Data included represent the entire Group’s consolidated operations. OH&S data consolidated data from Holcim Group plants and are collected for all operations via monthly reports and companies covering all of the Group’s operations, and an annual survey, which is then revalidated by our regular are consistent with those reported in the Holcim Annual business process system. Data are segregated according Report 2014. to on-site and off-site (logistics-related) incidents, and cover directly and indirectly employed, third-party service Environmental performance – CO2 and energy: the scope providers, visitors and others. This is consistent with of data collection for CO2 and resources use includes the WBCSD CSI Guidelines for Reporting. All other social integrated cement plants, grinding and blending stations. performance data are derived from the CSR questionnaire, Consolidation of data is consistent with the WBCSD/CSI which covers all Group companies (except Cement Cement CO2 Protocol where operational control is used as a Australia), and are fully consolidated. criterion. Where Holcim owns between 20% and 50% of the Group company and does not have management control, Reporting cycle data are proportionally consolidated; below 20%, the data Holcim has publicly reported SD performance since 2002. are not reported; all other companies are reported 100%. Until 2013, a full report was published every two years. Since 2013, a full report has been published every year. Other environmental data – The Plant Environmental Profile (PEP) self-assessment questionnaire is the source External assurance of performance information and data related to all other PwC has undertaken external assurance of our reporting, environmental impacts of the cement, aggregates and including a review of our materiality process and of the ready-mix concrete business segments; all data from all draft report. Full details of the scope of the assurance, principal consolidated Group companies are included which included CO2, OH&S and selected environmental in this report at 100%. CO2 data from the non-cement data, and the data collection process for social data can business segments is reported based on data from the PEP. be found in the assurance statement on page 41. An independent expert panel also informed the materiality Restatement of historical data – Holcim now reports CO2 process and reviewed the report and their statement is and resources use according to Version 3 of the WBCSD/ on page 43. 40 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Independent Assurance Report on the Holcim Sustainable Development Reporting To the Executive Committee of Holcim Ltd. Rapperswil-Jona (‘Holcim’): We have been engaged to perform assurance procedures to provide limited assurance on selected aspects of the 2014 Corporate Sustainable Development Report of Holcim (“CSDR”). Responsibility and Methodology Scope and subject matter The Holcim Executive Committee is responsible for both the Our limited assurance engagement focused on the following preparation and the presentation of the selected subject matter data and information disclosed with the CSDR of Holcim and in accordance with the reporting criteria. Our responsibility is to its consolidated subsidiaries, for the period January 1, 2014 to form an independent conclusion, based on our limited assurance December 31, 2014: procedures, on whether anything has come to our attention to indicate that the subject matter is not stated, in all material respects, a) Nature and extent of Holcim’s incorporation of the GRI G4 in accordance with the reporting criteria. materiality principles (materiality, sustainability context, and stakeholder inclusiveness) with respect to stakeholder dialogue; We planned and performed our procedures in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) b) The application of the WBCSD Cement Sustainability Initiative ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical (CSI) guidelines to the reporting and disclosure of CO2 emissions, financial information’. This standard requires that we comply with other emissions (NOx, SO2, dust) and OH&S data as well as the ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement internal reporting system and procedures, including the control to obtain limited assurance on the identified environmental data. environment, to collect and aggregate CO2 emissions, other emissions (NOx, SO2, dust), water, biodiversity, transport, waste For the subject matter for which we provide limited assurance, the management, recycling, OH&S data, social data, information nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient from Holcim’s CSR Questionnaire and ethical and sustainability appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable issues regarding Holcim’s contracted workforce; and assurance engagement. c) The cement-related scope 1 & 2 CO2 emissions data in the tables We have complied with the independence and other ethical in the section Environmental Performance on page 33, the other requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants emissions data (NOx, SO2, dust) on page 34, water, biodiversity, issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, transport, waste management and recycling data in the tables which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, in the section Environmental Performance on pages 35 37, the professional competence and due care, confidentiality and OH&S data (Fatalities, LTIFR & TIFR) in the tables in the section professional behaviour. Social Performance on page 38 and ethical and sustainability issues regarding Holcim’s contracted workforce disclosed in the 2014 CSDR. Summary of work performed Our assurance procedures included the following work: Criteria The management reporting processes with respect to the CSDR • Evaluation of the application of external and internal reporting were assessed against the internal and external policies and guidelines procedures as set forth in the following: Reviewing and assessing the application of the external WBCSD CSI measuring, monitoring and reporting guidelines and the • Global Reporting Initiative G4 reporting guidelines, May 2013 Holcim internal data reporting guidelines (see section ‘Criteria’); • The following WBCSD Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) guidelines: • Site visits and management inquiry ­ – Cement CO2 and Energy Protocol (version 3.1), December 2013; Visiting selected plants of Holcim in Argentina, Romania, Vietnam – Safety in the Cement Industry: Guidelines for measuring and and Morocco. The selection was based on quantitative and reporting (version 4.0), May 2013; qualitative criteria and represents on average the following coverage: – Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and Reporting in the ­ – SO2 : 2% of Group emissions Cement Industry (version 2.0), March 2012; ­ – NOx: 8% of Group emissions • Holcim internal data reporting guidelines of and the defined ­ – Dust: 4% of Group emissions procedures by which the CO2 emissions, other emissions ­ – CO2 : 7% of Group emissions (a further 38% of Group (NOx, SO2, dust), environmental, OH&S and social (CSR) data emissions have been externally assured in the scope of are gathered, collated and aggregated internally as part of the emissions trading schemes such as the EU ETS and Group data management of Holcim; and company SD reports that have been externally assured) • The principles summarized in the section “Methodology and assurance” on page 40 of the CSDR which define the scope of Interviewing personnel responsible for internal reporting and the reporting. data collection at the plants we visited and at the country Head Office level; The accuracy and completeness of sustainability indicators are subject to inherent limitations given their nature and methods for • Assessment of the performance indicators determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our assurance Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting report should therefore be read in connection with Holcim’s the CO2 emissions, other emissions (NOx, SO2, dust), water, internal guidelines, definitions and procedures on the reporting biodiversity, transport, waste management, recycling, OH&S of its sustainable development performance. and ethical and sustainability issues regarding Holcim’s contracted workforce related data, relative to completeness, accuracy, adequacy and consistency; • Assessment of the processes and data consolidation Reviewing the appropriateness of the management and reporting processes for CO2, other emissions (NOx, SO2, dust), water, biodiversity, transport, waste management, recycling, OH&S, ethical and sustainability issues regarding Holcim’s contracted workforce and CSR questionnaire reporting; 41 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE • Interviews and management inquiry regarding GRI G4 Conclusion materiality adherence Based on our work performed and described in this report on the Inquiries and interviews with selected executive and senior identified CSDR Reporting 2014 nothing has come to our attention managers, the SD steering committee and staff from the SD causing us to believe that: department representing different functions in the Group, regarding Holcim’s adherence to the GRI G4 materiality a) Holcim’s materiality determination process does not adhere to principles (materiality, sustainability context, and stakeholder the principles and guiding factors (materiality, sustainability inclusiveness), including Management’s commitment to the context, and stakeholder inclusiveness) with respect to principles, the existence of systems, procedures and processes stakeholder dialogue as defined with GRI G4; to support adherence to the principles and the embedding of the principles at corporate level. b) Holcim’s internal CSDR guidelines and internal reporting • Review the CSDR systems to collect and aggregate CR data are not functioning as Reviewing the coverage of material issues within the CSDR designed and provide an appropriate basis for its disclosure in against the key issues defined in the stakeholder engagement all material aspects; and processes, material issues and areas of performance covered in peers and good practice reports, as well as topics raised by plant c) The CSDR data and information mentioned in the subject and local head office levels of the Holcim organisation. matter disclosed in the 2014 CSDR is not stated, in all material respect, in accordance with the reporting criteria. We have not carried out any work in respect of projections and targets nor such outside of the agreed scope and therefore restrict our conclusion to the 2014 CSDR of Holcim. Zurich, 18 May 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers AG We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. Marc Schmidli Stephan Hirschi 42 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Statement of Holcim’s External Report Review Panel reviewing the Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 Introduction achievement of the targets and to disclose the externalities and Since 2007, Holcim has invited an External Report Review Panel multiplied indirect impacts to the company, the environment and of independent experts. The panel’s objectives were to: society. In this regard, the panel encourages aiming for external • challenge the company’s approach to sustainable development assurance of the methodology to monitor Holcim’s sustainability and ambitions and validation of the data. • assess the content and process of preparing its Corporate Sustainable Development Report. Report structure and content The CSDR 2014 is an easy read and has made a lot of progress in For this year’s review, Holcim retained seven members from the terms of completeness. A consistent structure guiding readers previous panel. through the strategy, the portfolio of sustainability enhanced solutions and other material issues would be appreciated as well See www.holcim.com/sustainable for details of the panel members. as links between the sections to highlight interconnectedness for example between integrity and human rights. This statement provides an assessment of Holcim’s Corporate Sustainable Development Report (CSDR) 2014. The review did not The report refers more clearly to international standards and include verification of performance data underlying the report or frameworks (e.g. UNGC, OECD guidelines and UN Guiding the information on which the case studies in the report were based. Principles) Holcim aligns with and its approach to managing human The members of the External Report Review Panel express their rights risks and its Human Rights Impact Assessments (HRIA) are views as individuals, not on behalf of their organizations. good practice and the level of detail disclosed is exemplary. The stringent implementation of the HRIA should be followed closely The engagement started in January 2015, when panel members in a continuous learning process. were asked to provide input to the structure and outline of the Holcim Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014. In April To understand implementation of Holcim’s sustainability commitment 2015, the experts discussed the draft report during an online in the Group, the panel would like to see bottom up examples of how consultation. Based on their feedback, the panel statement was the different activities improve the situation at local level. Future drafted and circulated to the panel members for approval. reports would benefit from additional case studies for example on how Holcim is operating with integrity, how the sustainable To ensure independence, the external panel process was facilitated procurement initiative is being implemented or information about by Barbara Dubach, engageability, and monitored by the CSDR training of contractors as well as corrective actions. assurors, PricewaterhouseCoopers. Opportunities for improvements The External Report Review Panel (ERRP) is pleased to share with The focus on integrity and occupational health and safety is seen this statement its independent opinion on Holcim’s Corporate as very positive: A chapter on competition and on responsible tax Sustainable Development Report 2014. confirming that Holcim aims to adopt a tax policy of ensuring that each jurisdiction in which it operates receives a fair share of tax Feedback to Holcim’s Corporate Sustainable Development revenues would complete the report. To reach the target of a zeroReport 2014 harm organization, Holcim should provide information about what Approach didn’t work and what more can be done to improve the status quo. The panel welcomes Holcim’s sustainable development strategy, the long-term vision of Ambition 2030 and appreciates the The next report should address the challenges of the merger summary of progress against targets disclosed in the report. The including information how the two cultures are being brought community targets to ‘improve the quality of life – in particular together as well as the impacts on people. According to the panel with regard to livelihoods and shelter – of 100 million people at the members, Holcim’s standards should be the basis for the future base of the pyramid’ are exciting, more exciting than the climate company. or resources targets, especially as the importance of the social dimension will further increase in the future. In light of the planned In addition to this panel statement, the credibility of future reports merger between Holcim and Lafarge, the panel recommends would benefit from the inclusion of critical but constructive voices. maintaining these targets, particularly its CO2 commitments. Conclusions The panel understands that a comprehensive materiality review The panel applauds the progress made and is pleased to see that will be undertaken after completion of the merger. Most material Holcim has incorporated feedback from previous panels as well as topics are addressed well in the 2014 report and new topics such comments raised during this review. as managing contract labor have been taken up based on previous feedback. The impact of the renewed materiality assessment and With hope of Holcim’s continuing commitment to sustainable goals the data collection process for the planned integrated profit and and shared value creation while addressing the significant impacts loss statement on the company’s strategy will need to be shown and challenges of the merger, which external stakeholders will be in next year’s report. watching with great interest, the panel looks forward to further engagement over the coming years. The case study about pilot testing the Sustainable Development Ambitions 2030 in Costa Rica nicely highlights the impacts of Holcim’s SD strategy beyond the company gate. The panel recommends assessing the broader impact and benefits of the Sustainability Enhanced Solutions beyond the immediate 43 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Holcim response Holcim welcomes the constructive comments and recommendations from the independent External Report Review Panel (ERRP) and also the findings of the report assuror. Holcim remains committed to addressing the recommendations in a process of continuous improvement. We are grateful for the recognition of the progress we have made, Opportunities for improvements and mindful of the challenges we still face. Our response to the We are equally committed to all dimensions of the triple bottom main themes contained in the statements is as follows: line and tried to demonstrate this in the report. We will strive to ensure that this better reflected in future reports. Approach to sustainability We are convinced that the aspirations we set with the Holcim We take note of the recommendations to provide further case Sustainable Development Ambition 2030 is the right direction studies and examples, and in particular to provide information and we will bring it as a key input for the future strategy of the on what didn’t work. Holcim has been working hard to develop a new Group. culture where criticism and mistakes are viewed as opportunities to improve performance. We will continue on this path and reflect We are heartened that the emotional appeal of the targets and this in future reports. ambitions set out in the “Communities” stream are singled out by the panel as exciting. We do however feel that the “Climate” and We further take note of the panel’s views that the combining of “Resources” aspirations are also challenging and ambitious. Indeed, cultures and the impacts on people of the proposed merger with Holcim is the first in its sector to commit to action to cap absolute Lafarge should be addressed in the next report, and that Holcim’s CO2 emissions across the lifecycle. standards should be maintained. Holcim and Lafarge both have a clear and deep commitment to sustainable development – and We take note of the call for assurance of the methodologies to this commitment will carry over into the new group. If anything, monitor our sustainability ambitions. We are still in the process of sustainable practices will need to be further enhanced to reflect defining the monitoring methodologies and the most appropriate the higher responsibility that the merged entity will have as the metrics. This process involves a robust peer review before the undisputed leader of our sector. methodologies are deployed. When appropriate, we will include the validation of the data into the scope of our external assurance. In conclusion, we thank the panel and our assurors for their goodwill and constructive recommendations to improve our SD Report structure and content performance. Their contribution is highly valued and appreciated. We appreciate the recommendations of the panel for improving the report’s content and structure and will take them into account when planning future reports. We take heed of the call for more granular reporting on taxes and will be addressing this in the course of 2015, giving a breakdown of taxes paid per region. We appreciate the endorsement of the Holcim human rights management approach and take note of the recommendation to ensure continuous improvement in its implementation. Holcim takes human rights very seriously and we will strive to refine our approach and ensure robust and meaningful implementation of the Human Rights Management System throughout the Group. 44 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY AND ASSURANCE Communication on progress Global reporting initiative UN Global Compact (UNGC) This PDF report, with additional information on With our integrated approach to sustainable our web site, is prepared in accordance with the development, Holcim aims at embracing the UNGC Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability principles. We strive to implement the 10 principles Reporting Guidelines at comprehensive level. of the Compact and to use it as a basis for advancing To locate the elements and information contained responsible corporate citizenship. At the same time, within the guidelines, including disclosures on the Compact provides Holcim with the opportunity to management approach to economic, environmental further push our own ongoing programs and processes and social aspects, use the GRI index at in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the www.holcim.com/sustainable environment and anti-corruption. Holcim, along with organizations from over 50 Holcim is involved in the expert group on “Responsible countries, is an Organizational Stakeholder of the GRI Business and Investment in conflict-affected and and we are a member of the GRI Stakeholder Council. To high-risk areas” as well as in the “supra-environmental” learn more about the Organizational Stakeholder role in stewardship strategy group. the GRI, go to www.globalreporting.org/OS Our annual communication on progress (COP) to the For a detailed explanation of the GRI indicators, visit UNGC outlines Holcim’s continued commitment to the www.globalreporting.org Compact’s philosophy, intent and principles. This latest document highlights key actions implemented in 2014 against the Compact’s 10 principles as well as confirming our sustainability priorities and performance targets. Review the COP at www.holcim.com/sustainable Holcim is one of the world’s leading building materials companies and has a presence on all continents. With its innovative products and services and a commitment to sustainable construction, Holcim is contributing to the success of its customers around the world – as a trusted partner for more than 100 years. 45 Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2014 Contact us at Holcim Sustainable Development Corporate Affairs Investor Relations Bernard Mathieu Harry Roegner Michel Gerber Phone +41 58 858 54 61 Phone +41 58 858 87 10 Phone +41 58 858 87 87 Fax +41 58 858 54 59 Fax +41 58 858 87 19 Fax +41 58 858 80 09 sustainable.development@holcim.com communications@holcim.com investor.relations@holcim.com
