ACCESS BANK LEADING SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION/HIGHLIGHTS 01 EMPLOYEES 36 Executive summary 01 Service quality 36 About this report 01 Employee engagement 36 Key messages 02 Recognition and rewards 36 Group Chairman’s statement 06 Retreats 36 Group Managing Director/CEO’s statement 07 Meetings 37 Key performance 08 Access Recreation Centre 37 Economic performance 08 The Access Women Network 37 Awards received 08 Employee satisfaction survey results 38 Markets served 10 Employee career development 40 Scale of reporting organisation 11 Compliance Performance Indicators 42 Our products, services and markets served 12 Women empowerment principles 44 Personal accounts 12 Thought leadership 46 The 2013 Access Leadership Conference 46 ORGANISATIONAL INFORMATION 14 Board composition, selection ENVIRONMENT 48 and tenure of Directors 14 Environmental and Social Performance 48 Organisational profile 14 Materials 49 Nature of ownership and legal form 15 Energy 49 Water 49 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 16 Corporate philosophy 16 SUPPLY CHAIN 50 Our vision 16 Supplier engagement 50 Our mission 16 Supplier assessment data 50 Our approach 17 Stakeholder engagement in 2013 18 COMMUNITY 52 Risk/opportunities assessment 20 Private Sector Health Alliance of Nigeria 52 Our five year target 21 World AIDS Day Play for Life Campaign 53 Materiality 21 The Access Foundation 53 Material issues 21 The Nigerian Stock Exchange 12th annual essay competition 53 Corporate governance 22 Community investment 54 Performance monitoring and evaluation 23 The Bank 54 Shareholders’ engagement 24 Access to information and resource 25 Community investment data 55 Case Studies: employee volunteers 56 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 26 Best practice 26 Other information 62 United Nations Global Compact 28 GRI data table 62 Nigeria Sustainable Banking Principles 30 Assurance statement 67 Contact us 69 CUSTOMERS 34 Corporate directory 70 Customer engagement 34 Joint statement of commitment Core approaches 35 by members of the Bankers Committee 84 Customer satisfaction survey 35 Designed and produced by MerchantCantos, www.merchantcantos.com 85 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 INTRODUCTION/HIGHLIGHTS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Over the past years, Our employees across all markets are guided by a common set of values that corporate and institutional clients through our trade, advisory and structured finance Access Bank has ensure we deliver on our Bank’s goals activities. Successful customers and evolved into a leader while also helping to address both local and global challenges. clients translate into a vibrant market and positive economic growth. in Sustainability and we With the capabilities we have in place, we Valuing our people means developing and are clearly a Bank of best can do more than our past achievements training our employees to world-class practice, having created and with our purpose so clearly defined, there is every reason to be optimistic and standards and building meaningful, long-term capacity in our local markets. a robust and sustainable excited about what lies ahead for our Bank. Strengthening the financial system is a business in which people Valuing our customers means providing responsibility we take seriously and we can have confidence, access to the capital they need to realise their dreams, whether that relates to support our regulators’ plans for recovery and reform of our financial system with our employees take pride, managing their personal finances or continued prudent risk management and growing their businesses. We are and our communities committed to financial inclusion – we capital allocation decision-making as well as promoting new ways to encourage can trust. innovatively put our capital, talent, systemic stability, accountability, experience and products to work in transparency and responsibility. segments of the population where access Creating value for our local communities to finance has traditionally been limited means that we recognise that we have a and where we can open eyes to new role to play in making a contribution to the possibilities. Valuing our customers also real economy and society by improving the means understanding their needs, building communities in which we operate and long-term relationships and demonstrating protecting the natural environment on over and over why we should be the trusted which we all depend. business partner of choice when we provide capital to our commercial, About this report as AA1000 Assurance Standards and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 This report covers the period 1 January Sustainability Reporting Guidelines – see 2013 to 31 December 2013 (our fiscal year www.globalreporting.org 2013). In some cases, where highlighted, The GRI context index details our information for early 2014 is also included performance in line with the GRI financial to give a holistic picture and provide an sector supplement. This is available on our update. Facts and figures refer to the website www.accessbankplc.com Group unless otherwise indicated. Corporate Citizenship has provided We have expressed our involvement in independent third party assurance for the the community through the LBG model, 2013 Access Bank Sustainability Report. which enables us to articulate the Bank’s The assurance process was carried out in contribution to community development, line with the AA1000 Assurance Standard. by measuring cash, in kind and time. For more information, please see This is our sixth report and in developing Corporate Citizenship Assurance this report, we have also utilised relevant statement on page [65]. international standards and guidelines such 01 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 INTRODUCTION/HIGHLIGHTS INTRODUCTION/HIGHLIGHTS KEY MESSAGES KEY MESSAGES We are making progress in our journey towards becoming the world’s most respected African bank. The journey has been exciting and has elicited more commitment to delivering our brand promise – to serve our customers with Speed, Service and Security. Accordingly, we are transforming the Bank operationally and culturally, with a view to making banking with Access Bank as convenient as possible for every one of our customers. Access Bank makes and delivers a simple and compelling promise to each and every customer. Our principles, processes and products are directed towards delivering Speed, Service and Security to customers. CUSTOMERS Rapid response and quick access to advice, information EXPECT and products are important to all customers. SPEED Our ability to translate effective governance and leverage employees’ competence to deliver swift and appropriate responses to customers is a significant competitive advantage. 02 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 03 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 INTRODUCTION/HIGHLIGHTS INTRODUCTION/HIGHLIGHTS KEY MESSAGES KEY MESSAGES CUSTOMERS Security is fundamental to customers. They need to be able to trust us to manage their DEMAND finances responsibly. 95% of customers say that security is SECURITY the most important factor in choosing to bank with us. We are focused on creating a responsible financial organisation that will be the pride of Africa. We challenge the status quo and look for continuous improvements in our standards and services. We play our part in a number of independent initiatives that support our aims, and our governance and employee training systems help ensure we are focused on managing our customers’ finances responsibly. CUSTOMERS We work hard to understand and respect our customers and provide world-class service. “Security matters to our customers, and expectations have DESERVE Our customers appreciate that we treat everyone with respect risen dramatically” SERVICE and consideration. Access Bank launched a Women’s Banking Division in 2013. We are committed to promoting the economic empowerment of women, within the Bank and amongst our customers. This Division plays a catalyst role of profitably and sustainably serving women as individual customers and as business owners, through products and services specifically tailored to women. 04 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 05 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 INTRODUCTION/HIGHLIGHTS INTRODUCTION/HIGHLIGHTS GROUP CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STATEMENT FROM THE GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR/CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Building The World’s Most enabling environment and build lasting, meaningful capacity. By disclosing and reporting our activities, though we are the only indigenous Nigerian Leading sustainably We are committed to contributing proactively to shaping a sustainable future Thought leadership and innovation also drive our efforts to promote economic Respected African Bank The Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles bank to produce annual Sustainability I am pleased to present our sixth annual for Africa. We are advocates of responsible empowerment. We have therefore put Reports, we believe it is important to share Sustainability Report, setting out the banking practices and through our day to the strength of Access Bank’s business Our vision is to be the World’s Most which have been adopted by all Nigerian our story for all to see – when we succeed broader social, environmental and day business activities, we support resource and people to institute the Respected African Bank. Undoubtedly, banks is a transformative initiative which we and even when we fall short. economic contributions we made to individuals and organisations in achieving Access Leadership Conference, Africa has emerged as the next growth initiated and it is changing the face of our operating markets and the global their financial goals; our risk appetite is convened out of a corporate desire to frontier and it is increasingly being banking as well as driving sustainable In everything we do, we lead by example. community as a whole in 2013. prudently managed; we invest in customer arouse the consciousness of Africans recognised as such by the entire global economic growth, particularly in three initial We are not afraid to be the first or even the relationships; we empower communities to be agents of change. The Conference community. The banking sector has a critical sectors which are critical to the future of the only. But sometimes there is a need to do At Access Bank, we recognise that our and we provide employment for 13,000 presented outstanding success stories role to play in delivering Africa’s growth Nigerian economy: agriculture, energy and more than lead. By acting as conveners, sustainability journey will be filled with employees. from a variety of internationally recognised story, but the sector can only play this role oil & gas. we have sought to leverage the combined innovations, adventures and challenges. speakers. Themed “Embracing Sustainable effectively, by embracing sustainability influence and power of the banking sector While Access Bank is proud of the many Access Bank has maintained its position as We realise, however, that the growth story Leadership”, the inaugural conference which enables both the sector and society to drive the change we need and want to milestones we have reached on our way a leader in the Sustainability space. It was cannot be growth at all cost. It must be convened leaders from within and outside to achieve success in the long term. see in Nigeria and Africa. We are raising the to becoming a leading sustainable bank, great to see our progress acknowledged growth on all fronts: growth that balances the country whose discoveries and standards, we are changing the way the we are also cognisant of the path that still when CSR-in-Action named Access At Access Bank, we recognise this and we economic profits with environmental and influence have impacted on the global regulator thinks about the future of banking lies ahead – and we are determined to Bank first for Corporate Citizenship in are focused on mainstreaming sustainable social considerations, growth that balances economic environment. The conference in Nigeria, we are driving a fundamental continue leading the way to ensure that Nigeria in the first ever competitive index business practices into our activities and the needs of many with the needs of a was organised in line with the Bank’s belief shift in the understanding of environmental what we do today impacts positively on corporate social responsibility in operations for strategic growth and wealthy and powerful few, growth that drives that sustainable development must be and social risks and opportunities in the on people and the planet for generations Nigeria. Clearly, we have continued to long-term success. This starts at the top the development of infrastructure to an integral part of any economy for it market, and we are building capacity. to come. improve on what we do as a responsible with the Board and Executive Committee, encourage business expansion as well as the to succeed. corporate citizen. and underpins our corporate philosophy and provision of basic life services, growth that We are aware that our process is being I believe that sustainability must be Looking ahead, we do not rest on our is also the personal responsibility of every benefits the real economy and creates jobs watched by many and hope that it forms embedded into the fabric of any business laurels as we continue to seek new individual in the Bank. for a fast-growing population. a replicable blueprint for transformation that intends to contribute to economic I believe that sustainability opportunities for progress. This we beyond Africa. We are already delivering development whilst achieving long-term Access Bank has an exciting growth story, results on every front to our customers, success. Fulfilling a broader social, must be embedded into the believe is important to reaffirm our Bank’s including growing from ranking 65th at our We will set the standard and our people, our communities, our environmental and economic purpose fabric of any business that leadership as a sustainable organisation inception to one of the Top 4 banks in for which other organisations model and, Nigeria in 10 years. We believe that we have the example for Africa and, if continent. We will continue to measure does not mean looking away from profits. intends to contribute to ultimately, the realisation of our corporate a unique role in, if not a responsibility to, we get it right, the rest of the the impact that we are having as a bank on Without creating value for shareholders, economic development whilst vision of becoming the world’s most society. We will continue to drive and be the banks cannot attract sufficient capital to society. We are helping to grow local world. We believe this is what change we need and want to see in Africa. meet the credit needs of society. However, achieving long-term success. respected African Bank. communities and the real economy through it takes to build a sustainable We will set the standards and the examples generating profits cannot be the only goal the provision of capital which drives infrastructure development, creates jobs business and a sustainable for Africa and, if we get it right, the rest of of a responsible bank. Our approach to sustainability gets and enables companies and individuals to economy. Not only is it what the world. We believe this is what it takes The significant impact of unsound banking stronger as we continue to use the power to build a sustainable business and a of business to fight the scourge of diseases purchase goods and do business every day. we believe – we’re banking sustainable economy. Not only is it what practices on the economic health of many in society and champion innovative health HERBERT WIGWE One of the most profound impacts we can on it. This is the Access Way. countries around the world is a salutary Group Managing Director/CEO we believe – we’re banking on it. This is the initiatives. In 2013, our Bank became a have in Africa, can be to contribute to a reminder of the profound responsibilities Access Way. pioneering member of the Private Sector prosperous economy. This does not, banks have as custodians of nations’ We see clearly our role and indeed our Health Alliance of Nigeria (PHN), Nigeria’s however, mean economic growth at any savings and as enablers of the efficient profound ability as a bank to be an engine foremost private sector platform to cost. Our strategy is to drive profitable, deployment of capital to lay the foundation for this growth. By integrating and contribute to the Saving One Million ethical economic growth that is also for economic growth and job creation. mainstreaming sustainability Lives movement and advance progress environmentally responsible and GBENGA OYEBODE (MFR) Sustainability therefore remains at the considerations into the entirety of our in meeting the health Millennium socially relevant. Chairman core of our operations in Access Bank. business practices, we achieve triple Development Goals by focusing on In building the world’s most respected bottom-line growth. By applying innovation, partnerships, advocacy African bank, our strategy does not end with international standards, we signal that we and impact investments. Access Bank. We are focused on leading have a place in the global markets and the way in Africa by applying international encourage further investment in Nigeria. standards, and where we need to, By banking the traditionally unbanked, pioneering new standards. We know that we we lift up more of our people and help can do more, not by doing it alone, but by them contribute to real economic growth. raising the standards of the entire banking By acting as sustainability ambassadors, sector. Levelling the playing field helps, but we multiply our impact by spreading the it’s also about unifying the voice and role of message to our growing number of the banking sector to be the change we stakeholders. By engaging our employees want to see in Africa. on sustainability issues, we create an We are pro-actively engaging our peers and inspired and unified workforce dedicated to competitors and our collective stakeholders and rallying around the vision of sustainable to drive change, raise standards, create an banking for a sustainable Nigeria. 06 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 07 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 INTRODUCTION/HIGHLIGHTS INTRODUCTION/HIGHLIGHTS KEY PERFORMANCE KEY PERFORMANCE Economic performance Significant changes customers in key industry sectors with minimum annual turnover of N20billion. • Business Banking The business banking division is a hybrid Change in size The Bank grew its total assets by 12%, due Below is an analysis of how value was created and distributed to relevant stakeholders Changes to business segments It also provides innovative finance of commercial and personal banking largely to an increase in lending to various during the period: There was a significant change in the solutions to meet the short, medium and divisions. It focuses small and medium sectors in order to fund the growth and Statement of value added structure and operations of the Bank in long-term financing needs of our clients scale enterprises, providing them with value creation in these sectors. The Bank Bank Bank 2013. Considering the improved market as well as relationship banking services to business solutions to support their grew its loans and advances by 34% to December December share of the Bank after acquisition of our financial institutions customers. growing business needs. The division N748billion. Significant among the In Thousands of Naira 2013 2012 Intercontinental Bank, the Bank delivers commercial banking products sectors are: • Commercial Banking Gross Earnings 181,737,641 174,535,283 realigned its business segments for and services to small and medium-scale The commercial banking division has a • Oil & Gas, Interest Expense improved customer engagements enterprises (SME) customers with annual presence in all major cities in Nigeria. It • Real Estate activities, and – Foreign (6,483,452) (2,049,595) across the entire value chain. This turnover of less than N1billion. provides commercial banking products • Power and Energy – Local (54,542,394) (57,375,283) realignment was predicated on the Bank’s and services to non-institutional clients, 120,711,795 115,110,405 increasing market share, and the need to Below is the analysis of loans per sector as at 31 December 2013: including medium and small corporate provide end-to-end value chain services Net Impairment (loss) on Financial Assets 6,356,951 (6,190,567) segments of the Nigerian market whose for our customers; a revised operating In Thousands of Naira Net Impairment (loss) on Other Financial Assets 328,083 (5,425,511) annual turnover is above N1billion. The model focused on delivery of a distinctive Sector Amount Bought-in Materials and Services division also provides financial services to customer experience balanced with Agriculture 11,435,182 Foreign (47,393,675) (23,108,745) the public sector, commercial institutions efficient service delivery operations. Capital market 177,518 Value Added 80,003,154 80,385,582 and oriental corporates. Distribution of value added The new business segments Construction 23,338,255 • Personal Banking To Employees: The Bank has four reportable segments, Education 668,715 The personal banking division is the retail As employees costs 25,937,818 28,412,192 as described below, which are the Bank’s Finance and Insurance 12,343,465 arm of the Bank which provides financial To Government strategic business units. The strategic products and services to individuals General 14,554,456 business units offer different products and Government as Taxes 5,153,552 443,919 (personal and inclusive segments) and General Commerce 93,962,250 services, and are managed separately To Providers of Finance private banking segment. The private based on the Bank’s Management and Government 63,676,766 Interest on Borrowings 5,152,243 4,112,692 banking segment focuses offering internal reporting structure. Information and Communication 76,960,274 Dividend to Shareholders 19,450,480 12,588,539 bespoke services to High Net-worth Retained in Business: • Corporate and Investment Banking Individuals (HNI) and Ultra High Net-worth Manufacturing 151,316,070 For replacement of property and equipment 7,780,207 9,678,299 The division provides bespoke Individuals (UHNI) by handling their wealth Oil & Gas 221,441,492 For replacement of equipment on lease 1,273,023 1,384,837 comprehensive banking products and portfolio needs both locally and abroad. Real Estate activities 51,464,340 Retained profit (including statutory and regulatory risk reserves) 15,255,831 23,765,104 a full range of services to multinationals, The division provides financial solutions Transportation and Storage 14,435,214 80,003,154 80,385,582 large domestic corporates and other across various channels (ATM, Mobile Power and Energy 10,465,298 institutional clients. The division focuses banking, etc) and platforms. Professional, Scientific and Technical activities 883,097 Others 1,418,441 748,540,833 Awards received June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 December 2013 September 2013 June 2013 Business Day Socially Gold Category Winner Best Nigerian Credit card product Risk Management Winner, Website Business Day Deal Responsible Lender – Corporate Identity Company in of the year Award Effectiveness award of the Year of the Year The Communicator Awards, Corporate Citizenship Access Bank emerged overall Conrad Clark Nigeria, Web Jurist, Philips Consulting Business Day Newspaper a leading international awards Access Bank was judged winner in the ‘Credit Card Business Day, UK Institute Access Bank website was The Access Bank Plc – Access Bank was judged the programme recently judged the best Nigerian company in Product of the Year’ category at of Risk Management adjudged overall winner of the Neconde Energy Limited most socially responsible bank Access Bank’s corporate Corporate Citizenship in the the annual Card and e-Payment The Bank was adjudged the 2013 edition of the Web-Jurist USD470million facility was of the year at the Business Day identity as a gold winner in its first ever competitive index on Africa Awards ceremony held Overall Winner in the Banking ‘Website Effectiveness Award’ adjudged the 2013 Business Annual Banking Awards. identity campaign category. corporate social responsibility at Sandton, Johannesburg, and Investments Services conducted by Philips Day Banking Awards Deal of the in Nigeria by CSR-in-Action, South Africa. The award is in category at the 2013 Nigerian Consulting. Access Bank Year as the Banking Transaction a registered social enterprise recognition of the Bank’s Risk Awards ceremony. The website was adjudged best of the Year. devoted to the advancement investment in its card products award, organised by Conrad in the technical aspects of social ethics, social and channel services, creativity, Clark Nigeria in collaboration which included Navigation, responsibility and corporate innovation and value to its with Business Day and the UK Functionality and Security. governance in Nigeria. customers.. Institute of Risk Management, Also the website was declared was in recognition of the winner in the Website Content Bank’s measurable results that had metrics such as through the effective Accuracy and Presentation. implementation of enterprise risk management principles. 08 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 09 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 ORGANISATIONAL OVERVIEW ORGANISATIONAL OVERVIEW MARKETS SERVED MARKETS SERVED Africa 8 OVER Scale of reporting We take pride in our ability to add value to clients, leveraging our unique value organisation 6m proposition to provide innovative and 1 Ghana proactive solutions across entire Number of Branches: 32 We are one of the largest economic value chains. In deploying Total Staff: 757 CUSTOMERS banks in Nigeria and serve products and services, the Bank Number of Accounts: 200,410 over six million customers adheres to responsible business practices and readily commits resources to social R.D. Congo from 310 branches. investments in fulfilment of its corporate 2 OVER 350 Number of Branches: 2 The Bank is licensed to carry out social responsibility convictions. Total Staff: 79 international banking services and We are located in all major commercial Number of Accounts: 48,070 provides a comprehensive range of centres and cities across Nigeria, six BRANCHES financial services. The key business other African countries and the United 3 Rwanda segments of the Bank are: Institutional Kingdom. For more about the Bank’s Number of Branches: 7 Banking, Commercial and Consumer sustainable business practices, visit Total Staff: 159 Banking, Financial Banking and Private www.accessbankplc.com Number of Accounts: 16,052 Banking. The key customer segments include: telecommunications, beverages, 4 Zambia 6 manufacturing, construction, Oil & Gas, Number of Branches: 5 parastatals, high net-worth individuals Total Staff: 126 and middle income professionals. Number of Accounts: 16,193 5 7 5 Sierra Leone 1 Number of Branches: 4 Total Staff: 86 2 Number of Accounts: 11,771 3 6 The Gambia Number of Branches: 5 Total Staff: 133 Number of Accounts: 50,971 4 7 Nigeria (Group Head Office) Number of Branches: 310 Total Staff: 7,054 Number of Accounts: over 6,000,000 UK We take pride in our ability United Kingdom 8 Number of Branches: 3 to add value to clients, Total Staff: 83 leveraging our unique Number of Accounts: 1,369 value proposition to provide innovative and proactive solutions across entire economic value chains. 10 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 11 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 ORGANISATIONAL OVERVIEW ORGANISATIONAL OVERVIEW OUR PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND MARKETS SERVED OUR PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND MARKETS SERVED Personal accounts Our account offerings include: Access Early Savers: Access Early Savers is a savings account Investment Savings Account: The Investment Savings Account (ISA) Access Premier: The Access Premier Account is a high Auto Online: Auto Online is Access Bank’s Consumer Standard Savings Account: We offer a wide range of The Standard Savings Account is an which offers parents/guardians the is a unique account that allows customers yield individual current account which Banking product for individuals and opportunity to save as well as inculcate meet their aspirations and future plans. has investment benefits designed to organisations who would like to own a products and services aimed account that helps individuals save towards a savings culture in their children. The The account allows customers to target a meet individual financial needs. brand new car in a quick, stress-free and at meeting your strategic future financial security, thereby facilitating product also has financial literacy benefits, specific lump sum at the point of entrance, financially convenient way. The product business needs through a savings culture for its target groups to Mpower Corporate: wherein it utilises its reach to teach children where progressive monthly savings are is driven by an automated web-based help secure the future. The account is The Mpower Corporate Account is a innovation and commitment easy and convenient to operate.. how to handle their finances in an enjoyable made until the target is achieved, while solution designed to provide a robust consumer loan application system. to customers’ needs. and interactive manner. the savings attract interest. support for automated payroll Access Private Bank: Solo Account: Access IPSA: Standard Current Account: administration through our Access Our Wealth Management team has been Access Solo Account is a savings account The Access IPSA is a Hybrid savings The Current Account helps individuals Pay Platform, delivered at no cost upgraded to private banking to provide that is targeted at school children and account with features and benefits of a save towards future financial security and with a high turnaround time. personalised banking practices. Private young adults, such as students in higher current account. The account offers and advances. The Standard Current Banking delivers personal innovative institutions. The account provides these holders the opportunity to issue cheques Account is a checking account. The investment solutions to our clients. young people with the unique opportunity on the account at no extra commission. account gives flexibility for managing Through expertise and dedicated banking to start saving for the future from their day-to-day financial affairs. services, our highly experienced team teen years. utilises their unique skills to understand and advise our clients in order to provide bespoke services that will meet their tailored needs. At Access Bank, we have the various needs We also offer personalised We take a proactive approach of our diverse market at heart and that is why products and services that cut to product and service delivery across advisory, investment, and offer unique solutions we have developed highly personalised and banking and risk management. wherein we help to manage easy to run products and services to suit your We create and develop your investment and concerns need. We have also developed a range of structured products tailored in a highly personalised way. value-adding banking solutions for both to suit your needs and help This is why we provide you with meet your range of financial a dedicated Private Banker to institutions and individuals. aspirations, from traditional walk with you all the way. banking through innovative investments to financial planning. 12 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 13 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 ORGANISATIONAL OVERVIEW ORGANISATIONAL OVERVIEW ORGANISATIONAL INFORMATION ORGANISATIONAL INFORMATION Board composition, Organisational profile selection and tenure Access Bank Plc is a full-service of Directors commercial and retail bank with headquarters in Nigeria and operations Directors are currently employed by the across Sub-Sahara Africa and the United Bank are deemed Executive and all others Kingdom. We were incorporated in are deemed Non-Executive Directors; February 1989 as a privately-owned financial institution, commenced banking Non-Executive Directors will always operations in May 1989 and became listed constitute at least a majority of the Board; on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1998. An Executive Director that has substantial The Bank demonstrates exemplary stock of the company upon retirement performance in its financial and nonfrom active employment may elect to serve financial disclosures. In deploying products on the Board as a non-executive director. and services, Access Bank adheres to In all other cases, an Executive Director responsible business practices and readily shall submit his or her resignation from the commits resources to social investments Board upon termination of active service in fulfilment of its Corporate Social as an employee. Responsibility convictions. A Director will retire from the Board at the next annual meeting of the shareholders Nature of ownership based in the Republic of Cameroun. The impairments arising from the divestment following the attainment of age 70. and legal form have been accounted for in the Bank’s A Director will also vacate office or cease financials beginning January 2013. The Bank was incorporated as a private to be a director, if the Director directly or limited liability company on 8 February In line with the provisions of the Central indirectly takes a facility from the Bank that 1989 and commenced business on 11 May Bank of Nigeria’s Regulation on Scope of remains non-performing for a period 1989. The Bank was converted to a public Banking Activities and Other Ancillary exceeding 12 months. limited liability company on 24 March 1998 Matters, on the permitted activities for and its shares were listed on the Nigerian Commercial Banks with International Stock Exchange on 18 November 1998. Authorisation, the Bank in 2013 The Bank was issued a universal banking concluded divestment from the following licence by the Central Bank of Nigeria on non-banking subsidiaries: Access 5 February 2001. Investment and Securities Limited, Access Insurance Brokers Limited, The Bank’s principal activities include the Access Bureau d’ Change Limited and provision of money market products and Project Star Limited. The dissolution of services, retail banking, granting of loans the five capital market subsidiaries namely: and advances, equipment leasing, corporate Intercontinental Capital Markets Limited, finance and foreign exchange operations. Intercontinental Trustees Limited, The Bank has the following international Intercontinental Registrars Limited and banking subsidiaries: Access Bank (Gambia) Intercontinental Finance and Investments Limited, Access Bank (Sierra Leone) Limited and Intercontinental Securities Ltd Limited, Access Bank (Zambia) Limited, was completed subsequent to the orders The Access Bank UK Limited, Access Bank of the Federal High Court sitting in Lagos. (Ghana) Limited, Access Bank Rwanda, The Bank has also completed the spin-off Access Bank (D.R. Congo) and FinBank of Wapic Insurance Plc, following the Burundi. The Bank also has Access Finance receipt of shareholders’ approvals at the BV, an offshore Special Purpose Vehicle court-ordered meeting of 11 September for the issuance of the U.S.$350,000,000 2013, and the court sanction of the 7.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2017, Scheme by the Federal High Court on guaranteed by the Bank. 20 September 2013. The winding-up modalities for Access Homes and The Bank in December 2013 concluded Mortgages Limited, Intercontinental divestment from Access Bank Côte Bureau d’Change Limited and Flexmore d’Ivoire. The divestment was concluded Technologies Limited are currently at with full regulatory approvals via a direct completion stage. sale of the Bank’s entire equity holding in the subsidiary to a preferred bidder, Afriland First Group S.A, a financial services group 14 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 15 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Our approach As a Bank, we are not only in business to In the period under review, we made progress in our sustainability performance with regards to our environmental, social maximise shareholders’ value; we consider and economic impacts. Our strategic result the social and environmental impact of areas include: every aspect of our banking operations. • Environment The Bank’s Management has a high level By focusing and applying our resources of focus on sustainability and the Bank’s and experience, we have become a strategy is to integrate sustainability into powerful force in managing operational our operations for the long-term success impact of business on the environment by of our business. mainstreaming environmentally-friendly Access Bank’s Board of Directors, policies into our business. through an established CSR/Sustainability Corporate philosophy Committee, provides the highest level of • Supply chain In our journey to become a truly governance oversight for sustainability sustainable enterprise, our Bank has management. The CSR/Sustainability taken a look beyond direct operations Committee is responsible for overseeing Our Vision Our Core Values – Financial education: Helping people clearly understand how our products Professionalism delivery of the Bank’s sustainable business and deep into supply chain. We continue to influence the behaviour of suppliers by strategy, to ensure the Bank’s sustainability To be the world’s Excellence and services work; – Financial inclusion: Providing finance to • Putting our best foot forward in everything we do, especially in high ambitions in each of its strategic priorities enforcing policies covering human rights, labour and environment. Most Respected • Surpassing ordinary standards those individuals and communities that pressure situations; are achieved. African Bank. to be the best in all that we do; traditionally have limited or no access • Consistently bringing the best of our We adopt global best practice principles, • People and culture • Setting the standards for what to finance; and knowledge and expertise to the table in We have continued to attain business frameworks and standards, to support it means to be exceptional; – Treating customers fairly: Building all our interactions with our stakeholders; unit buy-in for a broad Environmental effective mainstreaming of sustainability • Never losing sight of our commitment long-term relationships based on trust, • Setting the highest standards in our work and Social Risk Management (ESRM) in the Bank. We are therefore an Equator to excellence, even when the going fairness and transparency. ethics, behaviours and activities in the Policy which is applied in our lending Principles Financial Institution, gets tough; way we treat our customers and – just decision. We also continue to pursue organisational stakeholders of Global • Remembering that excellence requires Empowered employees as importantly – each other; Reporting Initiatives, and members of the our aspiration to be the employer of choice in the communities where dedication and commitment; and • Putting our customers’ needs ahead United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), • Recruiting and retaining the right people of ours; we operate. • Our approach is not ‘excellence at all United Nations’ Principles for Responsible and teams based on shared values • Maintaining composure and clear costs’ but ‘excellence on all fronts’ Investments (UNPRI) and the United • Community and vision; Our Mission so that we deliver outcomes that are economically, environmentally and • Developing our people to become thinking at all times; and • Ensuring continuous learning; Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). Putting the community at the centre of everything we do is critical to our success. world-class professionals; Setting standards for sustainable socially responsible. • Encouraging a sense of ownership at the through continuous growth and In 2013, our sustainability approach Our business is focused on listening to career development. business practices that unleash the needs of the communities in which we the talents of our employees, Leadership individual level whilst fostering team spirit focused responsible business operate and providing genuine solutions and loyalty to a shared vision; • Promoting a sense of belonging and Innovation practice and community investment. Our banking philosophy promotes that help improve such communities. deliver superior value to our • Leading by example, leading with guts; • Being first, being the best, sometimes community; • Identifying new market needs and economic development and sustainable customers and provide being the only; • Facilitating continuous learning by opportunities; social and environmental causes across innovative solutions for the • We must embody the change we providing the training, tools and coaching • Creativity, invention, inspiration, a range of stakeholders. Our responsible markets and communities want to see; to help our people grow; and exploration; business practice encompasses economic we serve. • Setting the standard; • Helping them take care of their health; • Pioneering new ways of doing things, development and advocacy; employee • Challenging the status quo; • Pursuing a positive work/life balance for new products and services, new and stakeholder relations; treating • Market making; and increased productivity and improved approaches to clients/customers; customers fairly; the environment; • Self-awareness in being able to employee satisfaction; and • Being first, testing the waters, and gender empowerment. maintain a balanced assessment • Encouraging a diverse workforce; pushing boundaries; of externalities and costs incurred respect for and appreciation of • Going from concept to market/ in the pursuit of leadership. differences in ethnicity, gender, age, reality; and national origin, disability and religion. • Anticipating and responding quickly to Passion for customers market needs with the right technology, products and services to achieve • We live to serve our customers; customer objectives. • In addition to delivering excellent customer service, we focus: – Economic empowerment: Enabling people to achieve more through provision of finance, lifting people up throughout the value chain; 16 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 17 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IN 2013 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IN 2013 Employees Customers Communities Regulators Suppliers Shareholders Why we engage • To ensure that we remain an employer • To gain a better understanding of our • To create partnerships that • To maintain open, • To obtain products or • To continue learning of choice that provides a safe, positive customers, their aspirations, businesses best facilitate our integrated honest and transparent services required for through interaction with and inspiring working environment. and financial services needs. sustainability activities. relationships with regulators conducting our business. the industry and cross• To understand and respond to the • To ensure that we maintain the high • To obtain inputs from and ensure compliance with • To maintain an ideal supply sectoral organisations. needs and concerns of our service levels expected by our customers. communities and nonall legal and regulatory of goods and services for • To leverage and build staff members. • To inform product development governmental organisations requirements in all our our operations. our strategic business • To provide staff with strategic and prioritisation. (NGOs) regarding key countries of operation. • To help suppliers ensure partnerships for the direction and keep them informed • To ensure accuracy of our customers’ focus areas. • To retain our various their own sustainability maximum benefit of all about Group activities. personal and/or business information. • To obtain inputs from operating licences through education and our stakeholders. environmental experts. and minimise our development. • To create awareness of our operational risks. integrated sustainability commitment and initiatives.. Why engage with us • To provide us with feedback and input • To access the financial products and • To secure funding and • To ensure regulatory • To provide products • For mutually beneficial that can help us improve their working services they need. partner on common social compliance. and services. learning and to influence environment and experience. • To get advice and guidance on how and environmental issues. • To promote a sound • To promote new products and/or promote the Bank’s to achieve desired outcomes for • To collaborate in a way that financial system. and service offerings. Sustainability agenda. themselves, their families, their furthers social and • To respond to tenders. businesses and their communities. environmental agendas • To seek input and • To provide us with input that can be used for the greater good. guidance on their to enhance our solutions and services. sustainability journeys. Frequency of engagement • Ongoing and daily engagements • Depends on customer needs and identified • Ongoing, as partnerships • Daily, weekly, quarterly and • Forums, ongoing, • Ongoing, as required. at all levels. service or guidance opportunities. dictate or stakeholder as required. as required. • As required by staff. needs require. Specific 2013 engagements • In addition to the regular, direct • Interactions through branch outlets, • Employee volunteering • Regulatory consultations. • One-to-one negotiations • Investor Day. communication between managers relationship managers, call centres and initiatives. • Working groups. and meetings. • Deal/Non-deal Roadshow. and teams, specific employee complaint lines. • Charitable donations. • Onsite meetings. • Ongoing interaction with • Shareholder Associations engagements in 2013 included: • Customer seminars, surveys, Access • Non-governmental suppliers and contractors Meeting. – Group Executive visioning meetings; Bank Ombudsman. organisation (NGO) for procurement purposes. • Bi-annual Investor – Employee surveys; • Social media, marketing and advertising partnerships. Relations Newsletter. – HR roadshows; activities. • Philanthropic sponsorships. – Intranet; • Specific customer engagements, including • Community outreach – TGIFs (Thank God It’s Friday events); focus groups, one-to-one meetings, efforts. – Retreats; functions and events. – Recognitions and Awards. Material issues Work/life balance Pricing HIV and AIDS education Financial sustainability Pricing, payment terms and See next page. • The establishment of the Access • We have moved towards more transparent • Partnered with NGOs • The Bank complies with the service delivery Our response/resulting Recreation Centre; a facility that and simplified pricing structures. and other partner relevant provisions of the • Special payment terms developments houses a gymnasium, sports/relaxation organisations on HIV/AIDS Securities and Exchange of seven days are adhered Greater accessibility to banking services centre, lunch room, and a crèche. awareness campaigns and Commission and the to for small businesses. and increased channel choice educational events. regulatory requirements • Due diligence completed Development and growth opportunities • Online channels were deployed to of the Central Banks before suppliers are • We offer our employees and managers increase access to banking as well as where we operate. engaged. numerous development opportunities. provide feedback on the Bank’s • These includes talent conversations products and services. between managers and employees Holistic understanding of customers’ about performance, personal businesses aspirations and holistic development. • We proactively match the skills of our bankers to identified customer needs. • We ensure that our customers have access to specialists when these are needed. 18 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 19 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IN 2013 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IN 2013 Risk/opportunities opportunities and, where necessary, incubate new projects until they mature been informed by the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) framework. Our five year target assessment enough to be fully integrated into the operations of the business unit concerned. The Bank’s environmental, social and Increasing revenues • New products and services Sustainability opportunities are identified governance risks are addressed by a policy • Increased customer base through through growth of the business and We ensure that our risk management guideline, which assesses environmental new market segments implementation of sustainability solutions systems cover governance, regulatory, and social risk issues in credit and lending. • Increased balance sheet • Greater access to markets through at business unit level, as well as the Bank’s compliance and reputational risks This forms part of a Group wide framework established licence to innovate and grow participation in sustainability and associated with direct and indirect for addressing the Equator Principles (EP), environmental fora. These fora provide environmental and social impacts. and provides for internal monitoring and platforms to actively pursue sustainability These risk reporting systems have management of ESG performance. Building tangible assets • Improved customer reputation and trust • Higher brand value • Higher scorings in sustainability rankings • Improved employee, stakeholder and regulatory relationships • Winning more sustainability awards Reducing risks • Reduced regulatory risks and costs • Reduced risks of bad loans and reputational Materiality Our current sustainability priorities are hinged on investing in customer processes, while collaborating with and supporting other financial institutions costs through ESG failures • Reduced uncertainty of business risks At Access Bank, materiality is designed to experience, employee development in Nigeria through environmental and • Reduced risk of systemic industry failure provide a view into the information needs and retention, maintaining progressive social risk management capacity of the Bank’s key stakeholders. We define business client relationships, managing building programmes. Reduced costs • Reduced costs from more efficient materiality according to the GRI (G3) operating model our environmental footprints, and • Reduced resource consumption guidelines definition and with reference implementing environmental and • Reduced supplier costs to both internal and external factors. social (E&S) risk management • Reduced costs of sustainability performance management and reporting through Material matters Materiality drivers Key stakeholders Access Bank improved technology Social • Leadership development. • Contributing to social stability • Government, communities, • Access Bank leverages socio• Socio-economic development . and responding to issues of employees, customers, media. economic investment, employee • Developing staff capacity. national development. volunteering and partnerships. • Access to ﬁnance. • Attracting and retaining talented and capable staff. • Contributing to social uplift and social welfare. Economic Material issues Financial disclosure • Adherence to regulatory (local and • Improved customer experience. • Financial and economic conditions • Effective integration and management of • Customers, analysts, media, regulatory bodies, • Access Bank delivers economic beneﬁts in the form of long-term Our response/ international) standards of disclosure and performance. customer experience. governments, employees. cost savings through its resulting developments • Timely and organised disclosure • Effective risk management. • Contributing to a stable economic Sustainability performance. voluntary information • Governance, compliance and ﬁnancial environment. Macroeconomic stability and ethics. • Managing risk exposure. • Access Bank conducts stress tests • Ensure Management is accessible to • Responsible business practices. • Creating sustainable and scenario analyses to position the relevant stakeholders shareholder value. Bank against likely exposure to macroeconomic pressure Corporate governance Environmental • We have a robust corporate governance Regulatory headwinds system, which is regularly reviewed • Environmental and social • Supporting customers • Customers, regulatory • Access Bank enhanced its • The Bank operates an internal watch by independent industry experts. impacts of lending. in environmental and bodies, government, media environmental and social risk system, tasked with consistently ensuring The reviews are conducted on an annual • Reduce carbon emissions. social considerations in and employees. management systems (ESMS). that we stay above regulatory limits by basis and presented by the Board to • Reduce resource consumption. their businesses. Also, the Bank applies Equator having adequate capital (both financial shareholders during the Bank’s Annual • Reducing environmental impact Principles to its project ﬁnance. and human) to support our growth in General Meetings, and subsequently of business operations. The Bank leads and collaborates • Contributing to behaviour change on industry wide initiatives for an increasingly turbulent environment submitted to the Central Bank of Nigeria. for a more sustainable future. environmental sustainability. • Ensuring compliance with Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles and other relevant regulations. 20 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 21 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our corporate governance report provides us the opportunity to report how the Company was directed and governed during the year. It covers the functions of the Board of Directors (the Board) and the workings of our systems and structures of governance. Access Bank Plc (‘Access Bank’ or ‘the Bank’) is committed to implementing the Code) and the Post-Listing Requirements of the Nigeria Stock Exchange. These, in The Bank has a Performance monitoring retained to conduct the performance evaluation. The Board is confident that best practice standards of corporate addition to the Board charter and the multi-faceted approach to and evaluation the firm provides valuable and objective governance. The Bank and its subsidiaries Bank’s Memorandum and Articles of governance that combines evaluation notwithstanding its provision adherence to relevant local In discharge of its oversight functions, (the Group) are governed under a Association, collectively provide the of strategy consulting assistance to the Board continuously engages framework that enables the Board to foundation for sound corporate codes while adopting Management in planning, definition and the Group. The result of the Board discharge its oversight functions while governance. Our core values of international best practice, performance evaluation was presented execution of strategy. Management’s providing strategic direction to the Bank in excellence, innovation, leadership, by the independent consultant during the balance with its responsibility to ensure passion for customers, professionalism especially on issues where report on the execution of defined Board Meeting held on 28 January 2014. local codes are either absent strategic objectives is a regular feature regulatory compliance. The subsidiaries and empowered employees continue The evaluation was a 360 degree exercise of the Board’s agenda, thus providing the comply with the statutory and regulatory to shape our corporate behaviour. or not sufficiently detailed. Board the opportunity to evaluate and covering Directors’ self-assessment, peer requirements of their host countries and assessment and evaluation of the Board The Bank has a multi-faceted approach critique Management’s performance. also align their governance framework to and the Committees. The independence to governance that combines adherence the Bank’s governance framework. The Bank’s performance on Corporate of the Independent Directors vis-à-vis the to relevant local codes while adopting Governance is continuously being CBN Guidelines on Independent Directors The Board is responsible for embedding international best practices, especially on monitored and reported. We carry out of Banks was also evaluated. The result high standards of corporate governance issues where local codes are either absent monthly and half-yearly reviews of our confirmed that the individual Directors and across the Group which is essential for the or not sufficiently detailed. compliance with CBN and SEC codes the Board continue to operate at a very sustainability of the enterprise. Our This approach is underpinned by the respectively and render reports to high level of effectiveness and efficiency. governance framework is designed to necessity for ensuring compliance with the regulators. ensure ongoing compliance with relevant both regulatory and ethical standards corporate governance codes such as The Board has also established a system across our operations in Africa as well Central Bank of Nigeria’s Code of of independent annual evaluation of its as in the United Kingdom and China. Corporate Governance for Banks in Nigeria performance, that of its Committees and Post Consolidation (the CBN Code), the individual Directors. The evaluation is done Securities and Exchange Commission’s by an independent consultant approved by Code of Corporate Governance (the SEC the Board. In 2013, Accenture Limited was 22 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 23 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Shareholders’ The Board and Management are committed to providing shareholders with a continuous its website www.accessbankplc.com is regularly updated with both financial and Access to information engagement and timely flow of information about the non-financial information. The details and resources Group. Access Bank continues to enhance of the Investors Communication and Shareholders’ meetings are convened and There is ongoing engagement between the ability of its Investor Relations function Disclosure Policy are available at the held in an open manner in line with the Executive Management and the Board; to effectively communicate with its local Investor portal on the Bank’s website. Bank’s Articles of Association and existing heads of relevant Strategic Business and international shareholders. Investors statutory and regulatory regimes, for the The Board ensures that shareholders’ Units attend Board meetings to make and stakeholders are frequently provided purpose of deliberating on issues affecting statutory and general rights are protected presentations. The Bank’s external with information about the Bank through the Bank’s strategic direction. This serves at all times, particularly their rights to vote auditors attend meetings of the Group various channels including Quarterly as a medium for promoting interaction at general meetings. The Board also Board, the Group Board Audit Committee Investors Conference Calls, the Annual between the Board, Management and ensures that all shareholders are treated and the Group Shareholders Audit General Meeting, the website, Annual shareholders. Attendance at the Annual equally, regardless of the size of their Committee. Directors have unrestricted Report and Accounts, No-Deal Road Shows General Meeting is open to shareholders shareholding and social conditions. Our access to Group Management and and Investors Forum at the Stock Exchange. or their proxies, while proceedings at shareholders are encouraged to share in Company information in addition to the such meetings are usually monitored by The Bank has a robust Investors the responsibility of sustaining the Bank’s resources to carry out their roles and members of the press, representatives of Communication and Disclosure Policy. corporate values by exercising their rights responsibilities. This includes access to the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Central Bank As provided in the policy, the Board and as protected by law. external professional advice at the Bank’s of Nigeria and the Securities and Exchange Management ensure that communication expense as provided by the Board and Commission. The Board ensures that with the investing public about the Bank Committee’s charters. shareholders are provided with adequate and its subsidiaries is timely, factual, notice of meetings. An Extraordinary broadly disseminated and accurate in General Meeting may also be convened accordance with all applicable legal and at the request of the Board or shareholders regulatory requirements. The Bank’s holding not less than 10% of the Bank’s reports and communication to shareholders Paid-up Capital. and other stakeholders are in plain, readable and understandable format while 24 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 25 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Partner United Nations Profile UNEP FI is a global partnership between UNEP and the Partnership update Being a member of the UNEP FI, we are bound by financial sector providing opportunity for organisations to the principles of the global effort to lead and Environment understand and respond to environmental considerations facilitate Environmental and Social initiatives As a bank of best practice, we have a responsibility to society in Programme Finance on financial performance. The body seeks to advance the in the banking industry. addition to our duty to help grow local communities and the real Initiative (UNEP FI) cause of sustainability in the financial sector. economy through the provision of capital which drives infrastructure development, creates jobs, and enables companies and individuals Global Reporting GRI’s mission is to develop and disseminate globally We demonstrated leadership in responsible business applicable sustainability reporting guidelines. practice and sustainability by collaborating with the to purchase goods and do business every day. Initiative Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Focal Point South These are set global standards for reporting on the Africa, on its first ever Sustainability capacity building We are determined to drive profitable, ethical economic growth economic, environmental and social dimensions of an event in Nigeria. organisation’s activities, products and services. that is environmentally responsible and socially relevant. We are a force for good in all that we do. We take personal responsibility for London Provides comprehensive and consistent set of measures On an ongoing basis, we utilise the London delivering outcomes to our respective stakeholders and are Benchmarking for Corporate Community Investment (CCI) in order to Benchmarking Group framework for community determine the actual community contribution by an investment data capturing and measurement determined to show full commitment to our day-to-day actions Group (LBG) organisation while capturing the output and long-term of impact. and business decisions, balance economic, environmental and impacts of the CCI projects on business and society. social considerations. Equator Principles Group of over 70 financial institutions with operations in The EP standards have been incorporated in the over 100 countries across the globe. Bank’s Environmental and Social Policy and are (EP) The Equator Principles are a project finance industry used to assess lending activities. standard for addressing environmental and social issues in project financing globally. United Nations An investor initiative in partnership with UNEP FI and the The Bank makes equity investment in companies UN Global Compact. The principles provide a menu of that have strategic importance to its operations. Principles for possible actions for incorporating environmental, social These investments align with our environmental Responsible and governance (ESG) issues into mainstream investment and social consideration. Investment decision-making and ownership practices. (UNPRI) Best practice GBCHealth A coalition of over 220 companies seeking to create The Bank also serves as local host of GBCHealth opportunities for the global business community to fight regional conferences and workshops in Nigeria. and speak out on HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria worldwide. Partner Profile Partnership update Nigerian Business The Nigerian Business Council on Sustainable Access Bank is one of the pioneer 25 Nigerian Nigerian Premier charitable environmental organisation in The Bank promotes environmental conservation and Nigeria which aims to improve the quality of human life sustainable development through the NCF platform. Council on Development is a CEO-led organisation of forward‑thinking companies. organisations that established the Nigerian Business Council on Sustainable Development (NBCSD). Conservation by preserving the full range of Nigeria’s biodiversity and Sustainable The aim of the NBCSD is to galvanize the Nigerian Foundation (NCF) promoting sustainable use of natural resources for the benefit of present and future generations. Development business community to create a sustainable future for business, society and the environment. The (NBCSD) Council does this by applying its respected thought Nigeria Business Coalition of 40 companies supporting businesses Considering that most of our employees are within to implement workplace HIV and AIDS programmes their prime productive age, we empower our leadership and effective advocacy to generate Coalition Against and positioning members individually, as well as employees with up-to-date knowledge of HIV and constructive solutions and take shared action. AIDS (NIBUCAA) collectively to contribute to the national response AIDS and other related issues. to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Corporate Alliance The Corporate Alliance on Malaria in Africa (CAMA) is a Access Bank has signed on to the Corporate Alliance unique coalition of companies from various industries, on Malaria in Africa (CAMA) at the Leadership Level. on Malaria in Africa all with business interests in Africa. CAMA brings the This is in line with our commitment to touching lives Convention on The CBI was established to empower business As members of the Convention on Business Integrity transactions in and within Nigeria against corruption (CBi), Access Bank operates a zero tolerance policy collective force and voice of the private sector to improve in the area of health and the inherent benefits society Business Integrity and corrupt practices. Its vision is to move the society with regards to corruption. the impact of malaria control efforts in sub-Saharan Africa. stands to gain from this partnership. (CBI) towards a visible zero tolerance of corruption. . The Bank continuously engages in various actions to ensure full compliance with regulations on United Nations The UNGC is a strategic United Nations policy initiative for As a United Nations Global Compact signatory, corrupt practices. businesses situated in Africa to share best practices and Access Bank applies all the 10 principles of the Global Compact explore effective ways to enhance capacity and solidify UNGC in all its business activities and operations. partnerships that advance sustainable development with a special focus on Africa. 26 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 27 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Current initiatives Current initiatives Human Rights In line with our core values of empowered We do not discriminate against people in any Environment We are motivated by the current global We are absolutely committed to reducing paper employees and professionalism, we ensure the form regardless of race, belief, gender or social environmental challenges and developments. consumption, as well as the environmental Principles 1 & 2: Bank adheres to all stipulated human rights laws. status. For instance, as an equal-opportunity Principles 7, 8 & 9: impact of our procurement activities. Our use of We support global efforts at making business Businesses should support and respect the Access Bank has an updated Human Rights employer, the Bank ensures that there is no video conferencing in regions has impacted Businesses should support a precautionary operations more conducive for individuals Policy which clearly highlights our non-tolerance discrimination against a qualified individual living and the environment. hugely on our carbon footprints and travel costs. protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges; for discrimination or harassment of any kind. with HIV/AIDS with regards to recruitment, human rights; and make sure that they professional advancement, training, undertake initiatives to promote greater are not complicit in human rights abuses. The Bank strives to provide a safe and healthy compensation, discharge or other terms, environmental responsibility; and working environment for every member of staff. conditions or privileges of employment. encourage the development and diffusion The Bank also acts in a non-discriminatory of environmentally friendly technologies. manner. We abide by all the provisions of labour In 2013, our Bank received no report of any laws in our countries of operation. grievance related to human rights. Anti-corruption To instil the highest ethical and legal standards, The Bank strictly adheres to these guidelines and to comply with applicable international laws, that provide for dismissal of staff and blacklisting Labour Access Bank has policies in place to promote We are committed to upholding ethical Principle 10: we have appointed anti-bribery compliance of vendors. About 1,100 members of staff remuneration without discrimination for all its practices across our operations and will not Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6: employees. We also respect and support our engage in forced or compulsory labour, or take Businesses should work against officers in our countries of operation to ensure across the Bank and its subsidiaries have the Bank has zero tolerance for any form of received training in ethics and Access Bank’s staff regardless of their gender. In addition, part in direct operations that involve child labour. corruption in all its forms, including Businesses should uphold the freedom bribery and corruption. As an ethical Whistleblower System. we bargain freely with workers in respect of extortion and bribery. organisation, Access Bank has demonstrated of association and the effective recognition pay and other conditions of work. zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and We constantly engage our workforce and This is clearly expressed in the Bank’s various also ensure that we provide the best working policies such as its Code of Ethics and compulsory labour; the effective abolition environment, conditions of service, social Compliance Manual, which clearly defines of child labour; and the elimination of protection, capacity building and community discrimination in respect of employment the nature and characteristics of corruption. investment initiatives for the development and occupation. and comfort of our people. 28 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 29 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS NIGERIA SUSTAINABLE BANKING PRINCIPLES NIGERIA SUSTAINABLE BANKING PRINCIPLES Our Bank initiated and led the discussion on developing Principle Activities Environmental and Social (E&S) risk standards and principles for Nigerian banks in order to create a level playing field for our industry. 1. E  nvironmental and Social The Bank has comprehensively reviewed the For loans, debt and equity underwriting, Environmental and Social Risk Management financial advisories and derivative transactions This process culminated in the development of the Nigeria Risk Management (ESRM) Policy and Procedures with input from that are project linked, Access Bank applies relevant internal and external stakeholders. an assessment that is broadly consistent Sustainable Banking Principles and three sector-specific guidelines with an Equator Principles approach. This provides the framework, policy and covering Oil & Gas, Agriculture and Power. The Central Bank of Nigeria procedures for assessing and managing E&S Access Bank’s ESRM Procedures are made up (CBN), has since released a guideline directing all banks, discount risk issues within all relevant business activities of six distinct components for the management houses and development finance institutions to adopt the principles of Access Bank. To this end, we apply the Equator Principles and the IFC Performance of environmental and social (E&S) risks that emerge in our credit/investment cycle. Each and sector-specific guidelines. Standards to our Project Finance and other component represents a critical step in Access lending transactions across the various Bank’s integrated ESRM approach to the strategic business units. products and services we offer. These components are Screening, Risk Assessment, Due Diligence, Decision and Documentation, Monitoring and Reporting. 2. E  nvironmental and At Access Bank, we recognise the relationship We are absolutely committed to reducing between our operations and the significant our energy consumption by enforcing social footprint impacts on the environment. In fulfilment of our environmentally-friendly policies in our commitment to environmental sustainability, we purchases and energy usage, paper initiate and implement activities that encourage consumption and water use, as well as low carbon economies and promote sustainable reducing the negative environmental impact practices across our operations. of our waste and procurement activities. We have been able to save energy significantly through our power shut down policies for branches and the Head Office. 3. H  uman Rights As an Equal Opportunities Employer the Bank We have a human rights policy that allows our ensures that there is no discrimination against global operations to align our practices with the qualified individuals with regards to recruitment, International Labour Organisation and the advancement, training, compensation, UN Commission on Human Rights. discharge or other terms, conditions or Also in line with Sections 13 and 14 of the privileges of employment. Employee Code of Conduct the Bank creates an appropriate environment that will ensure equal opportunities in all aspects of employment and not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any kind. 30 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 31 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS NIGERIA SUSTAINABLE BANKING PRINCIPLES NIGERIA SUSTAINABLE BANKING PRINCIPLES Principle Activities Principle Activities 4. Women’s economic The Bank mainstreams the essential • Mass Affluent Home and Family builders: 7. C apacity building On an ongoing basis, we have provided We have a dedicated staff in our Risk characteristics of a women-friendly institution A mix of professionally-qualified middle necessary training to build competencies and Management business that has an advanced empowerment in line with global best practices. This requires, and upper middle market women, married skills needed for performing ESG roles which knowledge in ESG standards. Currently, among other things, provision of vision and with children. include risk assessment, project monitoring we have a staff on an internship programme leadership to galvanize women’s economic • Women Business Owners: Women who and reporting. being trained on this issue with one of our empowerment as well as a thorough approach manage their own micro small/lower/ mediumstrategic partners. on gender equality and inclusion that is sized business enterprises who are responsible comprehensive and cross-cutting. for making most of the business and financial decisions relating to their businesses. 8. C ollaborative partnerships With a vision of becoming the World’s Most The overall objective of this is to create a Consequently, the Bank has developed a series Respected African Bank, Access Bank continues platform for the Bank to positively impact its of utting-edge Customer Value Propositions. In to align its activities, partnerships and operations local and global communities, while also enjoying line with this, we target three impact segments: in line with global best practices. Over the years the membership benefits of these relationships. the Bank has established viable alliances with In 2013, the sum of NGN 91,666,525.84 was • Young Professionals: Career-focused young reputable multilateral organisations. These expended on membership renewals and women who are at a pre-family stage of their alliances have assisted the Bank in facilitating maintenance of strategic partnerships. lives and who are not engaged in their own adherence to good practices and the or part-owned businesses, whether full or identification, implementation, execution, part time. evaluation and reporting of our Sustainability initiatives and intervention process. 5. Financial inclusion At Access Bank, we believe that the extension The Bank has an Inclusive Banking segment of financial services to the unbanked, and the which serves over 4.5 million customers. Having under-banked, isn’t just the right thing to do; identified the Women segment as a competitive 9. Reporting Access Bank’s Sustainability Reports, the performance, impacts and initiatives for flagship in the Nigerian financial sector, have improving performance in these areas. This it makes financial sense as well. advantage, the Bank also created the Women been published every year since 2008. The trend has come about through increased public We believe that people cannot be truly Banking team to promote women inclusion. reports are designed to provide both internal expectations for organisations and industries empowered until they have access to the Students and minors below 18 years of age and external stakeholders with a factual position to take responsibility for their non-financial structures which grant financial independence. make up the Other Inclusions team. This team of the Bank’s non-financial performance with impacts, including impacts on the environment Creating access to banking services such as provides adequate engagement for this age respect to our economic, environmental and and the community. loans has been and continues to be one of our group as they have the potential to define the social activities using the triple bottom-line key priorities and we are proud of how we are family’s affinity to a particular bank. approach, while demonstrating our current helping play our part to achieve the third Millennium Development Goal of promoting gender equality. 6. E&S Governance In line with our ESG framework, Access Bank has Investments are initiated by our strategic dedicated members of staff that have relevant business units with inputs made by the Risk skills in ESG standards in all our strategic Management function of the Bank. The Risk business units. These people act as the Management Unit appraises the consistency E&S Champions for their respective of investments with our responsible investment Strategic Business Units. framework as well as risk management policy. We have also implemented a strategic integration of Environmental and Social Governance issues into its business operations. Our investment decisions are based on our Bank’s operation of a governance structure that confers overall decision-making responsibility on the Board of Directors, subsequent upon obtaining our Executive Management’s approval. 32 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 33 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS At Access Bank, we have an essential role in building a prosperous and Core approaches • Marketing calls: Our relationship officers undertake Methodology The 2013 customer loyalty survey was healthy society. This is achieved by supporting our customers and • Business Fora/Meetings: daily visits or calls to follow up on our deployed online in January 2014 to investing in our host communities. We organize periodic meetings for customers and to get acquainted approximately 65,000 customers of fifteen certain categories of clients to build with their businesses. This helps us (15) branches of the Bank across all regions We are passionate about our customers and we seek to understand relationships. We also organize town hall understand how the Bank can serve via their email for ambiguity. A total of 656 and surpass their needs at all times. In all the markets that we operate meetings and customer forums to them better. responses was received which represents in, we encourage our employees to work together with customers in engage our customers and obtain • Business events: 1% of the population sample. 52% of the line with our core values of “a passion for customers.” necessary feedback. We occasionally organize workshops, respondents was from within Nigeria while • Publications/Customer Digest: training courses, dinners or award nights 48% was from outside Nigeria. As a leader in the Nigerian financial services industry, we continue to Our monthly newsletter entitled for customers from all segments. Customer Loyalty make banking services and accounts more accessible to people of Customers’ Digest provides • Surveys: Customers stated that there has been a comprehensive information about To serve customers better, we our host communities. Today, we have well over 403 branches and Access Bank activities. occasionally ask them to provide significant improvement in the quality of over 6,395,807 accounts. • SMS/Email Alerts: quantitative/qualitative feedback through people and customer service as exhibited These range from updates about daily in the level of courtesy, respect and surveys that help us identify latest service transactions, celebration days (birthdays attention given them by the Bank’s delivery needs. and festive seasons) to information about employees. • Access Bank measures its customer new products and services. loyalty consistently on an annual basis The customers rated Access Bank people • Telemarketing: since year 2010. Customer loyalty as below: We sell products and services to behaviours include relationship customers/prospects via the continuance, increased scope of Customer Satisfaction Rating of Access telephone. We do this daily through relationship, and recommendation (word Bank Staff our Contact Centre. of mouth/mouth advertising) which leads Project • Social Media: to increased profits through enhanced S/N Parameter Score scale 5* We contact customers/prospects daily revenues, reduced customer acquisition 1 Friendliness/ via Twitter, Facebook and the Bank’s cost, lower customer-price sensitivity and respectfulness 4.13 4* website to resolve issues or provide decreased costs to serve customers who 2 Willingness to information in response to are already familiar with the Bank’s service help/assist 3.85 3* customer inquiries. delivery system. Customer loyalty is a 3 Overall quality of • Focus Group Discussions: very accurate predictor of business people (average We conduct qualitative research to performance (profitability) and growth of 1+2) 3.99 ≈4* gather perceptions and opinions about and can be indicative of the future Customer engagement our products and services. • Written communication: performance of our business. The 2013 Customer Satisfaction Survey We continually engage our These comprise a variety of materials for information or marketing purposes. focused on three major areas: customers to understand their • Circulars: • Customer satisfaction with products We issue notices to inform customers needs. We also provide support that is about policies, regulations or process • Customer satisfaction with people • Customer loyalty comprising; key to creating a long-term relationship, changes when required. –– The Net Promoter Score (NPS) understanding changes in customer –– The Purchase Loyalty Index (PLI) behaviour and encouraging –– The Switch (or defect) Rate customers’ loyalty and advocacy. 34 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 35 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES Employee engagement Meetings a cafeteria, gymnasium, aerobics centre, sports lounge and crèche for staff’s Women on Board We know the critical importance of The Bank engages in a variety of activities Meetings are ways by which we further children. These amenities are put in place developing policies within our own in order to ensure employee morale and reinforce organisational culture and to promote a culture of wellness and institution to help break down barriers productivity remains high and to instil in all values. They are also tools in managing healthy living among employees as well as to women entering careers that in the employees the Access Bank culture and communication. To ensure that meetings cater to the needs of employees’ children. past have been dominated by men. the sense of professionalism that goes with are well structured in Access Bank, a it. These activities also provide us with valuable direct feedback from employees. calendar of corporate meetings was developed and is hosted on the Bank’s The Access Women Women on Board 2012 2013 Key activities in 2013 included the following: intranet. Examples of meetings include Network Percentage of Executive Directors 0% 29% managers’ meetings and those with At Access Bank, we do not only believe Recognition and rewards Managing Directors of subsidiaries, in the extension of financial services to Percentage of Non-Executive Access Bank recognises and rewards Assets and Liability Committee (ALCO). women, we see it as our responsibility Directors 29% 33% employees that make significant to truly empower women and promote contributions to the organisation at three Access Recreation gender equality. This necessitated different levels: contribution to team, division and the organisation’s bottom line. Centre the establishment of the Access Women Network. We believe that promoting work/life The Bank instituted CEO Awards, an event Launched in Nigeria in 2011 and in Ghana balance is important for employee dedicated to celebrating the Bank’s in 2013 to ensure higher impact and productivity and output. It encourages new employees for outstanding achievements. subsequent greater value for the Bank, staff to perform at their peak and deliver the current activities of the Access Women Retreats service as they exhibit their expertise. Network have redoubled with the goal of Retreats are held periodically off-site in Located in the metropolitan city of Lagos, igniting the workforce and making better order to engage employees in strategy the state-of-the-art Access Recreation women ambassadors of the Bank. and specific organisational development. Centre sits opposite the Bank’s headquarters. The three-storey building boasts facilities designed to make life so much better for the Bank’s staff such as Service quality We concentrate on enhancing our service quality by building employees’ capacity for world-class service delivery and ensuring that at all times our staff are able to deliver in all respects. 36 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 37 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES We are proud of the dedicated team of employees Satisfaction Index by Grade Level The satisfaction index remained constant although in percentage Corporate retreat sessions held in the first quarter of 2013 had terms there was a slight increase by an average of 1% for both gender. a significant impact on employees understanding of the vision, that work as a team to deliver the best to our 4.5 corporate direction and role expectation; thus accounting for diverse stakeholders. Satisfaction Index for Top Performers the increase in the organisational structure satisfaction index. 3.5 Increased activities of the Access Women’s Network had an Employee Satisfaction Survey Results 0 impact on the increase in the satisfaction index in diversity in The results of our Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESS) were Oﬃcer Mid Management Top Management Ex Management the workplace. communicated on a branch-by-branch basis. We took feedback 2011 3 3.5 4 4.5 Employees are of the opinion that during the period under review, from employees and fed this into future plans to improve staff 2012 3.5 3.5 4.5 4 0 2011 2012 2013 top management team were better at communicating vision, morale and productivity. 2013 3.5 3.5 4.5 4 goals, etc. However, they were also of the opinion that decisions A 3.5 3.5 3.5 The total number of employees that participated in the survey was made do not take into cognisance building employee loyalty hence Employee satisfaction index remained constant across all grade A 3.5 3.5 3.5 2,918 representing 83.3% of the Group, which was higher than the the slight increase in percentage and no change in the satisfaction bands although in percentage terms there were slight increases planned level of 80%. The high participation is largely attributable To increase satisfaction level of top performers in the organisation, index rating of 3.0. ranging from 0.3% to 1%. There is a need for the executive to the leadership role played by Group Heads and Strategic there is a need to effectively implement the mentoring program management team (Group Executives and Country MDs) to be The area needing improvement in the co-worker competence is Business Unit Heads. for Key Talents. re-engaged given the leadership role they perform in the parent cooperation amongst various functions within the organisation. Participation Rate by Countries company and its subsidiaries. Competencies with Satisfaction Indexes of 3.5 and Above Core Competency Benchmark Ranking Report The Group maintained and in two instances increased core 100 Satisfaction Index by Length of Service Benchmarking against 136 (as against 116 in 2012) international competencies that in 2012 had a satisfaction of 3.5 and above 3.5 organisations spanning a wide range of industries (including 4.5 Banking, Medical, Manufacturing, Government, Retail, % Wholesale, Hospitality, Consumer, Education, etc), Access Bank’s performance improved slightly with an average percentile of 55% as against 51% compared to 2011. 0 2.7 Ghana Zambia Rwanda UK Congo Gambia SL Burundi CDI Nigeria Total <1 year 1-2 years 3-5 years 6-10 years > 10 years 0 2011 88 80 92 100 87 68 81 46 0 72 78 2011 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 Work ethics Team My Diversity Organisation Saftey at Career Dynamics Manager structure work opportunity 2012 78 86 100 100 91 68 95 92 92 94 80 2012 3.5 3 3.5 3.5 3.5 2013 88 94 85 85 97 83 95 100 85 82 83 2013 3.5 3 3.5 3.5 3.5 2011 4 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 2012 4.5 4 4 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 Participation rate in all countries was greater than the plan of 80% Satisfaction index remained constant during the period under 2013 4.5 4 4 4 4 3.5 3.5 review. The low level of 3.0 for those between 1 to 2 years is as a Employee Satisfaction Index result of absorbed staff. The overall satisfaction level for the Group has remained stable at 3.5 which is below the plan of 4.0 for 2013. However, in absolute Satisfaction Index by Age Band 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 terms, there was a slight increase in satisfaction level from 70.52% 4 ranking percentile ranking percentile ranking percentile Performance in 2012 to 71.86% in 2013. Org Structure 10th 73% 10th 90% 9th 92% Satisfaction Index by Country Career Opportunity 23rd 77% 22nd 81% 18th 86% 5 Recognition 46th 60% 19th 86% 26th 82% 0 20-29 30-39 40-49 >49 Top Management 20th 79% 24th 79% 25th 80% 2011 3 3.5 3.5 4 Team Dynamics 32nd 61% 19th 81% 23rd 80% 2012 3 3.5 3.5 3.5 2013 3.5 3.5 3.5 3 Ethics 25th 71% 26th 74% 24th 79% 0 My Supervisor 57th 88% 28th 80% 39th 75% Nigeria Ghana Rwanda UK Zambia SL Gambia Congo Burundi CDI Over the last 2 years, the satisfaction index for employees older than 49 years has been on the decline due to dis-satisfaction with Co-Worker 37th 60% 43rd 61% 34th 74% 2011 3.5 3 3.5 4 3 4 4 3 2.5 2012 3.5 3 4 4.5 2.5 3.5 3 3 2.5 2 the Bank’s retirement practices. The increase in the satisfaction Diversity 21st 55% 31st 46% 24th 64% 2013 3.5 3 4.5 5 2.5 3 3 2.5 2 1.5 level for employees in the 20-29 years age bracket is due largely to Culture & Climate 70th 44% 76th 46% 82nd 49% career opportunities in the organisation. Training 60th 34% 73rd 35% 68th 48% Satisfaction Index by Gender HR Function 44th 25% 52nd 29% 54th 37% 3.5 Job Security 52th 40% 74th 27% 79th 33% Compensation & Benefits 72th 24% 71st 37% 95th 26% Safety 49th 21% 65th 17% 72nd 25% 2.7 2011 2012 2013 Work-life 80th 1% 94th 3% 104th 7% Male 3.5 3.5 3.5 Female 3 3 3 38 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 39 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES Employee career development –– –– RCSA Workshop The power of one ’Vehicle finance scheme’ –– Book review: Greatest Salesman in the world Process Knowledge –– Training on Mpower Cash and Access Fees At Access Bank, employees are empowered to achieve their goals through –– –– Visa Cards Access 1 2 3 – Strategic Communication –– Customer Experience Delivery –– Overview of KYC and Anti-Money –– Access Credit Portal –– Report Preparation as Relates (MPR the creation of an inclusive environment where they have the freedom to –– Access Credit Portal (ACP) Training Laundering Policies and QPR ) contribute to a corporate culture that they desire. We pride ourselves as the –– Information Security Awareness –– Qualities of a CIBD Staff –– Understanding MPR organisation that constantly builds core capabilities while engendering a sense –– Personal and Business Banking Model –– Sales Force Effectiveness –– AxeCredit Portal –– Total Quality Management –– Communication – Customer Service –– Understanding MPR of shared values for staff. This helps us behave as one team across our –– Access 123 –– Reputational Risk Management –– Branch Batch Issues different markets and business segments. –– Access Bank Retail Strategy –– 7 Habits of Highly Effective People –– Cheque Book Maintenance –– Access fees –– Body Language in Business Environment –– GEFU Process –– ACE_123 Campaign –– Customer Engagement Framework –– Hold Fund Issues –– Advance for School Fees, Naira Credit –– Customer Experience –– Transaction Flow Card, Personal Loan & Payday Advance –– Dress code in Access Bank –– Access Naira Credit Card Training Technical Knowledge –– Credit Writing/Analysis –– Customer Value Management –– Financial Statement Analysis –– How to win customers and build –– Cards – Credit cards, features etc –– Dress Code/Acting the part –– Access Online Issues, error messages –– Fraud Data Mining & CEF prep course –– How to sell anything to anybody lasting relationships –– Naira Credit Card –– Excelling in the workplace and resolution –– Fraud Risk Management –– Marketing & Business Development –– Negotiation skills –– Naira Master Card –– Getting to the top Staying at the Top –– Advance For School Fees –– Fraud Training Week –– Networking –– Account Management Framework –– Personal Loans –– Interpersonal Relationships –– Bancassurance Training –– Leadership Challenges –– Prospecting –– Credit Knowledge Enhancement for BBD –– Personal Loans Product –– Passion – Loving what you do –– Cashless Policy Communication Plan –– Navigating Business Turbulence through –– Remedial Assets Management –– Global Trade Training for All BBD Staff – LC –– Access Bank Service Desk Training –– Personal Effectiveness –– Collateral account/Account linkage sustained employee performance –– Strategies to achieve 2013 budget and Bills for Collection –– Access Direct Training –– Physical Well Being/Fitness to cards –– Oracle PL/SQL –– Value Chain Management –– Guarantees, Commission & Fees, Foreign –– Access Money Training –– Procrastination –– Egain Refresher Training –– Risk Management Annual National –– Business Growth and new initiatives Trade Transactions and Recoveries –– Access Online Architectures and Error –– Stress Management –– Entrust Application (errors on Entrust Conference –– Credit Structuring –– Introduction to Bancassurance in Access Online & Resolution –– Sustaining customer loyalty & Resolution) –– Global Banking Alliance for Women –– International Trade –– Market Segmentation/Sectorisation –– Access Online Foreign Funds –– Tips for effective meetings –– Issue Identification: Active listening Annual Summit –– Introduction to Corporate Finance –– Selling skills Transfer Training –– AML –– Mobile Money –– National Workshop on Financial Inclusion –– Loan Syndication –– Understanding credits –– Business Continuity Training –– Antifraud –– Overview of E-business processes –– Cheque Personalization (CBN) –– Marketing and Prospecting –– Understanding Customers –– Liability Products of the Bank –– Customer Experience Management –– Power of One-Vehicle Finance Scheme –– Cheque Truncation Training –– Premium Financing –– Value Chain Initiatives –– New Agents training on all Bank’s products –– Customer Service –– Techniques for Building and Managing –– Contact Centre Masterclass –– Project Finance – Power –– Effective Relationship Management –– Overview of Investor Relations –– Fraud Awareness Training Teams (Supervisors Only) –– NIBSS Instant Payment (NIP) Operations –– Project Finance Oil & Gas (Case Study – –– Effective Selling Strategy –– RCSA Workshop –– KYC, Fraud and Control Awareness Seminar –– Training Access Direct –– Nigerian Cheque Truncation (NIBBS) Neconde) –– Identification of good deals –– Refresher Training on Business –– Refresher Training on Customer –– Training on Credit cards –– Basic Credit –– Risk Asset Portfolio Review –– Understanding e-banking Continuity Awareness Service/Engagement –– Training on Elizade Promo –– Intermediate Credit –– Understanding On-lending and Export –– Agent key performance indicators –– Refresher Training on Egain –– Women of West Africa – WOWE –– Training on Inbound Processes –– Loan Management and Red Flag/ Credits Facilities using the Call Evaluation Grid –– Risk Assessment Training –– Customer Engagement –– Training on Prepaid and Debit cards Advanced Leasing –– Understanding Treasury products –– (Things to avoid and how to avoid when –– “The Power Of One” – Vehicle –– Customer Engagement Framework –– Training on Products Pricing and –– Superior Market Knowledge –– Use of HP Calculators on the call) Finance Scheme –– Customer Experience New Service Offering –– Intermediate Credit –– Valuation –– Call Handling Script (Opening & Closing –– Access 1, 2, 3 –– Empathy –– Training on Seibel Review –– Financial Forecast –– Archive Management Solution greetings/hold procedure) –– Access Bank Philosophy –– Handling difficult customers –– Training on Service Desk, Analyst –– Credit Admin & Loan Processing –– Cheque Truncation System –– Prepaid Card training –– Bank’s Deposit Products –– Hospitality –– Training on Reviewed Requirements –– Credit Admin & Loan Processing Oil & Gas –– Credit Risk Management –– Professionalism, Probing and –– Core Values of Access Bank –– Manners for Token/Access Mobile Activation –– Credit Admin & Loan Processing Retail –– ISO Certification Training – Over Problem Solving Skills –– E-Payments Products Roll-Out Plan –– Meeting business goals –– ACP Refresher Training Lending Archiving Policy –– Telephonic Etiquettes –– Global trade products and services –– Positive Communications and –– ACP Training –– Specialized Lending – Agriculture –– ISO27001 RE-Certification –– VISA Intellink Expense Management –– Know the products Effective Communications –– ACP –– Supplier Relationship Surveillance Audit Solution for Corp. Cards –– Retail products: peculiar features –– AML –– MPR review and financial analysis –– Facility Management –– Nigeria Incentive-based Risk Sharing –– The new strategic direction and –– Customer Experience Management –– Understanding MPR –– Project Management business segmentation –– WIMBIZ Conference –– Procurement Management System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) Organisational Knowledge –– Retrieval of data stored on CCTV & –– Understanding BBD Credit programmes –– Business Writing –– WIMBIZ Conference –– Access Bank Culture Security Awareness Tips –– Understanding Business Banking Products –– Women in Leadership –– Events Management –– Access Bank five year strategy –– Role of Internal Audit Department –– Understanding KPIs –– Ethics and Code of Conduct for –– Social Media –– Black card and Visa Credit card –– Root Cause Analysis –– Target setting and Protocol Officers –– Advanced Credit Analysis –– E-mail etiquette –– Technical Support – Resolving Cash performance monitoring –– Effective Governance –– Advanced Bank Inspection –– Power of One (Auto Online) differences and understanding –– Achieving your Goals –– Governance and Sustainable Development –– Risk Based Audit –– Strategy Sessions with the Group Head tellering function –– Customer Experience Management –– Auditing Treasury Function –– Understanding CBD product programs –– Training on ESA Skills – Management –– Customer Loyalty –– Private Banking and Wealth Management –– Access Bank 5-Year Strategy 2013 – 2017 Letters & Business Advisory –– Customer Service Orientation –– Relationship Management and Selling Skills –– E-Banking Products –– Training on FINTRAC –– Knowledge Sharing Sessions –– Wealth Management Training –– Environment & Social Risk Management/ –– Treasury – The Global Market –– Reigniting your passion –– Fundamentals of Credit Using the Sustainable Toolkit –– Understanding MPR –– Self Actualization –– Commercial Banking Lending Products –– Innovation as a competitive advantage –– Understanding SQL –– The power of team work and Loan Structuring –– Operation Just Cause –– Credit Analysis –– Asset Products –– POS as a payment Channel –– Bancassurance 40 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 41 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES COMPLIANCE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS COMPLIANCE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS We constantly take measures to enhance Career development Ethics: Corruption and As an ethical organisation, Access Bank Access Bank adheres strictly our service delivery with current trends and developments in compliance issues, Our mission statement is ‘Setting standards for sustainable business Anti-Competitive Behaviour A whistleblower system is one which has demonstrated zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. This is clearly to all regulatory requirements as thereby ensuring that our products and practices, that unleash the talents of allows a person tell the public or someone expressed in the Bank’s various policies stipulated by the regulators and service offerings conform to regulatory standards and international best practices our employees, deliver superior values to our customers and providing innovative in authority about alleged dishonest or illegal activities/misconduct occurring such as Anti-bribery policy, code of ethics and compliance manual and, where other governing bodies in line with geared towards customer and stakeholder solutions for the markets and communities in an organisation. To enable staff report incidents of corruption are identified, the satisfaction at all times. we serve’. Also, one of the core values of unethical activities affecting Access Bank Bank will undertake a strict adherence to the Banks and Other Financial Access Bank is ‘Empowered Employees’. so that the Bank can take considerable the guidelines of the policy, which may Diversity and inclusiveness Institutions Act. We always take pride Over the years, diversity and inclusion has This is a pointer to the fact that we maintain measures to address them, the Bank include dismissal of staff and blacklisting an environment that allows employees deployed a more robust Whistleblower of vendors. in setting the pace in compliance contributed immensely to growth and to aspire to be the best they can be. System in 2012, which was outsourced innovation at the Bank. Our operations About 1,096 members of staff matters and this has been acclaimed across Africa and the UK have helped us Employees are trained adequately across to the Ethics line at KPMG. This has were trained across the Bank and all levels and functions to acquire the created the awareness and increased the industry-wide, as we are never afraid to meet the needs of our clients around the skills they need to become world-class confidence of staff and other stakeholders its subsidiaries in 2013 on ethics, world and have built strong relationships in whistleblower system and anti-fraud. take the plunge while ensuring that we the communities we serve. professionals and contribute to a dynamic in reporting any suspicious activities/ There was no case of legal action against and sustainable working environment. misconduct that can expose the Bank. are in full adherence with all necessary Recruitment This has served, over time, as a deterrent the Bank for anti-competitive behaviour, All entry level candidates attend a fouranti-trust, and monopoly practices. regulatory requirements and standards. A total of 62.4% of entry level recruited month training programme in the Access to workplace misdemeanours and entrenched staff integrity and discipline. for the period under review were females. Banking Training School of Excellence, Women constituted 42% of total new where they are prepared for the challenges To instil the highest ethical and legal hires in 2013. ahead. The Banking School of Excellence standards as well as comply with applicable Employees with disabilities began in 2003 and 2,521 trainees from international laws, Access Bank has By the end of 2013, there were eight Nigeria and other countries in which appointed anti-bribery compliance officers. employees with disabilities. the Bank operates have graduated from this programme. Compliance core Human Rights Integrated Health, Safety & Security All Access Bank employees and awareness teasers, inspections, spot Quantitative benefits: Access Bank’s operations are highly In line with our core values of empowered The adverse effects that work can have on contractors, and those at subsidiaries checks, fire management trainings, • Reduced number of incidents influenced by its core values of Leadership, employees and professionalism, we ensure health have serious consequences in terms we operate, follow our safety rules, fire safety measures and emergency • Saved lives and reduced injuries and Professionalism. To this end, the adherence to all stipulated human rights. of human and economic cost, not just for intervene in unsafe situations, and respect preparedness drills. • Reduced property damage costs Bank ensures that its business activities, As an Equal Opportunities Employer, the workers and their families but also for the our neighbours and the environment. • The Bank puts a lot of effort in incident • Reduced business interruptions procedures and operations are in line with Bank ensures that there is no discrimination Bank and society as a whole. As a Bank, we These expectations and controls are management. We are convinced of the • Protected market share applicable laws and regulatory guidelines. against any qualified individual with regards deal with these effects by implementing an the foundations of the proactive safety positive effects of our constant focus on • Reduced litigation costs to recruitment, advancement, training, environmental policy focused on improving culture that we nurture in our workforce. high potential incidents. • Reduced environmental hazard The Bank is committed to fighting compensation, and discharge or other the well-being of our employees as they The Bank is increasingly concerned with • Reduced regulatory penalties money laundering and complying fully Qualitative benefits: terms, conditions or privileges of do their jobs. achieving and demonstrating sound from accidents with the spirit of anti-money laundering • Compliance with the rules and regulations employment. Also in line with sections environmental performance by controlling • Reduced regulatory attention. laws in the countries and jurisdictions in The cornerstone of all requirements • Increase image/reputation/brand 13 and 14 of the Employees Code of the impacts of our activities, products and which it operates. in the area of risk prevention in the • Engage with employees – morale, Conduct, the Bank creates an appropriate services on the environment. workplace is something called the loyalty, retention As an international financial services firm, environment that will ensure equal physical environmental security and In order to conform to our operational • Build public trust Access Bank recognises its role in the opportunities in all aspects of employment safety framework. This directive provides risks, the Bank resolved to adopt the • License to operate: less regulatory global fight against money laundering. and not tolerate discrimination or a reference basis for a series of specific following measures: scrutiny, legal complications, lower Accordingly, it is the Bank’s policy to take harassment of any kind. The Bank therefore directives which cover all the risks related community discontent, reduction all reasonable and appropriate steps to strives to provide a safe and healthful work • The environmental care and performance to health and safety in the workplace. in pollution on environment prevent persons engaged in money environment for all staff of the Bank. are inextricably linked with our operations. Among other things, it sets forth the • Increase business options laundering, fraud, and other financial • The fundamentals of a good Health, At the successful completion of the obligations of employers and workers • Attract and retain high crimes such as financing of terrorism or Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) business integration in 2012, no grievance with a view to improving health and safety performance staff. terrorist operations, from using the system are built on conducting risk related to human rights was reported. in the Bank. Bank’s products and services. assessment, safety observations, 42 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 43 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES WOMEN EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES WOMEN EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES At Access Bank, we do not only believe in the Principle Current initiatives extension of financial services to women, we see it as our responsibility to truly empower women 1. Establish high-level corporate Access Bank’s Chief Executive Officer serves Access Bank actively participates in the as the lead champion on gender within the Bank. initiatives of the UN WEPs. Bolaji Agbede, and promote gender equality. As a Bank of best leadership for gender equality The Bank is also a member of the Central Bank Head, Group Human Resources and Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan, Head, practice, our Bank mainstreams the essential of Nigeria (CBN) Banker’s Committee SubCommittee on Women Economic Sustainability represent the Bank on the characteristics of a women-friendly institution Empowerment strategically supporting and Leadership Group of United Nations in line with our belief that investing in women encouraging top-level commitment to gender Women Empowerment Principles (WEPs). empowerment using the Banker’s Subcan yield great gender dividends. Committee platform.. 2. Treat all women and men fairly The Bank has zero tolerance for human rights One of our core values is “Empowered violation or discrimination in all forms and has Employees”, therefore, there are various at work – respect and support effectively implemented its Human rights policy. mechanisms in place for escalation of human rights and nonviolation of the Bank’s Human rights policy. discrimination 3. Ensure the health, safety We consider the health and safety of all our The Bank also promotes work/life balance employees very important. In the year under through its Access Recreation Centre (ARC). and well-being of all review, the Employee Health Risk Assessment The centre has a gymnasium and a relaxation women and men workers was developed to help ascertain potential spot to promote a culture of wellness and hazards are the most significant in our healthy living among Access Bank’s employees. workplace as well as mitigants for these The Bank also has a crèche to cater to the needs hazards Our Bank also organised several of the Access woman’s child. trainings on health, safety and security for thousands of our employees. 4. Promote education, training Access Bank currently holds quarterly sessions employees and to help them achieve their aimed at training and mentoring as well as full career potentials. It offers programmes and professional development capacity building for women. These initiatives and opportunities to help women receive for women are championed by the Bank’s Access Women mentoring and develop competencies that Network launched in Nigeria in 2011 and in will help them demonstrate executive readiness Ghana in 2013. and have a positive impact on their respective To reiterate our position as a Sustainability The Access Women Network aims at fostering communities. The theme for 2013 was a supportive work environment for women. ‘Championing Change, Making a Difference’. champion in Africa, our Bank was present at the Women Empowerment Principles The initiative seeks to retain and nurture female Leadership Group Meeting and Equality Means Business held from 5-6 March 2013 5. Implement enterprise As at 31 December 2013, females constituted: Today, women contribute about 30.97% to our Bank’s account acquisition. in New York in commemoration of the 2013 development, supply chain • • 40% of our total workforce; 30% of our Management positions; International Women’s Day. and marketing practices that • 20% of our top Management positions; and Access Bank is a major WEPs stakeholder empower women • 33% of our Board positions. in Nigeria and across the African continent. We have driven many initiatives as outlined 6. Promote equality through As proof of Access Bank’s commitment to below within our organisation to showcase gender equality, the Bank provides support for our commitment to the Women community initiatives and women in its host communities by empowering Empowerment Principles: advocacy them and making them more effective socially and economically. 7. Measure and publicly report On an ongoing basis, Access Bank reports its commitment and progress made on gender on progress to achieve equality in its financial and non-financial gender equality performance indices. 44 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 45 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES THOUGHT LEADERSHIP THOUGHT LEADERSHIP The 2013 Access The event which was essentially to discuss and share ideas on how to embrace During panel discussions at the landmark conference, exceptional leaders and Leadership Conference sustainable leadership in a rapidly growing world-renowned thinkers guided economy drew high profile delegates, participants through the principles of We understand what leadership means to including former Ghanaian President, good leadership, and explored their a nation, business and society. At Access John Agyekum Kufuor (2001-2009), multiple facets creating a platform for Bank, we decided to follow this pathway President of Carbon War Room and strategic discussions on the way forward of creating sustainable leadership in all former President of Costa Rica, José María for the political, social and economic spheres of life and we are committed to Figueres Olsen (1994-1998), Nigeria’s spheres while charting our Bank’s path as doing just that. Our desire to see enduring Minister of Finance and Co-ordinating a Sustainability leader in the Nigerian and change in the leadership landscape of Minister for the Economy, Dr. Ngozi African space committed to creating the Nigeria and Africa has led to the Bank’s Okonjo-Iweala, Former Governor of the enabler for responsible leadership in the institution of its first-of-its-kind leadership Central Bank of Nigeria, Mallam Sanusi society. The conference captured the conference in Nigeria and Africa. Lamido Sanusi, Initiator, Chairman and essence of good, sustainable leadership, Bringing together the world’s finest Pilot, Solar Impulse Project, Bertrand highlighting what it means to be a leader leaders and models, Access Conference Piccard, former Managing Director, in today’s world and the role of Nigeria and highlighted change and leadership as Bank of Industry (BOI), Ms. Evelyn Oputu, more broadly, Africa, in capitalising the major driver of business models, national Olympic Champion and Chairman of new engines of innovation. ideologies and innovation. This is in line LOCOG, Sebastian Coe, and a host . with our belief that with the 21st century of others. diversity of the world, it is critical to understand what it takes to be leaders and develop broad interventions that are required to drive sustainable leadership. 46 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 47 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Environmental and Access Bank 2013 Equator Principles Report • US$800 million syndicated facility by Indorama Eleme Fertilizer & Chemicals EP Reporting – By Sector Materials Energy Jetty social performance Access Bank is an Equator Principles Ltd. (“IEFCL” or the “Sponsor”) with Category Petrochemical Infrastructure At Access Bank, we ensure that all paper The Direct Energy Consumption by primary Financial Institution (EPFI) and as part of the respect to the provision of debt financing A – – stationery used in printing internal memos sources is from Power Holding Company As a sign of our continued commitment requirements of being a signatory, the Bank of US$10 million for a 1.4m MTPA B 1 1 are re-used where possible. This has of Nigeria. Our Bank has been able to save to environmental issues in the country, reports on transactions screened using the Nitrogenous Fertilizer Complex significantly reduced our paper purchase energy significantly through our policy we adhered to all stipulated environmental C – – Equator Principle standards. comprising a 2,300 tonnes per day (TPD) and has resulted in cost savings over the of shutting down generators at 6pm for requirements in the conduct of our Total 1 1 Ammonia Plant and a 4,000 TPD Urea and period. branches, and 9pm for the Head Office. operations. To this end, the Bank was not In line with this commitment, Access Bank Granulation Plant at the Indorama Eleme Indirect energy consumption by primary exposed to any non-monetary sanction in the year 2013, applied the Equator The Bank ensures that the items purchased Petrochemical Complex Site, Eleme, Reporting – By Region sources refers to power generated from for non-compliance with environmental Principles in the process leading to the (especially paper stationery) are made Port Harcourt, Nigeria (the Project). our diesel powered generating plants laws and regulations. In 2013, the Bank granting of the following transactions: Category Africa from recyclable materials as depicted by Access Bank participated in the local Bank-wide. in compliance with the CBN directive A the recyclable logo on all our stationery • US$90 million medium-term facility to commercial bank tranche of which the on financial inclusion implemented the products. We use papers which carry the Our generator shut-down initiative OIS-Indorama Limited (“OISIL” or bank provided US$10 million only. B 2 Three-Tiered KYC regulation, which saw recyclable stamp which certify that the has resulted in power savings of up to the Bank deploy products targeted at “Project Sponsor”) with respect to the C – Categorisation under Equator Principles & paper products are made from recyclable 115,807.36 Kilowatts of diesel generated low-income persons and the unbanked construction of a multi-purpose jetty to Total 2 Environmental and Social Risk Management. inputs. We also ensure we print on the power in 2013. population in the Nigerian society. The be used by Indorama Eleme Fertilizer & Number of Projects reviewed ecoprint mode and all internal documents Bank has recently invested in e-branches Chemical Company Limited (“IEFCL” or “Project Proponent”) for evacuation of its Category in the year 2013 Projects receiving are printed using the front-and-back print Water with electronic channels for self-service. A setting to optimise the use of paper and urea fertilizer product meant for export. review at Project fully Concerted efforts made in the optimal We are also collaborating with the CBN B 2 marketing or funded or reduce waste. and NIBSS to implement the Biometric Access Bank Plc solely funded the facility. EP Category appraisal stage executed use of water in the Head Office can be Matching Solution for ease of customer However, we are currently working with C – observed from the type of cisterns used in A 1 – identification across the financial other lenders to sell down part of the Total 2 the rest rooms that ensure the optimal use facility to the identified lenders. B 3 2 of water and minimise waste. services industry. C – – Total 4 2 48 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 49 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN Supplier assessment data Rating criteria Maximum total Total score score is 20 Parameters used in evaluating ‘Approved’ and ‘In use not yet Parameters: registered’ (Scale: 1 – 5) Parameter 1 Problem resolution Parameter 2 Timeliness of service delivery Parameter 3 Service/product quality Parameter 4 Character and composure of company representative Parameters used in evaluating Incorporated into our vendor selection We also ensure that our vendors do not ‘New’ (Scale: 1 – 5) S/N Categories Vendors Reason criteria are yardsticks that align with the employ any under-aged person(s) in our Parameter 1 Track records 1 Consultants And 743 Most of the vendors in categories are Legal as they engage lawyers in each locality where required Bank’s value system and our drive for drive towards eliminating the use of child Professional Services Parameter 2 Geographical coverage sustainable business practices. For labour in our supply chain. Our vendors 2 Constructions, Designs 104 The large number of builders are required to ensure prompt delivery on timeline due to the ongoing major Parameter 3 Quality of service/product instance, we only do business with are encouraged to abide by the Health And Renovations renovations and façade rebranding efforts bank wide Parameter 4 Accredited/dealership status socially responsible enterprises with and Safety guidelines of the Bank in their 3 Information Technology 97 The peculiarity and exigency of IT requirements justifies our having a robust base for flexibility and agility which we share common goals and values. operations while on the Bank’s premises 4 Hospitality Services 46 Hospitality industry is dynamic and new hotels come up frequently and requires our having to leverage The key selection criteria for driving our and on activities or processes from which Accreditation overview on their offerings and cost advantages 1000 vendor selection objectives are: the Bank derives benefits due to the 5 Events Management 44 For flexibility and agility and to meet up with tight schedules existing business relationship with the 6 Links Connectivity And 44 The peculiarity and exigency of need justifies our having a robust base for stability • Track Records: Our vendor registration Bank; we also encourage the growth of Networks process seeks to gather information on small businesses by allowing a flexible how our vendors generate waste and 7 Prints And Printing 44 Our massive rebranding effort justifies our having a robust base to provide us with options as buffer payment pattern for small organisations Services for service failures and tight delivery timelines their waste management plans so we where advance payments could be made can assess and entrench the philosophy 0 8 Clearing Equipment 2 Due to security considerations for big projects awarded. Approved In use not New of sustainable procurement in our registered Supply supply chain. We are passionate about our relationship 9 Newspaper/Magazine 2 Low risk and as such does not require many vendors • Geographical Coverage: To reduce our with our vendors through constant Number of Supply carbon footprint arising from logistics and dialogue and meetings with suppliers Status Description Vendors 10 Outsourced Services – 2 Volume aggregation for better negotiation transportation cost of goods and services across our supply chain to ensure that Printing & Document Approved On purchased by the Bank, we seek to source our value of high ethical standard is Imaging approved 2012 very close to the location where such not compromised. Vendors’ list 781 11 Quantity Surveyor/ 2 We adopt the design and build model and only as such builders or contractors work with their goods and services are needed. Consultant preferred quantity surveying • Quality of Goods: We assess quality Supplier engagement In use not registered In use but on approved 2012 914 12 Rate Board – Sales, 2 We deal with the vendors with the dealership right for our preferred model and they carry out using environmental consciousness as Accessories, Services the maintenance one of the yardsticks, e.g. the use of We engage our vendors through vendor New Proposed for & Maintenance environment-friendly air-conditioning fora, letters, email correspondences and approval and events, site visits and exhibitions. These registered 123 13 Service Quality 2 More options to be sourced before next registration exercise systems as our preferred brands, use of Assessment energy saving and LED bulbs etc. engagement sessions have continuously Total 1,818 provided the Bank with the opportunity of 14 Sorting Machine – Sales, 2 We deal with the vendors with the dealership right for our preferred model and they carry out • Dealership/Distributorship Status: This Accessories, Services & the maintenance borders on professional competence and driving sustainable business practices. Vendor Categories Maintenance ethical consideration to ascertain that One of the major events conducted in There are 87 vendor categories on the 15 Towing Services 2 Low risk and as such does not require many vendors the supplier has obtained all necessary 2013 in which our vendors participated Bank’s Vendor list: 16 Gardening & Landscape 1 More options to be sourced before next registration exercise certification required to carry out the was a Charity Walk organised in 2013 task for which he is engaged. tagged the Access Walkathon in which • High clusters refer to those categories 17 Insurance 1 Volume aggregation for better negotiation vendors actively participated. Through with more than 44 vendors per category 18 Microfilm Equipment 1 More options to be sourced before next registration exercise Our Bank is committed to ensuring minimal waste within its supply chain. the generous contributions of our vendors • Low clusters refer to the categories with 19 Public Address 1 More options to be sourced before next registration exercise These efforts are reflected in our to the tune of about N20million, the less than 3 vendors per category 20 Security Document 1 Due to security considerations purchases, encouraging local sourcing or Bank was able to touch lives of people Printing sourcing as close as possible to the point in host communities. 21 Town Planning/ 1 More options to be sourced before next registration exercise of need in order to reduce environmental Consultant logistics impacts that are involved from 22 Vault Asset 1 Due to security considerations sourcing from long distances. Management 50 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 51 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 COMMUNITY COMMUNITY COMMUNITY Private Sector Health Dr. Muhammad Ali Pate, Mr. Herbert Wigwe, Mr. Jim Ovia, Mr. Aigboje AigThe campaign targeted at over 2 million Nigerians brought together over 3,000 The Nigerian Stock Alliance of Nigeria Imoukhuede, Mrs. Sola David-Borha and spectators and 300 persons living with Exchange 12th annual In a move aimed at improving Nigeria’s other corporate leaders to mobilise the broader business and corporate HIV to witness the display of selected football players of renown and Nigeria’s essay competition health indices and reducing maternal community as well as the private health entertainment industry drawing attention Apart from helping young people develop mortality ratio by three quarters by 2015, sector towards a multi-sectoral coalition to the issue. Thousands of information, good writing skills, essay competitions have the Private Sector Health Alliance of to improving health outcomes. education and communication materials become a means through which Nigerian Nigeria (PSHAN) was instituted as a result including flyers, pamphlets, male and undergraduates, graduates and senior of the private sector’s potential to expand PSHAN has announced a $24.2million female condoms and other educative secondary school students make a good access to health services, improve quality commitment, a two-year initiative that materials containing useful information sum of money to further their academics of care and complement the public sector’s seeks to drive a private sector emergency about HIV/AIDS prevention, stigmatisation in the higher level. efforts in addressing health system response to Saving One Million Lives and discrimination were distributed. challenges in Nigeria. initiative and invest in critical segments of With the introduction of its annual essay The strategic coalition to which Access the healthcare value chain that benefit the under-served. This plan is expected to save The Access Foundation competition for secondary school and tertiary institutions, the Nigerian Stock Bank is proudly a pioneer member was more than 400,000 lives (as a public private Sustainability remains the cornerstone Exchange evolved a mix of initiatives aimed launched at the 2013 GBCHealth coalition) in two years and create at least of our business philosophy and we believe at creating awareness on the benefits of Conference in New York, United States 20,000 jobs in five years. that only by delivering social, economic investment in stocks and bonds among to advance Nigeria’s progress in meeting and environmental value today can we youths. The competition, which has the health Millennium Development Goals in the short term and advance the health World AIDS Day Play create shareholder value for tomorrow. recorded tremendous impact within the sector from being an economic drag to a for Life Campaign To further the Bank’s sustainability educational space in Nigeria, rewards the best essays with prizes such as ordinary net contributor to economic growth and agenda, the Bank has commenced the Given Access Bank’s commitment share of quoted companies, certificates, job creation in the mid term. establishment of the Access Foundation to supporting worthwhile Corporate plaques, trophies and an opportunity to for which Corporate Social Responsibility apply and work at Access Bank with the The activation of PSHAN has been Social Responsibility initiatives and its initiatives will be pursued, evaluated and presentation of certificates. endorsed by the President of Nigeria, involvement in the global campaign implemented in the achievement of our His Excellency Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, against discrimination of People Living vision of becoming the World’s Most Access Bank has an on-going 10-year Mr. Bill Gates, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, With HIV/AIDS and immense support for Respected African Bank. sponsorship agreement in the secondary the fight against the spread of HIV/AIDS schools category of the Nigerian Stock in the continent, the Bank partnered The Foundation will be set up to enable Exchange Annual Essay Competition. with Friends Africa, a pan-African nonAccess Bank to aggregate, develop, The Bank has supported the NSE Essay governmental organisation working to evaluate, implement and monitor its Competition as an enabling platform to mobilise strategic political and financial various CSR initiatives within the Bank demonstrate its commitment towards support for the fight against AIDS on more effectively by providing a more education which is one of the Bank’s the second edition of the World AIDS Day focused, disciplined and sustainable Corporate Social Responsibility focus “Superstars Play for Life” anti-stigma framework for giving back to its areas. The platform does not only support and discrimination campaign – a host society. the Nigerian Educational system, it also novelty football match designed to empowers Nigerian youth with the culture Our focus is to establish a Foundation that create awareness about HIV/AIDS of savings and long-term investment, supports efforts at societal sustainability in Lagos, Nigeria. thereby exposing them to the benefits through initiatives in identified areas of The campaign used the natural convening intervention – Arts, Education, Economic of investments in stocks, engendering power of sport to create a viable platform Empowerment, Health, Leadership and the ideals of self-reliance among youths that offered a vantage point for promoting Social Development as well as create a in preparation for a buoyant adult life. health awareness such as ending the platform through which our Bank can The success of the competition nationwide stigma and discrimination against People partner other institutions and/donor over the years continues to be encouraging Living With HIV/AIDS. This flexible avenue organisations to help create and and has created further impetus for provided an opportunity to further educate sustain healthy communities in Africa. the Bank to strengthen its educational and empower people with information to This will be a more focused, disciplined initiatives across the country. The help prevent HIV new infections as well as and sustainable framework for competition, which is strategically targeted increased access to voluntary counselling, Access Bank to give back to society. at students in senior secondary schools, testing and care. seeks to continually meet the objective of bridging the gap between classroom learning with practical knowledge required for long-term personal financial planning. 52 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 53 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 COMMUNITY COMMUNITY COMMUNITY INVESTMENT COMMUNITY INVESTMENT The Bank interventions in Health. We partner with organisations to lead the advocacy Community Investment Data (Bank and Employee Volunteers) The Bank’s Corporate Philosophy is highly campaign which seeks to create awareness INPUTS influenced by the principle of sustainability. on major public health issues. In the year Programme/Initiative Cash Time The Bank has determined that it must be a under review, we also partnered with 2. Value of cash 3. Total hours 4. Value of staff 5. Total value of force for good in the communities in which Friends Africa on the World AIDS Day Community contributions – volunteered in time contributed – contributions – it operates and within the financial system Novelty Match bringing together leading Focus Area 1. Activity name Nigerian Naira company time Nigerian Naira Nigerian Naira generally. We recognise that in all our stars in Nigeria’s football, music, comedy Education Delivery of Ultra modern Home Economics Laboratory jurisdictions, the goal of adding value can and movie industries to work together as to Oduduwa Senior Secondary School, Lagos 2,122,580 1,230 413,306.65 2,535,886.65 only be achieved in partnership with other advocates for the fight against stigma and Renovation of Bonny Camp Primary School, Victoria Island, stakeholders in both the public and private discrimination of people living with HIV. Lagos (library with full stock of books, desktop computers, sectors and from within society as a whole. Using the natural convening power of renovation of all classrooms and provision of chairs and sport, we created a viable platform that desk for over 15 classrooms, provision of borehole water In the year under review, and in line with and tanks, and renovation of toilets) 2,681,500 32 165,160.96 2,846,660.96 offers a vantage point for advocating and our commitment to improving education promoting health awareness such as Girl Child Mentoring Programme 0 30 10,080.60 10,080.60 and enterprise in our host communities, ending stigma and discrimination of Scholarship award to the best graduating student in 2013 we partnered with organisations on people living with HIV/AIDS. who gained admission to a university. The recipient is a entrepreneurship, building projects, Petroleum Engineering student in the University of Lagos 100,000 0 0 100,000 business plan and essay competition. We are extremely proud of our employee Empowerment session and donation of key facilities to We believe that the power of business is volunteers who have identified, selected Lagos State Correctional Boys Centre 728,462 15 5,040.30 733,502.3 a thrust for the advancement of education and championed innovative initiatives and this has guided our gracious charitable to better the lives of people in our host Cash donation as scholarship to support the secondary school education of orphans under the care of Lydia donations in the area of education. communities. The collaborative efforts Women foundation 100,000 30 0 100,000 of thousands of our employee volunteers As a key stakeholder in the private “A-Word-A Day” Teaching and Mentoring Initiative at have brought evident social dividends sector, the Bank collaborates with other Olomu Primary School, Ajah, Lagos. 0 20 90,010.80 90,010.80 to our host communities. organisations in the sector to leverage Support towards Muritala Mohammed Foundation's resources for the implementation of 2013 Education for Leadership & Sustainable Development Conference 5,000,000 0 0 5,000,000 Support for School of Entrepreneurship 500,000 0 0 500,000 Support towards CIPM Millennium Building Project 1,000,000 0 0 1,000,000 Support for 2013 Fate Foundation Business Plan Competition 2,000,000 0 0 2,000,000 Sponsorship of 2013 Nigeria Stock Exchange Essay Competition 12,000,000 0 0 12,000,000 Renovation of Olomu Secondary School, Lagos 500,000 500 190,774 690,774 Sport Female football competition organised between the SS1 and SS3 students 0 20 6,720.4 6,720.4 Sponsorship of Olomu Primary School Inter-house Sports Competition 121,750 40 108,012.96 229,762.96 Health Infrastructure upgrade (Provision of chairs, flat screen televisions, and construction of an entrance) for the General Hospital, Kaduna 500,000 20 50,600.16 550,600.16 Save-a-Life Project (Corrective Surgery for Kids) 2,500,000 2,160 37,804.89 2,537,804.89 Sponsorship of Friends Africa on World Aids Day Novelty Match 10,000,000 20 15,630.12 10,015,630.12 Arts Arts & Crafts Exhibition, and Documentary for Children living with Down Syndrome 3,700,000 0 0 3,700,000 Social Support for Empowerment Support Initiative of Rivers State 1,900,000 0 0 1,900,000 Welfare Support for Salvage Africa Building Project 1,000,000 0 0 1,000,000 Support towards Dreamland Foundation 2,000,000 0 0 2,000,000 Support towards Chike Okoli Foundation 1,000,000 0 0 2,000,000 Support for Temitayo Awosika Help Foundation 600,000 0 0 600,000 Bankers Committee – Donation towards the relief of flood victims 300,000,000 0 0 300,000,000 Donation towards IFRS Centre of Excellence 50,000,000 0 0 50,000,000 Support for Mastercare Foundation 10,000,000 0 0 10,000,000 412,147,433.84 N.B: We included expense on the Bank’s Employee Volunteering projects in cash and in kind 54 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 55 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 COMMUNITY COMMUNITY CASE STUDIES: EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERS CASE STUDIES: EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERS Children with special on them, leading to the abandonment of their wards among other issues. The employees also organised a forum and an exhibition of arts and crafts by abilities initiative Through the Children with Special Abilities the children titled “Ordinary People, Extraordinary Things”. The forum was The Financial Control 2013 Employee campaign, our employees brought hope organised to recognise and celebrate the Volunteering Project was entitled “Serving to children living with Down’s Syndrome role of parents, teachers and professionals our community: Ordinary People, as well as those who have dedicated their within the organisations in their efforts to Extraordinary things”. The Group’s focal life’s work to care for people living with bring normalcy to those living with Down’s objective was to raise awareness about these disabilities. Syndrome and to further raise awareness people living with physical and mental A documentary highlighting challenges among people and encourage support for disabilities by highlighting abilities in experienced by people with mental and the children through volunteering and disabilities. For this, our Financial Control physical disabilities was created to drive the donations. Group looked at organisations in the community dedicated to caring for people focal points of the team’s enlightenment The event also featured an exhibition of living with Autism, Cerebral Palsy and campaign. The documentary featured Arts and Crafts by the Down’s Syndrome Down’s Syndrome. two not-for-profit organisations and one Foundation of Nigeria, the Children’s school; one from the public sector and Developmental Centre and Atunda Olu This project was chosen after a chance visit two from the private sector. These School which were greatly patronised by to the Atunda Olu School for the Mentally organisations and schools have a history of our staff and guests. and Physically Challenged, a school under dedicated care and devotion to people with the Lagos State Ministry of Education. these disabilities. The documentary was With over N3.7million raised for this Having little prior knowledge about these used as a fund-raising tool as well as a keep initiative, the Bank’s Financial Control disabilities, the Financial Control team was sake to educate colleagues, families, volunteers touched the lives of over surprised to see so many people affected friends and customers of these disabilities; 130 children living with Down’s Syndrome, with very little information about them. In to remind them to give comfort to people Autism, Cerebral palsy and the effects The girl-child initiative books to girls, the volunteers have shown their commitment to building healthier, addition, we discovered most families of people living with the conditions were they know living with the conditions and or to empathise and donate or volunteer to of polio. With the emergence of a new way of better informed girls. The touchpoint subjected to all sorts of stigma in the organisations who care for people living thinking in many countries of the world of the project was the setting up of a community. This had an adverse effect with the conditions. seeking a more effective role for the mentoring programme designed to provide woman in society, the ascent of feminist opportunities for career grooming, growth movements has undergone a qualitative and development of school students. shift from the strategy of securing The project, which took place from May to emancipation of women to facilitating December 2013 with a total of 1,230 hours, empowerment of women. The empowerment of women aims at giving benefited over 2,000 students and 35 Employee volunteers teachers of Oduduwa Senior Secondary women power to exercise autonomy Through our Employee Volunteering School, Lagos. over their destiny. Scheme (EVS), our employees were able to help the local communities we serve. Based on the foregoing, Access Bank’s Our EVS allows our employees to volunteer Compliance and Internal Control unit during work hours and to participate in a members embarked on their employee range of activities, including mentoring volunteering Group activity for 2013 disadvantaged youths, joining which centred on the empowerment of environmental initiatives and offering their the girl-child. skills to local non-profit organisations. With the delivery of an ultramodern home economics laboratory, empowerment lecture series for girls, female football competition and distribution of cooking 56 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 57 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 COMMUNITY COMMUNITY CASE STUDIES: EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERS CASE STUDIES: EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERS School renovation Access Bank has become a household name in Ikosi and its environs. The Parents Hospital rehabilitation The choice of the hospital was based on the fact that the General Hospital is the project and Teachers Association (PTA) of the project only hospital that serves about three Local school is grateful for the Internal Audit Government Areas in Kaduna. The Internal Audit Employee Volunteering During a visit to the General Hospital, Team’s gesture towards improving the Project was the Renovation of the Sabo, Kaduna, our Zonal Retail Operations The hospital renovation project led to the quality of the school’s facilities; renovation dilapidated Information Technology Centre team observed a lot of needs. Some of provision of the following amenities: of the school’s IT Centre, renovation of and provision of 12 Desktop computers these needs included a spacious filing toilets and borehole installation. 1. An expanded filing room for the hospital and accessories for Ikosi Primary School room to allow ease of retrieval of patients’ history/reports, more chairs for guests 2. Cabinets and shelves – Ketu, Lagos, Nigeria, a school with over Over 700 pupils benefited from the IT and patients, and an overhaul of the 3. Provision of seats for over 100 patients 1,000 pupils and provision of monthly facilities provided by the Bank’s Internal hospital’s ambience. 4. Enhancement of the hospital’s computer training for the pupils of the Audit Employee Volunteers. Access to ambience with Flat Screen Televisions school. The project also involved the quality sanitary facilities and borehole On a daily basis, the General Hospital, 5. Construction of an alternative hospital renovation of 6-room male and female continue to impact positively on the Kaduna is visited by an average of 400 entrance to aid accessibility toilets and installation of a borehole for entire school population. patients seeking medical attention and the chosen school. With over 100 patients benefiting from this treatment. After consultations with the hospital’s Medical Director, the employee initiative, this community investment was The 500-hour project was born out of the volunteers had been informed of the judged to be the best Corporate Social need to provide basic computer knowledge challenges faced by the hospital personnel Responsibility in Kaduna State by the and education for the pupils considering in seeking private sector intervention Central Bank of Nigeria. that the school is a public school and the pupils did not have access to quality without much response. educational materials. Youth empowerment This group of volunteers has not left the School adoption project Much of the period was used in getting all the necessary approvals required to and rehabilitation youth empowerment function to the government or religious organisations, they In 2013, our Personal Banking employee volunteers embarked on a project to kick-start the project from Lagos State Government. initiative have been directly involved in supporting, motivating, and empowering youths in the renovate the Bonny Camp Primary School, In 2012, the Channel Services Group initiated Lagos State Special Correctional Centre Victoria Island, Lagos. Bonny Camp The lives of over 380 pupils were impacted. a project with the Lagos State Special for Boys. In doing this, our volunteers have Primary School is a public primary school The quality of education they receive now Correctional Centre for Boys as the instilled a strong sense of self-belief that the in Nigeria. The school had been in bad was also improved as white boards were beneficiary of its employee volunteer youth of the centre can achieve anything shape prior to the activation of the project. provided for all the classrooms, and initiative for the year. That year, the Group and be successful in life, and improved the A large part of the school’s roofs was comfortable seats. presented gift items and entertained the standard of social amenities in the centre broken, with flooring in bad shape and no The funds raised (over N8million) for the children within the facility. A tour of the centre so as to better engage the boys. The windows, bad toilet systems, absence of project were solely contributed by staff of was also done with a view to identifying areas spin-off include: potable drinking water. Personal Banking Division. The project as where the Bank can offer assistance. 1. Improved social lives of beneficiaries In achieving their volunteering objective, completed will benefit students now and in In 2013, the Group entered the second phase 2. Increased beneficiaries awareness and the Personal Banking employee volunteers the next 10-20 years if properly maintained. of the project which involved motivational understanding of certain issues provided a full stock of books for the school talks, video presentation, refurbishing and 3. Reduced beneficiaries’ dependence on library, desktop computers, potable water donation of key facilities, as well as donation community by providing them with tools and water tanks, and new toilets. of foodstuffs and other items to the centre. to improve their own lives. In order to ensure that the entire school Our Channels Services Employee Volunteers The project had direct impact on 160 staff, infrastructure was completely rehabilitated believe in the importance of empowering students and the management of the and due to limited funds available, the team young people to be agents of change in school with a total sum of N728,462 raised devoted 24 months to achieving this feat. the economy and community. by staff of the Channels Services Group for the project. 58 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 59 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 COMMUNITY COMMUNITY CASE STUDIES: EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERS CASE STUDIES: EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERS Correctional surgery Our Commercial Banking Lagos Employee Volunteering team dedicated 2,160 hours School adoption project for children which have resulted in sponsorship of three Access Bank is wholly unswerving in its (3) children of Down’s Syndrome Foundation volunteering initiatives. The Bank exhibits Down’s Syndrome is a generic condition with different health challenges, going to this commitment by encouraging its involving an extra chromosome, which India in December 2013 for corrective employees to volunteer for community occurs around the time of conception. surgeries at a cost of N2.5million (Two development while ensuring sustainability A person with Down’s Syndrome has 47 Million, Five Hundred Thousand Naira Only). and impact. In line with this, the Operational chromosomes instead of 46. Globally, it is Risk Management Group (ORM) of the estimated that for every 800 babies born, The volunteering exercise took a period Bank identified Fazil-Omar Ahmadiyya one will have Down’s Syndrome. of 90 days, from fund raising, liaising Primary School, Idado, Eleko, Lagos, as a with Coordinator of the Foundation It is against this background that our beneficiary of its employee volunteering and solidifying travel arrangements Commercial Banking Division Lagos initiative for 2013. for the children and parents. volunteers identified three children with The project involved adopting the school health challenges that needed urgent . and providing assistance in identified medical attention in India. The Corporate areas of need – furniture, teaching Social Responsibility Committee in aids, renovation of infrastructure and Commercial Banking Division, Lagos motivational sessions. The project was succeeded in mobilising the sum of selected as a result of collective interest N2,500,000 to sponsor the children with in supporting the educational pursuits of different health challenges to India for young children whose guardians may be corrective surgery in December 2013. The incapable of providing them with quality operations were successful and the children education in a conducive environment. are back in the country in good health. A-Word-A-Day project guided the choice of the project and our positioning as a strategic partner in the Learning resource Education is essential for everyone. It is development of the Educational sector centre project the level of education that helps people in Nigeria. In line with its commitment to development earn respect and recognition in society. With the commitment of its volunteers, initiatives, Access Bank encourages its However, as indispensable as education is, the Customer Experience Unit organised employees to contribute towards the unequal standard of education remains teaching and mentoring sessions for pupils, community advancement through a major problem that needs to be solved in provided school bags and library material community projects. Nigeria and the rest of Africa. It is upon this to improve the reading culture of over premise that Access Bank’s Customer As part of its volunteering efforts, the 500 students. Experience Unit embarked on adopting Centralised Operations Group of the Bank Olomu Primary School, Ajah and launched built an ultra modern learning resource an initiative tagged “A-Word-A-Day” in centre for staff and students of Herbert which members of the unit visit the school Macaulay Girls’ High School, Yaba, Lagos. bi-monthly to teach and mentor the pupils. This is premised on the fact that the Library has an integral role within the school As an ardent promoter of socio-economic The Centralised Operations unit Our Customer Experience Volunteers system to support and facilitate students’ development and well-being, the Bank volunteers’ intervention is strategic and believe that in areas where residents are and staff learning. The unveiling of the believes that lending support in the area gender inclined. The beneficiary school not able to receive an appropriate centre was held on 17 July 2013. The of education will assist greatly in achieving was chosen to further the cause of education, life cannot be as thriving and occasion was a great opportunity to its objective of contributing to the process girl-child education, helping break the prosperous as locations where there is a demonstrate the Bank’s commitment of developing relevant skills and knowledge cycle of gender discrimination and to high standard of education. This has to the progress of Lagos state, its necessary for creating a pool of talent achieve the broad United Nations people and also to contribute to its that is ready to take advantage of this Millennium Development Goals 2 & 3. long-term sustainable growth through knowledge-age for the benefit of society. The unit completed a block of classrooms. educational development. 60 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 61 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION GRI DATA TABLE GRI DATA TABLE Report parameters GRI indicator Strategy & Analysis Description Report reference Page 1.1 Group Chairman’s statement Group Chairman’s statement 06 Group Managing Director’s statement Statement from the Group Managing 07 Director/Chief Executive Officer Description of key impacts, risks Risks and Opportunities 20 and opportunities Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of reporting organisation About Access Bank Plc 14 2.2 Major brands, products and services Products, Services & Operation 12, 13 2.3 Operational structure Operational Structure of Access Bank Plc 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Markets served 10 2.5 Countries of operation Markets served 10 2.6 Nature of ownership Nature of ownership and Legal form 15 2.7 Markets served About Access Bank 10 2.8 Scale of organisation About Access Bank Plc 11 2.9 Significant changes Executive Summary 01 2.10 Awards received Awards & Recognition 08, 09 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period About this report 01 3.2 Date of most recent previous report About this report 01 3.3 Reporting cycle About this report 01 3.4 Contact person Contact us 67 3.5 Defining report content About this report, Assurance statement 01, 63 Report Scope and Boundary 3.6 Boundaries of the report About this report; Assurance statement 01, 65 and commentary 3.7 Limitations on report scope About this report; Assurance statement 01, 65 and commentary 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures About this report 01 3.10 Re-statements of information Assurance statement and commentary 65 3.11 Significant changes About this report; Economic Performance 01, 08, 09 GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the report GRI Content Index 60-64 Assurance 3.13 Assurance Assurance statement and commentary 65 Governance, commitments and engagement governance 4.1 Governance structure Corporate Governance 22-25 4.2 Whether Chair is also an executive officer Corporate Governance 22-25 4.3 Number of members that are independent Corporate Governance 22-25 and/or non executive Board members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Corporate Governance 22-25 to feed back to highest governance body 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Corporate Governance 22-25 body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission Executive Summary; Group 01, 06, 07 and their status Chairman’s statement; statement from the Group Managing Director 62 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 63 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION GRI DATA TABLE GRI DATA TABLE GRI indicator Description Report reference Page GRI indicator Description Report reference Page 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body Environmental performance indicators for overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of economic, Goals and performance environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Corporate Governance 25 Aspect: materials governance body’s own performance, C EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment 46-47 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Aspect: energy C EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Environment 46-47 Commitments to external initiatives energy source 4.12 Externally developed economic, Responsible Business 26-33 C EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Environment 46-47 environmental, and social charters, principles, primary source or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses A EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Environment 46-47 efficiency improvements 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as Responsible Business 26-33 industry associations) and/or national/ A EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Environment 46-47 international advocacy organisations in consumption and reductions achieved which the organisation Aspect: products and services Stakeholder engagement EN26 Environmental impact initiatives Environment 46-47 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged Stakeholder Engagement in 2013 18-19 EN27 Percentage of products and Not applicable by organisation packaging reclaimed 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Stakeholder Engagement in 2013 18-19 Aspect: compliance stakeholders with whom to engage C EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Stakeholder Engagement in 2013 18-19 total number of non monetary sanctions including frequency of engagement by for non compliance with environmental type and by stakeholder group laws and regulations 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been Stakeholder Engagement in 2013 18-19 raised through stakeholder engagement, Aspect: transport and how the organisation has responded A EN29 Significant environmental impacts of Environment 44-45 to those key topics and concerns, including transporting products and other goods through its reporting and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of Economic performance indicators the workforce Goals and performance Social performance indicators: labour practices and decent work Aspect: economic performance Goals and performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and Value-added statement; Distribution 08, 36-37, distributed, including revenues, operating of economic benefit; Community 53 Aspect: employment costs, employee compensation, donations Investment Data LA1 Total workforce About Access Bank – Employees 10 and other community investments, LA2 Employment turnover About Access Bank – Employees 36 retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments LA3 Benefits provided to full time employees EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Environment 46-47 Aspect: labour/management relations opportunities for the organisation’s LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Employees 36 activities due to climate change collective bargaining agreements EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Aspect: occupational health and safety EC4 Financial assistance from Government LA8 Serious disease programmes Aspect: market presence LA9 Trade unions health and safety topics covered EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level Aspect: training and education wage compared to local minimum wage LA10 Number of hours expended on Training Data 39 EC6 Policy, practice and proportion of spending Supply Chain 46-47 employee training on locally based suppliers LA11 Skills management programmes Learning and Development; Ensuring 39 EC7 Procedures for local hiring Employability and Skills Development LA12 Performance and career development reviews Career development 36 64 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 65 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION GRI DATA TABLE ASSURANCE STATEMENT AND COMMENTARY GRI indicator Description Report reference Page Assurance statement Commentary performance. This would make the report Access Bank has commissioned Corporate This is Access Bank’s sixth report on the more balanced, and also provide the Aspect: diversity and equal opportunity Citizenship to provide external assurance ways in which it endeavours to execute its reader with a more nuanced picture of the LA13 Breakdown of employees per category and a commentary on its Sustainability business responsibly and sustainability. The challenges associated with sustainable according to gender, age group, and Report 2013. Bank’s approach to executing its business banking in West Africa. other indicators of diversity responsibly and sustainably remains The scope of our assurance Our comments in relation to the three LA14 Female/male ratio by employee distinctive, committed and energetic. The assurance provides the reader principles of AA1000 are as follows: Access Bank sees its role as being a flag Aspect: Human rights with an independent, external bearer for responsible business practice Inclusivity: Does the organisation accept assessment of the report and, in Investment and procurement practices in Nigeria and more broadly across Africa. a responsibility to those on whom it has an particular, with how it corresponds with the AA1000 standard. It is intended for impact? Does it involve stakeholders in C HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and Supply Chain 48-49 In particular, Access Bank continues to the general reader and for more specialist developing a strategic approach to corporate contractors that have undergone screening engage vigorously in appropriate external audiences who have a professional interest responsibility and sustainability? on human rights and actions taken initiatives. Among these we note that in Access Bank’s responsibility and Access Bank is one of the four key sponsors In our view, the report displays Access Security practices sustainability performance. of the Women’s Empowerment Principles Bank’s adherence to the AA1000 principle A HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained promoted by UN Women and the UN of inclusiveness. in the organisation’s policies or procedures Access Bank has chosen to use the Global Compact. The report gives an concerning aspects of human rights that AA1000 assurance standard AA1000AS We noted above the vigorous and account not just of Access Bank’s are relevant to operations (2008). Our assurance is a Type 1 productive engagement of Access Bank participation in the broader initiative but assurance as defined by the standard, in with a broad range of collaborative external Social performance indicators that it evaluates the nature and extent of also how Access Bank implements the seven women’s empowerment principles initiatives to improve sustainability and Goals and performance adherence to the AA1000AS principles of within the organisation. encourage responsible corporate behavior. inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness We note too that the Bank attributes at Aspect: Community and assures the behaviour of the Another example of Access Bank least part of its business success and SO1 Scope, effectiveness and impact of Community investment; the environment; 46-47, 53 organisation as reported here. Our leadership is provided by its participation growth to engagement with customers programmes and practices on the community environmental sustainability; governance assurance used disclosed information in the Private Sector Health Alliance of and incorporating lessons learned into its and ethics as its starting point and then investigated Nigeria. This is Nigeria’s private sector business practice. Aspect: corruption the underlying systems, processes and platform to contribute to the saving of This year’s report includes significant sustainability performance information to one million lives movement. It also aims SO2 Percentage and total number of business progress in that the Stakeholder arrive at its conclusions. Our assurance has to advance progress in meeting the health units analysed for corruption risk Engagement in 2013 section is structured in been informed by the GRI G3 Principles for Millennium Development Goals by focusing SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Defining Report Content and Quality. on innovation, partnerships, advocacy and such a way as to touch upon inclusiveness, anti-corruption policies and procedures materiality and responsiveness. In the impact investments. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents The level of assurance is moderate, first instance, it shows the reason for of corruption which means that we believe there to In both these cases leadership is given engagement with the different stakeholder be sufficient evidence to support the at the highest level in the Bank. This groups and how, as a consequence, the Aspect: public policy statement such that the risk of the underlines the quality and depth of engagement has contributed to shaping SO5 Participation in public policy development conclusion being in error is reduced. Access Bank’s commitment. Access Bank’s overall approach. and lobbying Access Bank is entirely and solely On the topic of leadership, we note that Materiality: What are the issues that really SO6 Political lobbying and contributions responsible for the contents of the report, one of the most significant developments matter to the organisation’s sustainability Aspect: compliance while Corporate Citizenship is responsible in Access Bank’s programme in 2013 was performance (“material issues”)? How does SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and for its assurance. the first Access Leadership Conference. the organisation identify these issues? total number of non monetary sanctions This demonstrates the Bank’s A detailed note of our assurance In our view, the report displays Access commitment to bringing about an enduring GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement methodology appears at the end change in the leadership landscape of Bank’s adherence to the AA1000 principle D1 Description of policies with specific Environment 46-47 of this statement. of materiality. Nigeria and Africa. environmental and social components Opinion and conclusions The Stakeholder Engagement in 2013 applied to business lines Whilst achievements and activities are In our opinion the Access Bank section is helpfully structured regarding D2 Description of procedures for assessing Environment 46-47 highlighted throughout the report, the Sustainability Report 2013 reflects the materiality. It sets out not solely what were and screening environmental and social report is relatively light on the things that principles of AA1000 (2008): inclusivity, the mechanisms of engagement but also risks in business lines did not go so well. According to the GRI materiality and responsiveness. the key material issues pertinent to each D3 Description of processes for monitoring Environment 46-47 reporting principles, reporting should be In our commentary we review the report balanced, covering both positive and stakeholder group. clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements against each of these principles separately. negative trends in performance on a We note that the approach is susceptible to included in agreements or transactions We also provide feedback that can help year-on-year basis. Access Bank could strengthening in future years. This can be Access Bank and its stakeholders identify improve reporting by more fully discussing done by the extension of the approach to where reporting can be strengthened challenges the Bank is facing in its drive include engagement of a broader and more in future. to be a leading sustainable bank and general nature in addition to that with each setting out the year-on-year trends in stakeholder group. Such a move would be 66 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 67 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION ASSURANCE TABLE AND COMMENTARY CONTACT US likely to identify issues such as tax policy, Methodological notes Our work did not extend to a complete This Report has been prepared in line which is of material interest to society as a The assurance work was commissioned in audit of the report’s contents. We have with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) whole but not necessarily at the top of the April 2014 and was completed on [XX] not been responsible for the preparation Sustainability Guidelines to the GRI list for any individual stakeholder. August 2014. Detailed records were kept of the report nor in devising the internal Application level B+ as a way of adding value of meetings, assurance visits and management and reporting systems to our CSR Report and the reporting Responsiveness: Does the organisation correspondence relating to the inclusivity, that yielded the data contained therein. process. While disclosing and being respond to stakeholder issues that affect materiality and responsiveness of the accountable to our internal and external performance through its actions and The opinions expressed in this external report, as well as to technical matters stakeholders on an on-going basis, communications? assurance statement and commentary relating to the accuracy and presentation stakeholders think about our sustainability are intended to extend understanding of In our view, the report displays Access of data. A team of three, led by an performance and reporting efforts – and Access Bank’s non-financial performance Bank’s adherence to the AA1000 principle Associate Director, undertook the how we can improve both. and should not be used or relied upon to of responsiveness. assurance and commentary process. form any judgments, or take any decisions, Please email your thoughts and A Director acted as adviser to the group. Identifying material issues is not by of a financial nature. suggestions to: The team has a variety of professional and itself enough. The issues must be followed technical competencies and experience. Corporate Citizenship is a leading assuror Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan through. Again the approach of tabulating For further information please refer to our of corporate responsibility reports and Head, Sustainability the Bank’s stakeholder engagement with website www.corporate-citizenship.com. an AA1000 Licensed Assurance Provider. Access Bank Plc each group pays dividends. In this case Plot 999c, Danmole Street, it does so by matching the material Our external assurance and commentary We have provided report assurance for Off Idejo Street, Adeola Odeku, issues identified with the consequential process for Access Bank’s Sustainability Access Bank since 2009. In addition to Victoria Island actions pursued. Report 2013 has involved, but not been our work on assurance Access Bank is Lagos State limited to, the following elements: a member of the LBG (London Looking forward Nigeria Benchmarking Group www.lbg-online.net), Over the last few years, Access Bank • Understanding Access Bank and its an evaluation framework for corporate Email: omobolanle.victor-laniyan@ has made significant progress in its value chain, its own culture and the community involvement which we manage accessbankplc.com journey towards becoming a sustainable broader social and environmental on behalf of its members and adherents. Email: sustainability@accessbankplc.com bank. The question that raises itself is how contexts in which it operates; its approach We have done no other work for Access Website: www.accessbankplc.com can further progress be secured? to and understanding of corporate Bank during 2013. responsibility; how it identifies issues We note two possible areas. material to its operations; Corporate Citizenship is part of Chime We believe that one of the ways Access Communications. • Benchmarking against peers, Bank could improve reporting and competitors and best practice to strengthen its strategy is by setting clearly identify the basis on which to judge defined targets, goals and KPIs. The report Access Bank’s performance; makes clear the vigour, comprehensiveness and energy of Access Bank’s approach. • Review of key elements of external Discerning the channels of delivery and the coverage of Access Bank and the extent of achievement would be enabled Nigerian Banking sector; by clearer targets, goals and measures. • Examination of the report at set stages The senior management and Board of in its development and testing of the the Bank take a lead externally in the assertions throughout, drawing from development and promotion of the evidence and supporting documentation, programme. It would be good to give reporting mechanisms, frameworks fuller coverage of how their commitment and processes; is projected internally and to have a more • Assessment of the report against the comprehensive account of the internal detailed guidance laid down by AA1000AS governance of sustainability. and the GRI G3 Principles; Corporate Citizenship • Site visit to Access Bank’s head office London in Lagos; [XX] August 2014 • Interviews with key personnel in functions including Anti-fraud, Compliance, Facilities, Inclusive Banking, Media and Branding, Procurement, Risk and Sustainability. 68 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 69 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE DIRECTORY CORPORATE DIRECTORY Branch distribution Maitama Branch Nasda Branch Oron Branch Ihiala Branch Delta Abia Plot 619 Obasanjo Space Village Along Oron Road Ihiala 80 Effurun Sapele Road Branch Aba Branch Gana Street Airport Road Etiema Street 80 Effurun Sapele Road 15 Azikiwe Road Bauchi Warri Cadastral Zone A05 Abuja Oron Aba Road Bauchi Branch Maitama Abuja NNPC Towers Branch Wellington Bassey Branch 5 Bank Road Deco Road Branch Abuja Eziukwu Road Branch Block B NNPC Towers 21 Wellington Bassey Way Bauchi Robson Shopping Complex 4 Eziukwu Road National Assembly Branch Hm Way Uyo Deco Road Aba Bayelsa Warri National Assembly Complex Cbd Anambra Mbiama Yenagoa Road Branch Abuja Abuja Faulks Road Branch Awka 1 Branch Mbiama/Yenogoa Road Sapele Branch 132 Faulks Road Boi Branch Dei Dei Branch 222 Zik Avenue Onopayenogoa Warri Road Aba Plot 256 Zone B2.582 Awka Yenogoa Sapele Herbert Macaulay Way Dei Dei Building Umuahia Branch Awka 2 Branch Twon Brass Branch Agbor Branch Behind Unity Bank Head Office Material Intl Market Plot 6 Trading/Residential Area Km 41 Enugu-Onitsha Express Opposite Agip Gate 126 Old Asaba Road Abuja Dei Dei Umuahia Awka Twon Brass Agbor Abuja Cadastral Branch Umudike Branch Unizik Branch Benue Asaba Branch Plot 207 Fed Min of Justice Branch University of Agriculture Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka Gboko Branch 417 Nnebisi Road Cadastral District Federal Ministry of Justice Complex Umudike Main Campus Awka Benue Cement Factory Km 72 Asaba Abuja Abuja Umudike Makurdi-Gboko Road 14 New Market Road Branch Ebonyi Durumi Branch Kubwa Branch Gboko Abuja 14 New Market Road Abakaliki Branch Plot 1037 Plot 59 Adetokunbo Ademola Branch Onitsha Gboko Main Branch 41 Ogoja Road Shafa Shopping Centre Gado Nasko Road Plot 833 5/7 J.S. Tarka Way Abakaliki by Old Federal Secretariat Kubwa 30 New Market Road Branch Adetokunbo Ademola Crescent Gboko Durumu District 30 Nnewi Road Edo Wuse 2 Plot 2357 Douala Street (Wuse Market) Abuja Onitsha Makurdi 2 Branch 23 Airport Road Branch Plot 2357 Douala Street Aminu Kano Branch Adjacent to Living Faith Church 23 Airport Road Federal Mortgage Bank Branch off Herbert Macaulay Bridge Head Branch Plot 1195 Makurdi Benin Federal Mortgage Bank Building Abuja 48 Port Harcourt Road Aminu Kano Crescent Central Business Area Bridge Head Makurdi Branch Akpakpava Branch Wuse II Utako Branch Abuja Onitsha 83 Olotuukpo Road 45 Akpakpava (opp. Amal Court) Plot 903 Obafemi Awolowo Way Makurdi Garki Branch Ekwulobia Main Branch Auchi Branch Asokoro Branch Ahmadu Bello Way Utako District Uga Road Oturkpo Branch Beside Fed Poly Auchiiyekhei/ Plot 87 Garki II Abuja Ekwulobia Aguata Lga 19 Federal Road Polytechnic Road Yakubu Gowon Crescent Abuja Ekwulobia Oturkpo Amanesiauchi Asokoro Wuse Branch Garki Area 11 Branch Plot 2401 Nnewi Branch Zaki Ibiam Branch Ekpoma Branch Enugu House Branch Plot 599 Cadastral Zone A7 Zone 2 Block 15 Y Junction 4 Akhere Lane Plot 81 Cadastral Zone A3 Abuja Edo Ezemewi Road Katsina Ala Road Ekpoma Ralph Shodeinde Stropp Fed Min of Finance Gwarjo Close Nnewi Central Business District Adamawa Borno Gra, Ihama Benin Branch off Gimbiya Street Abuja Yola Branch Ogidi Branch Biu Branch Gra Area 11 7 Aminu Galadima Way Km 7 Onitsha Enugu Expressway 1 Damaturu Road Ihama Benin Federal Secretariat Abuja Branch Abuja Jimeta Ogidi Building Material Market Biu Federal Secretariat Complex Mission Road Branch Gwagwalada Branch Yola Ogidi Abuja Maiduguri Branch 70 Mission Road 356 Special Hospital Road Anambra State Akwa Ibom 24 Sir Kashim Ibrahim Way Benin Herbert Macaulay Branch Wagwalada 32 Aka Road Branch Stock Exchange Branch Maiduguri Plot 247 Abuja Okada Branch 32 Aka Road Nigerian Stock Exchange Complex Herbert Macaulay Way Cross River New Site Jos Street Branch opposite Gulf Bank Onitsha 6 Jos Street Uyo 10 Calabar Road Branch Igbinedion University Campus Karu Branch opposite Sharon Ultimate Hotel Umunze Branch 10 Calabar Road Okada Plot Number 312 Eket Branch Umunze Ogbunka Road Pmb 1270 Nyanya Sports Centre Layout Area 3 Sapele Road Branch Along Grace Bill Road Orumba North Local Govt Area Calabar Cadastral Zone 09-07 Garki 164 Sapele Road Eket Umunze Karu Calabar 1 Branch opposite NPDC Ladoke Akintola Blvd Branch Abuja Ikot Ekpene Branch Up Iweka Branch 15/16 Bogobiri Street Sapele Road Along Akintola Boulevard 1 Abak Road Up Iweka Calabar Garki Textile Mill Road Branch Ikot Ekpene Onitsha Abuja Ogoja Branch 74 Edo Textile Mill Road Hospital Road Benin Ogoja 70 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 71 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE DIRECTORY CORPORATE DIRECTORY Edo UNEC Branch Kaduna Katin Kwari Branch Kwara Ligali Ayorinde Branch continued University of Nigeria A2 Ahmadu Bello Way Branch Ibrahim Taiwo Road Folawiyo Street Branch Plot 15 Enugu Campus A2 Ahmadu Bello Way by Katin Kwari Market 24 Wahab Folawiyo Ligali Ayorinde Uniben Branch Kaduna Kano Unity Road University of Benin UNN Nsukka Branch Muri Okunola Branch Ilorin University of Nigeria Ali Akilu Branch Kazaure Branch 211 Muri Okunola Street Uselu Branch Nsukka 26D Ali Akilu Road Along Kano-Duara Rd Ilorin Branch Victoria Island 170 Uselu Lagos Road Kaduna Kano Stadium Shopping Complex Gombe Oyin Jolayemi Branch Ekiti Taiwo Road Ashaka Branch Bida Road Branch Mur Mohammed Way, Kano Branch Plot 1665 Ado Ekiti Branch Ilorin Ashaka Cement Factory 16/20 Bida Road 146 Murtala Mohammed Way Oyin Jolayemi Street 144 Secretariar/Yin Ashaka Kano Reservation Road Branch Victoria Island Ado Ekiti Gumi Main Market Branch Gombe 29A Reservation Road Gumi Main Market Post Office Road Branch Saka Tinubu Branch Ijero Ekiti Branch Gra Ilorin Dukku Branch Kaduna 12B Post Office 44A Saka Tinubu Street Market Square Gona Quarters Kano Lagos off Adeola Odeku Street Ijero Ekiti Kachia Road Branch opp. Fed Low Cost Adeola Hopewell Branch Victoria Island 314 Kachia Road Singer Market Branch Ikere Branch Along Gombe-Kano Road Plot 1697 Lagos Kaduna 48E Ado Bayero Road College of Education Dukku Adeola Hopewell Kano Adeniji Adele Branch Ikere Gombe Kafanchan Branch Victoria Island Oba Adeniji Adele Plaza Kafanchan Katsina Lagos Ipoti Branch Gombe Branch Adeniji Adele Road Daura Branch 3 Odo Owa Road 24 New Market Road NNPC Refinery, Kaduna Branch Adeola Odeku 1 Branch Along Kano Road Alfred Rewane Road Branch Ipoti Gombe 16 Kachia Road 11A Adeola Odeku Street besides Nitel Office Daura 1 Kingsway Road NNPC Refinery Victoria Island Unad Branch Kumo Branch Katsinadaura Ikoyi Kaduna Ekiti State Unversity Campus Emir Palace Road Adeola Odeku 2 Branch Lagos Funtua Branch Kumo Ungwan Rimi Branch 44 Adeola Odeku Street Enugu Zaria Road Awolowo Road 1 Branch Akko Lga 7 Kwato Road Victoria Island Abakaliki Road Enugu Branch Funtua 58 Awolowo Road Ungwan Rimi Gra Plot 7 Yamaltu Deba Branch Adetokunbo Ademola 1 Branch Ikoyi Kaduna North Lga Katsina 1 Branch Ebeano Housing Estate Deba Gra 30A Adetokunbo Ademola Kaduna 106 Ibb Way Awolowo Road 2 Branch Garden Avenue Yamaltu Deba Lga Victoria Island Katsina 87 Awolowo Road Gra Enugu Gombe Zaria Branch Adeyemo Alakija Branch Ikoyi 16 River Road Katsina 2 Branch Abakpa Nike Branch Imo Commerce House Zaria 109 Ibb Way Broad Street 1 Branch 78 Nike Lake Road 117 Wetheral Road, Owerri Branch 1 Idowu Taylor Street Katsina 134/136 Broad Street Abakpa Nike 117 Wetheral Road Kano Victoria Island Lagos Enugu Owerri 3B Bank Road Branch Malumfashi Branch Ajose Adeogun Branch 3B Bank Road Along Funtua Road Broad Street 2 Branch Agbani Road Branch Bank Road, Owerri Branch 287 Ajose Adeogun Street Kano near Total Filling Station 32 Broad Street Agbani Road Bank Road Victoria Island Malumfashi Lagos Enugu Owerri Aminu Kano Teaching Lagos Hospital Branch Kebbi Idumota Branch Enugu Branch Mbaise Branch Idejo Street Branch Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital Kebbi Branch 122 Nnamdi Azikwe Street 67 Ogui Road Eke-Ahiara Junction Plot 161E Idejo Street Kano 1 Jos Road G.r.a, Idumota by Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium Mbaise off Adeola Odeku Birnin Bayero University Branch Victoria Island Issa Williams Branch Enugu Road Branch Nekede Branch Kebbi Main Campus Bayero University 27/29 Issa Wiliams Street 12 Enugu Road Federal Polytechnic Nekede Ikota Branch Kano Kogi Lagos Island Nsukka Owerri Suite E 79-81 and 116-118 Vgc Lokoja Branch Bello Road Branch Ikota Shopping Complex Keffi Street Branch Enugu State University Branch Orlu Branch 82 Lokoja Kabba Road Bello Road Lekki Peninsular 13 Keffi Street Enugu State University 4A Bank Road Lokoja Kano Lagos Ikoyi Enugu Orlu Obajana Branch Bichi Branch Lekki 1 Branch Kosoko Street Branch Kenyatta Branch Jigawa Opposite Dangote Cement Factory Along Katsina Road Plot 7 Block 2 52/54 Kosoko Street 16 Kenyatta Street Dutse Branch Obajana by Bichi Junction Oniru Private Estate Oke Arin Enugu Plot 10/11 Bichi Okene Branch by Maroko Bus Stop Lagos Sani Abacha Way Okpara Avenue Branch Along Kogi Road Lekki Dutse France Road Branch Marina Boi Branch 5 Okpara Avenue Okene Lagos 17/18 France Road Bank of Industry Building Enugu Lekki Chevron Branch Kano Broad Street Beside Chevron Roundabout Marina Along Lekki – Epe Expressway 72 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 73 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE DIRECTORY CORPORATE DIRECTORY Lagos Agudosi Branch Bode Thomas Branch Ilupeju 1 Branch Ifako-Gbagada Branch Iju Branch continued 4 Agudosi Street 42 Bode Thomas Street 25A Ilupeju Bye-Pass 6 Diya Street 134 Water Works Road off Ojo Road Surulere Ilupeju Ifako Iju-Ishaga Marina Branch 2 Alaba International Market Gbagada Lagos 48 Marina Street Idi-Araba Branch Ilupeju Branch Alaba Lagos Marina College of Medicine 11 Town Planning Way Ikotun Branch Alaba International Market Ishaga Road Ilupeju Oba Akran Branch 4 Ikotun Junction Moloney Branch 44/45 Alaba International Market Road Idi-Araba 23-25 Oba Akran Avenue Ikotun 34 Moloney Street Ire Akari Branch Ojo-Alaba Lagos Lagos Ijeshatedo Branch 1 Godwin Omonua Street Ipaja Branch Aspamda Branch Ijeshatedo Surulere Ire Akari Estate Obafemi Awolowo Way Branch 171 Abeokuta Expressway Nnamdi Azikwe Street Zone B R4 Mercy Cafe Lagos Isolo 77 Obafemi Awolowo Way Iyana Idumota Branch Aspamda Plaza Lagos Ikeja Ipaja 68 Nnamdi Azikwe Street Lawanson Branch Trade Fair Complex Idumota 87 Itire/Lawanson Road Isolo Branch Opebi Branch Ikorodu 1 Branch Lagos Atiku Abubakar Hall Branch Surulere 113 Okota Road 23 Opebi Road 7 Ayangburen Road ICC Lagos Okota Ikeja Ikorodu Onikan Branch Lagos International TFC 30 King George V Road Ogunlana Drive Branch Matori Branch Simbiat Abiola Ikorodu 2 Branch Lagos Badagry Expressway Road Onikan 150 Ogunlana Drive 125 Ladipo Street 20 Simbiat Abiola Road 68 Lagos Road Lagos Surulere Lagos Ikeja Ikorodu Burma Road Branch Festac Branch 4 Burma Road Ojuelegba Branch Mushin Branch Toyin Street Branch Ketu Branch Plot 1597 Apapa 78 Ojuelegba Road 279 Agege Motor Road 54 Toyin Street 533 Ikorodu Road 4th Avenue Tejuosho Mushin Ikeja Ketu Commercial Road Branch Festac Town Ojuelegba Lagos Ojota 8/10 Commercial Road Agege Branch Lasu Branch Sabo Yaba Branch Nahco Branch 653 Abeokuta Express Road Maryland Branch Creek Road Branch Lagos State University 290 Herbert Macaulay Way Nahco Complex 1 Abuletaylor 6 Mobolaji Bank 39 Creek Road Ojo Sabo Yaba Murtala Mohammed Abule-Egba Anthony Way Apapa Lagos Lagos International Airport Road Agege Ikeja Iddo Branch Maza Maza Branch Ikeja Shomolu Branch Alagbado Branch Odogunyan Branch Iddo Plaza Shopping Complex 17 Sikiru Otunba St Lagos 47 Mkt/Odunlami Street Daniel Farm Km32 opp. 2nd Gate Iddo Old Ojo Road Shomolu Oshodi Branch Lagos Abeokuta Lagos Polytechnic Lagos Badagry Expressway Road Murtala Mohammed Way Branch Olorunsogo Agege Ikorodu Campus Lagos St Finbarrs Road-Bariga Branch 66/68 Murtala Mohammed Way Oshodi Lagos Lagos 67 St Finbarrs Road Oyingbo Old Alaba Motor Park Lagos Chemist Bus Stop Ayobo Branch Ogba Branch Old Alaba Motor Park Olodi-Apapa Branch Akoka – Bariga Palm Avenue Branch Along Ayobo/Ipaja Road 40A/40B Ogba Ijaiye Road Off Ojo Igbede Plot 24 Lagos 56 Palm Avenue opp. Deeper Life Church Bibletraining Ogba Alaba International Market opposite Ibru Jetty Mushin Ayobo Alaba Tejuosho Branch Ojodu Berger Branch Apapa Lagos 31 Tejuosho Street Adeniyi Jones Branch Plot 101 Old Ojo Orile Coker Branch Lagos 53 Adeniyi Jones Dopemu Branch Isheri Road 153 Old Ojo Road 3 Alhaji Owokoniran Street Ikeja 92 Lagos/Abeokuta Expressway Ojodu Berger Agboju Amuwo University of Lagos Branch Orile Coker Lagos University of Akokayaba Alausa Branch Ojota Branch Lagos Satellite Town Branch Lagos 183 Obafemi Awolowo Road Egbeda Branch 1A Ogudu Road opposite Tantalizers Point Road Branch Alausa 35 Akowonjo Road Old Ojo Road Ajao Estate Branch Oregun Branch I Point Road Ikeja Egbeda Abule Ado Satellite Town Airport Road 51 Kudirat Abiola Way Apapa Lagos Ajao Estate Allen Avenue Branch 1 Ejigbo Branch Oregun Road Lagos Lagos 92 Allen Avenue Along Ejigbo/Ikotun Road Ikeja Adeniran Ogunsanya Branch Tincan Branch Ikeja opp. NNPC Junction Lagos 71 Adeniran Ogunsanya Street Daleko Branch 1 Kirikir Lighter Terminal Ejigbo Surulere Daleko Market Allen Avenue Branch 2 Nasarawa Phase 2 Lagos Lagos Complex Daleko Market 13 Allen Avenue Lafia Branch Wharf Road Branch Mushin Ikeja Idimu Branch Jos Road Aguda Branch 13-15 Wharf Road 71 Egbeda/Idimu Road opposite Habib Bank 5 Enitan Street Ikorodu Road Branch (Jibowu) Gbagada Branch Apapa Idimu Lafia Surulere 38/40 Ikorodu Road Plot 286 Lagos Agbara Branch Lagos Jibowu Oshodi Apapa Expressway Mararaba Branch Bank Road Lagos Gbagada Phase I Plot 3316 Agbara Industrial Estate Lagos Abuja Keffi Expressway Mararaba 74 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 75 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE DIRECTORY CORPORATE DIRECTORY Niger Ondo Iwo Road 2 Branch Bonny Branch Sokoto Access Bank Plc, Zone B2.582, Dei Dei Suleja Branch Adekunle Ajasin University 93 Iwo Road 64 Hospital Road Sokoto 1 Branch Building Material Intl Market Federal Capital Suleman Barau Road Campus Branch Ibadan Bonny Island 45 Maiduguri Road Territory, Abuja, Branch opposite Gamco Motors Adekunle Ajasin University Campus Sokoto New Court Road Branch Eleme Branch Access Bank Plc, Erisco Bonpet Plaza Wuse Suleja Akungba Akoko 34 New Court Road PPMC Eleme Sokoto 2 Branch Market, Abuja, Branch Suleja Branch Ado Owo Road Branch Dugbe Port Harcourt opposite Afribank Access Bank Plc, Block B NNPC Depot 11 Ado Owo Road Ibadan Maiduguri Road Ikokwu Branch NNPC Towers Akure Sokoto Minna 1 Branch Ojoo Branch 31A Amaigbo Road Hm Way CBD Federal Capital Territory, Paiko Road Oba Adesida Road Branch Old Ibadan/Oyo Road Ikokwu Usman Danfodio University Branch Abuja, Branch David Markl Junction 126 Oba Adesida Road besides Olona Filling Station Main Campus Olu Obasanjo Branch Access Bank Plc, Tofa House Plot 770, Minna Akure Sabo Usman Danfodio University 329A Olu Obasanjo Road Central Business District Federal Capital Ojoo Sokoto Minna 2 Branch Ondo Branch Port Harcourt Territory, Abuja, Branch Ibadan 2 Old Airway Road Yaba Taraba Rumukwurusi Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 619, Gana Street off Boso Road Ondo Oyo Branch Jalingo Branch Plot 328 Cadastral Zone A05 Cadastral Zone A0 Minna beside Con Oil Filling Station 57B Hammaruwa Way Osun Port Harcourt-Aba Expressway Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Branch Ilorin – Ogbomosho Express Way Jalingo Bida Branch Ile Ife Branch Rumukwurusi Port Harcourt Owode Access Bank Plc, 356, Special Hospital Road Along BCC Road 26 Aderemi Road Yobe Oyo Rumuokoro Gwagwalada Federal Capital Territory, Bida Ile Ife Damaturu Branch 679 Ikwerre Road Abuja, Branch Ring Road, Ibadan Branch 12B Maiduguri Road Ogun Ilesha Branch Rumuokoro Roundabout opposite Mobil Filling Station along Potiskum Damaturu Road Access Bank Plc, Federal Secretariat 1-5 Fajuyi Road Branch 107A Orinkiran Street Ring Road Trans Amadi 1 Damaturu Complex, Abuja, Branch 1-5 Fajuyi Road Oshogbo Road Ibadan Trans Amadi Industrial Layout Sapon Ilesha Zamfara Access Bank Plc, Plot 903, Obafemi Port Harcourt Abeokuta Uch Ibadan Branch Gusau Branch Awolowo Way Federal Capital Territory, OAU Ile Ife Branch beside Blood Bank Uch Eastern Bulk Cement Branch Canteen Road Abuja, Branch Covenant Branch Obafemi Awolowo University Campus Ibadan Eastern Bulk Cement Complex Gusau Opposite Covenant University Ile Ife Access Bank Plc, along Akintola Iwofe Otta Ogbomoso Branch Talata Mafara Branch Boulevard Garki Federal Capital Territory, Oshogbo Branch Rivers State Apake Area Sokoto Road Abuja, Branch Ijebu-Ode Branch No 10 GCRA Ogbomoso Garrison Branch opposite LGA Office 19 Ibadan Road Station Road Access Bank Plc, Federal Ministry of Justice 82/88 Aba Road Zamfara State Ijebu-Ode Oshogbo Plateau Complex Federal Capital Territory Abuja, beside Mtn Building Bukuru Branch ATM locations Abuja, Branch Ilaro Branch Oyo opp. Tarpaulin Bukuru – Jos Road Ona Ola Quarters Bodija 1 Branch Port Harcourt Access Bank Plc, 15 Azikiwe Road Aba, Access Bank Plc, Federal Mortgage Bank Bukuru Jos South opposite Fire Station Plot 32 Bodija Ui Road Abia, Branch Building Central Business Area Federal Local Government Area Obigbo Branch Ilaro Bodija Capital Territory, Abuja, Branch Jos 14 Location Road Access Bank Plc, 2 Library Way, Umuahia Oke Ilewo Branch Bodija 2 Branch Obigbo Abia, Branch Access Bank Plc, 6 Jos Street, opposite Jos 1 Branch 1 Lilubu Street Oke Ilewo Plot 6 Sharon Ultimate Hotel Federal Capital 37 Beach Road Plot 105 Olu Obasanjo Branch Access Bank Plc, 132 Faulks Road, Ibara University Crescent Territory, Abuja, Branch Jos Plot 105 Aba Abia State, Abia, Branch Abeokuta Ui-Sec Road Olu Obasanjo Road Access Bank Plc, Plot 599, Cadastral Zone Ibadan Jos 2 M Mohammed Way Branch Access Bank Plc, Duke House, 45 Azikwe Osiele Branch Port Harcourt A3 Gwarjo Close, off Gimbiya Street, 1 Murtala Mohammed Way Road, Abia State, Abia, Branch Federal College of Education Osiele Challenge Branch Abuja, Branch Jos RSUST Branch Osiele Challenge Roundabout Access Bank Plc, 69 Azikwiwe Road, Aba, River State University Science Access Bank Plc, Plot 81, Ralph Shodeinde Abeokuta Ibadan Rivers Abia, Branch and Technology Street, opposite Fed Min of Finance Central Agip Road Branch Otta Branch Dugbe Branch Main Campus Access Bank Plc, Plot 6, Trading/Residential Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Branch No 1 Agip Road 145 Lagos-Abeokuta Express Way 1 Jimoh Odutola Street Port Harcourt Area Umuahia, Abia, Branch Beside Kilimanjaro Mile 4 Access Bank Plc, Plot Number 312, Nyanya Otta Dugbe Market Rumueme Uniport Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 207 Sports Centre Layout, Abuja, Branch RCCG Camp Branch Ekotedo Branch, Ibadan University of Port – Abuja Campus Cadastral Zone Federal Capital Territory Azikiwe Road PHC Branch Access Bank Plc, Obasanjo Space Village Redemption Camp Km 46/85 50 Adekunle Fajuyi Road beside Uba Port Harcourt Abuja, Abuja, Branch 5 Azikiwe Road Airport Road Federal Capital Territory, Lagos/Ibadan Express Way Ekotedo Iya-Olobe near Government House Woji Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 2401, Cadastrals Abuja, Branch Redemption Camp Ibadan Port Harcourt Alcon Road Woji Estate Zone A7, Abuja, Branch Sagamu Branch Iwo Road 1 Branch close to YKC Filling Station Access Bank Plc, Plot 1037, Shafa Shopping Bank Road Branch Access Bank Plc, National Assembly White Centre by Old Federal Secretariat, Federal 71 Akarigbo Road 37 Iwo Road Port Harcourt 10A Bank Road House Basement Abuja, Abuja, Branch Capital Territory, Abuja, Branch Sagamu Ibadan opposite High Court Port Harcourt 76 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 77 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE DIRECTORY CORPORATE DIRECTORY ATM locations continued Access Bank Plc, University of Agriculture Access Bank Plc, 41 Ogoja Road, Access Bank Plc, Plot 833, Adetokunbo Access Bank Plc, 7 Kwato Road, Ungwan Access Bank Plc, 24 Wahab Folawiyo Unity Umudike Main Campus Abia State, Ebonyi, Branch Ademola Crsnt. Wuse 2, Fct, Branch Rimi Gra Kaduna State, Kaduna, Branch Road, Kwara, Branch Access Bank Plc, 13/15 Atiku Abubakar Anambra, Branch (Mubi) Road, Adamawa, Branch Access Bank Plc, 135 Akpapava Road, Access Bank Plc, Plot 247, Herbert Access Bank Plc, 16/20 Bida Road, Access Bank Plc, 29A Reservation Road Gra Access Bank Plc, 1 Ajaekwe Street Edo, Branch Macaulay Way, Fct, Branch Kaduna, Branch Ilorin, Kwara, Branch Access Bank Plc, Along Oron Road Odoagba, Anambra, Branch Etiema Street, Akwa Ibom State, Akwa Access Bank Plc, 74 Edo Textile Mill Road, Access Bank Plc, National Assembly White Access Bank Plc, 146 Murtala Mohmd Way Access Bank Plc, Stadium Shopping Ibom, Branch Access Bank Plc, 24 Muritala Mohammed Edo, Branch House Basement Abuja, Fct, Branch Kano State, Kano, Branch Complex Taiwo Road Ilorin, Kwara, Branch Way Bauchi, Bauchi, Branch Access Bank Plc, 1 Abak Road, Access Bank Plc, Alumni Centre University Access Bank Plc, Ahmadu Bello Way Garki Offsite, 26D Ali Akilu Road Kaduna State, Access Bank Plc, 183 Obafemi Awolowo Akwa Ibom, Branch Access Bank Plc, along Kano-Duara Rd, of Benin Ugbowo Benin City, Edo, Branch Ii Abuja, Fct, Branch Kano, Offsite Road, Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Bauchi, Branch Access Bank Plc, PPMC Depot, Access Bank Plc, 23 Airport Road Benin Access Bank Plc, Plot 87, Yakubu Gowon Access Bank Plc, 24 Bello Road Kano Access Bank Plc, 24A Creek Road, Apapa, Akwa Ibom, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 3, Onopa Commercial Edo, Edo, Branch Crescent Asokoro, Fct, Branch Kano State, Kano, Branch Lagos, Branch Layout Onopa, Bayelsa, Branch Access Bank Plc, 45 Muritala Mohammed Offsite, 3 Oroyinyin Street Idumota Lagos, Access Bank Plc, Plot 59, Gado Nasko Road Access Bank Plc, 3B Bank Road Kano State, Access Bank Plc, Plot 1617, Damole/Idejo Way, Akwa Ibom, Branch Access Bank Plc, Km 6, Mbiama/Yenagoa Edo, Offsite Kubwa, Fct, Branch Kano, Branch Street Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Road, Bayesla, Branch Access Bank Plc, 32 Aka Road, opposite Access Bank Plc, New Site Igbinedion Access Bank Plc, Erisco Bonpet Plaza Wuse Access Bank Plc, Ibrahim Taiwo Road, by Access Bank Plc, 4 Agudosi St, off Ojo Gulf Bank Akwa Ibom State, Akwa Access Bank Plc, 5 Ogiri Oko Road G.R.A, University Campus Edo State, Edo, Branch Market, Fct, Branch Aib Kano State, Kano, Branch Road Alaba Intl Market Lagos State, Ibom, Branch Benue, Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, beside Fed Poly Auchi I Access Bank Plc, Plot 256, Herbert Access Bank Plc, Main Campus Bayero Access Bank Plc, along Grace Bill Road Access Bank Plc, Benue Cement Factory Iyekhei/Polytechnic Road, Edo, Branch Macaulay Way behind Unity Bank Head University Kano State, Kano, Branch Access Bank Plc, 54 Toyin Street, Lagos Akwa Ibom State, Akwa Ibom, Branch Km 72, Makurdi-Gboko Road, Benue, Office Abuja Nigeria, Fct, Branch State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 6 Akhere Lane Edo State, Access Bank Plc, Aminu Kano Teaching Branch Access Bank Plc, 30 Nnewi Road Anambra Edo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 8 New Market Road, Hospital Kano State, Kano, Branch Access Bank Plc, 125 Ladipo Street, State Onistha 1, Anambra, Branch Access Bank Plc, 19 Federal Road Oturkpo Gombe, Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 45 Akpakpava Street, Access Bank Plc, Zaria Road, Katsina State, Benue State, Benue, Branch Access Bank Plc, Block 015 Zone 1 Edo Edo, Branch Access Bank Plc, Dukku Local Government Kano, Branch Access Bank Plc, 1 Kingsway Road, Ikoyi, Ezemewi Road, Nnewi, Anambra, Branch Access Bank Plc, 5/7 J.S. Tarka Way NUM Secretariat, Gombe State, Gombe, Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 164 Sapele Road, Access Bank Plc, Kafanchan, Kano, Branch Intl Bank, Katsina State, Benue, Branch Access Bank Plc, 222 Zik Avenue, opposite NPDC, Sapele Road, Edo, Branch Access Bank Plc, Deba Gra, Yamaltu Deba Access Bank Plc, 71 Adeniran Ogunsanya Access Bank Plc, along Katsina Road, by Anambra, Branch Access Bank Plc, Y-Junction Katsina Ala Lga, Gombe, Branch Street Surulere, Lagos State, Access Bank Plc, 170 Uselu Lagos Road, Bichi Junction Kano State, Kano, Branch Road Zaki Ibiam Benue State, Benue, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 48 Port Harcourt Road Edo, Branch Access Bank Plc, Ashaka Cement Factory, Branch Access Bank Plc, 17/18 France Road, Kano Bridge Head Anambra State, Anambra, Gombe, Branch Access Bank Plc, 17 Sikiru Otunba St Old Access Bank Plc, Plot 5, Commercial Block Kano State, Kano, Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, 45 Muritala Mohammed Ojo Road Lagos Badagry Expressway, A Along New Iyin Road, Ekiti, Branch Access Bank Plc, 18 Wetheral Road, Way, Cross, Branch Access Bank Plc, 12B Post Office Road, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Uga Road, Ekwulobia Imo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 5 Okpara Avenue, Enugu Kano, Branch Ekwulobia Aguata Lga, Anambra, Branch Access Bank Plc, Hospital Road Ogoja Access Bank Plc, Plot 1697, Adeola State Enugu 1, Enugu, Branch Access Bank Plc, Federal Polytechnic Cross River State, Cross, Branch Offsite, 13/15 Atiku Abubakar (Mubi) Road, Hopewell Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 62 New Market Road, Nekede Imo State, Imo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 12 Enugu Road, Katsina, Offsite Anambra, Branch Access Bank Plc, 45 Muritala Mohammed Access Bank Plc, 48,Marina Street, Enugu, Branch Access Bank Plc, Eke-Ahiara Junction Way, Cross River, Branch Access Bank Plc, Ibb Way, opposite NUM Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Umunze Ogbunka Road Mbaise, Imo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 42 Kenyatta Street, Enugu Intl Bank, Katsina, Branch Orumba North Local Govt Anambra State, Offsite, Unicem Factory, Calabar, Access Bank Plc, 16 Apongbon Street, State, Enugu, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 10/11, Sani Abacha Anambra, Branch Cross River, Offsite Access Bank Plc, along Funtua Road, Apongbon, Lagos, Branch Way Dutse, Jigawa, Branch Access Bank Plc, Enugu State University near Total Filling Station Katsina, Access Bank Plc, 1 Ajaekwe Street Access Bank Plc, 16/18 Bogobiri Road, Access Bank Plc, 32 Lagos Road, Agbani Town Enugu State, Enugu, Branch Access Bank Plc, 26D Ali Akilu Road, Katsina, Branch Odoagba, Anambra, Branch Cross Rivers, Branch Lagos, Branch Kaduna State, Kaduna, Branch Access Bank Plc, Agbani Road Agbani Main Access Bank Plc, along Kano Road besides Access Bank Plc, Ihiala Branch Anambra Access Bank Plc, 304 Nnebisi Road, Access Bank Plc, Conia House Town Enugu, Enugu, Branch Access Bank Plc, 16 River Road, Zaria, Nitel Office Katsina State, Katsina, Branch State, Anambra, Branch Delta, Branch opposite Kano Plaza Trade Fair Complex, Kaduna, Branch Access Bank Plc, University of Nigeria Access Bank Plc, 106 Ibb Way, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Up Iweka Onitsha Access Bank Plc, 126 Old Asaba Road Nsukka Enugu State, Enugu, Branch Access Bank Plc, 314 Kachia Road, Kaduna Katsina, Branch (Electronic Mkt Branch), Anambra, Branch Asaba Road, Delta State, Delta, Branch Access Bank Plc, Teju Osho Street, Yaba, Kaduna State, Kaduna, Branch Access Bank Plc, Abakpa Nike Enugu Enugu Access Bank Plc, 1 Jos Road G.R.A, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Building Material Market, Access Bank Plc, Robson Shopping State, Enugu, Branch Access Bank Plc, A2 Ahmadu Bello Way Kebbi, Branch Anambra, Branch Complex Deco Road Delta State, Access Bank Plc, 92 Lagos/Abeokuta Kaduna State, Kaduna, Branch Delta, Branch Access Bank Plc, 67 Ogui Road by Nnamdi Access Bank Plc, Obajana Cement Factory, Expressway, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Nnamdi Azikiwe Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu, Branch Access Bank Plc, NNPC Kaduna Kaduna Kogi, Branch University Awka Anambra State, Anambra, Access Bank Plc, I Damaturu Road Biu Access Bank Plc, Plot 650A, 32 Road 3rd State, Kaduna, Branch Branch Yobe/Borno, Delta, Branch Access Bank Plc, University of Nigeria Access Bank Plc, along Kogi Road, Avenue Festac Town, Lagos, Branch Enugu Campus, Enugu, Branch Access Bank Plc, Gumi Ma in Market, Kogi, Branch Access Bank Plc, Nigeria Stock Exchange Access Bank Plc, Warri Road Sapele Access Bank Plc, 23-25 Oba Akran Avenue, Kaduna, Branch Complex Onitsha Anambra State, Delta State, Delta, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 1195, Aminu Kano Access Bank Plc, 82 Lokoja Kabba Road Lagos, Branch Anambra, Branch Crescent Wuse Ii, opposite Amal Court, Offsite, Kafanchan, Kaduna, Offsite Lokoja, Kogi, Branch Access Bank Plc, 44 Ogoja Road, Access Bank Plc, 87 Awolowo Road, Fct, Branch Ebonyi, Branch Lagos, Branch 78 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 79 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE DIRECTORY CORPORATE DIRECTORY ATM locations continued Access Bank Plc, 78 Ojuelegba Road, Access Bank Plc, Plot 101, Isheri Road, Offsite, Newco Factory Oba Akran, Access Bank Plc, I Point Road, Apapa, Access Bank Plc, opposite Covenant Tejuosho Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Offsite Lagos, Lagos, Branch University Otta Ogun State, Ogun, Branch Access Bank Plc, 34 Moloney Street, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Iddo Shopping Complex Access Bank Plc, 18 Osolo Way Ajao, Offsite, Unico Factory, Oba Akran, Access Bank Plc, 40A/40B Ogba Ijaiye Access Bank Plc, Ona Ola Quarters, Iddo, Lagos, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Lagos, Offsite Road, Ogba, Lagos, Branch opposite Fire Station Ogun State, Access Bank Plc, 113 Okota Road, Ogun, Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 4 Ikotun Junction Ikotun Access Bank Plc, 32 Broad Street, Access Bank Plc, Plot 1665, Oyin Jolayemi Access Bank Plc, 18 Osolo Way Ajao, Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Wempco Factory, Ibafo, Access Bank Plc, 11 Town Planning Way Ogun, Offsite Ilupeju Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 47 Mkt/Odunlami Street Access Bank Plc, 6 Diya Street, Offsite, Oko Awo Street, Karim Kotun Access Bank Plc, College of Medicine Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Offsite Ishaga Road Idi-Araba, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Bank Road Agbara Access Bank Plc, Plot 286, Oshodi Apapa Industrial Estate, Ogun, Branch Expressway Gbagada Phase I Lagos State, Access Bank Plc, Old Alaba Motor Park, off Access Bank Plc, 67 St Finbarrs Road, Offsite, Oladele Olashore Street, off Oyin Access Bank Plc, Commerce House, Lagos, Branch Ojo Igbede Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Chemist Bus Stop, Lagos, Branch Jolayemi, Victoria Island, Lagos, Offsite 1 Idowu Taylor Street, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 11 Ado Owo Road, Ondo State, Ondo, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 7, Blk 2, Oniru Private Access Bank Plc, 3 Oroyinyin Street Access Bank Plc, Plot 1/3 Enitan Street Access Bank Plc, 30 King George V Road Access Bank Plc, Idowu Taylor Street, Estate by Maroko Bus Stop Lagos State, Idumota Lagos, Lagos, Branch Surulere, Lagos, Branch Onikan, Lagos, Branch Victoria Island, Lagos, Offsite Access Bank Plc, Plot 5, Commercial Block Lagos, Branch A, along New Iyin Road, Ondo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 8 Apapa Express Way Access Bank Plc, Ikota Shopping Complex Access Bank Plc, Plot 1617, Damole/Idejo Access Bank Plc, beside Chevron Round Access Bank Plc, 287, Ajose Adeogun Ibafon Coconut, Lagos, Branch Lekki, Lagos, Branch Street Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch About along Lekki-Epe Expressway, Access Bank Plc, No 17 Oyemekun Road, Street Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Akure, Ondo, Branch Access Bank Plc, Muritala Mohamed Way Access Bank Plc, opposite Tantalizers Access Bank Plc, 8/10 Commercial Road, Access Bank Plc, 38/40 Ikorodu Road Oyingbo Ebute-Metta, Lagos, Branch Old Ojo Road Abule Ado Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Bank of Industry Building Access Bank Plc, Yaba Ondo, Ondo, Branch Jibowu Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Broad Street, Marina, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 13 Allen Avenue Ikeja Access Bank Plc, 53 Adeniyi Jones Street, Access Bank Plc, Adekunle Ajasin University Offsite, Nahco Complex, 1 Murtala Lagos, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Lagos State University Ikeja, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 11A Adeola Odeku Street, Campus, Ondo, Branch Mohammed International Airport Road, Ojo Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 44 Adeola Odeku Street, Offsite, Dangote Adstart Factory, Access Bank Plc, Plot 2, Aiyedun Layout Ikeja Lagos State, Lagos, Offsite Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Daniel Farm Km32 Oba Akran, Lagos, Offsite Access Bank Plc, 58 Awolowo Road, Ikoyi, Gbongan, Osun, Branch Access Bank Plc, 13-15 Wharf Road, Apapa Lagos Abeokuta Agege Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, opposite Zone F Block 1, Offsite, Dangote Agrosack Factory, Access Bank Plc, 26 Aderemi Road, Osun Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Oba Akaran, Lagos, Offsite Access Bank Plc, 32 Jos Road, Nasarawa, State Ile Ife, Osun, Branch Access Bank Plc, 23 Opebi Road, Access Bank Plc, opposite 2nd Gate Lagos Branch Access Bank Plc, Ijeshatedo Surulere Lagos Access Bank Plc, Kirikiri Lighter Terminal 2 Access Bank Plc, Obafemi Awolowo Lagos, Branch Polytechnic Lagos State, Lagos, Branch State, Lagos, Branch Tincan Island, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 3316, Abuja Keffi University Campus Osun State, Osun, Access Bank Plc, 533 Ikorodu Road, Ketu, Access Bank Plc, along Ejigbo/Ikotun Road, Expressway Mararaba Nasarawa State, Branch Access Bank Plc, 279 Agege Motor Road Access Bank Plc, 153 Old Ojo Road, Lagos, Branch opposite NNPC Junction Lagos State, Nasarawa, Branch Mushin Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Kuje-Amuwo Agboju, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 107A Orinkiran Street, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 3 Alhaji Owokoniran Access Bank Plc, 2 Old Airway Road, off Oshogbo Road, Osun, Branch Access Bank Plc, University of Lagos Akoka Access Bank Plc, 171 Abeokuta Expressway Street, Orile Coker Lagos State, Lagos, Access Bank Plc, 71 Egbeda/Idimu Road, Boso Road, Niger, Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Iyana Ipaja Ipaja, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 34 New Court Road, Branch Idimu Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Suleman Barau Road, Dugbe, Oyo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 51 Kudirat Abiola Way Access Bank Plc, 4 Palm Avenue, Mushin, Access Bank Plc, Shop A65 Alaba Intl Access Bank Plc, Daleko Market Complex opposite Gamco Motors, Niger, Branch Oregun Road Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 6, University Market Ojo, Lagos, Branch Daleko Market, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Along BCC Road, Niger Crescent, Oyo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 1 Godwin Omonua Street Access Bank Plc, 20 Simbiat Abiola Road, Access Bank Plc, 653 Abeokuta Express Access Bank Plc, Oba Adeniji Adele Plaza State, Niger, Branch Ire Akari Estate Lagos State, Ikeja, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Apake Area, Ogbomoso Road Abule Taylor Abule-Egba Lagos State, Adeniji Adele Road, Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Nicon Building, 1 Bank Oyo State, Oyo, Branch Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 30A Adetokunbo Road, Minna, Niger, Branch Access Bank Plc, 290 Herbert Macaulay Ademola Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 4 Iwo Road, Ibadan Oyo Access Bank Plc, 77 Obafemi Awolowo Way Access Bank Plc, 4 Burma Road, Apapa, Way Sabo Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, NNPC Suleja Depot, State, Oyo, Branch (Man House), Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Zone B R4 Mercy Cafe Niger, Branch Access Bank Plc, 211 Muri Okunola Street Aspamda Plaza Trade Fair Complex, Access Bank Plc, 50 Adekunle Fajuyi Road, Access Bank Plc, 52/54 Kosoko Street, Access Bank Plc, 6 Obun Eko Street, Victoria Island Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Redemption Camp Eko Tedo Iya-Olobe, Oyo, Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Idumota, Lagos, Branch Km 46/85 Lagos/Ibadan Express Way Access Bank Plc, 44A Saka Tinubu Street, Access Bank Plc, 6 Mobolaji Bank-Anthony Access Bank Plc, beside Blood Bank Uch Access Bank Plc, 1A Ogudu Road, Lagos Access Bank Plc, 134/136 Broad Street, Ogun State, Ogun, Branch off Adeola Odeku Street, Victoria Island Way, Ikeja, Lagos, Branch Ibadan, Oyo State Oyo State, Oyo, Branch State, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Lagos, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 14 Lalubu Street, Oke – Access Bank Plc, 150 Ogunlana Drive, Access Bank Plc, Challenge Roundabout Access Bank Plc, Plot 1408A, Adetokunbo Access Bank Plc, Plot 1/3 Enitan Street, Ilewo Abeokuta, Ogun, Branch Access Bank Plc, 87 Itire/Lawanson Road, Surulere, Lagos, Branch Ibadan Oyo State, Oyo, Branch Ademola Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Surulere, Lagos, Branch Surulere, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 145 Lagos-Abeokuta Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 650A, 32 Road, 3rd Access Bank Plc, Old Ibadan/Oyo Road, Offsite, Bagco Factory, Iganmu, Surulere, Express Way, Ogun State, Ogun, Branch Access Bank Plc, 134 Water Works Road, Avenue Festac Town, Lagos, Branch besides Olona Filling Station Oyo State, Access Bank Plc, 68 Nnamdi Azikwe Road Lagos, Offsite Iju-Ishaga, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 19 Ibadan Road, Ogun Oyo, Branch Street Idumota Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 15 Ligali Ayorinde, Access Bank Plc, 7 Ayangburen Road, State, Ogun, Branch Access Bank Plc, Olorunsogo Oshodi, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, opposite Mobil Filling Access Bank Plc, 35 Akowonjo Road, Ikorodu, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 71 Akarigbo Road, Station Ring Road, Oyo State, Oyo, Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 25A Ilupeju Bypass Ilupeju, Access Bank Plc, 84 Allen Avenue Ikeja, Sagamu Ogun State, Ogun, Branch Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch 80 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 81 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE DIRECTORY CORPORATE DIRECTORY ATM locations continued Access Bank Plc, 12 Azikiwe Road, Subsidiaries’ addresses Access Bank (Zambia) Limited CommerzBank AG Mashreq Bank Rivers, Branch Plot 682, Cairo Road Northend Corporate Banking Structured Export Post Box 1250 Access Bank Plc, 1 Jimoh Odutola Street, Access Bank (D.R. Congo) Sàrl P.O. Box 35273 and Trade Finance Kaiserplatz 60311 Dubai, U.A.E. Dugbe Market, Oyo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 64 Hospital Road, 158 Avenue de la Démocratie Lusaka Frankfurt am Main, Germany Rivers, Branch Kinshasa, Gombe Nordea Bank Access Bank Plc, 37 Iwo Road, Oyo, Branch Zambia Democratic Republic of the Congo Credit Suisse AG Hamngatan Access Bank Plc, No 1 Agip Road, T: (+260) 211 227941 Access Bank Plc, Plot 32, Bodija Ui Road, T: (+243) 81 22 22 111–14 Giesshübelstrasse 30 10 SE-105 71 beside Kilimanjaro Mile 4 Rumueme, F: (+260) 211 22996, 227956 Bodija, Oyo, Branch F: (+243) 81 22 22 116 P.O. Box 100 Stockholm Rivers, Branch E: info.zambia@accessbankplc.com E: info.rdcongo@accessbankplc.com CH-8070 Zurich Sweden Access Bank Plc, 37 Beach Road, Jos, W: www.accessbankplc.com/zm Access Bank Plc, Bank Road, opposite W: www.accessbankplc.com/cd Plateau, Branch Danske Bank Standard Bank of South Africa High Court, Rivers, Branch The Access Bank UK Limited Access Bank (Gambia) Limited 2-12 Holmens Kanal 25 Saver Street Access Bank Plc, 28A Rwang Pam Road, Head Office Access Bank Plc, 679 Ikwerre Road, Head Office DK-1092 Copenhagen K Johannesburg 2001, S.A. Plateau, Branch 1 Cornhill Rumuokoro Round About, Rivers, Branch 47 Kairaba Avenue Denmark London Standard Chartered Bank, London Access Bank Plc, Yelwa Junction Bukuru, Fajara, K.S.M.D. Access Bank Plc, 20 Abdullahi Fodio Road, EC3V 3ND Deutsche Bank 22 Billiter Street Plateau, Branch P.O. Box 3177 Sokoto, Branch United Kingdom 6 Bishopsgate London EC3M 2RY, UK Serrekunda Access Bank Plc, PPMC Depot, Rivers, E: info@theaccessbankukltd.co.uk London EC2N 4DA, UK Access Bank Plc, Main Campus Usman The Gambia Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Branch W: www.theaccessbankukltd.co.uk Danfodio University, Sokoto, Branch T: (+220) 4398227, 4399022 FBN UK Corporation Europe Limited Access Bank Plc, Plot 9, Olu Obasanjo F: (+220) 4396640 Mailing Address 28 Finsbury Circus 99 Queen Victoria Street Access Bank Plc, opposite Afribank Plc E: info.gambia@accessbankplc.com The Access Bank UK Limited London EC2M 7DT, UK London EC4V 4EH, UK Road, PHC Rivers State, Rivers, Branch Maiduguri Road Sokoto, Sokoto, Branch W: www.accessbankplc.com/gm 4 Royal Court Access Bank Plc, Plot 446/447, Trans Gadbrook Park Handelssbanken Int. (Svenska) The Access Bank UK Limited Access Bank Plc, 57B Hammaruwa Way Access Bank (Ghana) Limited SE-106 70 Stockholm 1 Cornhill Amadi Industrial Layout Port Harcourt, Northwich Jalingo, Taraba, Branch Starlets ‘91 Road Sweden London EC3V 3ND, UK Rivers, Branch Cheshire Access Bank Plc, 12B Maiduguri Road, along Opposite Accra Sports Stadium Access Bank Plc, Plot 382, Port Harcourt – CW9 7UT HSBC Bank UBS Potiskum Damaturu Road, Yobe, Branch P.O. Box GP 353 Aba Expres Port Harcourt Rivers State, United Kingdom Johannesburg Branch P.O. Box CH – 8098 Osu, Accra Rivers, Branch Access Bank Plc, 10 Sani Abacha Way, Ghana Correspondent banks 2 Exchange Square Zurich Zamfara, Branch T: (+233) 302 684 860 85 Mauder Street Access Bank Plc, University of PortBank of Beirut Union Bank UK E: info.ghana@accessbankplc.com Sandound, Sandton, 2196. S.A. Harcourt, Port-Harcourt Rivers State, Nig. Rep Office 5 14-18 Copthall Avenue Rivers, Branch W: www.accessbankplc.com/gh IFC London EC2R 7DJ, UK Alfred Rewane Street T: (+233) 302 200 868 2121 Pennsylvania Av. NW Access Bank Plc, Ikowku Rivers State, Ikoyi, Lagos United Bank for Africa Access Bank (Rwanda) Limited Washington DC 20433, USA Rivers, Branch Bank of China 40 East 52nd Street 3rd Floor, UTC Building ING New York 10022-5911, USA Access Bank Plc, Obigbo, Rivers State, No.1 Fuxingmen Nei Da Jie Avenue de la Paix 24 Avenue Marmix, B-1000 Rivers, Branch Beijing WESTLB AG, Germany P.O. Box 2059 Brussels, Belgium P. R. China Herzogstrasse 15, 40217 Düsseldorf Access Bank Plc, Woji, Rivers State, Kigali, Rwanda 100818 J.P. Morgan Post Office 40199 Rivers, Branch T: (+250) 252 500089/90-94 F: (+250) 252 575761, 572501 BNP PARIBAS Paris Trinity Tower Düsseldorf, Germany Access Bank Plc, 82/88 Aba Road, beside E: info.rwanda@accessbankplc.com or 37 Place du Marché Saint-Honoré-75031 9 Thomas More Street Zenith Bank (UK) Limited Mtn Building opposite Tarpaulin House rwandacontactcenter@accessbankplc. Paris Cedex 01, France London E1W 1YT, UK 39 Cornhill Rivers State, Rivers, Branch com KBC Bank Belgium London EC3V 3ND, UK W: www.accessbankplc.com/rw Byblos Bank, London Access Bank Plc, by Eastern Bulkcement Suite 5, Berkeley Square House KBC Bank NV Coy Ltd Wofe Road Rivers State, Access Bank Berkeley Square Havenlan 12 Rivers, Branch (Sierra Leone) Limited London W1J 6BS, UK 1080 Brussels, Belgium Head Office Access Bank Plc, 5 Azikiwe Road, CitiBank London 30 Siaka Stevens Street near Government House Rivers State, Citigroup Centre, Canada Square Freetown Rivers, Branch Canary Wharf Sierra Leone Access Bank Plc, River State University T: (+232) 25 334933 London E14 5LB, UK of Science and Technology Rivers State, F: (+232) 22 220119 CitiBank New York Rivers, Branch E: info.sierraleone@accessbankplc.com 111 Wall Street W: www.accessbankplc.com/sl 19th Floor/Zone 1 Access Bank Plc, Plot 10, Trans Amadi Industrial Layout, near Erijoy Hotel, New York NY 10043, USA Rivers, Branch Access Bank Plc, 329A Olu Obasanjo Road, Port Harcourt, Rivers, Branch 82 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 83 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013 OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE DIRECTORY JOINT STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT BY MEMBERS OF THE BANKERS COMMITTEE As a leading African financial institution with over 6,000,000 customers, 800,000 shareholders and 12,000 employees across Africa and the United Kingdom, Access Bank is committed to building a lasting and profitable financial institution whose operations promote the ability of future generations to live in a healthy and prosperous manner. Consistent with our vision to be the World’s Most Respected African bank, we will be a flag bearer for sustainable business practices which have tangible benefits for the financial system and our host communities. Specifically we will pursue positive environmental, social and governance outcomes through our lending activities, promote diversity and healthy living in our workplace, treat our customers fairly in line with international best practices and deliver world-class services to hitherto excluded segments of the economy through innovation and technology. We are confident that we will tell a story of continued sustainable growth and excellence, as we consciously manage the social and environmental impact of our business operations and activities. This is our commitment to sustainable banking. 84 Access Bank Plc Sustainability Report 2013
