Sustainability 2014 Annual Report 2014 Sustainability Sustainability is an integral part of Metso’s business “The importance of strategy. Accordingly, we continue to embed sustainability for our sustainability in all of our business operations. customers is increasing. We recognize that sustainable operations give a We work vigorously competitive advantage in the global markets. We to improve our own strive to consider all aspects of the financial, social performance in that area and environmental implications of our operations, and use our expertise to to tap into opportunities created by sustainability help our customers and to manage related risks. solve their challenges.” Juha Silvennoinen President, Services Table of Contents Sustainability year 2014 3 Capabilities 13 Sustainability targets 4 Case: Sales competence needs 15 Sustainability management 5 Resourcing 15 Stakeholders 6 Compliance with laws and ethical principles 16 Stakeholder groups 6 Responsible employment practices 16 Marketplace 7 Cooperation with personnel and 16 management Sustainable supply chain 7 Health and safety targets 17 Product stewardship 7 Health and safety in figures 18 Case: Common procedures 8 Case: Safety Pledge 2014 19 with our suppliers Case: Eco-efficient mining process 8 Case: HSE reporting system 19 Case: Safety and productivity improvements 9 Metso Environment 20 Case: Less noise in pipelines 9 Environmental targets 20 Metso People 10 Society 22 Leadership 11 Sponsorships and donations 22 Case: Work shadowing 12 Community involvement 23 Performance 12 Case: Yrityskylä initiative 23 Case: Performance Review improvement Case: Wash project 23 13 initiative in Brazil Case: HIV/Aids program in South Africa 24 2 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 Highlights of A ceremony to celebrate the project handover was organized in July 2014 together with students, teachers, local government the year 2014 and Plan India for the completion of the water and sanitation facilities in 15 schools. The project aimed to promote improved hygiene practices among school children and to provide Sustainability goes beyond strategy adequate school wash infrastructure and dedicated washroom I was recently asked how our sustainability strategy has changed facilities, especially for girls. since the introduction of our new business strategy. My answer Around 3,000 children and local community members will was short: “It hasn’t.” benefit from the school water and sanitation project. The It is true that Metso has gone through some major changes improvement in health conditions is expected to help school lately, including the demerger of Valmet. However, I believe that enrollments and attendance and will lead to lower drop-out rates sustainability goes beyond any business strategy: no matter what in schools, especially in the case of teenage girls. strategy we would choose, sustainability would be an integral part of it. The industries we work in may change and market situations may Implementation of our stakeholder relations process vary, but sustainability remains at the core. As a global company, Metso constantly engages with different We have set a goal to be a thought leader in sustainability in our stakeholder groups in various situations. It is essential to build an industries by 2020. Because actions always speak louder than words, active dialogue with them in order to meet their expectations. being a thought leader means that also our sustainability actions have Developing our stakeholder dialogue has been one of our main to go above and beyond. We are constantly taking steps in the right targets during recent years, and the focus has been on strengthedirection: the metrics presented in this report speak for themselves. ning the dialogue towards external and internal stakeholders. However, we must also remember that being a leader in To strengthen the dialogue we asked our stakeholders to sustainability in 2020 will require more than we can now imagine. evaluate Metso’s sustainability work through a survey. The That is why it isn’t enough to reach for the current sustainability goal was to get their input so that we can evaluate what is standards – we must aim higher. material for us in terms of sustainability from our stakeholders' Many of our rivals are setting similar targets. There are no perspective. The work is continuing with the creation of an shortcuts to beating our competition in sustainability, just like ongoing process that concentrates on specific stakeholder there are no shortcuts to conducting sustainable business. It’s groups throughout the year. about constant improvement. But this, I believe, is a competition that leads to better results for everyone. Intangible risk assessment Our focus is on making sure that our network of suppliers actively Matti Kähkönen promote sustainable principles and procedures. In 2014, we President and CEO assessed the intangible risks in our supply chain and identified suppliers most critical to our sustainability performance. We have Implementation of the minimum safety standards built a comprehensive framework to assess the intangible risks To introduce the standards to our employees, a Safety Pledge that our current and potential suppliers may be exposed to, risks campaign was launched in 2012. The work continued in 2014 with the such as issues in human and labor rights, environmental impacts launch of a Safety Pledge 2014 campaign to implement Metso’s Miniand product stewardship. mum safety standards in all our locations. The campaign concentrated on introducing the standards one by one to our employees. The standards aim at minimizing the risk factors in the most common work tasks, and they set the definite minimum requirements to SUPPORT FOR NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS be followed in every circumstance. Our standards create the baseline for local safety procedures. If the local procedures, customers, laws 17% or regulations have safety standards that differ from Metso’s, the higher standards apply. The campaign material was promoted globally at all our 35% locations in 50 countries. The material consisted of a brochure, 13% a poster and a video describing our nine Minimum safety standards in nine languages. 16% A new Safety Pledge campaign again in 2015 will continue our 14% 5% proactive efforts to improve our safety. Inauguration of Plan’s water and sanitation project • Youth activities 17% (27%) Metso has been cooperating with the international child rights •• Culture 13% (1%) Science, research and education 16% (6%) organization Plan to support a child-centered community • Environmental protection 5% (5%) development program, the school water and sanitation project, in Rajasthan, India, since 2012. •• Sports 14% (10%) Others 35% (51%) 3 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 Sustainability targets Metso’s sustainability strategy gives us the framework for our sustainability development topics. According to our strategy we will work together to truly embed sustainability in our daily operations and by 2020 we want to be considered a thought leader in sustainability within our industry. Achieving that goal will mean we are delivering on our mission and ensuring that our business is well-positioned to develop and thrive in the years ahead. Our targets guide us in our efforts in embedding sustainability in our daily operations. Our targets in Sustainability 20% CO2 emission reduction target by 2020 15% CO2 emission reduction target by 2015 LTIF< 1 Occupational safety target is to 15% achieve an LTIF of Waste reduction less than one. Our target by 2020 long-term target is zero work-related 15% Water reduction incidents. (Lost time incidents per target by 2020 million hours worked) 4 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 Sustainability governance. Local management ensures compliance with guidelines and local legislation affecting employees. Our values and Code management of Conduct ensure that our operations are consistent and uniform, regardless of the country and reporting segment. Our mission, vision, values and our Code of Conduct guide all Sustainability is an integral part of Metso’s business strategy. our operations and interactions with stakeholders. Our mission Accordingly, we continue to embed sustainability in all of our is to contribute to a more sustainable world by helping our business operations. We recognize that sustainable operations customers to process natural resources and recycle materials into give a competitive advantage in the global markets. We strive valuable products. Sustainable technologies and services are the to consider all aspects of the financial, social and environmental cornerstone of our operations, and we develop sustainable proimplications of our operations, to tap into opportunities created by ducts and solutions that are safe and help our customers reduce sustainability and to manage related risks. their environmental impacts. The Corporate Governance principles approved by the Board of During 2014 we concentrated on developing our stakeholder Directors form the basis for the management and governance of dialogue. As part of our commitment to an active dialogue our company. We commit to good corporate governance principles with our stakeholders, our work focused on creating a baseline by complying with national and international laws and regulations. for defining Metso’s materiality topics. The development work Additionally, we apply best practices, such as the Finnish Corporate consisted of surveying our stakeholders for their perceptions of Governance Code for listed companies, in our management and sustainability focus areas at Metso. MATERIALITY MATRIX 2014 Sustainable technologies HSE culture Services and services Metso´s stakeholder view / impact business Sustainable supply chain Stakeholder Leadership dialogue Performance development Eco-efficiency of own production management Commitment to community Global antiinvolvement corruption training Impact on Metso´s sustainability management Good practices in use Requires some actions 5 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 Stakeholders Existing and potential customers Our customer relationships are built on a continuous exchange of experiences, extensive know-how and long-term commitment. Interaction with our stakeholders is based on Metso’s Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct describes our company Existing and potential employees culture, commonly accepted practices, and our commitment We consider our people and their know-how as one of our comto compliance with laws and regulations. It provides us and petitive advantages, and we have acknowledged Metso people as our stakeholders with commonly accepted guidelines and a high priority in our strategy. perspectives for decision making. We actively engage our stakeholders in sustainability-related Suppliers and subcontractors topics, e.g., our response to energy and climate policies, legisWe have a vast supply chain. The cooperation with our suppliers lation and regulation, community development and corporate and subcontractors is based on long-term collaboration, operesponsibility issues, development of more efficient processes rational profitability and the future development opportunities with reduced environmental impact, and a responsible supply resulting from the cooperation. chain. Our goal is to interact equally with all our stakeholders. Shareholders and investors Strong commitment to stakeholder dialogue The continuous dialogue with investors and other relevant An active dialogue is essential in understanding our stakeholders groups strengthens and develops Metso´s internal and external and their views and expectations towards us. Developing our reporting processes. stakeholder dialogue with external and internal stakeholders has been one of our main targets in sustainability during recent years. Media In order to guide our development of sustainability matters, in Our dialogue with the media consists of continuous collaboration 2014 we surveyed our stakeholder groups for their perceptions with journalists around the world. regarding our sustainability actions. Based on the survey results, we defined where Metso should strengthen its global sustainability Non-governmental organizations, efforts during the coming years. The focus in 2015 will be on authorities and local communities strengthening the stakeholder dialogue process, which will further Close interaction with non-governmental organizations (NGOs), local support the defining of Metso’s material sustainability aspects from communities and people around our operations is a high priority for our stakeholders’ perspective. us. We aim to act as a responsible corporate citizen and tax payer. Research institutes, universities and vocational schools Stakeholder groups Due to the nature of our business, we foster continuous cooperation with selected research institutes and universities. Additionally, we create employment opportunities, jobs and trainee positions, and provide lectures and student visits. METSO STAKEHOLDERS Memberships in organizations We actively engage with customers and with various trade, nonprofit and expert organizations in our line of business. Metso’s Existing and Existing and memberships in industrial organizations, associations and lobby potential customers potential employees organizations include, for example: Local Suppliers and • Cleantech Finland community subcontractors • Federation of Finnish Technology Industries • European Powder Metallurgy Association • Finnish Business & Society Association • Global Compact Network Nordic Council Research institutes, • IPR University Center Association universities and Shareholders vocational schools • PE International Product Sustainability Roundtable • Pohjola Norden • International Chamber of Commerce Non-governmental Media • Federation of Finnish Technology Industries organizations, authorities • FDT Group AISBL • OPC Foundation 6 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 Marketplace Environmental impacts of supply chain Outsourcing selected parts of the manufacturing process emphasizes our responsibility for the environmental efficiency At Metso sustainability is about innovating in technologies of our subcontractors and suppliers. We have conducted annual and changing current ways of operating to align with principscope 3 carbon-dioxide emissions calculations since 2013 to better les of sustainability. By innovating, we create new eco-efficient understand the environmental impacts of our supply chain. products and solutions for our customers while simultaScope 3 is one of three reporting categories measuring greenneously reducing our own direct environmental impacts. Our house gas emissions. The first emissions category measures direct technology and solutions help our customers to improve the emissions and purchased fuels, and the second category measures sustainability of their operations and services, and we develop indirect emissions, such as purchased electricity and heat. The third a transparent and responsible supply chain management to category concentrates on other indirect emissions, such as employee support our own sustainability efforts. business travel, contractor-owned vehicles and outsourced activities. The assessments have identified five relevant scope 3 emission Sustainable supply chain categories: use of sold products, purchased goods and services, both In our operations we focus on our core competencies and upstream and downstream transportation, and business travel. outsource many work phases to our suppliers. The outsourced The reporting of emissions related to business travel is already work can consist of hazardous and risky activities. Metso an established practice at Metso. Emissions for transportation and demonstrates ethical and sustainable principles and expects its purchased goods and services have been calculated and reported suppliers to follow the same principles. Outsourcing decreases for limited external use. Emissions from the use of sold products the environmental load of Metso’s operations, but emphasizes cannot be calculated with sufficient accuracy, due to the long also our responsibility for the environmental efficiency of our life cycle of Metso’s products and the high variation in product subcontractors and suppliers. We have issued guidelines and use patterns, they are not reported. Instead, Metso focuses on criteria for our suppliers to support them in e.g. environmental analyzing the CO₂ emissions and other environmental impacts of efficiency and to encourage them to integrate sustainability individual products and on customer cases. throughout their own supply and production chains. We continue to develop methods for calculating and underMetso’s sustainability criteria for suppliers form the basic standing the environmental impacts of our supply chain. This will requirements by which we aim to support our suppliers in enable us to better manage the environmental impacts of our developing their operations more sustainably. The set of criteria supply chain and other processes beyond our direct control. is an important part of the selection process when choosing new suppliers for Metso. The criteria include environmental, quality Sustainable supply chain management targets and work safety aspects and are the foundation for our sustaiDuring 2015 we will continue in improving our sustainable supply nable operating principles. To improve the sustainability of our chain management. We will concentrate on strengthening the supply chain, we have created the Metso sustainability handbook, collaboration with our key suppliers throughout the value chain which describes our approach to sustainability and outlines the and on encouraging our suppliers to improve their sustainability expectations that we place on our suppliers regarding ethical performance. We aim to develop transparent and responsible principles and sustainable practices. supply chain management to support our own sustainability efforts in accordance with our sustainability strategy. Accordingly, Understanding and managing intangible risks we will continue to develop our supply chain management and opportunities in the supply chain practices. Our goal is to be able to quantitatively report on our Metso’s existing and potential suppliers may face various challensupply chain’s sustainability performance. ges related to sustainable development. These may include challenges in enforcement of human and labor rights, or for example Product stewardship issues related to product safety and quality. The likelihood of the Metso’s product stewardship process aims at assuring that occurrence of different types of sustainability-related intangible our products provide environmental, social and economic risks varies depending on, e.g., the location, industry and corporate benefits over their entire life cycle, from the extraction of raw profile of the potential supplier. Metso strives to ensure that all materials to decommissioning. This means that our products our suppliers meet our sustainability criteria. This is done through are compliant with applicable regulations, safe to operate, contractual aspects, supplier self-assessments and audits. economically feasible and efficient, and help our customers to The actions are primarily targeted towards suppliers with minimize their environmental impacts. the highest likelihood of facing risks related to sustainable As stated in Metso’s HSE policy, we design our solutions, development. These suppliers are identified through risk mapproducts, innovations and services to help our customers improve ping based on the supplier’s country of operations and the their safety and environmental performance. Our ambition is type of product or service delivered to Metso. Metso’s goal is to maintain our technology leadership with cost-efficient and to help our suppliers understand and act on the risks. To reach environmentally sustainable products and process solutions. this goal, Metso supports its suppliers through the sharing Life-cycle thinking is a crucial aspect in providing safe, economicalof information and best practices and by helping suppliers ly feasible and environmentally sustainable products. Our life-cycle identify their possible improvement needs. services help our customers to operate and maintain their equipment 7 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 efficiently and safely, while life-cycle assessments provide us with Please note that figures 2012 onwards describe valuable information about the environmental profile of our products Metso's current structure. and help us and our customers make justified decisions. RTD EXPENDITURE Product safety EUR million The safety of Metso products is one of the key drivers in product 150 development. Metso’s product safety procedures consider all aspects relevant to the safe installation, operation, service and 120 maintenance of the products. Metso's products are designed to meet all the relevant stan90 dards, norms and directives in the respective delivery countries. Metso’s products are delivered with the appropriate information 60 and instructions to ensure safe operation, service and maintenan30 ce. In addition, Metso offers a wide range of life-cycle services to ensure that all the products in use will continue to meet existing 0 and future requirements throughout their life cycle. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Life-cycle assessment Developing common procedures with our suppliers We have developed strong competence in the life-cycle assessImproving our supply chain has been one of our focus areas ments of our products. The life-cycle assessment is a tool to define in sustainability. Developing common procedures with our the potential environmental impacts related to a product or service suppliers brings better transparency and safety. over its entire life cycle. Metso’s safety regulations at its Vantaa plant in Finland have By developing life-cycle assessments, we want to help our been extended to apply to also our collaboration partners. customers reduce the environmental impacts of their processes. Our Metso has been developing safety procedures together with customers and other stakeholders are also increasingly interested in the logistics partner Vindea. At the Vantaa plant Vindea is the environmental impacts of our products and supply chain. This responsible for, among other things, an outsourced warehouse kind of knowledge is needed by Metso and by our customers, for and logistics between the plant and the warehouse. example in order to comply with future legislative requirements. The main focus in the cooperation has been on finding common practices and procedures. Vindea tracks any accidents Innovation involving their employees as well as the implementation of Our research and technology development (RTD) activities focus corrective actions and the recording of near-miss situations. on several important areas of sustainability, such as energy and As part of the development work, the figures are reported and raw materials efficiency, utilization of renewable and recycled raw shared with Metso. Vindea works in close cooperation with Metso materials, advanced process control technology and new solutions also in training the employees, and Metso monitors the status of for the services business. In this way, our RTD strongly supports our the safety training. As a Metso partner, Vindea must follow all our growth strategy. Our RTD activities are based on cooperation with safety regulations, such as the Minimum safety standards. customers and on our network of research facilities and universities. ”The cooperation started in 2014 and we can already see clear Improvement of the environmental impacts of our customers’ improvement in the development of our common procedures. operations is an integral part of our product and service portfolio. Vindea has been integrated into our safety work in Hakkila,” says Metso’s solutions produce added value for our customers during Ari Salminen, Safety Officer at the Vantaa plant in Finland. all phases of the production process life cycle, improve customer competitiveness and reduce adverse environmental impacts, either Continuous development of a Resource-efficient directly or indirectly, throughout the value chain. and Eco-efficient Mining Process The environmental business solutions we offer are related particularly The mining industry’s growing challenges of rising energy costs, to the reduction of energy consumption in our customers’ production decreasing water resources, stringent environmental legislation, processes, improved utilization of raw materials, enhanced water and lower ore grades are making it increasingly difficult to extract conservation, and the reduction of dust, noise, waste and emissions. ore bodies. Metso’s Eco-efficient Mining Process is helping the We offer training, maintenance and services related to our industry to meet these challenges. products. We provide support over the entire production process life The project, established back in 2011, addresses the growing cycle and help to ensure that the solutions are used correctly and in need for more sustainable practices. The focus is on improving an environmentally sustainable manner. resource efficiency – creating more value with less impact to geneMetso is focusing on the reduction of environmental impact in its rate better economic returns from the available mineral resources. RTD processes, so most of our RTD projects are evaluated also based The project is investigating alternative technologies and on their environmental performance, a process that starts with the combining them into novel mining practices and processing identification of environmental aspects. Qualitative objectives are flow sheets to reduce energy and water consumption and set for the most significant environmental issues, and the progress is greenhouse gas emissions, while maximizing value and followed throughout the development projects. profitability and minimizing waste. 8 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 The focus in 2014 was on demonstrating the practicality and to fit different sizes of crushers for other clients globally. potential benefits of each of the concepts presented in the project ”Teamwork with our customers enabled us to improve the working in pilot-scale testing and through industrial trials. conditions at the crusher. Once the changes were made, they elimina“Conservatively, we estimate that implementing the technoloted potential fall hazards and the platform reduced the slip, trip and gies and strategies investigated so far could reduce energy usage fall risk. The safety improvements removed the need for workers to be by more than 35%, with a similar reduction in greenhouse gas tied-off in the crusher pit and to work from a suspended man-basket. emissions and a water savings in excess of 40% compared to a Consequently, the working environment has become more efficient, conventional process. Additionally, the footprint of dry stacked and safety hazards and the number of near-miss situations have been tailings could be more than 80% smaller than a traditional tailings reduced during regular scheduled maintenance shutdowns,” says dam,” says Dr. Walter Valery, Senior Vice President, Metso Process Gabriel Boulais, Life Cycle Service, Canada. Technology and Innovation. “This project will enable us to assist our customers and the industry to operate with greater efficiency, Less noise in pipelines with Neles Q-trim technology maximizing the value recovered from a mine while reducing There are some situations that no pipeline owner ever wants to environmental impact in a sustainable manner.” encounter. But with the incorrect choice of valves in the pumping stations, a pipeline owner faces potential damage or destruction Focus areas in Eco-efficient Mining Process of expensive pumps and valves, noise levels above permitted The planning and preparation is under way for industrial trials of highlimits, unscheduled process shutdown and the inability to meet intensity blasting. The aim is to demonstrate that finer fragmentation product delivery obligations. And all of these ultimately result in can be achieved while controlling the blast to prevent unfavorable significant revenue losses. results, such as fly rock, air blast, noise, dust and vibration. A leading North American pipeline owner – and a Metso Conceptual designs have been developed for pre-concentration customer – was able to solve cavitation, vibration and noise issues of minerals using sensor-based bulk ore sorting in both mobile in pipeline pump station control applications by installing Metso’s in-pit applications, as well as on plant feed conveyors. Industry unique Neles® ball valves with Q-Trim™ technology. Additionally, partners are being sought for trials of this novel Metso technology. there were improvements in the safety of the working environPilot-scale testing of high-pressure grinding rolls and vertical ment and in process efficiency. Metso’s technology also resulted in roller mills and air classification systems for hard rock applications significant financial benefits. has demonstrated that the technologies can offer significant ”It really pays off to deal with the noise problem before it is energy savings along with other process benefits. even created; this is possible with our advanced and patented Further laboratory testing indicates that replacing cyclones noise attenuation technology. Elevated control valve noise in the with fine screens in low-capacity plants, and the use of a comthrottling process can be harmful not only to the employees and bination of cyclones and fine screens in high-throughput flow surrounding communities, it can also seriously damage process sheets can significantly increase grinding circuit efficiency. equipment. And once noise is created, it is hard to eliminate,’’ says In flotation, the Metso 3m3 flotation test rig has been prepared Kyle Rayhill, Director, Global Oil & Gas Business Line. for pilot-scale testing of strategies to increase recovery of coarse For more than 30 years Metso’s patented Q-Trim technology particles, and laboratory testing and evaluation of fluidized bed has been the industry benchmark for rotary noise attenuation froth flotation technology is ongoing. solutions in challenging applications. By reducing noise and Finally, the project is also investigating filtration and dry related vibration to acceptable levels, Q-Trim technology protects stacking of tailings to reduce water consumption. Much higher process equipment and thus lowers the operating costs and recoveries of water can be achieved than from a traditional minimizes the need for spare parts for valves and other accessories. tailings dam, with reduced reclamation and closure costs. This, in turn, translates to lower total cost of ownership. Safety and productivity improvements through product design Safety-related procedures that reduce potential safety risks and maintenance downtime support Metso in pursuing business opportunities worldwide. Metso’s Life Cycle Service Department in Montreal, Canada, is continually working to improve safety and productivity while carrying out long-term maintenance contracts with clients. Metso’s experts, including the Life Cycle Service Department, worked closely with a customer at an iron ore mine in northern Canada to improve the safety of Metso’s 60x89 Gyratory Crusher. Based on the cooperation, removable guardrails and a platform to facilitate working in the crusher pit were added to the crusher. The changes enabled the use of a removable bridge to access the main shaft of the crusher and provided a platform for cutting and welding, thereby reducing the risk factors while working at the crusher. These safety improvements are currently being engineered and modified 9 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 Metso People Metso is a global company with highly competent and In People and leadership we focus on developing four areas: committed industry professionals in more than 50 countries leadership, performance, capabilities and resourcing. Within these worldwide. Our 16,000 employees form a network of dedicated areas we aim to develop a working environment that attracts colleagues. Metso’s customer promise, “Expect results,” means the right people and helps them to develop and reach their full that we are focused on performing and delivering. At Metso potential. Metso's vision, mission and values form the foundation our goal is to guarantee a safe working environment for our for this development, and the overall target is to enable business employees and we are committed to taking responsibility for and customer success. our own safety and for the safety of others. The expertise and We actively promote equal opportunities and diversity, and we skills of our employees are critical for us and form a strong train our leaders to promote sustainability thinking and to link foundation for Metso’s success. This is reflected in our company individual objectives to sustainability. Prioritizing the health, safety strategy and in the central role our people have in it. People and and wellbeing of our employees, customers and partners in all our leadership is one of our five strategic focus areas and enables operations is fundamental to everyone at Metso. We believe that the realization of the other must-wins. We can reach our goals world-class safety comes from a combination of having the right only with engaged and competent employees. attitude, making the right decisions and taking the right actions. PEOPLE AND LEADERSHIP FOCUS AREA GOALS Develop a working environment that enables business and customer success Leadership Performance Strong global leaders Result driven organizations • Managers accountable for • Performance Review process leading people towards used effectively to drive common direction business goals • Manager role clear and • Focus on giving feedback behaviors demonstrate values – Good performance is and leadership principles recognized • Successors in place for key – Actions taken on low positions and active job performance rotation Capabilities Performance Resourcing culture Competent employees Right people • Strategic capabilities defined • Effective resource planning and guiding competence aligned with strategy and development business needs • Development Discussions used • Strong employer brand to to enhance effectiveness and attract the best talent competencies • Recruitment and onboarding • People supported in taking used effectively to select and ownership of their own retain right talent development Metso vision, mission, values, leadership principles 10 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 Developing leadership to support strong performance Leadership Strong global leaders Key achievements 2014 • We have put more focus on identifying successors to key positions as well as future leadership potential, reaching more organizational levels. • New leadership development portfolio with cost effective and impactful solutions developed • Systematic rotation of leadership resources in use during organizational changes With the new strategy, the leadership capability needs for Metso have Focus on job rotation and succession planning been further clarified. Transforming into a focused industrial service Growing global leaders who have a wide experience base is crucially and products company requires enhanced performance from the important for us, and thus we have paid attention to job rotation whole organization. Everyday leadership is one of the key enablers opportunities during our organizational changes. As an example, of high performance. For this purpose, during 2014 we built a global almost half of the business area management team members started leadership development portfolio based on these capability needs. in new or clearly different positions after the organizational change. Metso values and our Leadership principles remain the solid We have also implemented a more structured way of identifying foundation for good leadership. In 2014 we sharpened our focus on successors for key positions as well as employees with potential to the leadership capabilities needed to implement the strategy. The be future leaders. We are also strongly emphasizing every manager’s scope of the renewed leadership development portfolio is strongly accountability for building future leaders. focused on learning on the job, learning together with others, for example through mentoring and coaching, and on more traditional classroom-based training opportunities. The portfolio includes learning solutions with aligned, global core content and adaptability to local needs. We have started piloting the new solutions; one example is the work shadowing pilot in Australia. LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PORTFOLIO Executives Development modules built individually based on current and future business needs. Growing future leadership is a crucial part of developing Executives’ leadership. Senior managers Managers Learning solutions • New Manager’s • New Manager’s Roadmap@Metso, Roadmap@Metso, Leading@Metso Leading@Metso • 360 feedback: individual • 360 feedback: individual feedback feedback • Leadership coaching Learning solutions • Work shadowing • Action based program will be available from the • Mentoring • Mentoring: acting as a beginning of 2015. • Action based program mentor • Group coaching Supervisors • New Manager’s Roadmap@Metso, Leading@Metso • 360 feedback: individual feedback • Group coaching Portfolio consists of independent learning solutions that can be used separately 11 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 Work shadowing According to Keteku, work shadowing will be used in Australia Learning by shadowing in Australia on a regular basis in the future. Learning on the job plays a major role in Metso’s 70-20-10 learning “I believe that work shadowing will be especially beneficial methods. As part of learning on the job, Metso Australia piloted for the employees who are willing to move to another role in the work shadowing method in 2014. Work shadowing is a practical the future. Through shadowing, it is possible to gain a wider tool for gaining a more holistic understanding of an organization’s understanding of the company’s processes in a relatively short way of working, since it offers the learner the possibility to follow time. Shadowing will also be used more frequently as part of our the day-to-day work of another part of an organization. The introductory processes for new employees. In short, it will help us method also helps the individual to understand his or her own role perform together – just like our values suggest.” in the big picture, which facilitates all collaboration. Michael Maraan, an Internal Sales Representative at Metso Performance management in focus Australia, shared this view when he was chosen to participate in A more integrated Metso both enables and also sets requirements the work shadowing pilot. He supports the method even more for consistent performance management processes and tools avidly after the experience. across the company. Our focus in 2014, therefore, was on strengt“I spent a week with our purchasing, a week with the warehouse hening the tools and processes needed to support performance team and two weeks shadowing the supply chain team. I was management. We have created a solid foundation that is aligned expecting to learn aspects I could relate to my current job. Looking with the strategy, and this enables us to reinforce a performance back now, I learned even more: I gained a better understanding of management culture through everyday leadership. A better underthe whole process – from the time our purchasing raises orders to standing of performance management is also a requirement set by our suppliers, to the time the goods are picked up and packed by our new operating model. Thus we continued the work started in our warehousing for dispatch to our customers,” Maraan lists. 2013 to increase managers’ understanding and capabilities of our In addition to becoming familiar with the process, Maraan performance management and compensation practices. appreciated the possibility to learn about the roles and responsibilities in different functions. Strengthening the tools and processes needed “Having an understanding of the KPI’s and daily reports of my to support performance management colleagues in different functions really makes a difference. There’s We believe in performance management, and thus we have a lot to bring back to my own unit and colleagues. Whatever issues been investing in developing the tools and processes needed may arise in the future regarding delays or other incidents between to support it. Following Metso Board’s guidance and approval, our units, it will be a lot easier to solve them or even prevent them,” we have been working on a new, more aligned Metso Bonus Maraan concludes. structure, which will be implemented in 2015. The global bonus metrics structure is built to drive strategic priorities through Performing together focused financial and strategic bonus metrics. Learning and Development Manager Rita Keteku was delighted The Performance Review continues to be an important annual about how the work shadowing pilot helped in breaking down process that gives managers the opportunity to tie their own the internal barriers across each of the participating functions. team’s activities to the bigger Metso picture and strategy. In 2014, “After speaking with the pilot groups, I’m convinced that the 64% (65%) of all our personnel participated in the Performance overall targets were successfully reached: All the participants Review process. The completion rate for Performance Review gained a thorough understanding of the entire process in was 81% (72%). We have been reviewing the Performance Review question. Shadowing also proved to be an excellent networking process and building a new global tool for this process; the tool tool and helped the employees to learn and reflect from their will be implemented in 2015. colleagues’ experiences and practices,” Keteku says. Keteku believes that the benefits of work shadowing are the Linking strategy to target setting result of a few basic factors: It is the responsibility of managers to communicate strategy and “First of all, it’s very practical. It allows questions to be asked right to link it to the daily work. To support this challenging task, added then and there, and it builds mutual respect between the units.” help has been provided to translate global strategic initiatives Performance Result driven organizations Key achievements 2014 • Bonus and Performance Review processes reviewed, developed and aligned to drive strategic priorities, implementation during 2015 • Continued increasing managers’ understanding and capabilities on our performance management and compensation practices 12 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 into local activities and to sharpen the focus on the link between Adriano Torres, Vice President for Metso’s Crushing and Screening Metso strategic themes with individual target setting. Our aim is Equipment was one of the business managers who carried out that everyone understands the big picture and has clear targets, the new Performance Review process for his subordinates. Torres and they understand what is expected of them and how these believes that the new Performance Review will be more effective: expectations are linked to the long-term targets of Metso. “In the old model, the targets were often related to departOverall, continuous work is ongoing to help managers in mental targets only. In the new model, the targets must be set on leading their teams’ performance (individual and team) through financial, strategic, people-related and departmental areas, which local workshops and by providing various guidance and materials. makes the review more balanced. Clear guidelines are making Leading and guiding performance happens on a daily basis – and all the targets align with the company goals and making the building a performance culture is a continuous task: everyone is evaluation process among employees more even.” responsible for their own performance. “From the employees’ point of view, the biggest change is the way individual performance is measured and how it’s linked to Performance Review improvement initiative in Brazil their career development in the company. This is naturally also Aligning personal and company targets in Brazil reflected on the company level: when all our targets are aligned, Like all market areas, Metso in Brazil faced an important it definitely makes us stronger when reaching for our shared question last year: How to create a performance culture that global targets,” Torres concludes. supports the realization of Metso’s new strategy. As part of their answer, the Brazilians turned their attention Developing professional competencies to the Performance Reviews – the yearly target discussion and across Metso evaluation that all Metso employees should go through. Along with the more focused and integrated strategy for Metso, “When we evaluated the Performance Review process we have started creating a more aligned approach to developing critically, we identified several opportunities for development,” professional competencies across the company. Our focus in 2014 recalls Compensation and Benefits Manager Ives Cattini. was on identifying the key strategic competence needs for five “Most importantly, the realization of the employees’ main areas: 1) Sales, 2) Field Services, 3) Supply Chain/Operations, personal targets didn’t seem to correlate with the result of 4) RTD/Engineering, and 5) Project Management. We defined comthe entire unit. In addition, the evaluation criteria weren’t petence development portfolios for these areas and proceeded to standardized: managers had no clear guidelines for measuring pilot some of the concrete learning solutions in 2014. the performance of their team members,” Cattini says. Through our 70-20-10 approach (see picture), we emphasize the According to Cattini, there were also signals showing that importance of learning on the job: new or problematic situations high and low performance was not addressed adequately and related to everyday work are the best way to develop new compethat the results of the Performance Review could be more tencies, especially when support is available from the manager and closely linked with career growth and development needs. colleagues. Challenging work opportunities are also valued and “All in all, we realized that changes were needed in order to seen as important by our employees, as became apparent when ensure that we’re working in a synchronized way to achieve our building our renewed Employer Brand through Employee Value business targets – but also to make sure that all employees are Proposition analysis. In addition to learning on the job, we invest given the same opportunities and fair treatment,” Cattini says. on formal training linked to employees’ everyday challenges; our investment in 2014 was EUR 6.7 million. Effectiveness and fair treatment Once the development opportunities were identified, the existing Focused Development Discussions Performance Review process was renewed – especially regarding We have simplified our approach to Development Discussions with the target setting and evaluation criteria. the aim of improving the quality of the discussion itself. The drivers “We created clear rules on how the targets should be made and for this have been the more focused and integrated strategy for determined; for example, all employees should have at least one Metso as well as the feedback received from Metso managers. In financial target in their portfolio. We also clearly spelled out how 2014, 66% (64%) of all our personnel participated in the Developperformance should be evaluated and how high-performers could ment Discussion process. The completion rate for Development be recognized and low-performers developed,” Cattini lists. Discussions was 85% (81%). Capabilities Competent employees Key achievements 2014 • Competence needs for five strategic main areas identified: 1) Sales, 2) Field Services, 3) Supply Chain / Operations, 4) RTD / Engineering, and 5) Project Management, and competence development portfolios for the areas defined • Simplified Development Discussions implemented: emphasis on linking strategic development needs to job roles and on quality of the discussion 13 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PORTFOLIO Learning solutions Project management Supply Chain RTD / (large customer Sales Field Services / Operations Engineering projects) Metso capital Customer Customer process / efficiency business Functionvalue chain understanding business game workshops specific learning Sales Strategy E2E supply solutions Meeting & effective chain Learning solutions customers implementation mentoring will be available from the beginning Arguing the of 2015. value add and positioning Regulatory development e.g. safety, quality Shared Language skills solutions Interpersonal skills e.g. presentation, negotiations for all Support to change Technical and product skills from business Portfolio consists of independent learning solutions that can be used separately METSO LEARNING METHODS 70-20-10 70% Learning on the job 20% Learning with others together 10% Formal learning Learning by doing Learning with help of others, Learning typically and learning from e.g. through feedback and in a class room or experiences joint reflection through eLearning 14 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 Sales competence needs “Of course, it is important to know our own technology and products, but it’s even more valuable to be able to say how exactly Building sales capabilities to sell value they would affect a specific stage in the customer’s process. In Sales capabilities have been identified as one of our five key the end, we’re not selling hardware, but value, which can be strategic competence need areas. According to Sudhir Srivastava, manifested in lower operating costs, higher uptime, knowledge Metso’s Senior Vice President in Minerals’ Sales and Marketing partnership – or all of these, depending on the case.” Development, Metso’s sales personnel already excel at creating “All in all, we have everything we need to take our sales trust-based customer relationships. competencies to the next level. Most importantly, our salespeople “Our customers truly trust our sales personnel, which is of must face customers with the confidence of knowing that they extreme importance. Our customers know they can always count belong to the world’s leading equipment and solution provider in on us, which is clearly reflected in our repeat orders and long our field. This is something they can and should be proud of. Our lasting customer relationships. In the future, we will build on salespeople must be able to endorse our proposal knowing that these customer relationship skills to further enhance our sales we are the best value for the money for our customers. I believe personnel’s capabilities,” Srivastava says. that makes the difference between winning and losing.” Revealing the added value Employer image clarified Srivastava believes that Metso’s sales competencies could be The new Metso strategy has given us a good basis for renewing boosted even higher in the future by focusing on three key areas: our employer image. In 2014, we conducted an in-depth analysis developing the way we speak about the added value of our of our image inside and outside Metso, and based on that we services and products, improving sales personnel’s knowledge of created a core story about Metso as an employer. We call this our the customer’s value chain, and crystallizing the argumentation Employee Value Proposition. The research shows that we have a based on the value that our products, services and solutions add. unique strength at Metso in how we combine challenging work “Our products and services are the industry leaders. The with a friendly, nonhierarchical working environment. benefits they create for our customers by, for example, increasing their production and decreasing the costs are in their own class. Resourcing processes to meet the requirements We need to make sure our potential customers recognize the of Metso's new strategy value our products and services can create for them.” During 2014, we developed our resourcing processes to better meet the requirements of Metso’s new strategy and operating Speaking the customer’s language model. For example, we reviewed our recruitment process, put Once the added value has been recognized, Srivastava would effort into career development that reflects current and future emphasize the importance of formulating the message. needs, and aligned these with our employer image. “We could be better at speaking the customer’s language. 2,209 new employees joined Metso in 2014, and the total rate of Knowing every stage of the customer’s process and value chain new employee hires was 14.1%. The emphasis of our recruitments and understanding the customer’s business drivers is the only was on operations, manufacturing and services personnel. We way we can relate to our customer’s world. It is also the only continued to strengthen our presence in growth countries. Metso way to understand what they really need – and how we can is a responsible employer; one indication of this is our continued help them perform better.” effort to provide opportunities for young people to gain valuable Srivastava is convinced that improving our knowledge as much work experience and thus improve their employability after they as possible about the customer’s value chain, business drivers finish their studies. In 2014, we employed 372 trainees globally for and environment is also the key to more effective argumentation. periods ranging from a couple of weeks to several months. Resourcing Right people Key achievements 2014 • Employee Value Proposition created: emphasis on the unique combination of friendly, respectful working environment and a challenging, result-oriented way of working • Necessary resource plans created according to strategy and resourcing processes developed to meet the requirements of Metso’s new strategy and operating model • Alignment of recruitment process and practices enhanced globally 15 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 INTRODUCTION TO EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION THEMES AND RESULTS Metso as an employer We are proud of our We work in a truly global industry-leading but closely knit network solutions of colleagues We work with challenging tasks in a friendly, respectful working environment Mission, vision, values, leadership principles We are committed to compliance with laws Responsible employment practices and ethical principles in people matters We take a long-term approach in personnel planning and In our personnel relations we comply with the labor rights stated development. Through our people processes, we aim to develop by the International Labor Organization (ILO), and we support and support employment opportunities for our personnel – even and respect the protection of human rights as expressed in the in business change situations. We act responsibly and in compUN Declaration of Human Rights. liance with national legislation and good employer practices in We do not use child labor or engage subcontractors or suppliers structural changes and lay-off situations arising from financial or that do so. We do not allow behavior that is physically coercive, production-related reasons. threatening, abusive or exploitative. We are committed to the Our employees have the freedom to organize. Metso does UN Global Compact initiative with its ten universally accepted not require or prevent the unionization of employees. We do principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and not track the extent of our employees’ engagement in trade anti-corruption. The total number of incidents of discrimination union activities, and our human resources practices are globally initiated in 2014 was 0 (0) and actions taken 0 (0). applicable – regardless of the degree of organization and collective bargaining in different countries. We cooperate with Responsible people management policies local employee representatives and comply with local legislation at Metso ensure compliance in business change situations. The Metso HR management team drafts policies, principles and The wages and salaries of Metso employees are determined on the guidelines related to people management and is responsible basis of local collective and individual agreements, job requirements for monitoring them in accordance with the governance and employee performance. Additionally, country specific requlations model. The HR organizations are responsible for implementing are always followed. Our globally applicable, performance-based the policies, principles and guidelines, and for supporting incentive systems complement basic salaries and wages. Salary increacountry-specific compliance. ses are based on principles determined annually by the management and on country-specific collective agreements. Our employee benefits are based on local legislation, practices Examples of Metso's global people management policies and guidelines and competitive compensation levels. Occupational health care, country-specific pension practices, statutory insurance, training, Health, Safety and Environment Policy Anti-drug Guidelines various sabbaticals supporting parenthood, family life and Metso Leadership Principles studying, and annual vacation time are determined on the basis of Metso Recruitment Policy country-specific legislation and national policies. International Assignment Guidelines Personnel Background Checking Guidelines Cooperation with personnel and management Job Description Guidelines Cooperation acts and other laws and regulations create a Annual Review Guidelines country-specific framework for the collaboration between the Equal Opportunity and Diversity Policy management and personnel and for the mutual development of Global Bonus Plan Guidelines the company and its operations. Localization Guidelines for Expatriates Personnel representation in business unit management is separaGuidelines for Company tely agreed upon and compliant with country-specific regulations. Supported and Funded Studies Additionally, our units engage in forms of cooperation that comply Performance and Rewards Principles with country-specific practices and legislation. 16 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 A personnel representative elected by our personnel groups guided by consistent planning in Health, safety and environment participates in the meetings of Metso's Board of Directors as an (HSE). The focus in recent years has been on strengthening our invited expert. The representative does not have voting rights and employees’ personal commitment to safety and on strengthening is not legally responsible for Board decisions. personal responsibility in identifying hazards. At the end of 2013 we set a new target for workplace safety. Our Metso European Works Council new occupational safety target is to achieve an LTIF of less than Metso European Works Council (EWC) is our European management one. (LTIF reflects the number of incidents resulting in an absence and personnel cooperation body. The purpose of Metso EWC is to of at least one workday per million hours worked). Our long-term offer our employees an opportunity to engage in an open dialogue target is zero work-related incidents. In 2014, our LTIF was 3.9. about company topics, to give employees more information and During 2014 we continued our strong focus on the developto provide an opportunity to be heard in multinational Group-level ment of health, safety and environmental matters based on matters. Metso EWC carries out the cooperation and communication Metso’s HSE Policy and Minimum safety standards, which are the defined in the EU's European Works Council directive. fundamental cornerstones in safety. The current EWC agreement was signed in 2014. The agreement Our new regional-based HSE organization was launched at the is based on the following regulations and agreements: EU end of 2013 and was effective from 2014 onward. The objective Directive 2009/38/EY on the establishment of a European Works of the new organization is to strengthen the cooperation among Council in Community-level undertakings and Act on Cooperation Group HSE managers and their connection to local HSE professiowithin Finnish and Community-wide Groups of Undertakings nals. With the new operating model, the focus is on intensifying 30.3.2007/335. The parties to the present agreement are Metso the engagement of local HSE professionals all the way down to the Group and its personnel in the European Union. grassroots level. The new organization also aims to strengthen the dialogue between regional HSE managers and local line manageHealth and safety targets and achievements ment. The aim is to improve their commitment and cooperation to Safety is one of our high priorities at Metso. Our work in health help reach Metso’s global HSE targets and to unify local operating and safety is based on our targets in occupational safety and is models based on Metso’s global HSE policies and procedures. Global HSE support and coordination functions North America Europe Scandinavia & Russia China Region coordination Region coordination Region coordination Region coordination function function function function Finland HSE Management Communication South and Africa India Australia & Central America Region coordination Region coordination New Zealand Region coordination function function Region coordination function function Global support functions: Development • Communication • Implementation support • Reporting • Internal audits • Environment 17 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 A new Minimum safety standard was launched in 2014 to evaluation, training, ownership, leadership, and incident and supplement our eight (8) Minimum safety standards. The new accident management. standard, road travel, regulates how to behave when travelling on Our 12 elements self-assessment tool was implemented in 2013 road. In 2015 a new safety standard will be launched to support our to support the development of good local safety practices and safety at Metso. to identify and prioritize the development areas for the local HSE Metso’s Minimum safety standards strongly support our safety work. That same year, the self-assessment with the 12 elements work. Our goal with the standards is to raise awareness of the became mandatory for all our sites. most critical hazards in our work tasks and to make sure that we HSE audits track good practices at Metso’s sites globally. It is also have means to control these hazards. The goal is also to enhance a tool to track the implementation rate of our practices, such as the our uniform HSE practices. The standards give guidance on how Minimum safety standards. Our internal HSE Audit function visited to perform the most common work procedures in a safe manner 27 locations during 2014 and identified hundreds of HSE-related and they create a baseline for safety. Our safety standards are actions to quickly improve the safety at our locations. A detailed applicable in all our operations. schedule was created for the identified development issues. The Our Minimum safety standards are: lock out/tag out procedures, audit process calls for the findings to be remedied within three working at heights, lifting, working in confined spaces, operating months of the audit visit. tools and equipment, working with hazardous substances, personal protective equipment (PPE), maintaining good order, and Please note that figures 2012 onwards describe road travel. Metso's current structure Campaign to increase safety awareness LTIF BY SEGMENTS To introduce the standards to our employees, a Safety Pledge cam10.0 paign was launched in 2012. The work continued in 2014 with the launch of the Safety Pledge 2014 campaign, which concentrated on 7.5 highlighting Metso’s nine Minimum safety standards. In 2015, the new Safety Pledge 2015 campaign will continue our proactive work 5.0 to improve our safety. Global HSE reporting system 2.5 In 2014, we concentrated on improving our HSE reporting by implementing a Group-wide HSE reporting system globally. The 0.0 Minerals Flow Control Other new tool will replace other reporting systems that have been in use for HSE at Metso. The new Metso-wide reporting system will be globally implemented in 2014 and 2015 to improve the monitoring and management of our occupational safety, including accidents, LTIF AT METSO near misses, first-aid situations and risk observations, and to deve20 lop our environmental performance. The environmental indicators component of the reporting system was implemented already in 15 2013. Our target is for all HSE figures to be reported through our Group-wide reporting system, Sustanalyzer. 10 The HSE reporting procedure consists of reporting recordable accidents, first-aid situations, environmental damages, near-miss situations and observed risks related to occupational health and sa5 fety. We have used the reporting data to define most common root causes for incidents at Metso: technical causes, human causes and 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 operational causes. Technical causes are related to, e.g., defective or improper tools or equipment, inadequate protective equipment, or incorrect or improper process conditions. Human causes are related • LTIF * Lost Time Incident Frequency reflects the to, e.g., failure to detect a hazard/problem or incorrect working number of incidents resulting in an abscence of practice. Operational causes are related to risk identification and at least one workday per million hours worked. evaluation. Based on this knowledge, we are able to address the issues that fundamentally increase the risk factors at Metso. Heath and safety in figures At Metso we believe that all accidents can be prevented. AccorHSE audits dingly, Metso’s long-term objective is zero work-related incidents. The 12 elements model created for Metso is a methodology for To reach that goal our mid-term target is to reach a lost-time systematic development of different aspects of safety. Each element incident frequency (LTIF) of less than 1. (LTIF reflects the number assesses the maturity of the safety systems at our production sites. of incidents resulting in an absence of at least one workday per The 12 elements include, e.g., HSE management, hazard and risk million hours worked.) 18 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 In 2014, we recorded 0 (1) work-related fatalities. The number To support the 2014 focus on implementing the standards in all of recordable work-related incidents in 2014 was 295 (297). our locations, a global Safety Pledge 2014 campaign was launched to Recordable incidents are the sum of lost time, restricted work and raise employee awareness of the standards. The campaign included, medical treatment incidents. Metso’s LTIF was 3.9 (4.2). Metso also e.g., a Minimum safety standards brochure, which included descmonitors near-misses and risk observations. The 2014 near-miss riptions of each standard, and a video that reviewed the standards and risk observation factor was 443 (339), an increase of 31% one by one. The campaign was launched in nine languages and the from 2013. One of our efforts in 2014 has been on increasing the material was distributed at all our locations globally. The standards near-miss and risk observation reporting. The number of nearwere launched originally in 2012 and were introduced to our miss reports has improved by 3,864 from 2013 to 2014 due to our employees through the first Safety Pledge campaign. effective safety campaigning. “Learning to work by the standards requires the contribution of Near-miss reporting is essential when the focus is on minimievery Metso employee. Safety is a joint responsibility that we all zing hazards. Near-miss reporting enables us to take corrective share,” says Jukka Rikkinen, VP, Health, Safety and Environment. actions in all our operations and to increase safety. The number of absence days in 2014 totaled 6.5 (6.6) days per Defining root causes based on our HSE incident reporting person on average, 6.0 (6.2) days due to illness and 0.5 (0.4) days Our HSE work is based on finding root causes for all incidents that due to injury at work. happen at Metso. Sustainable HSE work is based on collecting and Since 2009, we have succeeded in reducing the LTIF by 73% analyzing the data behind the incidents. An adaptable reporting by focusing on all aspects of safety. Our main focus has been on system has an important role to enable us to learn from the data. key areas, such as increasing employee awareness of safety, on “The reported data can be used as learning experiences. The technical improvements, such as Metso’s Group-wide reporting data gives us a general overview and allows us to identify any system, on management leadership capabilities, and on improshortcomings when reviewing accidents that have occurred ving our practices at work. Our LTIF decreased from 4.2 in 2013 to at Metso. The data also helps us to eliminate risk factors and 3.9 in 2014. This is a reduction of 5%. The LTIF levels are reported create a more secure and more environmentally friendly working by Metso’s units, and there is still a lot of room for improvement environment. We are able to learn from the accidents, and we can in health and safety work. create procedures based on the information,” says Jukka Rikkinen, VP, Health, Safety and Environment. Global implementation of our safety standards Flexibility and the ability to support our HSE objectives All our efforts in HSE aim to ensure a safe working environment were essential when making the decision to implement a for all Metso employees. To improve our safety and to support Group-wide reporting system for sustainability figures. In 2013, the safety culture at our plants, a Safety Pledge 2014 campaign we launched Metso’s Group-wide reporting system for global was launched to share information about what our safety environmental reporting. standards mean in practice and to give guidance on following The development work continued in 2014 with the preparation the standards in our everyday work at our workplaces. The goal of the tool for global HSE incident reporting, which will start in of the campaign is to implement the standards in each Metso early 2015. The testing and training phases are currently under way. location. The standards are applicable at every location. Reporting with the new Sustanalyzer reporting system, which The standards have been created to minimize the hazards will include accidents, near misses, first-aid situations and risk at our workplace, and they create the baseline for local safety observations, will start in early 2015. We will also focus on further requirements procedures. If the local procedures, customers, extending the reporting to cover chemical legislation, regulation laws or regulations have a higher safety standard than Metso, management, supplier management, and health, safety and those standards apply. The standards give guidance on how to environment auditing. Additionally, the Sustanalyzer reporting perform the most common work procedures in a safe manner. system will enable us to report risk observations. 19 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 Metso Environment pollution. Hence, we continuously make efforts to improve the environmental performance of our operations and the environmental awareness of our workforce. We constantly strive for improvements in our energy and Due to the capacity growth in some of our manufacturing materials efficiency and in reducing water consumption, processes and due to changes in the operating environment, we emissions to water, soil and air, and the amount of waste in our have not been able to improve our environmental figures in 2014. operations. We have also identified environmental risks related to our operations, and we practice precautionary procedures to Metso’s energy efficiency program (MEEP) prevent environmental accidents. In 2009 we set global, Group-wide energy-saving and carbon dioxide emissions targets for our own production. The majority Environmental targets of our reported CO₂ emissions stem from the use of energy; Health, safety and environment (HSE) is an essential part of therefore, decreasing energy consumption will also reduce all our activities at Metso, since many of our people across emissions – while also bringing financial benefits. In 2010 our different businesses work in versatile environments. Our Metso started mapping the opportunities to save energy and actions in HSE aim to support our efforts to take environmental decrease carbon dioxide emissions in its biggest and most efficiency into account. energy-intensive production units. The mapping in the energyWe strive to reduce the environmental footprint of our own intensive production units was completed in 2013. operations through a dedicated energy-efficiency program, The biggest energy-savings opportunities are related to the while setting global, Group-wide targets for energy conservatiuse of fuel and heat. Potential savings outside our production on and carbon dioxide emissions for our own production. processes were also found, e.g. in cooling and compressed air We have created our Group-wide targets in order to improve systems. We have defined energy-efficiency indices for our our performance in HSE. Our global target is to reduce Metso’s production units, and the units report their energy consumptienergy consumption and emissions by 15 percent by 2015 and on in accordance with the indices on a quarterly basis. by 20 percent by 2020 based on our net sales, calculated from In 2014, Metso saved 0.9% of the energy of its own the base year 2009. Reducing energy consumption will reduce production, a total of 3,800 MWh (1,000 tons of CO₂). Since the emissions, while also bringing financial benefits. The majority of beginning of the program, 11.6%, i.e. a total of 49,600 MWh of our reported CO₂ emissions come from the use of energy. energy (13,400 tons of CO₂), has been saved through a wide In 2014 we created the cornerstones for a Group-wide range of actions around the world. water strategy, which will be further developed during 2015. We have developed quarterly reporting metrics for each proGroup-wide reporting of environmental figures is essential in duction site’s energy-saving actions; these metrics help to promote improving our environmental efficiency. Our recently launched energy-efficiency improvements and monitoring at the Group level. reporting tool, Sustanalyzer, enables us to systematically The 15 Metso sites with the highest energy consumption follow our HSE progress. account for nearly 80 percent of Metso’s total energy consumpOur production facilities are required to report their environtion and hence 80 percent of Metso’s CO₂ emissions. mental data at the Group level. Energy and water consumption data are reported quarterly; other environmental data, e.g. materiPlease note that figures 2012 onwards describe als use and waste amounts, are reported annually. Each unit has a Metso's current structure. designated environmental representative, and the reported data is validated by the unit manager of the location. We implemented a new environmental reporting system in 2013 to improve our data SUMMARY OF ENERGY SAVING ACTIONS collecting procedures and to ensure the quality and accuracy of the data collected. In 2014 we improved our reporting by training % our employees in more efficient reporting practices. 20 Environmental impacts of own production 16 Regarding the ecological footprint of our products and services, only a relatively small portion is related to our own production. 12 The most essential environmental impacts of our production are related to energy consumption at our foundries. Globally, 8 we have 37 production facilities, and 36% of our production facilities are covered by the ISO 14001 environmental standard 4 (in terms of personnel). Our production facilities are constantly developing their environmental operations in accordance 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 with our health, safety and environment (HSE) policy. It states that we cooperate with our stakeholders to develop • Energy savings, % our best practices and processes to improve the efficient and sustainable use of energy and materials as well as to prevent •• Target level -20% for 2020 Target level -15% for 2015 20 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 MEEP highlights in 2014 for calculating and understanding the environmental impacts of 8 different energy-efficiency projects started or implemented in our supply chain. We now have the ability to better manage the Metso’s own production in 2014 generated a total savings of 1,000 environmental impacts of our value chain and to also improve tons of carbon dioxide. Additionally, a number of smaller initiatives future reporting of our scope 3 emissions. and actions have taken place globally in our production units. In 2015 we will focus on extending our Group-wide scope 3 reporting. We have implemented 174 projects that have led to carbon dioxide savings of 13,400 tons since 2009 when Metso’s energyEmissions arising from business travel efficiency program was started. Since then, investments totaling One of the sectors of scope 3 emissions is business travel. In accorEUR 4.6 million have resulted in savings of 49,600 MWh of energy, dance with our travel policy, Metso strives to reduce its need for worth EUR 3.5 million; these investments have a payback time business travel by providing and investing in alternative methods ranging from one to three years. to organize meetings remotely, for instance by providing video To speed up the energy and CO₂ savings in our production, we conferencing equipment, web and telephone conferences. have a separate budget for energy and CO₂ investments. In terms Metso’s travel policy also states that Metso’s travel decisions of completed energy-saving actions, we are currently at our target should support environmentally friendly options whenever it is level of a 20% reduction by 2020. also economically feasible. Metso currently monitors and reports scope 3 emissions stemming from business travel in Finland, Minimizing environmental impacts Sweden, North America and China, which totaled approximately caused by scope 3 emissions 15.7 thousand CO₂ tons in 2014 and accounted for 48% of Metso’s Metso’s aim is to minimize environmental impacts throughout its workforce. In other countries in which Metso operates, business value chain, which is also supported by the calculation of scope 3 travel data is monitored, although not systematically. emissions. Only a small portion of the ecological footprint of our products and services is related to our own production, so the Metso’s activities in water reduction significance of our scope 3 emissions calculations increases. Metso operates in 50 countries around the world, including in Scope 3 is one of three reporting categories measuring water-stressed areas. In 2012 we set a target to reduce water usage greenhouse gas emissions. The first emissions category measures in our own operations by 15% by 2020. In 2014 we conducted a direct emissions and purchased fuels, and the second category study in every environmental reporting unit to assess the current measures indirect emissions, such as purchased power and situation so that we can formulate a more detailed strategy to heat. The third category (scope 3) concentrates on other indirect achieve our water-reduction target. At the same time, we have emissions, such as employee business travel, contractor-owned pursued more in-depth knowledge of the regions that are watervehicles and outsourced activities. stressed areas in order to create the cornerstones for a Group-wide In order to improve our knowledge of scope 3 emissions in water strategy that will be developed further in 2015. As part of the our value chain, a comprehensive analysis was conducted during water strategy formulation, we have ongoing work related to water 2013. Efforts are targeting the future development of methods risks, and this work will continue also in 2015. 21 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 Society activities reflect the implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in our operations. We use sponsorships and donations to support the implementation We strive to be a responsible corporate citizen and to support susof our strategy and to strengthen our corporate brand and tainable development in the communities we operate in by forming recognition globally. partnerships with customers and other stakeholders. By sponsoring Metso defines sponsorship through the principles and terms and donating to local projects in science, research and education, described in the Advertising and Marketing Communication environmental protection and nature conservation, and youth Practice, published by the International Chamber of Commerce activities, we contribute to a more sustainable world. (ICC) in August 2006. Accordingly, we endorse the definition Our aspiration to be a good corporate citizen is based on understated in that document. standing mutual needs and expectations in our relationships with local communities. We are convinced that increased interaction with Sponsorship principles the local community through the engagement of our local employees Metso chooses its sponsorship targets based on its strategic results in mutual benefits for Metso and society. objectives – science, research and education, environmental protection, nature conservation and youth activities. To keep Sponsorships and donations the focus in these target areas, we have also introduced other Our principles of sponsorships and donations have their guiding principles to our sponsorship approach, since, as a foundation in Metso’s Code of Conduct, in which we define business-to-business company, we do not allocate resources also other important ethical issues, such as our commitment for sponsorships targeting the general public, unless deemed to the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Our sponsorship appropriate for a specific issue. Major sponsorship and donation initiatives in 2014 Science, research Number of projects Total amount of sponsoring and education Environmental 318 pcs EUR 0.72 million protection and nature conservation Foundation for Aalto University Technology Academy of Finland Youth activities Science and Technology, Finland WWF, Finland Others/social activities Metso Cultural project, Brazil UNICEF, Ebola prevention, East Africa Beijing Charity A cor dando vida project Association – Conselho Municipal do scholarship awards, conselho da crianza e do China adolescente, Brazil Fishing Project, Brazil Ububele Transformation trust, Socio-economic development and enterprise development of previously SOS Children´s Reality wellness group HIV/AIDS disadvantaged South Africans Villages, South Africa prevention, South Africa 22 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 As we operate globally and in diverse cultures, we sponsor Sponsorships and donations are examples of means we use only projects that are universally accepted and respected. The to develop and maintain interaction with important stakeholder principle of equality also means that we do not sponsor projects groups. The principles and practices covering this area are defined or initiatives related to politics or religious worship. For the same in our Code of Conduct and in Metso’s Principles of Sponsorships reason, we do not sponsor ideological organizations that have and Donations. The focus of our sponsorships and support is values and activities that lack unanimous community support. primarily on youth activities, science, research, education, and A substantial part of the contributions within the category environmental and nature conservation. “Others” includes our support to social programs in, e.g., the abatement of HIV/AIDS, which has gained importance as a Metso sponsors Yrityskylä learning environment project form of our local responsibility. Similarly, we have also supMetso is a supporter of Yrityskylä initiative, an internationally awarported local water and sanitation programs in schools located ded Finnish education innovation. The Yrityskylä learning concept near our facilities. focuses on society, business and entrepreneurship and is aimed We do not sponsor professional sports on a national or at sixth-grade primary school students in Finland. Students in the international level. Our community involvement projects can, Yrityskylä learning environment work in their own professions in a however, include support for local sports as a youth activity or mini city and act as society’s consumers and citizens. In the regional a general recreation activity. We do not sponsor activities that Yrityskylä learning environments, sixth graders and their teachers are commonly considered as conflicting with the principles of spend a day learning about the special characteristics of the region sustainable development, such as motor sports. and the actual employers there. The Yrityskylä learning environments are implemented in close Cooperation with non-governmental collaboration with the local municipalities and companies. The organizations (NGOs) project was launched back in 2009, and Metso has been a project As a global company, Metso co-operates with local and international sponsor since 2013. non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in many countries. In many The popularity of the project has surprised everyone. This instances, NGOs can provide the needed operations, services and school year, some 40,000 students will visit Me & Yrityskylä experience to support the local communities, people and environment. learning environments, of which there are currently eight in Metso’s support for non-profit or non-governmental organizaFinland. A total of 70,000 students have visited a Yrityskylä tions and related activities was EUR 716,000 in 2014. learning environment since the beginning. In autumn 2013, as Finland’s representative, Yrityskylä won an award in the European Commission competition that recognizes the best initiatives SUPPORT FOR NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS supporting entrepreneurship. The Economic Information Office (TAT) coordinates the Yrityskylä learning environments. “The wide group of collaboration partners, including Metso, is an 17% indication of the shared concern about young people’s preparedness for business and society,” says Tomi Alakoski, Executive Director of 35% the Yrityskylä project at the Economic Information Office. 13% The inauguration of Plan’s school water and sanitation project 16% The handover ceremony of the Plan and Metso supported 14% 5% school water and sanitation project was celebrated in Alwar Rajasthan. This marked the completion of the project aiming to improve the school enrollment of children by improving •• Youth activities 17% (27%) Culture 13% (1%) child-friendly school water and sanitation facilities and •• Science, research and education 16% (6%) Environmental protection 5% (5%) hygiene practices among school children in India. The festivities celebrating the completion of the water and •• Sports 14% (10%) Others 35% (51%) sanitation facilities in 15 schools were held in July 2014 with students, teachers, local government and Plan India. The focus of the cooperation has been on supporting children’s rights to adequate school water and sanitation infrastructure and having dedicated bathroom/lavatory facilities, especially for Community involvement girls. The project makes it possible to provide running water in Metso’s presence in emerging markets is constantly growing and school toilets for the children and it enables existing toilets to is reflected in new units being opened or existing ones expanded. be renovated and new ones to be built. Our local presence creates wealth and job opportunities as well Raising awareness is one of the high priorities within the proas business partnerships that are important and beneficial both ject. In order to keep up the positive consequences, the children to Metso and the local community. We encourage our units and have been trained about hygiene and about the responsibility employees to participate in a wide range of activities that bring for taking care of the facilities. Also the school staff and local wellbeing to the local community. community have been trained in maintaining the facilities. 23 www.metso.com/2014 Annual Report 2014 “I dropped out of school due to the inconvenience I use to have locations in Isithebe, Rustenburg and Vereeniging. The program during menstruation. There were no toilets in our school where includes counseling and testing. girls could go and change. When I heard that new toilets have The program was originally launched at Metso in April 2010; been constructed at the school, I thought about visiting the school. by the end of 2010, 92% of the local employees had taken part in I was amazed to see that there were separate toilet facilities for voluntary testing and counseling. The program has been extended girls. I was delighted to see an incinerator in one of the toilets. I to spouses and to families of our employees by the Employee immediately decided to re-admit myself after a break of 2 years. Spouse Program. Metso organizes regularly family days, which I hope girls in our community will no longer drop out due to the include the opportunity for testing for the entire family. lack of such facilities,” girl from one of the project schools, 15 years. International awards have been received through the Swedish Workplace HIV/Aids Program, SWHAP, included in 2010 – Best Award-winning HIV/Aids program supporting Progress, and in 2012 and 2013 – Most Comprehensive. the local community in South Africa “It was the second-time running to win the SWHAP’s most comMetso has over 1,000 employees in South Africa, where the overall prehensive program. In fact, it was the first time in SWHAP’s history prevalence of HIV exceeds 22%. The alarmingly high prevalence that any company has managed to achieve such recognition,” rates at one of Metso’s sites was the starting point to take steps to replies Christelle Scheun, the program coordinator. offer testing and support for those in need. Christelle and Lindy Losper, the main responsibles for proAt the moment, approximately 90.5% of our employees in gram at Metso, are continually developing the program in order South Africa who are living with HIV are on Metso’s support to find new ways to raise awareness both within the company program. Metso has actively organized HIV/AIDs education at our and in the local communities. 24 www.metso.com/2014
