United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 About the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations (UN) Global Compact is a call to companies everywhere to voluntarily align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals, including the Millennium Development Goals. The UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the development, implementation, and disclosure of responsible corporate policies and practices. Launched in 2000, it is the largest corporate responsibility initiative in the world, with over 10,000 signatories based in 140 countries. Team Relocations has been following these principles since 2007 and, in 2013, formally affirmed its commitment to, and integration of, the principles. The Commitment • Make the UN Global Compact and its principles an integral part of business strategy, day-to-day operations, and organisational culture; • Incorporate the UN Global Compact and its principles in the decisionmaking processes of the highest-level governance body (e.g., Board); • Take actions in support of UN goals and issues, including the Millennium Development Goals; • Communicate annually with its stakeholders on progress made to implement the principles, ideally integrated into the annual report or similar public document (known as the Communication on Progress – COP); and • Advance the UN Global Compact and the case for responsible business practices through advocacy and active outreach to peers, partners, clients, consumers, and the public at large. www.unglobalcompact.com 2 Contents Introduction 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact................................................... 4 Chairman’s Statement................................................................................ 5 About Team Relocations............................................................................. 6 Team’s Core Values: Excalibur.................................................................... 7 Supplementary Reading and Compliance Team................................... 24 8 14 UN Human Rights Principles UN Labour Principles 18 22 UN Environment Principles UN Anti-Corruption Principles 3 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Labour 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Environment technologies. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption 4 A Statement from the Chairman and Founder To All Stakeholders, For some 40 years, our growth and success has been based upon a strongly held set of core business values. From the early days, as a path-finding corporate moving company, to our present day position as one of Europe’s leading global mobility services providers, we have empowered our people to deliver the highest professional and ethical services possible. Much has changed over four decades, but the six core values, upon which our business is based, have not: Excellence, Responsibility, Integrity, Security, Synergy and Resourcefulness. They have developed, of course, to keep pace with the demands of 21st century business and, more recently, we have uniquely brought all these elements together under our Excalibur ‘core values’ programme. Excalibur unites our values into one clear integrated strategy by which we might drive the pursuit of our goal to provide our clients with excellence in global relocation and move management services. The success of this mission is further supported by our commitment to, and support of, the United Nations Global Compact which we formally subscribed to in August 2013. I am delighted to submit Team Relocations’ second annual Communication on Progress, which outlines the on-going effort and progress we have made during 2014 to embed the Global Compact and its ten principles encompassing human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption into the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our organisation. It also includes our objectives for 2015, as the Global Compact and its principles become further integrated into our business. Aligning our company with the principles and reporting against them on an annual basis enables us to ensure we remain focused on the issues most relevant to us as a global business, and to play our part in the crucially important transition to a sustainable future. As Chairman, I am pleased to confirm that Team Relocations will continue to support the United Nations Global Compact in the coming year. Yogesh B. Mehta Chairman 5 About Team Relocations Team Relocations is a leading independent company specialising in the delivery of fully integrated global relocation services within the corporate market place, supporting in the region of 60,000 cases per annum. We deliver end-to-end services that span policy consultation, predeparture counselling, destination and moving services, assignment management, expense reporting, repatriation, and transition. Our partner network is central to our goal of delivering excellence in mobility solutions and supports our ability to maintain consistently high service standards from home to host location, even in the most remote and inhospitable regions. Team remains privately owned and our portfolio of clients includes some of the industry’s largest contracts currently in operation within the marketplace. A substantial percentage of our major corporate relationships have come about due to numerous contract extensions over many decades, as these companies have recognised our unique ability to handle their most challenging mobility requirements, whilst remaining small enough as a company to really care about what we do. Our Mission Our Mission To provide our clients with excellence in global relocation management through: Recruiting Creating Delivering Applying Partnering Being and developing relocation levels of vigorous cost with only excellent talented people solutions which service which controls to the the very best corporate meet the needs exceed client mobility process citizens of each client expectations 6 Our Core Values: Excalibur EXCELLENCE RESOURCEFULNESS RESPONSIBILITY Quality Environment Health & Safety ISO 9001:2008 ISO 14001:2004 OHSAS 18001:2007 Quality FAIMplus Carbon Neutral Health & Safety Training & Competence Recycling & Refuse Risk Assessment Customer Satisfaction UN Global Compact Client Policy Integration INTEGRITY SECURITY SYNERGY Social Responsibility Information Security Supply Chain ISO 26000 ISO 27001:2005 ISO 28001:2007 Diversity Risk Management AEO Certified Community Data Protection Security Processes Transparency & Trust Business Continuity Monitoring Supply Flows Ethics & Compliance UN Global Compact CSR UN Global Compact 7 Human Rights Principle 1 Assessment, Policy and Goals Businesses should support and Team Relocations is committed to respecting and respect the protection of supporting international human rights throughout our internationally proclaimed human business operations, and ensuring that we are not rights; and complicit in human rights abuses. This is reflected in our Integrity policy, which also expresses our commitment to Principle 2 uphold the Principles outlined in the UN Global Compact make sure that they are not and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human complicit in human rights abuses. Rights. Although already enshrined within our core values declaration policy document, Excalibur, Team has effected several changes throughout 2014/15 to further embody the two essential human rights principles within the fabric of its everyday operational working. Team recognises its responsibility under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to promote and protect human rights throughout its business operations 8 Implementation Measurement of Outcomes HR As part of our HR and staff awareness criteria, we Our Investors in People taskforce will be involved have committed to achieve Investors in People Silver in taking the IiP Silver project forward and reviews accreditation for the UK offices in 2016. While the of progress will be conducted during this year and European countries do not have this accreditation early next year as to compliance and the progress of available to them, we are committed as a Group to application. impart and set the same standards and values. Group Compliance Team The requirement for greater client account compliance We are in the process of putting in place a master has necessitated greater sharing of the varied account umbrella compliance programme that covers the many compliance agreements. different client account compliance requirements, thus removing the need to set up individual programmes. Supply Chain The team has been reviewed and, in-keeping with Within the moving and relocation sectors we have now requirements within our organisation, is now a smaller appointed a team made up of Team in the UK and more cohesive unit implementing the business criteria Team in Holland to drive this forward for our Group, more effectively. which will provide better strategic and commercial outcomes. 9 Our People Team’s commitment is to an inclusive www.teamrelocations.com/blog environment where we attract, retain, train and advance the most competent employees without regard to their race, A message from Team Relocations on Internationals Women’s Day colour, religion or religious belief, sex, national origin, age, marital status, sexual orientation or disability. We are committed to diversity and inclusion within the firm and have developed a strategy which underpins the firm’s values of mutual respect, responsibility and teamwork. This is best encapsulated in our Integrity policy. We believe it enables us to hire the best talent, build the most effective teams, deliver the highest level of client service and be effective contributors to our local communities. Today is International Women’s Day, celebrated throughout the world for the economic, political and social achievements of women Team is a diverse firm, with a valuable mix past, present and future. Team Relocations would like to take this of nationalities, cultures and expertise; 22 opportunity to honour the presence of the women in our workforce languages are spoken in the UK offices and in the wider business world. alone. Team’s human and intellectual capital is one of our most valuable Team’s human and intellectual capital is assets, and we are proud that women have been, and continue to be, one of our most valuable assets. It can an integral part of Team Relocations. We are lucky to have plenty of be measured by our overall staff turnover talented, skilled and determined women in our global team, many of whom are in senior management positions throughout our European rate, the investment in training and offices. Through their efforts and contributions, as well as the rich and development and ultimately in our ability diverse perspectives they bring to the workplace and to our clients, to innovate. these women have contributed greatly to Team’s success. As our organisation of over 600 employees While recognising their accomplishments and the value women bring operates across 13 countries, we value to Team, it is important to acknowledge that International Women’s every one of our people on their merits as Day is not just about celebrating women’s achievements so far, individuals and their ability to carry out but also to remember the many barriers they still face to achieving their work to the highest standards. We equality and economic security in their communities. We know that in our company, as well as in most industry sectors across the world, therefore strive to ensure that everyone at there is still much to be done for women in the global workplace. As Team Relocations has full access to career Hillary Clinton observed, “women are the largest untapped reservoir development and training opportunities of talent in the world.” One billion women are expected to enter the in line with their abilities and skills. This is global workforce in the next decade, so this is certainly a topic of monitored and measured in annual staff urgency and relevance. appraisals. There are many schemes globally which aim to change perceptions of women and their abilities, and further their opportunities to work. One such project is Saksham, implemented by the charity Plan India, which supports disadvantaged youth (especially young women) by equipping them with essential life and work-oriented skills, enabling them to go on to find jobs and work their way out of poverty. As a Team Relocations blog post company with strong core values, Team is proud to be partnered with celebrating International Plan, and directly supporting Project Saksham. Women’s Day, March 2015 This International Women’s Day, please join us in celebrating women, at Team Relocations and around the world. And let us also consider the need to enhance the roles that women play in organisations so that gender equality and women’s empowerment in the workforce can be a universal reality. Happy International Women’s Day 2015. 10 We place a high priority on employee communications and make use of the Staff Extranet to provide a wide range of company information and news, and to promote knowledge sharing and best practice exchange. We continue to develop the Extranet as a source of To... information to all employees. All company policies Subject: Welcome available on Extranet. 2012 2013 2014 % Staff Registered % Extranet Usage Overall % Policies Acess Usage 0 20 40 60 80 100 www.teamrelocations.com/staff 11 Our Suppliers Throughout 2015, we will continue to pursue ISO 28001 Team Relocations is committed to utilising suppliers who and AEO accreditation across all Team operational respect human rights through promoting safe and fair facilities, whilst maintaining the improvement in supply working conditions, and ensuring respect for the four key chain performance as shown by the data below. rights and principles in the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: 2012 2013 2014 • Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Partner Performance • Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory Relative to Team SLA labour • Effective abolition of child labour Partner Performance • Elimination of discrimination in respect of Relative to Team CSR employment and occupation. Partner Overall Supporting the ISO standard, Team’s process for supplier Performance selection, management and, most importantly, ongoing quality control measurement, is effected under the Complaints Relative to Partner Network SUREFAST programme which covers all Team services as a % of all Cases and suppliers within the supply chain. 0 20 40 60 80 100 All new strategic suppliers sign up to our SUREFAST programme and complete a self-assessment questionnaire to enable us to appraise their performance Our Clients Our clients are at the very heart of our business; we Supplier partners must comply with all Team policies, strive to achieve excellence in everything we do for them processes and procedures at all times, and all staff as described in our Quality Policy. Consistent with this working on Team cases must be trained to Team approach, we are taking steps to further develop our standards. expertise to support our clients’ respect for human rights through our advice on client matters (e.g. integrating As part of a number of Key Performance Indicators, Team policies), providing client seminars about our core monitors feedback from all sources and in order to values and any community projects we can carry out maintain accreditation, all suppliers must consistently collaboratively with them. reflect outstanding or above average service delivery. During 2014 we provided further Business and Human In a significant step since our last annual Rights Training for our staff to help them to understand Communication on Progress, our SUREFAST Manager and respond to the expectations of the United Nations has begun the roll-out of a new Supplier Portal, initially Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which targeting our largest suppliers, which will enable us to outline the responsibilities of businesses in relation to capture detailed and consistent information on upholding human rights such as privacy. sustainability performance going forward. Team also successfully achieved renewal of our ISO Additionally, to further strengthen the supply chain, our 27001 certification for Information Security Management SUREFAST management team has introduced rigorous Systems with certification running through to 2016. performance targets and standards for all our accredited This international standard provides guidelines for SUREFAST partners. organisational information security standards and management practices including the selection, implementation and management of controls, taking into consideration our security risk environment. 12 The process of rolling out ISO 27001:2013 across the Our Communities entire Team Group will continue throughout 2015. Our community affairs strategy is to make a positive contribution to all the communities worldwide that we Part of this process includes the collection of relevant work with. Not just voluntary philanthropy or support of data to evaluate performance year-on-year. With the help underprivileged or deprived communities, as with our of a new intensive training programme, knowledge and three-year Saksham initiative, but a real interaction with awareness of Information Security will be further all those with whom we come into contact, or who are improved amongst all our employees. affected in some way by our business activities within society. Throughout 2015, we will continue to pursue ISO 28001 and AEO accreditation across all Team operational Our commitment to global issues and supporting facilities, whilst maintaining the improvement in supply community needs through pro bono is underpinned by chain performance as shown by the data below. our Integrity Policy. Samples of projects in 2014…include the World Food Programme, NSPCC, World Wildlife In 2015, our focus will remain on three areas: Fund, the International Committee of the Red Cross, and Oxfam. Regionally, organisations such as Klokanek in the Confidentiality – Continued training of staff both in class Czech Republic, Macmillan Cancer Support in the UK, and online, whilst working with our clients to align risk and Cor Charity in Malaysia have also received support. management programs. We are seeking to consistently expand the reach, scale Integrity – We are constantly working on further and engagement of our pro bono and sustainability integration of systems and fine-tuning of process programmes and in 2015 we will be working with our templates to reduce the risk of data integrity issues. colleagues at every office across the international firm to further improve participation and the adoption of Availability – A priority is managing our centralised server proactive practices. farm in such a way that downtime of any component is reduced as much as possible (see downtime report below on our devices and servers). 2012 2013 2014 All Devices Average Availability All Devices Average Non-Availability Servers Average Availability Servers Average Non-Availability 0 20 40 60 80 100 Charity fund raising events: Team in Prague’s jumble sale and Team in London’s annual Christmas Raffle 13 Labour Principle 3 Assessment, Policy and Goals Businesses should uphold the Through our Responsibility Policy, we are committed to freedom of association and the creating a safe working environment for all employees, effective recognition of the right providing training and supervision when necessary. to collective bargaining; Team Relocations recognises and accepts its moral Principle 4 and legal obligations under all applicable European the elimination of all forms of regulations to ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, forced and compulsory labour; the health, safety and welfare at work of all its employees, persons in training, directors, contractors Principle 5 and temporary workers, and the health and safety the effective abolition of of visitors and other persons who attend or use its child labour; and premises and who may be affected by its work (visitors). Principle 6 Our activities throughout 2014 have been to consolidate the elimination of discrimination Team’s approach to the wellbeing and safety of clients, in respect of employment staff and suppliers alike across our global operations, and occupation. whilst also incorporating client-specific initiatives on HSSE as has been required on three occasions. Our OHSAS 18001:2007 certificate, renewed by an accredited external party in 2013, runs through to 2017 while we also continue to roll out this internal standard across Team Relocations at Group level. We take pride in providing a safe environment for employees and visitors on our premises. Team aims to create a working environment that allows the full potential of employees to be realised 14 By adopting this standard, we continue to demonstrate the Group database, leading to a better analysis and our commitment to our employees, their families and understanding of root causes, thus furthering and all interested parties that may be exposed to health and developing the continuous improvement cycle. safety risks associated with the activities and operations of our organisation. Our dedicated compliance team has set rigorous targets for 2015, including those for the performance of our In 2014, much attention and time has been invested partner network under SUREFAST membership. in training both employees and suppliers in our supply chain with regards to our health and safety standards and policies. New training materials and processes have been developed and a strong awareness programme regarding hazardous situations has been established. This has resulted in more detailed registrations in 2012 2013 2014 Lost Time Accidents Hospitalised Non LTA Resolved by First Aider Near Accidents Improvement Notices Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF) HSSE Prohibition Notices 2012 2013 2014 3.74 2.92 2.90 Unsafe Conditions 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 15 Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Policy Changes We have invested in our blue collar workers by Results of questionnaires have shown an improved introducing intensive in-house training and skills level of understanding and knowledge within our labour development courses. To this end we have taken on force, and a higher level of job satisfaction. a Staff Development and Training Officer, and are encouraging our Physical Resources team to take advantage of elements of QHSSE. Staff Suggestion Box In 2014 we introduced a Staff Suggestion Box process We received three Suggestions through the electronic within the Team Extranet, available to all staff and staff Suggestion Box but none were related to any of covering any and every aspect of employment with the 10 Global Compact principles. Team. HR Team continues in its commitment to diversity, and to Team continues to enjoy a very diverse employee upholding the Global Compact principles in its everyday demographic. This includes a comprehensive range of workings. ethnicities and backgrounds (22 different languages are spoken in our UK offices alone), sexual orientation and disability, and a strong split between genders (68%:32% women:men). Project Saksham In late 2013, we embarked on a 3 year commitment Regular communications specifically concerning to a major fundraising initiative in support of Plan, the Plan Saksham labour initiative are distributed the global children’s charity. Spearheaded by Team’s across the organisation and throughout social media Group Compliance Officer, the commitment to the platforms aimed at reporting on progress on the project encompasses all 34 locations across the 13 great work completed to date, whilst also continuing countries in which we are based, and includes all staff to encourage even greater efforts in this worthwhile in developing and executing significant fundraising endeavour. initiatives aimed at contributing €50k to the project annually. Regular reviews of regional data 16 We actively promote a culture that In July 2013, Team entered into Throughout 2014, fund raising is inclusive of all, where everyone a three-year major fundraising events included a Team staff has the opportunity to further their initiative in support of Project candy sale, Christmas charity draw, career and where pathways to Saksham of Plan, the global coffee mornings, cake bake-offs career progression are transparent. children’s charity. Saksham and numerous charity runs and Managing diversity and inclusion is a project where youth from skydives. means valuing and utilising the disadvantaged and marginalised differences our people bring to the rural and urban communities in Our target for the year was to business, and ensuring that no one India are offered market demand raise €50k to help 189 young is disadvantaged. driven ‘Job Oriented Vocational people in India receive job-oriented Training’. The project is targeted at vocational training. We were We recognise that one size the underprivileged aged 18 to 29, delighted to ultimately exceed our does not fit all when it comes in various resettlement colonies financial target, and consequently to diversity and inclusion, and of Delhi and poor districts in the be able to fund training for an extra actively welcome the thoughts and Himalayas. 13 students. In total, during 2014, feedback of all our people. Each Team helped improve the prospects of our regions operates within Team’s commitment to the project of 202 young people in India! different demographics, culture, encompasses all 34 locations sociopolitical and legislative across the 13 countries in which frameworks, so our approach they are based and includes all centres around regional diversity staff in developing and executing and inclusion action plans. Each significant fund raising initiatives action plan is developed locally, aimed at contributing €50k to the focusing on gender and at least one project annually. other under-represented group in that particular geography. Our diversity and inclusion plans focus on five key areas Our staff’s engagement with the business Staff development and retention Corporate responsibility and our Our selection and community recruitment processes 17 Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals Team Relocations strives to be a leader in environmental sustainability. We undertake initiatives to reduce our own operational environmental impact and Principle 7 we believe that our greatest contribution to a sustainable Businesses should support environment is the advice and support we provide to a precautionary approach to our clients – both in managing their own environmental environmental challenges; impacts and assessing and responding to climaterelated risks and opportunities. Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote 2014 showed continued significant activity and positive greater environmental results in our drive to improve our approach to, and use responsibility; and of, the environment. Principle 9 Each year we calculate our carbon footprint with the encourage the development assistance of the Climate Neutral Group (CNG), providing and diffusion of environmentally a total C02 output. This total is offset 100% by paying friendly technologies CNG, which invests the revenues in projects that make a measurable contribution to sustainable development. We also make an active contribution to international climate policy discussions and the development of an investment in low-carbon technology and infrastructure. Our activities are designed to reduce our harmful impact on the environment and everyone working for Team 18 Implementation Measurement of Outcomes HR Team continues in its commitment to the environment, There has been a renewed drive to encourage all staff and to upholding the Global Compact principles in its to recycle wherever possible, and we have introduced everyday workings. a dedicated member of staff to transport cardboard from our central London office to the compactor at our site in NW10, thus preventing wasteful use of recycling bags. Additionally, all staff are encouraged to work paperlessly. Paradigm Project We continued to support The Paradigm Project which With our contribution, we are supporting the people in delivers improved efficient cooking stoves in Africa. Kenya where about 90% of rural households cook on This targeted regional environmental project in Africa open fires, the charcoal or wood for which produces not only assists in reducing the harmful effects of toxic fumes harmful to the environment. In the emissions on the environment, but also work towards project, Improved Cooking Stoves (ICS) are produced protecting the environment (see page 21). and sold through a participatory approach with local communities across Kenya. Environment-friendly Initiatives We produced significant improvements year-on-year on During 2014, we have continuted to operate under our emissions, waste disposal and recycling. multi-site ISO 14001:2004 certification for all Team global operations. • Purchasing vehicles conforming to the Euro 6 standard • Promoting the use of public transport amongst our employees • Promoting a national bicycle plan for employees, where appropriate • Safe disposal of batteries and toners • Installation of catalytic converters 19 Environmental Sustainability within our Company We have a global Environmental Policy that applies to Our Environmental Footprint Key Goals 2015 all of our offices and requires every employee to take reasonable care of the environment. Our employees also Energy receive training on our environmental approach as part Further reduce energy consumption: of their induction when joining the firm. Encourage staff to switch off lights, computers, photocopiers and other electrical equipment at night We work to reduce our environmental impact in four Enable energy-saving features on all computers strategic focus areas: energy, procurement, travel and and copiers waste/resource use. Our global sustainability initiative is governed by a Procurement committee of senior leaders from across the Group that Appraise suppliers sustainability performance and meets quarterly to discuss progress against the strategic identify key areas for engagement and improvement focus areas. In addition to each country representatives, the committee includes representatives from the most relevant functions of our business for implementing Travel change – Corporate Responsibility, Procurement, IT, Risk Further increase the use of IT communications and Facilities Management. systems as an alternative to travel In an effort to further drive our commitment to the environment and energy conservation, we set a new Waste challenging range of goals for the upcoming year at Further reduce paper and card consumption Group level. One of these commitments is to phase out Increase the level of recycling taking place across all lease cars that do not meet the latest CO2 standards, the group and roll out a paperless operation across Team. Reduce printing and business travel @ Email brochures via PDF attachments News alerts are issued via email Meetings conducted by phone conference Training sessions via webinars 20 2012 2013 2014 Energy Consumption (KWHs) Paper and Card Recycling CO2 599,887 kg Emmissions (Kgs) 591,776 kg 566,349 kg Waste Disposal (Kgs) 0 500000 1000000 1500000 2000000 2500000 3000000 3500000 4000000 millions 2012 2013 2014 In addition to implementing ISO14001 standards across Team Relocations, we have introduced local regional programmes to reduce our carbon footprint in a meaningful and measurable way. We continue to support The Paradigm Project, which delivers improved, efficient cooking stoves in Africa. With our contribution, we are supporting the people in Kenya where about 90% of rural households cook on open fires using charcoal and/or wood that produces toxic fumes. In the Paradigm Project, Improved Cooking Stoves (ICS) are produced and sold through a participatory approach with the local communities across Kenya. Photos and Reference: Climate Neutral Group The Paradigm Project: Clean and Sustainable Wood Stoves in Kenya 21 Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Good corporate governance is at the core of our Integrity Policy and is best encapsulated by our approach to transparency and trust. As a result of recent well publicised corporate scandals, public opinion on the honesty of ‘business’ has taken a knock. Within Team, Principle 10 we have a clear framework for a code of business ethics Businesses should work against which we believe will demonstrate greater transparency corruption in all its forms, including and accountability, not only in our financial reporting, extortion and bribery. but in all areas of activity touched by our business. With legislation as the backdrop, Team is committed to conducting itself in an atmosphere that is open, fair and transparent with the aim of enhancing trust in all its business activities. Unless there are compelling reasons to the contrary, Team will provide clients, directors and staff, external bodies and the general public, relevant information affecting them and the actions of Team, speedily and in a manner consistent with our overall Corporate Social Responsibility statements as defined within our ethical values programme. Integrity is what we do, what we say, and what we say we do 22 Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Supply Chain In 2014, we have tightened controls to ensure that Team is pleased to report that it has not been involved our supply chain adheres to the UK’s anti-bribery in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to legislation. Now that this is in place, we shall roll out bribery or corruption. a more expansive anti-bribery policy to which our suppliers will need to subscribe. This is more closely in line with many of our corporate accounts’ requests to see good labour and reward practices in some of the third world countries. Whistle Blowing Our ‘Whistle Blowing’ procedure has been kept in Our ‘Whistle Blowing’ procedure has not raised any place and promoted within the company, so as to allow issues by members of staff concerning anti-corruption any member of staff to raise an issue or concern with during the reporting period. respect to corruption without fear of recrimination. Audit Our financial accounts are naturally audited by a Such financial reports are publicly available and again leading independent financial specialist annually and we are pleased to report that they show a clean bill of audited reports submitted as legally required. health with no signs of impropriety. As a global relocation company, we adhere to the highest These procedures include: regulatory and professional standards in order to protect our business, our reputation and our clients. Training and communication – mandatory e-learning which must be completed by all of our people and forms Our global anti-bribery and corruption policy is an part of our new-starter induction programme; – training integral part of Team’s risk management and compliance delivered to members of the Board and Executive; framework, which incorporates policies, procedures, – training incorporated into the firm’s management guidelines and a Compliance Handbook covering a academy and other formal training programmes; wide range of issues, including anti-money laundering, sanctions and ethics. Incorporating consideration of bribery and corruption risk into our new client due diligence and on-going monitoring We also have a Whistle-blowing Policy and associated processes and procedures; procedures which may be used for reporting breaches on a confidential or anonymous basis. A clause in our standard terms of business with clients which sets out our anti-bribery and corruption policy and our expectations of our clients; Supplier due diligence processes operated by our central procurement team, and a clause in all our supplier contracts setting out our anti-bribery and corruption policy and expectation of our suppliers; and Procedures and controls which address: – working with Governments and public officials; – the giving and receiving of gifts and hospitality; – the giving of political and charitable donations; and – working with third parties. 23 Supplementary Reading Excellence Integrity Quality Management Policy Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Resourcefulness Responsibility Security Environmental Policy Health and Safety Policy Information Security Policy Synergy Supply Chain Management Policy 24 Compliance Team Group Compliance Director Luc Oostendorp Group Compliance Officer Leonie Kerkelaan Regional Compliance Officers Belgium: Catherine Guns Denmark: Steffen Scharff France: Alain Meriguet Germany: Heiko Thomas Luxembourg: Catherine Guns Netherlands: Leonie Kerkelaan Norway: Finn-Petter Haugen Sweden: Christina Federspiel Switzerland: Jean-Sylvain Nicoud United Kingdom: David Boreham 25
