TROPICALIA 1 TROPICALIA 1 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2014 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2 A WORD FROM ADRIANA 6 THE DESTINATION · Tropicalia · Fundación Tropicalia · Miches & the Samaná Bay, Dominican Republic · Sustainability 12 ENVIRONMENT · Costa Esmeralda Beach Rescue · Environmental Compliance Reports · Laguna Redonda Watershed Research Project 18 EDUCATION · School Renovation & Maintenance Program · Scholarship & Cultural Exchange Program · EDUCA Partnership · Extracurricular Programs 24 PRODUCTIVITY · The Inclusion of Micro & Small Enterprises for a Sustainable Tourism Supply Chain in Miches · Microfinance Opportunities for Local Entrepreneurs 30 WELLBEING & CULTURE · “I’m a girl, I’m important” Summer Camp · Adult Literacy Program · Copa Tropicalia · Community Bulletin · Cultural Initiatives 38 EFFECTIVELY ADVANCING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT: 7 YEARS IN REVIEW 46 ALLIANCES, DEVELOPMENT & COMMUNICATIONS TEAMS 50 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 3 Tropicalia’s long term vision is built upon a fundraising campaign with its US-based relationships with partners that share similar employees, friends and family; the response values; 2014 marked the selection and engagewas overwhelming, and not only did we reach ment of the design team for Tropicalia’s master our fundraising goal, but the campaign marked plan, golf course and first hotel anchored by a new milestone in our employee engagement Four Seasons. We are happy to welcome partprograms and corporate history. In addition, we ners such as Isay Weinfeld and Gensler, who created a volunteer program through which local bring vast experience in sustainable and timeDominican professionals donated their time and less design through the use of local resources expertise to the operation of the camp. These and ensuring the preservation of the natural new programs are quintessential examples of environment. the synergies we strike between the business, the local community and our foundation. Tropicalia also continued working with The Ocean Foundation (TOF), a unique commuRegarding Fundación Tropicalia’s scholarship nity foundation with a mission to support, program in partnership with Universidad ISA, strengthen, and promote those organizations we welcomed three new students in 2014, for dedicated to the protection and conservation a total of 16 scholarship students from Miches, of ocean environments around the world. As three of which made Dean’s List this year. with our 2013 Sustainability Report, TOF is our third party auditor and has not only positively All of this inspiring work is the reason why verified the information provided in this report, Tropicalia was shortlisted for the Ethical Corpobut has also expanded the scope of their work ration Responsible Business award for “Most to draft a Sustainability Management System Effective Domestic Community Investment,” (SMS) that accounts for baseline data and and was also featured in an interview with the benchmarks that will allow us to compare, Shared Value Initiative. Even before its physical contrast and monitor progress on our commitdevelopment, Tropicalia is already becoming ment to sustainability. internationally recognized as a sustainable tourism and ethically responsible venture. This year we celebrated the 9th edition of our annual Tropicalia Sustainability Committee Finally, in 2014 Fundación Tropicalia made its meeting, an interdisciplinary governance body debut on social media. Our Twitter, Facebook, A word from Adriana comprised of Tropicalia, Fundación Tropicalia and Instagram accounts are additional avenues and corporate executives, managers and external for dialogue and transparency, a communications advisors. This Committee is an internal, voluntary commitment we’ve embraced since signing on As CEO of Cisneros, it’s with great pleasure that I share yet again and strategic governance mechanism that allows to the United Nations Global Compact in 2010. another year of sustainability reporting at Tropicalia, Cisneros our team to brainstorm and tackle head-on the As we look to 2015, while Tropicalia continues Real Estate’s (CRE) flagship development project located on most pressing sustainability challenges that we consolidating its pre-construction strategies, we the southern shores of the Samaná Bay in northeast Domiall encounter in our various management areas, are thankful to all those who have supported us nican Republic. Though this is our fourth report, we are actually whether it be master plan design, architecthroughout the years and who share our vision celebrating our 7th anniversary of driving sustainability in our ture, construction and development strategy, for the future. business, our foundation, and the Miches community. or financing and community relations. As in previous years, the meeting had productive This report provides an in-depth look at our advances in 2014 outcomes, and forges our path as we enter 2015 and their relationship to sustainable environmental, economic, and beyond. and social growth of a destination that we hold so dear. We value above all else the intimate connection that exists with As for our foundation’s work, in 2014 Fundacion I hope you enjoy reading our report, our surroundings, our people and our stakeholders at large, Tropicalia’s existing programs were met with Adriana Cisneros de Griffin and continue to understand that Tropicalia’s success depends unprecedented levels of success. For example, on the welfare and upward mobility of the local community. As our all girls’ summer camp “Soy niña, soy imporsuch, every year we make continuous improvements upon our tante” (SNSI) more than doubled its reach, serving capacity to implement comprehensive, best practices when 250 at-risk girls from three different communimaking business decisions, and this year was no exception. ties. To support this growth, Cisneros launched 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 5 THE DESTINATION 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 7 Tropicalia Born from a vision of appreciation for the natural environment, Tropicalia is a low-density, low-impact, high-end development that integrates luxury travel with environmental integrity. A project of Cisneros Real Estate (CRE), envisioned by its owner Gustavo A. Cisneros, and under the direction of Chief Executive Officer Adriana Cisneros de Griffin, this environmentally and socially responsible tourism and real-estate development will offer a world-class hotel that hosts a mix of adventure and leisure activities. Located on the shores of the serene Samaná Bay in northeast Dominican Republic, in the municipality of Miches, Tropicalia’s setting is one of unspoiled and secluded natural beauty. Rolling hills, mangroves, white-sand beaches, coconut plantations and tropical forests surround Tropicalia, contributing to an atmosphere of intimacy with endemic wildlife and the natural environment. Following a low-impact design inspired by local Dominican culture and history, Tropicalia is a master planned tourism development comprised Fundación Tropicalia of a luxury beach resort, branded real estate, a world-class spa and 18-hole golf course designed by the internationally acclaimed Tom Doak. Tropicalia is set on incorporating rigorous deveTropicalia actively supports the socioeconomic development lopment standards and state-of-the-art construcof Miches and its surrounding communities via its foundation, tion technologies, in an effort to become a model Fundación Tropicalia, established in 2008. Fundación Tropicalia for sustainable, environmentally responsible, and collaborates with the public and private sectors, civil society, luxurious tourism. academia, and international organizations to build productive working relationships to position Miches as a sustainable In 2013 CRE held a global architectural competitourism destination. With seven years of field experience, the tion to select a design architect for Tropicalia’s first Fundación Tropicalia team has acquired the on-the-ground and hotel anchored by Four Seasons and announced technical knowledge required to: successfully identify, develop the winner, Isay Weinfeld, in early 2014. Isay and implement high-impact projects in consensus with the local Weinfeld’s design emphasized sustainability and community; effectively work toward the sustainable prosperity the integration of local cultural and architectural of the region; and drive shared value1 for both Tropicalia and the traditions. The firm will join Tropicalia’s design community. Fundación Tropicalia concentrates its efforts in four team and work alongside Gensler and EDSA, main program areas: environment, education, productivity, and executive/landscape architect and master planner, wellbeing and culture. respectively. 2014 also marked the completion of the conceptual design for the master plan, golf course and first hotel. 1 Tropicalia’s sustainability strategy is influenced by the concept of shared value, which focuses on the connections between societal and economic progress. It recognizes that societal needs, not just conventional economic needs, define markets, and that addressing societal harms and constraints does not necessarily raise internal costs. Firms can innovate via new technologies, operating methods, and management approaches, resulting in increased productivity and market expansion. Kramer, Mark R. & Porter, Michael E., “Creating Shared Value: How to reinvent capitalism – and unleash a wave of innovation and growth”. Harvard Business Review. January-February 2011, pgs. 4-17. 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 9 SAMANÁ BAY Miches LOS HAITISES Punta NATIONAL PARK Santo Cana Domingo LAGUNA LA GINA REDONDA BAY LAGUNA Dominican FUNDACIÓN LIMON Republic TROPICALIA Miches Miches & the Samaná Bay, The El Seibo Province possesses many natural attractions, including beaches, mountains, rivers, waterfalls, lagoons, and Dominican Republic caves. Within the province are four protected areas: the Laguna Redonda and Laguna Limón (classified as Nature Reserves), the La Gina bay (habitat and species management area), and the Tropicalia is located on the southern shores of the Samaná Bay, El Seibo-Miches roadway (a protected terrestrial landscape).2 in the municipality of Miches, of the El Seibo Province on the The area also features spectacular historical attractions, like the northeastern Atlantic coast of the Dominican Republic. The Santa Cruz Church3 and the Battle of Palo Hincado Monument,4 Samaná Bay is recognized as one of the most beautiful bays important historical and cultural landmarks. in the world, and in the winter and spring months over 3,000 humpback whales migrate to the shallow, protected bay waters 2 “Evaluation of Needs and Cost Analysis to Meet the Millennium Development Objectives.” Presidential Commission on the to calve their young. Adjacent to the bay is Los Haitises National Millennium Objectives and Sustainable Development (COPDES), 2006, page 93. Park, which contains protected islands that serve as nesting grounds for pelicans and frigate birds, caves with pre-Colum3 Built in 1556, this preserved example of New World architecture is still used as a local parish. The main treasure of the basilica is a True Cross, or a piece of wood from the cross on which Jesus Christ was crucified, donated to the church by bian pictographs and petroglyphs, and mangrove-lined river the Vatican. Paintings, jewels, and other artifacts date back to the 15th and 16th centuries. tributaries. Boasting stunning landscapes and unparalleled biodiversity, Samaná Bay and Los Haitises National Park are two 4 The Battle of Palo Hincado was the first major battle of the Spanish re-conquest of Santo Domingo from French occupation. of the Dominican Republic’s natural treasures. The battle was fought on November 7, 1808, at Palo Hincado savanna, near El Seibo. A force of 2,000 Spanish Dominican and Puerto Rican troops defeated the French army of 600 troops. This victory became the third major war event symbolizing the triumph of Dominican will, the first being the victory over the British in 1655, and the second being the Battle of the Sabana Real in 1691. 10 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 11 Boasting a population of approximately 21,000 Tropicalia remains committed to human rights people, the region’s main economic drivers include protection in accordance with the Universal agriculture, cattle-raising, artisanal fishing, local Declaration of Human Rights, abides by all laws artisan crafts and small businesses. But being an and labor standards, and works against corrupemerging rural community, Miches struggles with tion by holding open and transparent dialogue limited market access, low levels of education, with government officials and other stakeand scarce employment opportunities; according holders. Throughout its different development to the Dominican Republic National Statistics phases, Tropicalia will more robustly translate Office (ONE), 70.7% of households in the El Seibo these commitments into policies that advocate province lived in poverty in 2010.5 for gender equity, support equal opportunity employment, refute child labor, and encourage Luckily, much exciting work has been done in the individual freedom of association, all in the past six years to combat the historically compliance with the ten principles of the United slow pace of socioeconomic development Nations Global Compact. Currently, over one in the isolated region of Miches and El Seibo. third of Tropicalia’s employees are women, Improvements made this year to the highway local residents are employed, and all operations connecting Miches and Punta Cana will radically utilize local community engagement. increase access of the international airport and new tourism markets to Miches and Tropicalia. In 2014, Tropicalia worked once again with New roads will bring in new opportunities, and The Ocean Foundation (TOF), who focuses on Tropicalia remains committed to taking advanthe complex and cumulating issues related to tage of those opportunities in a responsible sustainability and responsible travel. Expanding manner. Tropicalia hopes that its provision of the scope of their work, TOF together with stable jobs, creation of a local supply chain, Tropicalia identified benchmark indicators and and contribution towards community-based began elaborating a Sustainability Management development will not only continue to renew System (SMS), a self-monitoring, sustainable economic growth and diversification in Miches development plan that will allow the project to and other nearby communities, but will also measure its environmental and social impact position the entire region as a sustainable over time. The SMS focuses on three elements: tourism destination. sustainability criteria and indicators derived from global reporting guidelines; baseline data benchmarks for future comparison and tracking drawn from Environmental Impact AssessSustainability ments, Environmental Compliance Reports, and Key commitments other project documents; and management to sustainability: recommendations based on international best Located in a captivating, unique place where the sea and mountains are practices and baseline data. joined by Laguna Redonda, coconut forests and kilometers of palm-lined · Protection & conservation of the natural beaches, Tropicalia’s master plan promises a low-density, low environmental environment. By implementing this self-monitoring scheme impact and an absolute respect for natural surroundings. It is, therefore, no · Partners & providers selected based early on, Tropicalia can fine-tune business surprise that sustainability is at the heart of Tropicalia’s corporate philosophy. on shared value creation and their strategy, render quantifiable results, and identify Tropicalia employs a responsible, stakeholder approach to management in commitment to sustainability. new projects and partners that create collective the tourism industry, and applies several theoretical frameworks like catalytic · Design & development standards that value. A draft of the SMS will be completed and philanthropy, corporate responsibility and shared value, among others, to guarantee quality and environmentallyvetted by Tropicalia’s Sustainability Committee ensure that economic, social and environmental issues are considered when sound construction techniques. in 2015, with hopes of piloting its implementation making business decisions. · Local economic diversification & by 2016. community development fomented by Fundación Tropicalia programs in the Miches community. 5 “Number of households in terms of overall and extreme poverty by province, 2002 and 2010.” National Statistics Office, September 19, 2014. 12 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 13 ENVIRONMENT 14 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 15 Environmental Compliance Report Every six months Tropicalia submits an environmental compliance report for approval to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MIMARENA). In 2014, two reports were submitted and approved, contributing to a total of eight environmental compliance reports completed to date. These reports build on the work previously done in the Environmental Impact Study, and further evidence Tropicalia’s commitment to ensuring minimal environmental impact. Tropicalia continues to identify, monitor, and manage significant environmental aspects within resort operations, including but not limited to: · Water and energy use. · Recycling and disposal of solid waste and sewage. · Management of hazardous substances and gas emissions. · Community and cultural development via the employment of a local workforce consistent with human resources policies. Costa Esmeralda Beach Rescue In order to further conservation efforts and to enforce environmental regulations, Tropicalia and Fundación Tropicalia work with local authorities on a Costa Esmeralda Beach Rescue program. Efforts include staving off motor vehicle traffic, reducing inadequate solid waste management and littering, and raising environmental awareness through environmental talks and trainings for beach staff. This year, Tropicalia and Fundación Tropicalia continued their support in conserving 200 linear meters of coastline, resulting in increased visibility of environmental regulations on Miches’ beaches. 16 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 17 The environmental compliance report also outlines Tropicalia’s Program of Management and Environmental Adaptation, which establishes procedures compliant with environmental regulations, and enables the prevention, control, mitigation, compensation and correction of environmental impacts identified within the footprint of Tropicalia. Since Tropicalia has not yet started physical building and infrastructure development, environmental compliance reports in 2014 focused on baseline data measurements. For example, water quality, noise pollution, and gas emissions were surveyed and monitored at the Tropicalia site this year. These surveys will inform Tropicalia on how to both mitigate impact during the construction phase and prevent future impact through strategic infrastructure and design development that incorporates this baseline environmental data. Laguna Redonda Watershed Research Project Last year, Fundación Tropicalia commissioned an environmental study to analyze water quality in Laguna Redonda, a protected habitat and brackish water lagoon located just east of Tropicalia. This 12-month study began in late 2013, and culminated this year in mid-October. The study took daily water samples for the entire year and analyzed these samples in order to precisely identify contamination sources in order to create accurate mitigation strategies to protect both water quality and the surrounding habitat. The research includes three main sections: · Associated environmental aspects. · Lagoon water quality. · Meteorological variables. Ten reports were released in 2014, adding to a total of 12 reports in the study. By mid-2015, Fundación Tropicalia will receive a full report analysis, and more importantly strategic recommendations that will inform the design and development of its environmental programs. 18 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 19 EDUCATION 20 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 21 This year, Fundacion Tropicalia hosted its annual PRyME party with approximately 250 education stakeholders to celebrate the previous year’s work and publicly recognize outstanding school administration. They also retouched Liceo Padre Daniel’s school mural (a 2011 PRyME contribution) and supported the following projects in these schools: Liceo TV Centro La Gina The La Gina High School repaired their basketball hoops and backboards, repainted the basketball court and surrounding stands, and landscaped the school’s grounds. In addition, general paint touch-ups took place on the entire campus. This work impacted five teachers and 149 students. 5 teachers 149 students La Mina Primary School The La Mina School reconstructed their sports stands, built a new garbage disposal system, and retouched a mural. The school matched Fundación Tropicalia’s contributions, and was able to fund 45% of the project, showcasing its financial and administrative autonomy. This School Renovation & work impacted 18 teachers and 343 students. Maintenance Program 18 (PRyME) teachers In 2014, Fundación Tropicalia celebrated the seventh anniversary 343 students of the School Renovation and Maintenance Program (PRyME); an administrative and infrastructure support program which has reached twelve public primary and secondary schools. An essential piece of the PRyME methodology is the integration of the education community; PRyME’s success is evident when community leaders become project managers. Where the IN TOTAL In total, the 2014 efforts of the PRyME program impacted 23 23 teachers program provides materials, the community coordinates the teachers and 492 students in two schools. As for the remaining project, recruits volunteers and sets deadlines for completion. nine schools in the PRyME network, Fundación Tropicalia As a result of a fruitful partnership with the Ministry of Education and the local School District, to date the PRyME network impacts consistently supports their success by playing an advisory role in maintenance, management and academic processes. 492 students the lives of nearly 3,000 students and more than 100 teachers, representing approximately 70% of the Miches school district. 22 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 23 Extracurricular Programs Junior Achievement Dominicana (JADOM): In 2010, Fundación Tropicalia designed and implemented the League of Enterprising Farmers in Training (LEAF), in order to strengthen values, leadership and entrepreneurship by teaching students the skills and profitability of responsible farming. In 2013, Fundacion Tropicalia joined forces with JADOM to fortify the entrepreneurship content of the LEAF program. As a result, in 2014 the LEAF program successfully transitioned into a JADOM initiative, focusing entirely on developing an entrepreneurial spirit in high school students, and allowing them to apply their interests to any sector. This year in partnership with JADOM, Fundación Tropicalia brought a business course to 200 students in two high schools, Liceo TV Centro La Gina and Liceo Padre Daniel, doubling the program’s reach. The 168 students who successfully completed the program have the opportunity to participate in Fundación Tropicalia’s micro-entrepreneurship programs, including a Business Plan Competition rolled out in partnership with the Inter-American Development Bank and scheduled for 2015, where the winners receive technical assistance to further develop their Scholarship & Cultural business idea. Exchange Program Arts and Crafts Workshops: In October 2014, Fundación Tropicalia launched an extracurricular pilot program for students at the La Mina primary school to support their interests in and EDUCA partnership Fundación Tropicalia coordinates a scholarship and aptitude for the arts and creative thinking. A series of 3 month long workshops cultural exchange program with Universidad ISA encouraged abstract thinking using the elements of color, shape, measurement, (Instituto Superior de Agricultura or UISA) to and transposition. This program benefitted a total of 75 students divvied up support young Micheros’ academic, professional 2014 marks the second year of Fundación into three workshops: Jute, for students interested in building materials with and personal development. UISA is a four-year Tropicalia’s membership on the board of EDUCA, fibers; Cloth, for students with skills for making clothing; and Recycling, to university specializing in agricultural sciences. Every an NGO established by private sector leaders encourage students to think creatively about recyclable materials. In addition, year three scholarships are awarded to outstanding concerned about the quality of education in Fundación Tropicalia partnered with Green Love (a recycling company based Miches high school graduates to pursue their engithe Dominican Republic. EDUCA remains one in Santo Domingo) and worked alongside with community leaders to organize neering degree in agronomy, animal production, or of the most important influencers in Education a trash collection system in the Lucas Guibbes Primary School. Through this food technology; an education degree in natural Public Policy. Throughout the year, EDUCA effort, students participated in recycling education workshops, impacting 641 sciences; or a bachelor’s degree in business admihas provided technical advising and counstudents and 20 school staff. nistration.6 Fundación Tropicalia and UISA provide seling regarding education in Miches and work-study, cultural and professional exchange the surrounding communities. EDUCA also opportunities, and on-campus counseling support, supported the fundraising campaign through as well as parent meetings in Miches. Friends of EDUCA for Fundacion Tropicalia’s all girls’ summer camp “I’m a girl, I’m important”, In 2014, Fundación Tropicalia and UISA selected discussed on page 32 of this report. three new scholarship students, and in addition supported three other students who received full scholarships from the Ministry of Education and the National Institution for Education and Training of Teachers (INAFOCAM) to pursue their careers in Natural Sciences Education. In total, Fundación Tropicalia supports 16 Miches students at UISA. 6 Miches students that pursue a degree in Natural Sciences Education are awarded a full scholarship from the MINERD/ INAFOCAM. Fundación Tropicalia provides these students with socio-emotional, work-study and professional support services offered to all FT/UISA scholarship students. 24 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 25 PRODUCTIVITY 26 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 27 As of December 2014, Fundación Tropicalia had received over USD 191,950, representing 25.7% of MIF’s total planned investment. Principal results of the first phase of the project include: a baseline study that will enable measurable results by the program’s end; the registration of 110 participants who receive training workshops and continuous technical assistance in best agricultural practices and organic production; the identification of three anchor companies committed to procuring goods from Miches producers; the constitution of a multiple services cooperative, COOPROMI (Cooperativa de Producción y Servicios Multiples de Miches), the very first of its kind in Miches; and the design and launch of a new microfinance tool in partnership with Fondesa, among other milestones. Additionally, in October and November of 2014, Fundación Tropicalia coordinated a series of workdays to restore a facility in the Hato Jovero community that would serve as a training center for participants in the “Micro and Small Enterprise into the Sustainable Tourism Supply Chain in Miches” project. Renovations and maintenance included plastering, painting, roof repair, security installation, window shades and electric wiring. This work was completely funded by the IDB/MIF, Fundación Tropicalia and World Vision, and executed by community A Sustainable Tourism volunteers coordinated by the Hato Jovero This sustainable, environmentally responsible, Neighborhood Council. Supply Chain in Miches and local supply chain in Miches will meet the future demand generated by the local tourism This initiative is a quintessential example of sector, as well as other anchor companies in shared value: While Fundación Tropicalia nou2014 marks the second year of the 36-month USD 1.6 million the region. The greenhouse established in La rishes and supports the maturation of a local project “Inclusion of the Micro and Small Enterprise (MSE) into Gina in 2013 and 45 of the 110 beneficiaries of supply chain that can meet market demands the Sustainable Tourism Supply Chain in Miches,” an initiative this program in 2014 were originally supported of the tourism industry, the same project redesupported by the Inter-American Development Bank’s Multilateral by the previous United States Agency for fines conventional supply chain markets in the Investment Fund (IDB/MIF). This project seeks to cultivate local International Development (USAID) and Rural region by sourcing from small producers while supplier demand for Miches and Tropicalia by strengthening the Economic Development Dominicana (Fundación simultaneously diversifying economic activity productive capacity of the local agricultural sector and supporting REDDOM) program that aimed at diversifying (so that it’s not 100% dependent on tourism) its growth via market access. Additionally, the program seeks agricultural production, demonstrating contithereby strengthening the local economy and to support a thriving MSE community that can provide tourism nuity in Fundación Tropicalia’s initiatives. securing long term prosperity in the region. services in the years to come. 28 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 29 Microfinance for Local Entrepreneurs Fundación Tropicalia continues to maintain a strong partnership with Fondo para el Desarrollo, Inc. (FONDESA), a non-profit, microfinance institution that provides financial intermediation services to small microenterprises and farmers. To date, FONDESA has placed over 185.257 million Dominican pesos in the form of microloans for local entrepreneurs, impacting the following sectors: agriculture, commerce, services, consumption, housing improvement, livestock, and manufacturing. In 2014 alone, 784 loans were issued, totaling more than DOP 41.35 million. These loans strengthened 1,011 jobs and benefited 986 families; 41.6% of FONDESA’s clients are female. Sectors benefited by FONDESA: SERVICES 12.4% COMMERCE 27.14% CONSUMPTION 10.92% HOUSING IMPROVEMENT 8.1% LIVESTOCK 5.9% The project activities are AGRICULTURE MANUFACTURING 33.1% divided into five components: 2.44% In fact MSEs not only account for the majority of existing jobs in the Caribbean, they are the 1. Strengthen the administrative and generators of most new ones. According to commercial management of local Fundación Tropicalia also worked closely with Fondesa offithe Association of Caribbean States, MSEs producer organizations. cials to roll out a new, customized microfinance product for the represent 90-95% of the businesses created in 2. Improve the quality of agricultural farmer and beneficiary of the IDB/MIF project (see A Sustainable the manufacturing, trade, and services sectors, produce and diversification. Tourism Supply Chain in Miches, page 26). Offering competitive generate 85-90% of new jobs in these indus3. Support entrepreneurial initiatives that interest rates and flexible repayment terms, 18 Miches farmers tries, and contribute approximately 30-40% of service the tourism industry. have accessed this financial tool, representing a total of 2 million GDP in Latin America and the Caribbean. MSEs 4. Producers and entrepreneurs access Dominican pesos in support of agricultural diversification. offer potential for the creation of locally relefinancing via a microcredit program. vant product and service innovation, and are 5. Knowledge and strategic one of the most effective and realistic vehicles communication to promote inclusive for combatting unemployment and poverty, business models in other tourist making the IDB/MIF initiative one of Fundación destinations. 7 Figures published in the 2013 Sustainability Report did not reflect up-to-date data. Corrected FONDESA data for 2013 is as Tropicalia’s most impactful. follows: “To date, FONDESA has placed over 143.52 million Dominican pesos in the form of microloans for local entrepreneurs, impacting the following sectors: agriculture (31.3%), commerce (29.14%), services (11.23%), consumption (13.83%), housing improvement (8.41%), livestock (5%), and manufacturing (1%). In 2013 alone, 776 loans were issued, totaling more than DOP 38.52 million. These loans strengthened 902 jobs and benefited 914 families; 38.2% of FONDESA’s clients are female.” 30 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 31 WELLBEING & CULTURE 32 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 33 The Global Gender Gap Report, published annually by the World Economic Forum since 2006, provides a framework for capturing and comparing the magnitude and scope of genderbased disparities around the world. The index incorporates gender gaps on economic, political, education and healthbased criteria. In 2014, the Dominican Republic ranked 78th out of 142 countries; politically, women compose only 21% of parliament and hold only 16% of ministerial positions; economically, the Dominican Republic ranked 56th based on Estimated Earned Income (EEI) and 75th based on wage equality for similar work for women compared to men. SNSI was designed and is being developed to contribute to curbing these trends. The Ethical Corporation, a UK based group that provides ethical business intelligence to over 3,000 multinational companies every year, hosts an annual Responsible Business Awards event. Out of 400 submissions across various categories, Tropicalia was shortlisted for the category “Most Effective Domestic Community Investment” specifically highlighting the SNSI program. A panel of European academics made the selections and considered nominees from around the world; though Tropicalia maintained its runner-up position, Ethical Corporation selected the Turkeybased cell phone company, Turkcell, for its “Women Empowerment in Economy” (WEE) project, highlighting the critical role that women and girls play for economic development. “Soy niña, soy importante” (I’m a girl, I’m important) Girls Summer Camp “We have a lot of fun. Each day we have a different activity in This was the second year of Fundación Tropicalia’s “Soy niña, which we learn to respect our soy importante” (SNSI) or I’m a girl, I’m Important all-girls body and the bodies of others.” summer day camp. SNSI hosted three, one-week long sessions, served 10 communities and more than doubled its size this YULEISY CONTRERA year, bringing together 250 girls ages 9-12. Girls learned about 11 years old self-esteem, safety, career and personal development, and Community Newsletter, Ed. 20, health through sports, dance and other fun, recreational camp September 2014. activities. The camp’s objective is to remind girls of their value in society, and instill in them the socio-emotional skills needed to make informed and important decisions like staying in school, staying safe and timely family planning. To support the camp’s growth, Cisneros engaged its US-based employees, friends and family via the launch of its first company-wide fundraiser and offered a corporate match. The response was overwhelming, and thanks to more than 15 corporate collaborators and 90 individual donors, Cisneros raised USD 22,455, more than 20% beyond its fundraising goal. 34 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 35 Adult Literacy Program 2014 is the fourth year Fundación Tropicalia implements its Adult Literacy program (PAA), which took place with two local partners: Estancia La Querencia, a local organic farm, and the Liceo TV Centro La Gina. The program teaches adult learners how to read and write, and encourages them to return to school and finish their high school education. Not only do PAA students learn the basics of reading and writing, but they also undergo a personal transformation that directly impacts their quality of life, emerging with greater confidence and self-esteem when it comes to managing day-to-day activities. For example, now a parent can help her children with homework, or understand a cell phone bill. Classes lasted nine months and supported the Dominican government’s national literacy plan, Quisqueya Aprende Contigo. Visual difficulties presented a significant barrier to student performance; thanks to volunteer optometrists, Fundación Tropicalia offered free eye exams, reading glasses and contact lenses. As a result, 10 adults successfully completed the program and continued their primary and secondary school education. Copa Tropicalia 2014 marked the fifth annual Copa Tropicalia, a youth baseball tournament that brings together members of “Young people, through teamwork, learn the benefits of the community and promotes exercise, recreation and collaboration. Copa Tropicalia contributes to the overall healthy competition. As in previous years, volunteers development of those who, in a few years, will be in of all ages contributed to fixing-up the Miches baseball charge of building our society’s future.” stadium “El Catcher”, including lawn mowing, garbage collection and grounds cleaning, repairing the perimeter GUSTAVO A ROMÁN fences and dugouts, and painting. The single-eliminaFundación Tropicalia General Coordinador tion tournament gathered hundreds of spectators for a Community Newsletter, Ed. 19, June 2014. day of recreation and banter. The Miches team emerged champion of yet another Copa Tropicalia, and all teams won prizes of baseball equipment for future practice. 36 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 37 Cultural Initiatives This year Fundación Tropicalia continued its A total of 25 volunteers came together to support of local cultural initiatives in partnerdesign and paint Miches’ inspired murals on ship with Artemiches, the local government, the facades of 40 homes. and local artisans. Highlights from the initiatives supported this year include: · The annual and historically significant Carnaval celebrations, in partnership with · The 2014 “Semana Cultural de Artemiches”, Miches City Hall. with over 400 people participating in conferences, roundtable discussions, workshops, · The annual Día del niño (“Kids’ Day”) festitheater performances, sculpture exhibits, vities in three local schools, an event in and a book fair. December just before Christmas. This celeCommunity Newsletter bration impacted around 600 students, as · The “Fiesta de Palos” during the Patronales well as the schools’ teachers, administrafestivities, a historically significant celebrators, and other local community members. In 2014 Fundación Tropicalia continued the publication and circution where Miches honors its patron saint lation of its Community Newsletter, issuing five new editions. Given San Antonio de Padua. Fundación Tropicalia alternative communications strategies, such as radio interviews with partnered with new local actors to impart Fundación Tropicalia staff and stakeholder meeting with commumusic and instrument workshops to fabricate nity members, circulation of community newsletters changed this and play atabales, a traditional percussion “The integration has been fundamental, year to once every 6-8 weeks, resulting in fewer newsletters than in instrument of the region. allowing current [cultural] initiatives to previous years. With each edition, Fundación Tropicalia circulates have a greater impact.” 2,000 copies of the newsletters in more than 50 distribution points · The annual initiative “A New Face for Miches,” in Miches. The mission of the Community Newsletter centers on designed and implemented by Artemiches CEFERINO MONI REYES promoting informative and educational content for adults and chiland the Ministry of Culture, and funded in Community Newsletter, dren in themes related to sustainable development, individual and partnership with World Vision and Miches Ed. 19, June 2014. civic responsibility, and local leadership. City Hall. This initiative works to restore the facades of dozens of Miches homes that line the streets of the town’s main entrance. 38 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 39 EFFECTIVELY ADVANCING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT: 7 YEARS IN REVIEW 40 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 41 THE DESTINATION EDUCATION Advancing Sustainable 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years 7 years 7 years Development and counting 1 year School Renovation 3 new schools (4 total) 3 new schools (7 total) 2 new schools (9 total) Km. 10, 3 new schools (12 total) Supported network of 12 Supported network of 11 12 schools and Maintenance El Cedro, La Mina, Básica Km 6 (La Javilla), Los Urabos, Gisela Ruperto or “La Sabanita” La Culebra, El Guaco, Liceo schools, in five of which schools (one closed), two of impacted by the PRyME Program (PRyME) La Gina Liceo Padre Daniel (closed in 2014) TV Centro La Gina larger projects took place, which larger projects took network, with a combined 1 school impacting 44 teachers and place impacting 23 teachers total of 101 teachers and 2,890 Hicaco Blanco 1,631 students and 492 students students Professional 77 teachers 54 teachers 15 teachers 93 teachers 247 teachers total Development for School (119 of which passed the Teachers (AME) program), 11 courses taught at 8 teachers 15 institutions. Digital Literacy 1 1 2 t e a c h e r s , 112 teachers, Course 1 5 s c h o o l s f r o m 2 0 0 9 2 0 1 1 15 schools impacted in total. Scholarship Program 3 new 3 scholarships 3 scholarships 16 students supported: 3 new scholarships (3 total) scholarships (9 total) (12 total) 12 scholarships to date + 4 (6 total) students who receive program services, but their scholarships are 100% from the Ministry of Education because they study education. LEAF Program -> JADOM 45 students 100 students 200 students In 2013, this program turns 45 students from 3 schools from from 1 school from 2 schools into JADOM with financial 1 school education courses. Model School Initiative 150 students La Mina Primary School, impacted from 1st to 4th grade. impacting 150 students Fundación Tropicalia Twitter, Facebook, and Social Media Debut Instagram accounts Extracurricular Arts 75 students, and Crafts Workshops and ongoing. 75 students in 2 schools ‘08 ‘09 ‘11 ‘13 ‘14 CUMULATIVE ‘10 ‘12 IMPACT 42 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 43 PRODUCTIVITY ENVIRONMENT Microfinance Initiative From 2008-2011, DOP 67 million spent, 1,862 loans, 4,000 families DOP 38 million spent, 848 DOP 33.94 million spent, 776 DOP 41.35 million spent, 784 Over DOP 185.25 million** with FONDESA benefitted, 400 jobs strengthened, 58% loans to women. loans, 1,315 families benefitted, loans, 914 families benefitted, loans, 986 families benefited, spent to date 1,177 jobs strengthened, 39.5% 902 jobs strengthened, 38.2% 1,011 jobs strengthened, 41.6% loans to women. loans to women*. loans to women. Environmental 2nd year (EIS) 2 ICAs released on 01/2011 2 ICAs released on 03/2012 2 ICAs released on 02/2013 2 ICAs released on 02/2014 8 ICA reports total Impact Study (EIS) and 02/2011 and 04/2012 and 08/2013 and 08/2014 and counting & Environmental 1 EIS report Compliance Reports (ICA) 1st year (EIS) UAPA Financial 345 adults from 345 adults in total Education 2011-2012 Workshops Organic and 30 farmers total. Sustainable Agriculture Organic and Sustainable agriculture Workshops 30 farmers workshops continue today under the FOMIN project USAID Agricultural Diversification USD 95,000, Initiative USD 95,000, 123 beneficiaries, 1,580 m2 123 beneficiaries, 1,580 m2 greenhouse infrastructure greenhouse infrastructure IDB Sustainable USD 131,910 disbursed USD 60,040 disbursed USD 191,950 Tourism Supply Chain (15.8% of IDB/MIF’s planned (9.9% of IDB/MIF’s (25.7% of IDB/MIF’s planned (36-month project) investment) planned investment) investment) Costa Esmeralda 2nd year 2 years and Beach Rescue counting 1st year, 200 linear meters of coastline protected, 13 beach employees trained Laguna Redonda Water Ended in One 12-month study Study Began in 10/2013 10/2014 recommendations to come in 2015. ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 CUMULATIVE IMPACT *Total number of loans, families benefitted and jobs strengthened in 2013 do not include numbers reached in the month of March. **This total amount represents rounded figures and therefore the sum of each annual amount spent and the total are not identical. 44 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 45 WELLBEING & CULTURE Artemiches 2nd year of support 3rd year of support 4th year of support 5th year of support 6th year of support 7th year of support 7 years 1st year of support Think Art Program of 7 5 t e a c h e r s f r o m 2 0 0 9 2 0 1 2 12 teachers 87 teachers total Fundacion Cisneros Copa Tropicalia 2nd tournament. 2011 Copa Tropicalia 3rd tournament. 2012 4th tournament. Repeat of 2012 5th tournament. Repeat of 5 years 1st tournament. 2010 Copa repeated 2010 methodology. tournament changes to a methodology, 3 teams, 60 2012 methodology, 3 teams, and counting Tropicalia was handled one-day event, 40 players players total played in Miches. 60 players total played as a multi-weekend event total played in El Cedro. in Miches. that culminated in the championship. FT organized multiple teams from 8-18 years old, according to age. Community Bulletin 9 editions 6 editions 5 editions 21 editions total First edition (1) (2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, & 10) (11, 12, 13, 14, 15, & 16) (17, 18, 19, & 20, 21) El Seibo Cultural and 2nd year 3rd year The event did 3 years of support Production Fair not take place in 2014. 1st year Adult Literacy Program 22 adults 10 adults The program has worked with Plan 6 adults Nacional de Alfabetización “Quisqueya Aprende Contigo” since 2013. “Miches Saludable” 46 students total Summer Camp (USAID/REDDOM) 46 students 50 women total Nutrition Workshops (only occurred in 2012) 50 women “New Face for Miches” 60 homes painted 40 homes painted 140 homes program 40 homes painted painted total “I’m a girl, I’m 250 girls, camp travels to 350 girls total and ongoing important” three communities summer camp 100 girls, camp travels to two communities ‘08 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 CUMULATIVE ‘09 ‘14 IMPACT 46 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 47 ALLIANCES 48 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 TROPICALIA 49 Government Municipality of Miches Dominican Institute for Integral Development (IDDI) 2008-present. Tropicalia/Fundación Tropicalia and the Municipality 2011-present. Fundación Tropicalia and IDDI collaborate on special of Miches collaborate on special projects related to culture, sports, projects and increase access to funding. education and environment. Junior Achievement Dominicana (JADOM) Ministry of Education of the Dominican Republic 2013-present. Fundación Tropicalia and JADOM bring finan2010-present. Fundación Tropicalia and the Ministry of Education of cial and entrepreneurship education curriculum to high school the Dominican Republic work to improve the quality of education in students in Miches. the Miches school district. National Business Network for Environmental Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Protection (ECORED) 2008-present. Tropicalia/Fundación Tropicalia and the Ministry of 2008-present. Fundación Tropicalia gains access to a privateEnvironment and Natural Resources collaborate on special projects sector network that increases environmental protection efforts related to environment and education. and promotes public-private sector dialogue. Ministry of Tourism The Ocean Foundation 2009-present Tropicalia complies with the Ministry of Tourism regu2013-present. Tropicalia works with TOF to support reporting lations for tourist developments. efforts, elaborate measurement tools and verify social and environmental sustainability initiatives. Ministry of Agriculture 2013-present. Fundación Tropicalia and the Ministry of Agriculture collaborate on special projects related to agricultural supply chains International and technical training for farmers. Organizations Non-profit Organizations Inter-American Development Bank, Multilateral Investment Fund (IDB-MIF) Artemiches 2012-present. Fundación Tropicalia and the IDB/MIF execute a 2008-present. Fundación Tropicalia and Artemiches support arts 36-month project for the inclusion of micro and small enterand cultural events in Miches. prises into the sustainable tourism supply chain in Miches. EDUCA (Accion Empresarial pro la Educacion) United Nations Global Compact 2013-present. Fundación Tropicalia and EDUCA work together to 2010-present. Tropicalia pledges to the ten principles of the improve public education policy and drive impact in Miches educaUnited Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, tion programs. labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Fondo para el Desarrollo, Inc. (FONDESA) 2008-present. Fundación Tropicalia and FONDESA work together to Academic Institutions democratize access to financial services, diversify banking products and support the inclusion of micro and small enterprises in the tourist and agricultural supply chains. Universidad ISA (College of Agriculture) Fundación Orange Dominicana 2011-present. Fundación Tropicalia and ISA University host a 2013-present. Fundación Tropicalia receives support from Fundación scholarship program for Miches students who are interested in Orange for their annual girls’ summer camp, “Soy niña, soy importante.” agricultural science and science education careers. 50 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 Development & Communications Team · Arquitecto Pérez Morales · Gensler & Asociados · Holsteinson & Asociados, SA · Baird & Associates (HOLASA) · Carbone Smolan · Horwath HTL Agency (CSA) · HVS · Cisneros · Isay Weinfeld · Cisneros Real Estate · Jacober Creative · Ecomar, SA · Llorente & Cuenca · EDSA · Renaissance Golf Design · Ernst & Young · Sheila Donnelly & Associates (SDA) · Fer Figheras · Sinergo Development Group · Four Seasons · Thompson Engineering Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and (PG. 13, 17) Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses (PG. 13, 17) PUBLISHED ON: April 17, 2015 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the C O N TA C T : effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; (PG. 13) Sofía Perazzo Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; (PG. 13) Executive Director Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and (PG. 13) Fundacion Tropicalia Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and sperazzo@cisneros.com occupation. (PG. 13) CONTENT: Environment The Ocean Foundation Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environDESIGN: mental challenges; (PG. 5, 12, 13, 17) Llorente & Cuenca Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and (PG. 5, 9, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 19, 28, 29, 30, 31) PHOTOGRAPHY: Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Fer Figheras friendly technologies. (PG. 5, 8, 13, 17) Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. (PG. 13)
