Sustainability Report 2014 Key Performance Indicators SUSTAINABILITY AT CLARIANT AT A GLANCE PEOPLE KEY FIGURES EMPLOYEES BY REGION 2014 2013 Europe 44 % Employees (FTE) 17 003 18 099 Asia/Pacific 25 % LTAR (lost time accident rate) 0.23 0.26 Training hours 90 000 117 000 Maturity of workforce: age structure ( %) Middle East & Africa 5% < 30 13.0 12.2 Latin America 15 % 30 – 50 63.4 63.4 > 50 23.6 23.7 North America 11 % PLANET change in 2014 (per t of produced goods) –7% – 16 % – 18 % – 12 % CO2 emissions Greenhouse gas emissions Water consumption Energy consumption – 15 % – 22 % – 0.03 Waste Waste water Process Safety Incident rate (PSI) Clariant SUSTAINABILITY POLICY COMMITMENT AND CLARIANT EXCELLENCE COMPLIANCE Clariant commits itself to ethical and sustainable operation and Compliance with laws, international standards, internal reguladevelopment in all business activities according to the Responsitions, and Clariant’s Code of Conduct is a basic requirement for ble Care® Initiative and Clariant's Code of Conduct. Clariant all our activities. Clariant appreciates voluntary initiatives and strives for a business culture of continuous improvement as well provides adequate support to develop effective and efficient safety, as for sustainable competitiveness and top performance in conhealth and environmental and energy regulations. sideration of our ethical standards. SAFETY, SECURITY AND ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Among Clariant’s most important objectives are the safety and Clariant bears an ethical responsibility for sustainable, economic security of its worldwide activities and the protection of people and ecological, as well as fair, business practices. Corporate and environment. We set protection goals which are valid Social Responsibility is therefore an integral component of our throughout the entire group and monitor and evaluate all aspects company’s philosophy. All Clariant employees are therefore of our activities. educated and trained to assume responsibility in line with their function, level of authority and qualification. RISK AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT Comprehensive assessment of risks related to our operations and CLARIANT’S MANAGEMENT SYSTEM products are prerequisite to our business processes. Local and Clariant’s certified Management System adheres to all internal global emergency organization is in place to ensure comprehenand external standards to which Clariant subscribes and forms sive emergency management and response. the company’s documented structural framework as the basis for objectives and programs. The system complies with ISO INNOVATION AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 and Responsible We are convinced that it will be essential to understand our cusCare®. Achieving and maintaining a high level of quality across tomers’ needs. Innovation and customer focus is therefore the all aspects of our businesses, our ESH related activities, Social key to our business. We permanently develop better and new Responsibility and Responsible Care®, is our understanding products and services to add value to our customers and to our of Corporate Sustainability. environment. Concurrently we secure that our products can be used over their entire life cycle in a safe manner for employees, customers, the public and the environment. SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS AND PROCESSES MONITORING AND REVIEW We take initiatives to reduce environmental, safety and health We monitor and review all business aspects and processes includrisks in production, storage, distribution and usage of our products ing Responsible Care® issues at regular intervals. Observing our and the disposal of waste. This includes the efficient use of energy quality and performance is an integral component of our business and resources and the continuous improvement of our processes processes, our top priorities and our strategic planning. to minimize the impact of our activities on the environment by increasing our environmental and energy performance. THIRD PARTY MANAGEMENT Our aim is to establish mutually beneficial relationships with our third party suppliers and contractors in order to support our Hariolf Kottmann services on the basis of our internal ESHQ standards, which inChief Executive Officer clude Corporate Social Responsibility and Responsible Care®. We encourage our suppliers and service providers to adopt standards comparable to Clariant’s policies. COMMUNICATION Clariant fosters a culture of proactive and transparent communi­ cation as key to trusting and reliable relationships. All stakeholders are regularly informed about our activities, our targets and our ESHQ and energy performance. We identify the concerns and expectations of our stakeholders systematically. Index SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2 Foreword from the CEO 72 Performance.People.Planet 73 People in India 4 Add Value with Sustainability 76 Being Part of the Whole 5 Sustainability as a Strategic Pillar 77 Fair Business Practices 8 New Environmental Targets for 2025 78 Stakeholder Engagement Activities 10 Systematic Sustainability Steering 82 Extensive Dialog with Stakeholders 12 Commitment for Sustainability 86 Performance.People.Planet 14 Performance.People.Planet 87 Planet in India 15 Performance in India 90 Care for Nature 18 Innovation for Global Trends 91 Declining Energy Consumption 20 High Efficiency in Food Production 94 Less Water Consumption 31 Innovative Ways to Sustainable Mobility 96 Nature Conservation 96 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 45 In My Real Life 100 Waste Prevention and Recycling 46 6 Employees – 6 Views 102 Production Process Safety 58 People Make Our Success 104 Close Collaboration along the Value Chain 59 Global Employment Policy 105 Sustainable Sourcing 61 Training and Further Education 111 Optimization of Products and Processes 64 Commitment to a Diverse Workforce 115 Product Responsibility 66 Occupational Safety 70 Labor Practices 118 Annex 118 GRI Index 121 Reporting Limits and Reporting Structure 123 External Confirmation 124 Publication Details 125 Glossary CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 1 Foreword from the CEO DEAR READERS, Sustainability does not contradict entrepreneurial thinking. On the contrary, sustainability is a prerequisite of entrepreneurial thinking. The principles of environmentally compatible action that is focused on the long term, of the careful use of raw materi­ als and of fair dealings with customers and employees can only be implemented successfully if they have been holistically and mean­ ingfully integrated into the business strategy. Sustainability has increasingly played an important role at Clariant for several years, and in September 2014 we formalized it by making »Add Value with Sustainability« one of the five pillars of Clariant’s corporate strategy. Sustainability cannot be limited to just a few areas, it must be in­ corporated throughout the whole company and integrated into the whole of the value chain. In order to guarantee this we analy­ ze the sustainability profile of our products from the procurement of the raw materials through manufacture to the customer and the application of the products. In 2013 we introduced the »Portfolio — Value Program« as part of which our whole product portfolio was HARIOLF KOTTMANN systematically evaluated from the point of view of sustainability. Chief Executive Officer In this we examined the intrinsic sustainability of every product per se and also in comparison with rival products. The results of this analysis gave indications as to the type and scope of the im­ provements required to our product portfolio. At the same time the assessment allowed us to award the »sustainability stars« in our product range with the EcoTain® label. The close connection between Clariant, its suppliers, customers and our Research & Devel­ opment function enables us to increasingly exploit the sustain­ ability potential of our products. 2 Foreword from the CEO We identify opportunities in the development of innovative pro­ All these efforts have also been recognized by the financial mar­ ducts that are often produced from renewable raw materials, for kets. In September 2014, Clariant was again admitted to the Euro­ example, or in the production of products that use increasingly pean Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI Europe), and for the fewer resources and which therefore offer added value for our first time to the global Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). customers and consumers. You will find a large number of excel­ This internationally renowned sustainability index selects stocklent examples of this in this report: Products for the protection listed companies based on economic, ecological, and social crite­ of foodstuffs, to increase the efficiency in industrial processes or ria. Clariant is counted among the leading 10 % of the companies to reduce emissions. in the chemicals industry in matters pertaining to sustainability. We are also working hard on optimizing our internal processes on Clariant has already attained some important milestones in its ef­ an ongoing basis. In 2011 for the first time, we set ourselves speci­ forts to reach a balance between economical, social and ecological fic targets for the reduction of our energy consumption and our interests. One important reason for this is that our sustainability greenhouse gas emissions and also for other benchmarks such as awareness in all areas and at all levels of our company has increa­ water consumption and volumes of waste produced. It was our sed consistently in the past years. For the current year we have set aim at that time to improve by 25 % to 30 % in nine years, based on ourselves the motto »Accelerate Change«. For as a company we the figures in 2005. Thanks to our efforts and the changes in our have to be open and constantly evolving in order to successfully portfolio we were able to achieve these targets a full six years ear­ meet the challenges of the global economy. In 2015 we will conti­ lier than planned. For this reason, at the beginning of 2015 we nue to work at further strengthening this positive fundamental set ourselves new, even more ambitious environmental targets and attitude and to use it as a driver to help accelerate our change. We within the next ten years we want to realize further improve­ will be guided in this by our vision of becoming the global leader ments of 30 – 40 % in the benchmarks selected. Our production in specialty chemicals – and the way to achieving this lies essenti­ also became not just more efficient but also safer in 2014. Thanks ally via our sustainability strategy. to our program AvoidingAccidents@Clariant we have been able to clearly reduce the number of accidents and the consequences of accidents on an ongoing basis over the last few years. Sustainability applies not just within the company, but it essenti­ ally begins with procurement, for example. The control and ma­ nagement of the supply chain requires much time and effort. We Hariolf Kottmann purchase goods and services from thousands of suppliers. It is not Chief Executive Officer possible for us to carry out comprehensive sustainability checks on all of them. For this reason we joined the initiative »Together for Sustainability« in 2014, an assessment network for sustainabi­ lity in the supply chain. Thanks to this we now have access to the evaluations of more than 2 400 companies in more than 100 coun­ tries and have therefore been able to raise transparency in procure­ ment. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 3 Add Value WITH SUSTAI­N­ ABILITY Add Value WITH SUSTAINABILITY W  i th the final declaration of its 1992 conference on Sustainable economic activities combine the success and growth of the environment and development in Rio de the company and its growth with the needs of society, each individJaneiro, the United Nations has required member ual and the environment. This permanent optimization attempt is a states to take the precautionary measures within process, which strives to reconcile demand, production, availability their capabilities to protect the environment, known as Principle 15 of resources, as well as technological and institutional changes. of the Rio Declaration. Accordingly, remedial actions may only be With this in mind, a company behaves in a sustainable manner if it postponed if no serious or lasting damages to the environment are completely integrates this understanding into its business processlooming, or if the states would be financially overburdened to imes and adjusts its economic actions accordingly. plement these measures. This principle connects environmental protection with a cost-benefit analysis and attempts to achieve a Clariant has already achieved some important successes in its efbalance between ecology and economy. forts to reach a balance between economical, ecological and societal interests. Sustainability awareness has increased continuously Clariant has not only transferred this principle to the company, but throughout the company over the past several years. In order to conit has expanded the environmental considerations with social assolidate this trend and to document its significance, sustainability pects – the whole foundation for sustainability. Clariant has been has been defined as one of the five pillars of the corporate strategy investing in safe products and both efficient and environmentally in 2014. compatible processes for years. The company continuously initiates measures to completely live up to its responsibilities towards Sustainable economic activities play especially a key role in achievemployees, customers, shareholders and other stakeholder groups. ing the Group’s objectives for growth. Without »sustainability-driven«, The ongoing pursuit of trends and pertinent developments ensures innovative products, companies will not remain competitive in the the timeliness and appropriateness of all these activities. near future. This is why Clariant has established programs, initiatives, and long-term actions years ago in all important topic areas in SUSTAINABILITY AS A STRATEGIC PILLAR order to become more sustainable in the sense sketched out above, Clariant aims to become the leading specialty chemicals company and to increase the benefit for all stakeholders. in the world, with above-average value creation, based on sustainability and innovations for all customer groups. This requires that all employees focus on company values: Drive for excellence, disciplined performance management, deliver to promise, courageous and decisive leadership, lived appreciation and corporate responsibility. Clariant’s strategy is based on the establishment of leading positions in the Business Areas in which the company is active. see Annual Report 2014, on page 40 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 5 THE FIVE-PILLAR-STRATEGY of Clariant 1 2 3 4 5 Increase Reposition Add Value with Foster Intensify Profitability Portfolio Sustainability Innovation Growth and R&D STRATEGY TO INCREASE PERFORMANCE Success With Broad Sustainability Approach For this purpose, Clariant has started to examine and evaluate the In all of its activities, Clariant commits itself to environmental proentire product portfolio based on sustainability criteria in 2014. tection and safety. The company’s own regulations on the environComparable sustainability assessments are already being used in ment, safety, and health (ESH) are in line with the objectives of the the research and development phase of the products (see page 19). Responsible Care® Global Charter (see page 12). Clariant has been In addition, Clariant is focusing more and more on the sustainabilicertified worldwide according to the management systems ISO ty performance of its suppliers. For this purpose, Clariant has 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, and also increasingly based on the introduced a comprehensive set of rules (»Code of Conduct for standard for energy management, ISO 50001. Suppliers«) with corresponding control and sanctioning mechanisms (Initiative »Together for Sustainability«, see page 105). Clariant does not intend to become more sustainable in the longterm with implementation of a multitude of isolated solutions, but rather with a holistic approach. This includes societal responsibiliThe Value Chain in Clariant’s ty across the entire value chain. All regulations, precautions and Sustainability Strategy measures mesh across a product’s entire life-cycle. This way, sus· Research and development based on sustainable criteria tainability already attracts interest in the research and manufacturfor safe and environmentally compatible products ing phase of the preliminary products on the suppliers’ side, and (see pages 19 and 110). only ends with the final utilization of the product by the customer. · Suppliers’ obligation for sustainable economics (Clariant’s Supplier Code of Conduct) with comprehensive review mechanisms (see page 105). · Production and logistics on a high safety level (internal guidelines for transportation, storage and production safety) (see page 109). · Review and further development of the existing product portfolios based on sustainability criteria (see page 7). · Efficiency in manufacturing and an increasing share of renewable raw materials (see pages 95 and 105). · Safety for employees and customers (product documentation) (see page 59 and 117). · High product quality and sustainable benefit for customers (see page 20). 6 Add Value WITH SUSTAINABILITY The sustainability approach of Clariant extends to the entire comExisting sustainability instruments such as the EcoTain® concept, pany and production spectrum. Sustainable raw and input materials market standards and expectations of stakeholders have been anaare preferred in purchasing, and not only in view of environmental lyzed and assessed as part of the Porfolio Value Program, accompaaspects, but also with regard to labor and human rights. Produc­tion nied by the »Collaborating Center on Sustainable Consumption and is as resourceand energy-saving as possible. Clariant was able to Production« (CSCP). On the basis of 36 criteria in the areas envicontinuously reduce emissions, waste and waste water over the past ronment, society and economy, the portfolio’s products are being years. Clariant ensures the safety of its (production) plants with examined throughout the entire life cycle on their strengths and continuous tests and examines them regularly for optimization weaknesses in reference to sustainability. Subsequently it becomes potential. This commitment also pays off economically – for example, clear, which products already fulfill Clariant’s sustainability stanwith lower energy or material costs for the manufacturing of the dard, which have potential for improvement, and which qualify as corresponding products. Each of Clariant’s products is supposed to »Best-in-Class« products for Clariant’s enhanced EcoTain® label. noticeably improve the benefit for the customers with regard to the This analysis provides additional arguments for marketing and betintended use, and also in the interest of sustainability. This can be ter visibility of specific product performances, which achieve the mainly accomplished with innovative products, which have long sustainability standards with customers. life cycles, reduce energy consumption, or are manufactured with renewable raw materials (also see pages 105 ff.). Portfolio Value Program Clariant’s Portfolio Value Program is a systematic approach to consistently evaluating the entire product portfolio utilizing sustainability viewpoints. This is done with an absolute observation (»How sustainable is a product really?«) as well as with a relative observation (»How sustainable is a product compared to similar products on the market?«). The result of this analysis gives indications of the nature and extent of necessary improvements in order to continuously optimize the entire product portfolio. The analysis also shows the need for improvements and concrete action steps in order to optimize individual product attributes; for instance, with regard to their energy consumption, the raw material base, or relating to disposal. Such an approach gradually reduces risks in the product portfolio and increases its international competitiveness. Each optimization also increases these products’ competitiveness and benefits for the customers. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 7 NEW ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS FOR 2025 TARGET ACHIEVEMENT UNTIL 2014 in % (per t of produced goods) For the first time Clariant determined concrete target values for the reduction of the important environmental parameters of energy Energy consumption Direct CO2 emissions Direct and indirect Greenhouse Gas emissions consumption, water use, waste and waste water volume, CO2and greenhouse gas emissions in 2011. With these targets, gains in Target: – 30 Target: – 30 efficiency between 25 and 45 % should be achieved by 2020 Target: – 45 compared to the base year of 2005. However, Clariant has been significantly faster than originally assumed. The targets were not only reached by 2013, they were exceeded. With portfolio 05 14 05 14 05 14 adjustments (including the acquisition of Süd-Chemie), even higher reductions ranging from 50 – 70 % when compared to 2005 Water need Waste water Waste volume could be achieved. Target: – 25 However, Clariant does not want to stop with these achievements, Target: – 40 Target: – 45 but rather continue to increase gains in efficiency. Therefore, the company set even more ambitious environmental targets at the beginning of 2015. Simultaneously, Clariant has taken into account the acquisition and sale of companies or business units over the 05 14 05 14 05 14 past few years and the changes in production structure that is involved. »The new environmental targets should meet our high sustainability requirement and contribute to a continuous improvement in all parameters.« MICHAEL SCHNEIDER, Head of Environment 8 Add Value WITH SUSTAINABILITY The new targets should be achieved by 2025 and continue to refer > 20 m m to relative figures, meaning a certain value per ton of produced goods. Based on the values of 2013, the energy consumption and CO2 emissions should be reduced by 30 % within the next 12 years. 3 The greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by 35 % altogether, in the same extent as the amount of water used and the waste of water saved by Clariant over the last three years volume. The waste water volume should even be reduced by 40 % = 170 000 over the next 12 years. Clariant would have thereby achieved an improvement of about 70 80 % in all named environmental indicators over a span of 20 years. This corresponds to the average yearly consumption NEW ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS 2025 in % (per t produced goods) of 170 000 households with two persons Reduction of energy Reduction of direct Reduction of consumption CO2 emissions greenhouse gas emissions – 30 – 30 – 35 Reduction of water Reduction of Reduction of waste consumption waste water – 35 – 40 – 35 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 9 Utilize Each Opportunity for CO2 Savings Sustainability Targets Include Clariant does not seek to increase its revenues by exceeding the Supply Chain the legally stipulated reductions in CO2 emissions. Although Clariant does not limit sustainable actions to internal proClariant has established an internal organization for trading cesses and individual dimensions of sustainability. So susemissions in accordance with the official regulations on the tainability targets were also introduced for the raw materiEuropean trade in emission certificates, it has neither als procurements for the first time during the year under bought nor sold any certificates thus far. Any surpluses – in review. All main locations, which use raw materials based other words, lower-than-permitted emissions – have simply on palm oil in their production, shall be certified by 2016 acbeen »put on ice« rather than being sold. cording to the criteria of the »Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil« (RSPO) for the so-called mass balance. In addition, Clariant committed to only purchasing palm oil-based materials that are certified and separated from non-certified palm oil along the supply chain starting in the year 2020. Thereby, it must be ensured that the end products contain only certified sustainable palm oil (also see page 113). SYSTEMATIC SUSTAINABILITY STEERING Clariant performs this analysis on a regular basis. The SustainabiliClariant focuses sustainable management on areas that inevitably ty Council, the central steering committee for sustainability under stem from the action of a globally operating chemical company: the chairmanship of the CEO, evaluates the results and determines work, plant, process, and product safety, environmental protection, sustainability themes and areas, which are relevant in any business innovation, employee responsibility and corporate governance. Add year or have significance with respect to the plans and targets. Reto those areas that are identified as essential by intensive dialog gional sustainability committees must ensure that the sustainability with the interests groups, the so-called stakeholders. Examples for strategy in the regions is being undertaken and uniformly implesuch areas are employment opportunities, local social commitment mented. within the scope of corporate citizenship, raw material and water management. To ascertain key areas of sustainable actions, Clariant The following materiality matrix gives an overview of the essential conducted an intensive dialog with all relevant interest groups. areas of the sustainability policy (G4-18). The matrix summarizes Over 150 internal and external stakeholders were involved; global aspects with high and moderate relevance to Clariant's business market trends and business drivers were evaluated and prioritized. and for the various stakeholders. This classification is also the result of comprehensive investigations within the previously men10 Add Value WITH SUSTAINABILITY MATERIALITY MATRIX by Clariant · Business ethics & Compliance · Corporate Governance · Emissions · Human rights · Employment conditions · Social commitment · Energy · Water · Life-cycle integration · Product Stewardship · Renewable raw materials highly · Stakeholder dialog · Substitution & alternatives for hazardous substances · Sustainable innovation IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS · Sustainable supply chains · Transparency · Value chain collaboration · Biodiversity · Employee training & development · Demographic changes · Logistics · Food security · Occupational health & safety · Urbanization · Process safety · Wealth & consumption shifts · Waste moderately moderately highly (G4-20) IMPORTANCE TO CLARIANT tioned Portfolio Value Program. For this purpose, experts within date about current trends and developments to the aforementioned and outside the company analyzed market trends and business issues, their members collect information regularly from the drivers in terms of sustainability (see page 84). The themes and responsible corporate functions and Business Units or they particitheir guidance for the sustainability policy were tested for their pate in appropriate events. timeliness and evident nature and finally adopted in the Sustainability Council in 2014. The information focal points of this report The »Enterprise Risk Management« (ERM) is a system initiated by adhere to them (G4-19) (G4-21). the Executive Committee to identify, evaluate and manage risks to the company’s business operations. It monitors specifications, meaManagement Structure for Sustainability Steering sures and developments. A successful and sustainable business Clariant’s Executive Committee, which is superior to the Sustainalso depends on the recognition of possible risks and how they can ability Council, gives the guidelines for sustainable management be prevented and limited. and the corresponding control the relevant templates come from the respective departments. The members of the Board of Directors Furthermore, Clariant records hazards and potential opportunities and especially the Executive Committee have extensive expertise with respect to environment, safety and health on all company levin economic, ecological and social issues. In order to be kept up-toels, in all relevant functions and in all business areas with the »ESH Risk Portfolio« (environment, safety, and health). The essential risks are analyzed and communicatively prepared. This tool proCLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 11 Responsible Care Clariant has signed the »Responsible Care® Global Charter« that was developed by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICAA), which monitors compliance with this charter. The Charter is a self-commitment by the chemical industry worldwide to pursue continual improvements in the fields of environmental protection, product responsibility, work safety, transportation safety and dialog. Among other things, the Clariant national subsidiaries in China, Mexico and India were recognized for their achievements in these areas from their respective national chemical associations in 2014. vides management with an overview of important ESH hazard potentials and risks. The risk assessment allows for the prioritizing of risk reduction. The overview of required and possible corrective actions is the foundation for an optimized allocation of ESH resources. The relevant reports are routinely drawn up twice a year or more often if necessary. This approach ensures that all significant risks and avoidance/counteractive measures are indeed reported to the Participation in Sustainability Initiatives Executive Committee via the relevant managerial levels, and seriClariant is involved in numerous interest groups and associations. ous risks are presented to the Board of Directors via the CEO for Most notable activities are, for example, the International Council appraisal. of Chemical Associations (ICCA), the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic), and the European Technology Platform for SusCOMMITMENT FOR SUSTAINABILITY tainable Chemistry (SusChem). The objective of SusChem is to proAs a leading specialty chemicals company, Clariant not only restricts mote and facilitate increased sustainability in the areas of research, itself to the adherence of legal regulations, but also commits itself development and innovation in European chemicals and biotechto important global initiatives. All of Clariant’s actions comply with nology companies. SusChem is a joint initiative of Cefic, the Gerthe principles laid down in the Responsible Care® Global Charter, man Society for Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology (Dechethe Global Product Strategy, the UN Global Compact, and the ma), the European Association for Bioindustries (EuropaBio), the company's internal Code of Conduct and Code of Conduct for SupSociety of German Chemists (GDCh), the Royal Society of Chemispliers. try (RSC) and the Section on Applied Biocatalysis (ESAB) of the European Federation of Biotechnology (EFB). Clariant also commits itself to sustainability at the International Chamber of Commerce and in addition its national companies are represented in various national interest groups, e.g. the Association of International Chemical Manufacturers in China (AICM), the Business Association Chemistry Pharma Biotech (scienceindustries) in Switzerland, the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) or the American Chemical Council (ACC). 12 Add Value WITH SUSTAINABILITY »Anchoring sustainability in the company is a continuous process. Besides the overlapping, centrally managed initiatives, the sustainability concept is being implemented individually in all Business Areas and Functions«. JOACHIM KRÜGER, Senior Vice President Corporate Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs (CSRA) The acceptance in the DJSI requires the provision of special performances in various areas of sustainability, in terms of economic, ecological, and social criteria. This not only applies to the fulfillment of legal requirements. By international comparison, Clariant was attested particular strengths fore example in the areas of Renewed Inclusion in the DJSI Sustainability Index product stewardship or customer releationship management. All of these efforts also pay off financially. In September 2014, Clariant was again admitted to the European Dow Jones Sustainability Slowing of Climate Change as Important Index (DJSI Europe), and for the first time to the global Dow Jones Environmental Challenge Sustainability Index (DJSI). This internationally renowned sustainTo date, Clariant has been unable to detect any noteworthy effect ability index selects stock-listed companies based on economic, climate change may have had on its business, whether of a physical, ecological, and social criteria. Clariant fulfills these criteria and is regulatory, or financial nature. However, the company is extremely counted among the leading 10 % of the companies in the chemicals aware of this sensitive and urgent topic. The significant reduction industry in areas pertaining to sustainability. In the worldwide of emissions into the atmosphere and therewith the clear reduction comparison of the chemicals industry, Clariant achieved one of the of CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions are an integral part of Claritop five positions in 2014. For this performance, Clariant also reant’s planning and investment strategy independent from ecoceived the »RobecoSAM Bronze Class Sustainability Award 2015«. nomic or seasonal fluctuations and special factors (see page 91). At the same time, efficiency and international competitiveness must be increased in order to remain permanently successful. Climate change not only brings companies risks and challenges, but also opens the door to options. Business opportunities for Clariant lie in The renewed acceptance into the DJSI documents that Clariant not the development of innovative products which, for example, reonly meets European requirements, but is also recognized globally quire fewer and fewer materials and a greater proportion of renewin the area of sustainability. The index is considered as one of the able materials and are produced by processes that consume less and most important measuring sticks for the sustainability performance less energy. The company offers solutions for the use of renewable of leading companies. Extensive groundwork has been performed energies, such as cellulose ethanol made from agricultural residues for this purpose. Clariant has developed a comprehensive program (see page 32). for the continuing improvement of its sustainability activities on all levels and advances the integration of sustainability targets for its business and product development. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 13 Performance.People.Planet PERFORMANCE PHOTOGRAPHY JO RÖTTGER, TEXT BERTRAM JOB T  h  is voice comes across. Sonorous and firm it rolls their first names for a long time. But also to declare his core through the rows of the audience, like an acoustic messages, succinct like a trainer. ball, touching everyone briefly. And before you realize it, it has made an impression on you. Just like that. »You can do it,« is one of these messages he disseminates again today. Another one: »You only have to tap your potentials in Deepak Parikh needs no microphone to carry his voice across the order for us to move ahead.« And lastly, again and again: »The platform. But on this special day one has been provided. In his time is now!« double-breasted suit he stands in front of his employees and some European guests to seize the moment. For all those who Others may tire at some point of always playing the role of the should be in good spirits now, albeit not self-righteous. motivator – Parikh has internalized it. Since the time the Doctor of Polymer Science & Engineering joined the Board of Directors »We have the right people and the of Clariant in India in March 2013, he right projects,« he says with a confihas been on a personal mission. He dent gaze through his glasses, »and we have passion.« The game has »Or could they, would like to see this company flourish in a big way – representative of the not yet been won, he emphasizes, through all the noise overall economy of the country. Becaubefore coming to the closing appeal. He sounds like the call from a sports and dust, discern se he sees the opportunity. arena: »Bring the ball home!« the will of the people, »We want to grow,« he says. »Three to On this early afternoon, the topic is not their desire for four times greater than the GDP of India. We can, we should and we will. about football or cricket, though. It is better conditions?« To accomplish this we have to think about the newly equipped laboratories more like an entrepreneur, not like a for the development department of Lavanya Sankaran, bureaucrat.« Clariant in Navi Mumbai. That is rea»The Hope Factory« son enough for a celebration ceremony India has been the subject and promise in the stylish company cafeteria on the eighth floor – and therein the world of chemistry since European companies began proby also for another appearance by its Managing Director and ducing on the subcontinent about 60 years ago. And a gigantic board member. domestic market: Almost 20 % of the earth’s population (1.4 billion) live in the economic region that also includes Nepal, BangDeepak Parikh does not appear self-absorbed when he is about ladesh and Sri Lanka. to give a speech. His calm demeanor at the microphone is an acquired trait. But each of these occasions is a welcome opporNow our infrastructure is moving towards a state of excellence, tunity for him to step among the workforce, among the engiwe have a stable political leadership and one, two younger geneneers, chemists and department heads, whom he has known by rations of very well educated engineers and managers. It is for CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 15 them that Parikh would like to »remove the barriers,« remain in the gene pool, and if it can be accessed the entire company may discussion with them and encourage self-initiative. »Ask for benefit: »We must merely uncover the potential of our people forgiveness, not for permission,« is another motto from his arsenal. and give their performance a lasting effect.« It is his most effective weapon against hesitant behavior, which he fights at all levels, just as he strives to bring about Maybe one has to have gone away in order to see it so clearly. holistic synergy among all business units and functions. »We The chemical engineer from the University of Mumbai was must be quick, agile and flexible. The world is flexible – we twenty years old when he packed his shirts and ambitions into cannot be stagnant.« two bags and went to America. Once there he acquired a PhD in polymer science and engineering and worked for several chemiWhen Deepak Parikh assumed the leadership role, he realized cal companies in positions of responsibility. He convinced as what a difficult task it was to change the DNA of the organizatiR&D mastermind and strategic manager and settled as a US cition in India. But he enjoyed it and brought in a paradigm shift. zen in North Carolina with his wife and two children. Almost every month now, some kind of progress, an interim stage, can be celebrated between Mumbai and Cuddalore, deep in The holder of 40 patents embarked on the adventure in India the south of India. For example, a new laboratory that develops nonetheless. The intermittent return home is »a self-actualization« innovations for future markets, or upgraded production facilifor him, as he states: »I would like to give back to the country ties that are more economical and more sustainable. of my origin. I believe in these people and would like to reach their souls. And I would like to see them shine.« There has to be something to it, when 20 – 40 % of employees in America’s digital »dotcom« companies have Indian ancestors, Since then, »change of mindset« has been the overriding theme states Parikh. Curiosity and scientific talent are firmly rooted in in this company. The global citizen Parikh pursues it by relentlessly commuting between his new home in North Carolina and in Mumbai. In doing so, he often feels like Captain Willard in 16 the epic film »Apocalypse Now«: »Headquarters says do this, do Hence the speeches wherever he goes, the motivation seminars that, and I must win the battle on the ground ... The Group for the leadership team, the many lived appreciation awards at wants profitable growth.« It was not an easy start. Less profitable the factory and the small gestures. Just like during the brief visits businesses – »Leather Services«, »Paper Specialties«, »Emulsions« to the R&D laboratories: Those who still want to take a bow and »Textile Chemicals« – were sold. Then Captain Parikh turned must expect the boss to pat them on the back. When in doubt, he his leading engineers loose so they could identify the weak would rather reach out to his people than dominate them. points in the factories with their teams: Where and how are »Tickle the brain and you will reach their hearts,« he says. valuable resources not effectively utilized, how can efficiency be »Touch their hearts and you will reach the brain.« increased? »We corrected the course at the same location with the same people,« explains Parikh – »they make the difference. Only a company that brings its people along has a chance in DeThey wanted, they were able to and they did it.« epak Parikh’s opinion. With this in mind, he promotes transformation, half commander and half colleague. At the new headMeanwhile the productivity in the largest factories has increquarters in Airoli, Navi Mumbai, the dynamically curved lines of ased by up to 20 %, and energy consumption was reduced by the interior architecture set the direction. In addition, motto over 7 %. The Managing Director’s satisfaction is obvious when plaques in the hallways (»Think Big!«) evoke the new spirit. he recites these numbers. They are at least an indication that They replace the Managing Director with their resolve during the turnaround has happened. Now it’s about improving speed his absence. and image on the way to growth. Especially with creative innovations for future markets. »I am an impatient guy,« states Between these walls everybody should be given a fair chance, Parikh, »I want more.« regardless of religion, caste or gender. Parikh is convinced that more diversity will produce more quality in the end; and is change not already in the air? »Wander the floors during the week«, he says, »then you will feel them, the positive vibrations … The numbers are happening, the sales are increasing, the team is motivated. Everything is in place.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 17 Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS A  f ocus on innovation and research & development is a Sustainability Assessment of Competing prerequisite for continuing to produce internationally Research & Development Projects competitive products and to boost sales and higher Sustainability begins with product development at Clariant. In ormargins for years to come. The development of der to assess development projects in terms of their absolute and innovative and tailor-made solutions to fulfill the requirements of relative advantages, Clariant introduced the »Corporate Sustainthe customers and development partners belongs to Clariant’s core ability Index« for research and development projects (CSIR&D), objectives. This requires fast market maturity of product developwhich goes beyond commonly used standards and legal requirements, leading technologies, competitive product offerings, flexibilments and is an integral part of the Portfolio Value Program. This ity. »Thinking in solutions«, not only regarding products, is a preindex allows an assessment of the relative sustainability of new requisite on all levels. products in particular, as early as the beginning of the development phase – mandatory for all Class 1 projects. With this plan, Clariant The significance of research & development at Clariant has steadily wants to visualize the sustainability ideas and approaches early and risen over the past years, as it is the goal to reach an additional anensure that all of the products developed today are still feasible and nual sales growth of one to two percentage points with innovations competitive tomorrow. as part of the strategic objective »Profitable Growth«. There are currently more than 300 innovation projects in development, of The CSIR&D is used to assess the products to be developed based on which 63 are in the category »Class 1 Projects«. These projects disthe criteria of economic efficiency (Performance), social responsitinguish themselves with significant sales expectations, and therebility (People), and environmental compatibility (Planet). Use and fore will be advanced with focused and intensive use of resources. origin of raw materials, the production process and energy efficiency, as well as an inspection of the effects of product applications are At the beginning of 2013, Clariant has also launched the »Portfolio examples of what is being examined. Based on these results, projValue Program« that captures Clariant’s sustainability performance ects can be compared in terms of their cost-benefit ratios and susin three phases, develops sustainability instruments, and implements tainability. In this way the CSIR&D helps to optimize the entire dethem throughout the entire company (see also page 7). Beginning in velopment portfolio in the mediumand long-term. The higher the 2014, the entire product portfolio has been carefully scrutinized in score of a certain project, the more attractive is the project in the relation to sustainability performance within the scope of this project context of sustainability. The CSIR&D creates competition between in order to compare it with market standards. The insights from the the different projects and provides additional transparency in the program allow the definition of specific measures for the qualitative process. This motivates the R&D project managers to focus their further development of the products and the portfolio as a whole. projects on sustainability targets from the outset. Moreover, the index helps management to allocate resources optimally to projects and to increase the overall sustainability of the company's project and product portfolio. Clariant is geared to research and development of global trends. The challenges that may arise from the global nutritional situation or the energy consumption caused by mobility, demand a forward-­ looking, integrated approach with a view on the total value chain. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 19 High Efficiency in FOOD PRODUCTION As the world population grows, so does the meat consumption and hunger and malnutrition than from AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis therefore the demand for livestock feed. Agricultural land is shrinkcombined. Therefore, across the entire production and supply ing or becoming barren, or it is used simultaneously for the cultivachain of food – from planting to the households – Clariant has detion of crops for energy production. In addition, the spoilage and veloped products that on one hand increase the amount of available waste of food is quite extensive. The consequence: Every eighth food, and on the other hand, make agronomy ecologically more person worldwide still suffers from hunger despite the higher procompatible and also more economical. duction yields in agricultural products; almost all of them are in developing countries. Altogether, more people die every year from GLOBAL NUTRITION TRENDS BY 2050 30 % INCREASE OF GLOBAL CONSUMPTION 69 % OF MEAT AND MILK PRODUCTS1 INCREASE IN FOOD CALORIES TO FEED 9.6 BN PEOPLE1 28 % OF GLOBAL POPULATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY EMPLOYED BY AGRICULTURE1 24 % OF GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM AGRICULTURE AND LAND USE CHANGE1 19 % INCREASE OF AGRICULTURAL 77 % OF FUTURE GROWTH IN CROP WATER CONSUMPTION2 PRODUCTION COMES FROM YIELD INCREASES WITH FERTILIZER AS A KEY INPUT3 TERRESTRIAL BIODIVERSITY 1 World Resources Report HALVING ACTUAL RATE OF FOOD http://www.wri.org/blog/2013/12/globalIS PROJECTED TO DECREASE 10 % LOSS AND WASTE WOULD CLOSE food-challenge-explained-18-graphics BY A FURTHER4 20 % OF THE GAP BETWEEN FOOD AVAILABLE 2 3 h  ttp://www.un.org/waterforlifedecade/ h food_security.shtml  ttp://www.shabait.com/categoryblog/ TODAY AND NEEDED IN 20501 11471-facts-about-fertilizer 4 http://oecdinsights.org/2012/03/19/ oecd-environmental-outlook-to-2050were-all-doomed 20 Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS Rising Demand for Food Requires Increased Hamburg Institute of International Economics (HWWI) even Agricultural Efficiency predicts a reduction in farmland because of the increasing exThe world population is growing increasingly faster. Based on a pansion of metropolitan areas and the risk of devastation, i.e. prognosis of the United Nations (UN), the number of people the decreasing soil fertility through biological, chemical and will rise by more than 50 % to 10.9 billion in the year 2100. In physical processes. The great challenge of the future will be to contrast, the global usable farmland increases significantly close the gap between population growth and availability of slower from currently 12.1 billion ac by only 4 % until 2025. The farmland by using the farmland more efficiently. FORECAST ON THE CHANGES IN WORLD POPULATION AND AGRICULTURAL LAND 8 152.0 7 750.1 7 334.2 6 916.1 world population in million 881.7 890.6 898.2 857.7 agricultural land in millions of hectares 2010 2015 2020 2025 Source: United Nations – Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division: World Population Prospects: The 2012 Revision (June 2013), available online at http://esa.un.org and Statista: Agricultural land worldwide from 1961 – 2011 (2014), available online a t www.statista.com CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 21 OPTIMIZATION OF HARVEST YIELDS WITH protectants in reasonable quantities often provide only a low or BIODEGRADABLE EFFICACY BOOSTER uneconomic efficacy. The challenge is to develop sustainable prodFOR CROP PROTECTANT ucts that spare the environment and do not jeopardize human In order for a crop protectant to be effective at all, its active ingrehealth. Synergen® OS is such a sustainable and yet high performing dient has to be introduced into the spray fluid (usually water) and adjuvant developed by Clariant. It is manufactured from renewable transported to the sites of action on and inside the plant. This is raw materials, is biodegradable and has an excellent environmental accomplished with adjuvants (additives). Without adjuvants, crop profile. GLOBAL TOTAL LOSS DUE TO DISEASES, PESTS AND WEEDS Without crop protection With crop protection up to 68 % of crops could be lost reduces the potential crop loss by approximately 53 % usable harvest 32 % usable harvest 68 % diseases 18 % diseases 13 % pests 10 % pests 18 % weeds 9% weeds 32 % Source: Acc. to Oerke, E.-C.: Safeguarding production – Losses in major crops and the role of crop protection, Crop Protection 23 (2004), p. 275 – 285 »Synergen® OS is highly effective. A concen­ tration of merely 0.1 % in the spray liquid is sufficient to increase the biological efficacy, whereas conventional adjuvants commonly require 5 – 10 times higher dosages.« PETER BAUR, Head Competence Center Crop Solutions 22 Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS Improved Combination of Natural Substances BENEFITS OF SYNERGEN® OS Synergen® OS is a combination of the nature-based ingredients MSO (Methylated Seed Oil) and PGE (Polyglycerol Ester). MSO is an adjuvant made out of vegetable oils such as rapeseed, sunflower or soybean oil, which is already frequently being used in agriculture. PGE is an emulsifier out of coconut oil that is harmless for the environment and health and is also being used in food and cosmetics. PGE and MSO have proven difficult to combine with each other BIODEGRADABLE thus far because of their differing solubility characteristics. Clariant has now developed a tailored PGE, which is easy miscible with MSO due to its special properties and suffices as the sole emulsifier for MSO. The particular strength of Synergen® OS lies in the combination of two properties. On one hand, the adjuvant ensures a faster penetration of the crop protectant into the inside of the leaf; on the other hand, the adjuvant significantly reduces the drift of the liquid during the spraying process so that considerably less spraying agents are lost or applied to the wrong areas. HARMLESS TO HEALTH HIGHER CROP YIELD CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 23 Delayed Aging of Plastic Films Thanks to Tailored Solutions Strong sun rays and high temperatures not only damage agricultural products, but greenhouse films age faster and become brittle. Substances such as oil-based solvents in paints, wood preservatives, or protective plant sprays containing copper additionally corrode the films. Other pesticides like today’s increasingly used sulfur (the primary plant protection agent in ecological agriculture) contribute to quicker aging of the agricultural films. The same applies for halogenated, often chlorinated chemicals for pest control. Against this background, Clariant has developed tailor-made AddWorks® AGC solutions for agricultural films using the Hostavin® NOW technology in order to considerably slow down the agBETTER REGULATION OF THE CROPLAND’S ing of plastic films applied in agriculture. The product funcMICROCLIMATE tions thereby as a light stabilizer and collects the so-called The cultivation of plants in a climate-protected room significantly free radicals that occur from the exposure to UV rays or high helps to increase the food production with a given amount of arable temperatures from the film itself and neutralizes them. Reland. This principle of a greenhouse was already known 2000 years garding the negative effect of crop-protecting agrochemicals ago. A deciding development step, namely the use of plastic film in or pesticides, the Hostavin® NOW technology stabilizes the agronomy, took place in the middle of the last century. At that time chemical structure of the films and protects them thereby. the expensive greenhouse glass was replaced for cost reasons by Thus, Hostavin® NOW prolongs the lifespan of agricultural cellulose acetate and later by polyethylene film. A short time later, films considerably by raising the total effectiveness. they were replaced by mulch films made of low density polyethylene (LDPE). Today agricultural films are used worldwide in greenhouses as Multi-Functional Use of Films in Agriculture mulch films and in silage production; their technical properties High performing greenhouse films can accomplish many tasks. They have been steadily optimized. This enables resource conservation allow the light spectrum, needed for the photosynthesis of plants, to and optimizes cultivation yield of food because greenhouse films pass undisturbed while simultaneously shielding any other rays. The provide a targeted control of light and temperature. This not only use of film reduces the temperature in the greenhouse; less water positively influences the water supply, but also protects against evaporates in the greenhouse and in the plants. In cooler regions, it pests. Film characteristics can be adapted to the cultivated prodprevents a big loss of heating energy. In addition: Films block certain ucts and local conditions. wavelengths of light and thereby prevent sun damage and plant diseases such as fungal growth. BENEFITS OF HOSTAVIN® NOW INCREASED LIFESPAN ENVIRONMENTALLY COMPATIBLE INCREASES YIELDS 24 Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS »The use of Container Dri® II helps to minimize food waste, supports global aid transports with food, and most importantly, ensures that hundreds of thousands of tons of food reach the people who need it most, while the good quality is preserved«. JUSTIN MUELLER, Head Business Group Cargo & Device Protection, BU Functional Minerals FOOD PROTECTION IN TRANSIT Excellent Protection Against Humidity The spoilage of food in transit over long distances is a serious proband Water Damage lem. The United Nations Industrial Development Organization For this purpose, Clariant has developed the drying agent (UNIDO) estimates that up to 40 % of the harvested food annually Container Dri® II that provides reliable protection against is lost in transit. Steel Containers are frequent transport receptahumidity and water damage. The formation of condensacles. Inside the steel containers, water vapor condensate can easily tion, so-called container sweat, is effectively prevented. This form, predisposing the goods to fungal colonization, change in granular drying agent has a high absorption capacity and flavor, rotting, corrosion of metals, or color fading. Cartons and can hold up to three times its weight in water from the packing materials are also affected by the water, which may impair atmosphere. While absorbing water from the atmosphere, it the sturdiness of the packaging and lead to cargo damage. The transforms into a gel which securely locks in the water. safe transportation of food is therefore a critical factor in the fight Container Dri® II is completely non-toxic and the saturated against global food loss. dehumidification bags can be disposed through the normal industrial waste. The product offers a high level of safety and is extremely effective for all temperature and humidity ranges. BENEFITS OF CONTAINER DRI® II PREVENTS DAMAGE CAUSED NON-TOXIC EASY DISPOSAL BY MOISTURE CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 25 Larger Catalyst Surface Increases the Efficiency AmoMax®-10 consists mainly of the iron oxide-containing mineral wüstite. With system-optimizing promoters, this mineral increases the total surface area of the catalyst after activation and increases the number of active centers. As a result, the activity is 40 % higher compared to catalysts based on magnetite. AmoMax®-10 already operates very efficiently at lower temperatures and less pressure and ensures significantly reduced energy needs for the ammonia production. Approximately 90 ammonia production facilities that switched to AmoMax®-10 have been saving approximately 1 200 gigawatt-hours annually so far, which equals the energy needs of a city with 60 000 households. MANUFACTURING OF FERTILIZER WITH REDUCED ENERGY REQUIREMENT AND AT LOWER COSTS People have tried to increase agricultural yields with different adjuBENEFITS OF AMOMAX® -10 vants since the beginning of farming. At that time, only animal and human excrements were used. The Romans already used nitrogen-collecting plants, which were plowed into the soil as fertilizer. In the Middle Ages, alchemists dealt with the aspects of nutritional plant physiology and the nutrients supplied by the soil. However, from an agricultural perspective, the breakthrough was achieved only when German chemist Justus von Liebig recognized the importance of chemical fertilizer production in 1840. Although Liebig’s experiments did not lead to success per se, he laid the groundENERGY SAVINGS 40 % work for the utilization of inorganic substances such as ammonia. At the beginning of the 20th century, the first ammonia synthesis was developed. The most important industrial process for the manufacturing of ammonia to date was invented by chemist Fritz Haber and engineer Carl Bosch. Nitrogen generates the strongest yield reaction of all plant nutrients. At the same time, Ammonia is an important basic chemical in the production of many nitrogen-containing substances. In everyLOW INVESTMENT COSTS day life, it is found in various products ranging from colorful synthetic fibers in clothing to pharmaceuticals, or baking powder to most rubber products, such as tires. However, only 20 % of the ammonia production is attributable to these various applications, while 80 % of the commercially manufactured ammonia is being processed for nitrogenous fertilizers, predominantly ammonium nitrate and carbamide. The global energy consumption of the synthesis of ammonia equals SAVES UP TO ANNUALLY USD 500 000 IN ENERGY approximately the annual energy consumption of all German COSTS PER FACILITY households combined. Thus, Clariant has worked to make the HaberBosch method, which has hardly been changed in 100 years, more energy-efficient. They succeeded with the development of the innovative and highly active catalyst AmoMax®-10. Thanks to its special compilation, the ammonia production clearly requires less energy. 26 Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS »Thanks to AmoMax®-10, new ammonia production facilities could be designed smaller with the same output and would therefore be more cost-efficient. This is progress which significantly facilitates the production of ammonia as a source substance for the worldwide urgently required fertilizer.« STEFAN GEBERT, Product Manager for Catalyst Technology PRESSURE AND TEMPERATURE DEPENDENCY OF THE AMMONIA YIELD OF AMOMAX® -10 COMPARED TO A CATALYST BASED ON MAGNETITE Temperature dependency Pressure dependency AmoMax® -10 AmoMax® -10 Magnetite Magnetite 0 10 20 30 0 10 20 30 Concentration of ammonia in volume % Concentration of ammonia in volume % 400 °C 100 BAR 425 °C 150 BAR More efficient Extraction of Phosphorous for Fertilizer Clariant optimized the apatite collector in the froth flotation process for a large phosphate mine in South America, in which the apatite is extracted from the ore for the production of fertilizers. The special feature of igneous origin ores, containing low levels of apatite, the mineral who contains the phosphorus, needed a collector with high selectivity, allowing the extraction of apatite, with a purity level of at least 35 % P2O5 (phosphorous pentoxyde). The collector Flotigam® 5806, was developed in conjunction with the client and adapted to very specific requirements for that mine. The Flotigam 5806 is mainly made of renewable raw materials based on vegetable oils. Therefore, the product will meet several goals at once: Increase of exploitation due to an adjustment tailored to the special characteristics of the rock, improving the level of quality and sustainability profile. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 27 »150 years of experience in this field, the Elimination of Toxic Substances in collaboration of geologists and extensive a Natural Manner Clariant has developed a compound Toxisorb® Premium for studies build a solid foundation for this the improvement of storage conditions of feed. Toxisorb® Preclay mineral as the ideal, natural solution mium possesses a very broad spectrum of effects. Thanks to against the risk of mycotoxins.« its exceptionally absorptive large-pored surface, it can bind more than 90 % of all toxins simultaneously. Only a very small FRIEDRICH RUF, Head Application Development dosage is required – a mere 0.1 – 0.5 grams per kilo of feed. Thanks to its open structure, the clay mineral used for Toxisorb® Premium offers the most diverse toxins – independent of their load or structure – the perfect conditions for docking harmful substances. Hydrophilic and hydrophobic layers react with their polar and non-polar »counterparts« of mycotoxin molecules and bind them firmly to themselves. With ToxiDECONTAMINATION OF FEED TO sorb® Premium, Clariant eliminates toxic substances in a natuPROTECT THE LIVESTOCK ral manner, contributing to the health of animals and the Livestock is very important for human nutrition. Almost 40 % of safety of food products. This high-quality raw material is the human protein intake is covered by livestock. Eggs, milk and merely dried and milled before use and complies with meat serve as food products worldwide. A large portion of the dry all legal requirements for feed additives. feed used for livestock consists of grains such as corn, wheat, barley and oats, but also soybeans and rice. Under certain environmental conditions, several types of mildew and therefore also poisonous mycotoxins form in feed. BENEFITS OF TOXISORB® PREMIUM A global study ordered by the Austrian feed producer Biomin was conducted in 2012. It showed that more than half of all samples were contaminated with several toxins. The degree of burden for the different mycotoxins was between 23 % (Ochratoxin A) and 59 % (Deoxynivalenol) of all tested samples. Toxins from Fungus Impair Health HIGHLY EFFICIENT EVEN It only takes low concentrations of mycotoxins to show a toxic effect AT A LOW DOSE in humans and animals. Acute or chronic poisonings can be observed depending on the substance. Symptoms cover a broad spectrum ranging from damage to skin, mucous membranes, liver, and kidneys, to a weakened immune system and hormonal effects such as reproductive disorders. Some mycotoxins are carcinogenic or could cause genetic defects. According to the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), 26 000 sub-Saharan Africans die from liver cancer annually, which is linked to aflatoxin contamina100 % tion from consumed food. NATURAL PRODUCT Mycotoxins are also responsible for an enormous economic loss. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) estimates that mycotoxin contamination leads to an annual loss of 1 billion t of food products worldwide. This amount would be sufficient to feed the entire starving world population of almost 900 million people for three years. PRESERVES ANIMAL HEALTH AND PREVENTS ECONOMIC LOSSES 28 Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS IMPROVED PACKAGING MATERIALS EXTEND Packaging Has Multiple Stipulations to Fulfill THE SHELF LIFE OF FOOD Food stays fresh longer if it is stored in high-performance packagAn essential factor in food spoilage is the contact with oxygen. In ing, which prevents the passage of oxygen and thereby prevents the order to protect food, different methods have been developed over content from spoiling. There are only two materials that completely the centuries that were adapted to the prevailing climatic condiprotect from contact with oxygen: metal and glass. Metals like alutions. Nevertheless, today about 1.3 billion t of food are thrown away minum are mainly used in cans for preserved food and beverages. annually worldwide. This corresponds to one third of the world’s In addition to a comparatively poor life-cycle assessment, disadvanannual production of food. According to the World Packaging Orgatages of aluminum include the potential impact on the flavor of the nization (WPO), between 25 and 50 % of food is thrown away in depackaged food. Highly sensitive baby food is therefore mostly filled veloped countries because it exceeded the expiration date. into jars. The effectiveness of the packaging plays a decisive role with respect Plastics such as PET are used for beverages such as juices, milk and to the length of shelf life. The thicker, more stable, and insulated carbonated drinks besides the more expensive and heavier glass. the packaging, the greater is its protective effect. However, this conHowever, plastics have a certain permeability contrary to glass and dition of effectiveness for packaging often collides with the envimetal. Additional barriers are therefore necessary in order to ronmental provisions such as energy consumption in the manufacattain the needed protection. turing of the packaging or waste prevention. The demand for minimizing packaging, as well as the demand for not using plastic based on crude oil in the manufacturing of food packaging result from these environmental conditions. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 29 »With the new oxygen barrier under development at Clariant the transparency and recycling ability of PET packaging are preserved. Thanks to our product, even demandingly thin bottle walls and small containers offer very good protection against oxidation. As a result, this extends the shelf life of sensitive foods and reduces the amount of packaging material needed.« ANGELICA MARSON, Head Global Innovation, BU Masterbatches Extended Shelf Life of Food due to an CONTENT PROTECTION BY BINDING OXYGEN Integrated Oxygen Barrier IN THE PACKAGING Clariant is currently developing a new masterbatch with an integrated oxygen barrier, which better protects the packaged food and thus clearly lengthens the shelf life. The bar1 rier is very durable and also provides reliable protection for demanding products, which, for example, must be preserved for more than twelve months. The oxygen barrier can be 2 combined with colors and other additives that take on a variety of different tasks. This allows light-sensitive food to be fully protected by integrated UV absorbers. This preserves 3 transparency and recycling ability of the packaging. Even thin-walled packaging and smaller containers guarantee The oxygen scavenging units integrated into the package wall bind the oxygen tightly. This protects the package contents against oxidation. a good protection from oxidation, which saves packaging material. BENEFITS OF OXYGEN BARRIERS EXTENDED SHELF LIFE OF REDUCTION OF ENSURES RECYCLABLE OXYGEN-SENSITIVE PRODUTCS FOOD WASTE PACKAGING MATERIALS 30 Innovative Ways to SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY Mobile independence is a need of modern society. There are about ume worldwide has significant effects on resources and the envi900 million cars worldwide today; the tendency is increasing. The ronment. The sustainability of the various mobility concepts is deInternational Energy Agency predicts more than two billion vehitermined by different factors and encompasses aspects such as cles by 2050. The mobility sector is already responsible for 23 % of vehicle production, vehicle operation and recycling of vehicles. the global CO2 emissions, of which 73 % comes from road traffic. Broad solutions must be found in order to attain effective improveThe rising number of vehicles reverses the efficiency gains achieved ments for a more sustainable mobility. by improved propulsion systems. Therefore, the growing traffic volGLOBAL MOBILITY TRENDS RISE OF AUTOMOBILES INCREASE OF CO2 WORLDWIDE BY EMISSIONS BY NEARLY INCREASE OF AIR TRAFFIC WITH 60 % TO 1.6 BN BY 2025 90 % TO 14.9 GIGATONS 4 BN PASSENGERS BY 2050 (WHOLE TRAFFIC VOLUME) BY 2020 INCREASE OF GROWTH OF GLOBAL CONSUMPTION SHIPPING TRAFFIC BY FREIGHT TRAFFIC BY OF BIOFUELS MEETS 60 % IN 2020 2.5 % ANNUALLY BY 2030 8% OF ROADTRANSPORT FUEL DEMAND IN 2035 Source: Siemens survey: http://www.siemens.com/innovation/en/home/pictures-of-the-future/mobility-and-motors/Urban-Mobility-Dossier.html; http://www.plasticseurope.org/Document/automotive---the-world-moves-with-plastics-brochure.aspx?FolID=2 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 31 BIOFUEL PROVES ITS STRENGTHS This fuel was not only convincing in the development, but also IN THE FLEET TEST during fleet tests. Clariant, Haltermann, and the car manufacturer The so-called E20 fuel sunliquid® 20 consists of 20 % cellulose ethMercedes-Benz have conducted extensive tests throughout the anol, which is not extracted from edible plants, but rather from 2014 year. The results substantiate the high quality and excellent wheat straw or other inedible agricultural by-products with the properties of the sunliquid® 20 fuel. Sunliquid® 20 ensures an help of the sunliquid® method. Cellulose ethanol remains almost improvement of the engine efficiency through its first class comentirely CO2-neutral during its production, and thereby saves bustion properties. For this reason, the 4 % lower energy content almost 100 % in CO2 emissions compared to gasoline. compared to E10 will be more than compensated. Thereafter, cellulose ethanol is mixed with conventional gasoline The sustainability of the fuel (CO2 savings) is therefore significantly components and added to the new fuel sunliquid® 20 by the partner increased while keeping the consumption stable. Besides the excelcompany Haltermann, which specializes in the manufacturing of lent performance, the 50 % improvement in particle emissions special fuels. The cellulose ethanol content in sunliquid® 20 shows with sunliquid® 20 compared to the EU reference fuel is quite signifparticularly high greenhouse gas savings across the entire value icant. This would already permit consumers to fill their vehicles chain. Cellulose ethanol gives the fuel an extraordinarily high knock without compromising range and driving comfort with a fuel that is resistance with 100 octane (RON) and guarantees optimum more environmentally compatible and would not require any adapefficiency. tations to the current gas station infrastructure in Europe. BENEFITS OF SUNLIQUID® 20 USE OF LOCALLY AVAILABLE UP TO 95 % LOWER GREENHOUSE EMPLOYMENT CREATION AND RAW MATERIALS GAS EMISSIONS COMPARED INCOME FOR LOCAL FARMING TO FOSSIL FUEL 32 Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS »Cellulose ethanol made from agrarian residues can play a key role in making mobility more sustainable. Here we have a truly advanced next-generation biofuel, whose performance has been confirmed in the fleet testing with standard vehicles.« ANDRE KOLTERMANN, Head Group Biotechnology SAVINGS OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS IN THE PRODUCTION OF VARIOUS BIOFUELS compared to gasoline BIOETHANOL BIOETHANOL Type of fuel GASOLINE FIRST GENERATION SECOND GENERATION Savings of greenhouse gas emissions 19 % 28 % 52 % 78 % 95 % FOSSIL FUELS FOSSIL FUELS NATURAL GAS Energy source in BIOMASS BIOMASS BIOMASS fuel production Agricultural Feedstock for fuel Crude oil/natural gas Cereal/corn Sugar cane residues Source: Michael Wang, May Wu, Hong Huo (Center of Transportation Research – Argonne National Laboratory): L  ife-cycle energy and greenhouse gas emission impacts of different corn ethanol plant types (22.05.2007), in Environmental Research Letters, Volume 2, Nr. 024001, p. 12, available online at http://iopscience.iop.org and Markus Rarbach (Clariant): Zellulose-Ethanol aus Agrarreststoffen – Biokraftstoff der 2. Generation für eine nachhaltige Mobilität (02.12.2011), p. 28 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 33 CONSIDERABLE IMPROVEMENTS IN good recycling capability as early as in the development phase of THE RECYCLING OF PLASTICS the components. This is especially important for the European auThe processing and reutilization of already used raw materials tomobile industry, which is obligated to recycle 95 % of the weight helps in the pursuit of several goals. It lowers the need for new raw of a new car being placed on the market, starting in 2015. materials while at the same time saving energy compared to the production using new raw materials, and it reduces (residual) waste. Carpeting, a frequently used light-weight material, consists of sevThis makes particular sense with plastics. The need for crude oil eral layers: a lower layer often made of latex dispersions or polyureis significantly lower here. Plastic is a highly sought-after material, thane, a middle layer to fix the carpet fibers in the support fabric not only in order to save weight – for example, in component manu(often connected with an adhesive to the lower level), and the top facturing (structural parts, seat upholstery, carpets) for automolayer made out of various fiber materials such as virgin wool, cotton biles, trains and airplanes. or plastic, and a carrier material. Carpets are almost always glued onto the substrate to avoid shifting. Consequently, a considerable Nowadays, on the average a good 100 kg of pure plastic is built into portion of the carpet that needs to be disposed consists of adhesive every car – including composite materials and reinforced plastics, residues. These adhesives, for example made from a synthetic latex this weight proportion is actually almost double. Compared with base, usually are connected with the used plastics in the carpet, other materials used in car manufacturing, this share of plastic has therefore making homogeneous recycling impossible. risen steadily over the past 40 years from 6 % to approximately 15 % and increasingly replaces iron and steel. The reasons are the diGLOBAL MARKET SIZE FOR ADHESIVES AND SEALANTS in % verse application possibilities for plastic in light-weight construcLatin America 4% tion, the easier assembly, and improved functional integration, as Rest of the world 3% well as the improved freedom of design. Quick and Complete Separation of Asia/Pacific 43 % Textile Components in Vehicles Textile components such as carpets and linings in cars, trains, ships Europe 32 % or airplanes are used for aesthetic reasons, to reduce the noise level, and for slip-resistant floor spaces. For example, large installed carNorth America 27 % pet areas result in a large amount of material for disposal. In order to achieve high recovery rates and to keep the recycling process as Source: John Baker: Putting adhesives growth on the map. ICIS Chemical Business (30 September – 6 October 2013). energy efficient as possible, it is important to pay attention to a 34 Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS »Licocene® offers outstanding soundproofing and vibration absorbing properties. It lowers the weight of carpet floorings for example considerably – an Airbus A380 equipped therewith saves over 70 000 liters of kerosene per year.« SEBASTIJAN BACH, Head of Technical Marketing BL Waxes, BU Additives High Adhesion and 100 % Recyclability mance Polymers demonstrate an excellent environmental and Against this background, Clariant developed Licocene® Perforhealth profile. Significantly less volatile gases arise from the mance Polymers, multi-functional polyethyleneand polyproproduction and the finished product. In comparison to other pylene waxes, which are clearly superior to traditional bonding adhesives, they are completely non-toxic; different than latex techniques. Licocene® combines the high mechanical firmness materials, they do not cause any eye or skin irritations and posof polymers with the easy formability of waxes. Licocene® has a sess no allergenic potential. low melting point (low processing temperatures) and viscosity, quickly sets, and needs less energy and no water during the proAn advantage regardless of the recycling factor – both for the duction. However, it has an extraordinary bonding strength. Liautomobile and the airplane industry – is the possible weight cocene® is tailor-made according to customers’ wishes because reduction of the installed carpets when using Licocene®. From its properties, such as hardness, melting point, transparency the viewpoint of fuel efficiency, Licocene® can contribute and viscosity, can be selectively adjusted. significantly to the savings of fuel and thus of emissions that are bad for the environment. An Airbus A380, for instance, uses Carpets glued together and produced with Licocene® can easily 71 500 l less kerosene per year and causes 173 320 kg less CO2 be recycled up to 100 % as homogeneous composites (carrier emissions if it is equipped with Licocene®. materials, fibers, and Licocene® as adhesive). Licocene® PerforBENEFITS OF LICOCENE® INCREASED PERFORMANCE WATERAND 100 % ENERGY-SAVINGS RECYCLABILITY CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 35 RISK-FREE FLAME PROTECTION GLOBAL CONSUMPTION OF FLAME RETARDANTS (FR) IN PLASTICS Flame retardants are chemical substances, which effectively change Volume in % 2011 aluminium hydroxide 40 % the material properties relevant for a fire (flammability, extinguishorganic phosphorous compounds 15 % ing ability, flame spread, thermal release, smoke formation). Materials in building construction are currently the largest application field for flame retardants; however, the need for flame retardants is chlorinated FR 11 % rising considerably in the automobile and airplane industry. Important drivers in this regard are the increased use of light weight Antimonoxide 8% components made of plastic on the one hand with simultaneously higher temperatures in the engine compartments due to smaller brominated FR 20 % engines giving off more heat, and stricter flame protection standards in the airplane industry on the other hand. Considerable valothers 6% ue is already being placed on the environmental compatibility of the used flame retardants. This causes questionable halogenated Source: Townsend Solutions: Plastic Additives Global Marketing Report (2012), p. 9 – 22, substances to lose market shares to environmentally more compationline at www.townsendsolutions.com ble, phosphorus-based flame retardants. Nevertheless, the absolute amount of halogenated flame retardants used is increasing – nated flame retardants. Therefore, legal provisions, which regulate especially in China and the rest of Asia. halogenated flame retardants, have been enacted in many countries. The treatment of plastic components, which have been treated with Chlorine and Brominated Flame Retardants with halogenated flame retardants, is also problematic. Another EuropeConsiderable Dangers for the Environment an directive regarding the disposal of electrical and electronic techHalogenated flame retardants are based on chemical compounds nology prescribes, therefore, that halogenated flame retardants with chlorine and bromine. These substances and compounds bemust be separated from plastics before recycling, energy recovery, came the focus of public and scientific criticism over the past few or disposal. years because they harbor considerable dangers for people, animals and the environment. The compounds are considered to endanger water, are being transported over long distances, and naturally decompose only very slowly. Furthermore, they accumulate in organisms: They have already been verified in fish, marine mammals, and birds of prey from Arctic regions. In case of fire, dangerous decomposition products can arise, so-called dioxins, when using haloge36 »Exolit® OP offers highly effective fire protection, which fulfills the most stringent specifications. The halogen-free products possess an excellent environmental and health profile. In case of fire, considerably less smoke arises with Exolit® OP as with many other flame retardants.« ADRIAN BEARD, Head Marketing and Advocacy Flame Retardants, BU Additives GLOBAL MARKET SHARE FOR PLASTICS WITH NON-HALOGENATED BENEFITS OF EXOLIT® OP FLAME RETARDANTS Polyolefins, including polyethylene and polypropylene 23 % Epoxy resins 21 % Unsaturated polyester (UPE) 19 % FULFILLS MOST STRINGENT ENVIRONMENTAL DEMANDS, Engineering thermoplastics 8% MEETING THE ECO LABEL REQUIREMENTS Others 29 % Source: Transparency Market Research: Non-Halogenated Flame Retardants (Aluminium Hydroxide, Phosphorous and Others). Market for Polymers (Polyolefin, Epoxy Resin, PVC, ETP, UPE, Rupper, Styrenics and Others) – Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth and Forecast, 2012 – 2018 (01.07.2013) Excellent Protection of Fire and Damage HIGH SECURITY BY AVOIDANCE OF SHORT CIRCUITS Exolit® OP is an innovative, highly effective flame retardant based on organic phosphates, which allows for processing with excellent long-term stability. The Exolit® OP products have excellent flame-retarding properties and reduce the smoke density and smoke corrosiveness. This elevates the chances for people to weather a fire unharmed on the one hand, and on the other hand, it minimizes the consequential damages, for instance, on electronic components. In the PREVENTS FIRES AND EXPLOSIONS event of a fire, they lower the emissions of highly volatile organic compounds and other dangerous gases. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 37 EFFICIENT CATALYST TECHNOLOGY fulfill more stringent exhaust gas standards (such as, for example, In 1956, the engineer Eugene Houdry filed a patent application the European Norm EU6 and the specification of the Low-Emission for an automobile exhaust catalyst in the USA. Exhaust gas from Vehicle Program in the state of California). combustion engines contains mostly oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen and water vapor. Among them are also toxic or climate-damaging Innovations for Exhaust Gas Catalyst gases, such as nitrogen-oxide (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), carbon Continuously more restrictive exhaust emission standards and the dioxide (CO2) and sulfur dioxide (SO2), as well as unburned hydrocontinuing efforts for an improvement in air quality in cities demand carbons. With the new catalyst, the burned fuel should only generincreasingly more efficient engines and more effective catalysts. This ate exhaust gases that are relatively harmless for fauna and flora, is especially true for diesel powered vehicles. Synthetic zeolites as such as carbon dioxide (CO2) and water vapor (H2O). The equipment carrier material and reservoirs of pollutants are an important compoof gasoline engines with catalyst has been standard for more than nent of catalyst technology for diesel engines. The attributes of this 20 years. Technical obstacles, like lower exhaust gas temperature, most diverse group of substances (based on aluminumand silicon has prevented this for a long time with diesel engines; however, oxide) has already been proven in other application areas for decades meanwhile the catalyst has found entry into this domain. Innovaand can be tailor-made for a specific use. This also makes them intertive materials like zeolite are part of this continuously advancing esting for application in the automotive exhaust gas technology. technology. They make it possible that diesel engines are able to Zeolites are thermally stable, cost effective and harmless for people and the environment. GLOBAL MARKET SIZE FOR CATALYSTS FOR EMISSION CONTROL in USD bn 14.22 6.7 2012 2019 Source: Frost & Sullivan: Opportunities in the APAC Automotive Industry Spurs Growth of Global Emission Control Catalyst Market (23.5.2013), media release, available online at www.frost.com 38 Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS Zeolites According to Customer Requirements BENEFITS OF ZEOLITES Clariant belongs to the leading European manufacturers of zeolite with its production plants in Germany, South Africa and India. Zeolites are available in high and reproducible quality. Zeolites manufactured in close cooperation according to customer requirements play a key role in Clariant’s portfolio. This especially applies for zeolites in the field of catalytic converters. About half of Clariant annual zeolite EFFECTIVE REDUCTION production in the amount of approximately 2000 t is appliOF EMISSIONS cable to this area. Per catalytic converter, about 500 grams of zeolite powder is needed – the Clariant production is sufficient for about 2 million catalysts per year. HARMLESS FOR PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT COST-EFFICIENT AND HIGH-QUALITY REPRODUCTION CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 39 »GEKO® LE and ECOSIL® LE offer two solutions individually adapted to the conditions at each foundry supporting the gradual transition to a reduced-emission process.« LORENZO SECHI, Head Sales Foundry Additives, BU Functional Minerals HIGH-QUALITY CASTING ALMOST First, a model is made out of wood, plastic or metal. Then a mixture WITHOUT EMISSIONS of quartz, bentonite as a binding agent, mineral coal, or natural and Casting of metal belongs to the oldest-known production processes synthetic resins as »lustrous carbon producers« (to prevent the adin the world and is already more than 5 000 years old. Although the herence of the sand grains to the metal), and water under shaking main features of the production process have not changed much or pressure around the model are solidified. During this process, technically in comparison to antiquity, it has only been a comparathe upper and lower sides of the object are molded separately, and tively short time since metals could be »casted« in a way that allows at the end, the two halves are joined together into a hollow shape. the production of very complex objects. However, the casting process still produces highly toxic emissions and the recycling of the The use of these mineral coals and resins result in emissions during no longer usable sand casting molds is often difficult because of its the casting process. These include volatile organic compounds toxic burden. (VOCs), dioxins and furans, as well as polycyclic, aromatic hydrocarbons, which are related to benzene. Among the volatile organic Shape Metalwork with Sand compounds, the BTXE aromatics (abbreviation for benzene, toluThe process overwhelmingly used in the industrial production of ene, xylene and ethylbenzene) are particularly toxic to some extent. smallto medium-sized castings is the so-called sand casting proMany of these compounds are considered carcinogenic, toxic to recess. Sand casting is characterized by its flexibility and low cost beproduction and genetically harmful. cause the molds do not have to be pre-treated before being filled with the molten metal. The process is used for producing engine To limit these risks, the emissions occurring during the casting problocks, gearboxes, drive shafts, suspension arms, brake discs, pivot cess can subsequently be made innocuous – this is, however, conbearings, manifolds, turbochargers and other suspension componected with high investments and operating costs. Emissions are alnents. ready being reduced during the casting process – as with the use of lustrous carbon producer, which possess a lower tendency to form aromatics than other additives. This would also reduce the cost and drastically facilitate the recyclability of the sand that is no longer needed from the molds. 40 Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS GREEN SAND MOLDING PROCESS Water, sand, ­bentonite (GEKO® LE), further foundry  additives (ECOSIL® LE) Cooling 60 min. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Mixing Molding Pouring of Separation of cast and mold, Cleaning 1 – 2 min. molten metal destruction of mold, cooling of sand, station: removal 5 min. magnetic separation of metal of sand adhering residues to cast and, if 60 min. ­applicable, surface treatment Refeeding of mold parts into the production process Highly Efficient Reduction of Toxic special mineral coal known for its particularly high gloss carbon-­ Foundry Emissions forming ability in the production of Ecosil®. The quantity Clariant supplies two very efficient solutions to limit toxic emisused can therefore be reduced significantly as compared to sions from metal casting and to reduce the costs: Ecosil® LE alternative mineral coals. Thanks to the additional graphite and GEKO® LE. The lustrous carbon contained in Ecosil® LE is contained within that does not cause any VOCs, significantly responsible for a faultless and smooth surface. Clariant uses a lower emissions occur when using ECOSIL® LE. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 41 Considerable Reduction of Emissions BENEFITS OF GEKO® LE UND ECOSIL® LE After a three year test phase, GEKO® LE and ECOSIL® LE achieved a drastic reduction in the emissions of aromatic compounds, which are considered especially harmful to health. The release of bezene was decreased by up 88 %. The emissions of other substances such as xylene, toluene, and ethylbenzene could also be reduced 75 – 99 %. Clariant’s low emission technology for resin additives costs 20 – 25 % more than a comparable variant that is not FIELD TESTS DOCUMENT SIGNIFICANT low in emissions. However, this investment will pay for itself REDUCTION OF THE EMISSION OF quickly because using the high-efficiency products GEKO® LE and HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS Ecosil® LE require significantly fewer binding agents, lustrous carbon producers and other additives. Due to more stringent regulatory emission requirements beginning in Europe with the year 2020, Clariant expects the global sales of its low-emission casting additives to increase by 20 % annually. Reusable Sands Due to Lower Chemical Contamination OUTSTANDING PRODUCT FEATURES The natural clay mineral-based foundry bentonite GEKO® IN THE VARIOUS PROCESSING STEPS OF THE GREEN SAND MOLD LE initially provides superior mechanical stability of the PROCESSES sand mold within the shortest possible time and rapid disintegration after the casting process. In addition, the foundry-Bentonite GEKO® LE from Clariant’s own extraction sites, contains only traces of arsenic. As a result, the pollution of the foundry sand with cancer-causing chemicals can be reduced and the waste material can be more easily disposed. This allows the sands to be reused for a variety of applications, for example, in civil engineering, while material EXCELLENT RECYCLABILITY contaminated with arsenic must be disposed of in landfills. OF THE USED SAND THANKS TO HIGH QUALITY BASE MATERIALS 42 Innovation FOR GLOBAL TRENDS HYDROCEROL FOR INCREASED LIGHT-WEIGHT fulfill these requirements. Only the combination of different materials CONSTRUCTION permits the diversity of the desired features. An important group In 130 years of automobile history, the materials to manufacture auof these combined materials are so-called fiber composites and tomobiles and thus their weight have changed dramatically. While amongst them the fiber-reinforced polymers. Fiber-reinforced the chassis of the first cars were made out of wood, steel has since plastics have become an indispensable part of light-weight construction. prevailed in the body construction. The weight of automobiles has steadily increased with more elaborate technology over the decades According to a study by the market research company McKinsey & – an average of about 50 %. A higher weight simultaneously means Company, the automobile manufacturers must more than double a higher fuel consumption and higher greenhouse gas emissions. the share of light-weight components from currently 30 % to 70 % Therefore, the manufacturers tried to slow down or even stop this by 2030 in order to balance the vehicle’s weight increase by trend with new, lighter materials. alternative propulsion systems and fuel-saving technologies. The new materials must fulfill several requirements: Besides the lower weight and equal size and functionality, they ought to be environmentally-compatible, recyclable, hardly inflammable, stable, and especially cost effective. One single material generally cannot GLOBAL MARKET SIZE FOR LIGHT-WEIGHT MATERIALS 35.5 Other Lightweight Plastics USD bn. Materials 5% 5.5 m t ~ 17.3 +10 USD bn. 10.3 m t 2010 FORECAST FOR 2017 Source: Green Car Congress: Frost & Sullivan – market for lightweight materials in automobiles to reach USD 95.3 B in 2017 (23.08.2011), Online-article at www.greencarcongress.com CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 43 »Polymer foams can be manufactured in a fine, uniform cell structure with Hydrocerol® as foaming agent. This new technology reduces the material consumption, investment costs, and energy.« PIRKO KOLDITZ, Product Manager Additives, BU Masterbatches Significant Reduction of Plastic Density with BENEFITS OF HYDROCEROL® Unchanged Mechanical Properties Clariant developed an innovative solution for the production of foamed thermoplastics, a type of polymer with the propellant Hydrocerol®. The density of these plastics can be considerably reduced with this special foaming process – with practically unchanged mechanical properties – and the components have a considerably lower weight. The Hydrocerol® range of products consists of chemical propellants for REDUCED DENSITY BY 20 – 50 % LEADS various requirements. Thereby all plastics that are used TO WEIGHTAND MATERIAL-SAVINGS in vehicle production can theoretically be foamed – without forfeiting firmness and functionality. GAIN IN EFFICIENCY: SHORTER PROCESSING TIME, EASIER INSTALLATION, BETTER FLOW CHARACTERISTICS AND LOWER WASTE IMPROVED THERMAL AND ACOUSTICAL ISOLATION MINIMIZES SOUND LEVEL AND LOWERS AMBIENT TEMPERATURE 44 In My Real LIFE 6 Employees – 6 Views Photography Jo Röttger, Text Bertram Job In My Real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS ABHIJIT NAIK HEAD OPERATIONS PIGMENTS INDIA »My greatest pleasure is to see that so many improvements are happening in our pigment plants and sites. Our business achievements, no accidents and employees making progress give immense satisfaction. This happens when there is a clear direction and discipline. Being disciplined also generates additional values. We all have the desire for India’s economy to grow and want it changing for the better. One of my passions is energy conservation and low cost manufacturing. India is a very competitive market for pigments, and our competitors are often small manufacturers who expend much less efforts on environmental standards. Last year we renewed the concept of energy conservation and together with Clariant Production System’s savings we contributed significantly towards cost reductions and this also gives me lot of satisfaction. I cannot rest at the periphery but always have to get to the core of the issue, whether you give me an apple or a problem, I would break them both into small components until I have understood everything. My father worked for the railways; he was a track specialist. He said: Abhijit, whenever you perform any work, ensure that you complete it with quality and to customer expectations. I always keep this in mind, very well knowing that if I compromise in the area of quality it may lead to misfortune and especially in the chemical industry this can do severe damage. I had a wonderful father; and I often spent my vacations going out with him on the tracks, which gave me a lot of general understanding of the way things work in life. Unfortunately, I am the same at home; there is always a specific spot for an item and an item for every spot perfection. And what my father passed on to me I would now like to pass on to my son. We frequently take long walks together and I believe he understands me quite well. He is 22 years old and attends the university; he would like India to be successful, which will generate more jobs.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 47 In My Real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS PRIYANKA SHIVAN HEAD OF STRATEGIC INITIATIVES, REGIONAL BUSINESS SERVICES INDIA »The first thing that I need when I come home from work is a steaming hot cup of tea and a newspaper. It helps me unwind and switch off after a long day at work. Working closely with the Managing Director’s Office is a complex job and challenging at the same time. I am from Srinagar, but did my higher education in Mumbai and decided to make it my home. I like the buzz that Mumbai offers and feel that no other city in the country has that. Also, it is more professional than any other part of the country. The stress at work has increased, but it is a positive stress. It is related to internal changes; no one can disregard this. I love everything about it, because it presents me with more challenges. Once in a while my friends complain that I am not talking much with them. They will just have to wait until the weekend. Then we travel to South Mumbai and go dancing together. I have a small, but very close circle of friends who are more like family to me. And most of my weekends are busy with them. Watching movies, mall hopping, clubbing and short road trips is what our weekends look like. My friends and family are most precious to me. When we love someone, we should do it without expecting anything in return. That is my mantra for peace and happiness. I am myself quite a roadie and luckily my husband is one too. We love travelling by road and although we've already undertaken quite a few adventures, the list is long.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 49 In My Real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS SAMBIT ROY REGIONAL HEAD BU PIGMENTS, REGIONAL MARKETING & SALES DIRECTOR BS PLASTICS & SPECIAL APPLICATIONS AND BS PRINTING INDIA »I have enjoyed my career path very much over the years. I had the opportunity to develop various areas and was given the freedom to pursue my own path. At the same time, I allowed my employees some freedom. It is very easy: I trust my employees and they trust me in return. We work with the sentiment that it is not for someone who pays us, but because it is our purpose. I believe that people who want to be leaders need a certain amount of flexibility. In my case, I started at the operational level. When I switched to a technical and subsequently to a sales position, I had to think differently immediately in order to develop new skills. An excellent training program – »Emotional Intelligence« – was very helpful to me. Furthermore, we can always learn something from others who are good at their work. Emotional intelligence is a powerful instrument. Even though you may have a good product, a good brand – in the end, it is always the people who understand the creation of value and customer relations who make a difference. But we need a team of diverse people. If a cricket team only has good batsmen, it will not win. Some are aggressive sales people; others tend to be analytical. We need the right combination for long-term success. On a typical day, my workday ends at 7:00 pm. I go home, take a bath, and three days per week I meditate. This meditation lasts about 30 minutes and brings a lot of inner peace. You sit down, follow the instructions of the guru from an audio recording and separate yourself from your daily cares. At the end your body is filled with a good amount of positive energy. My most important task is to remove barriers for my employees. Everyone comes to the office in the morning to accomplish something positive. If they don’t succeed, it is my responsibility as a superior to identify the obstacles. Or to teach my employees how they can accomplish this themselves. That is all one needs to know.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 51 In My Real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS SHYAM SITARAM GADEKAR FOREMAN OF PIGMENT PRODUCTION IN ROHA »When I started working at this factory I was 22, 23 years old. That was 35 years ago. Meanwhile, the work has become more pleasant and also safer. Today, we have many more regulations, and if we inquire about something it is available immediately. The atmosphere has greatly improved; I like that. I have three daughters and am very happy with that. I didn’t necessarily need to have a son. I am happy with what God gives me. One daughter works for the government, she is a teacher. One lives with her husband in Yemen. All of them have a good education. The company helped me to earn the necessary money for this. Two of my daughters are married. Once the third one marries I will be relieved. I have taken over some rice fields from my ancestors. My father and grandfather worked in them as well. We harvest approximately 600 kg of rice per year. I have never had to buy rice in my entire life. In the past, my three daughters helped in the fields; now one of my brothers helps out. Or a few paid workers. I also have two bulls. I have always explained my type of work to my daughters. But they never attended the special day during the year when families are allowed to visit the factory. I am very proud of them. My family, my friends: I wish all of them a good life. I have always prayed for that. Two years ago, I won a company drawing for a trip to Germany and Switzerland. My wife and I spent ten days there, in Frankfurt, Berlin, Munich, Zurich. We liked Berlin the best. Everything was so clean and quiet there. I remember the many churches we visited. It was a noble feeling to sit there. Next year I will retire. Then I can spend more time in the rice field if I stay healthy. And I would like to travel to Singapore with my wife, my daughters and their partners. My friends have told me that this is the best place in the world.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 53 In My Real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS SUNIL DEVAL DIRECTOR PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP INDIA »I take my work very seriously, regardless of my position, which does not matter to me much. It is more important to me to spread this message: Be as conscientious as possible, but do not be in the illusion that you will achieve happiness with more money and a higher position. On a spiritual level only you can become permanently happy and satisfied. I have spread this concept everywhere I worked. When I worked in the area of basic research for this company, all my chemists would come to my office in the morning. We used to dwell upon verses from the holy books like Bhagavadgita, and I explained to them what it was about. Only afterwards did we discuss our work. I was fortunate that my superiors allowed me to do this and even encouraged me. It created an ever increasing harmony, leading to unprecedented successes. Now my work is predominantly to assess the products for their possible adverse effects. If we detect something risky, we caution users so that people, machines and the environment are well protected. Everyone handling chemicals should know what kind of risks and dangers are related to the chemicals they handle. My colleagues always honored me more than my designations or ranks and came to me with private questions for holistic solutions. I always took time for this because I believe it to be my most important responsibility as a person. If you remain pure and honest, your colleagues will go out of their way for you. All the more I have to make sure that they do right things. I get up at 3:30 in the morning and start my day by spiritual practices such as reading Holy Books, chanting, meditations, or yoga. I make notes on how I understand the texts. Meditation on breathing slows down thought processes. Once your thought processes have stopped, true knowledge comes on its own. I am not at all for short-term happiness, I believe in sustainable success. Ethics is the basis for this. A more important factor for success of any organization is, however, the contentment of its members. If employees are content, a company grows automatically.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 55 In My Real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS MURALI SAMALA REGIONAL ENERGY MANAGER INDIA »It is my responsibility to improve energy efficiency at all locations in India. In the past, the main emphasis was placed on the factories in Roha and Cuddalore. We focused on conserving water, because energy consumption can also be reduced by this. Water is very precious, particularly in India. The next challenge will be the new plant in Vashere. The local population already has an awareness of this topic. Since I arrived here twenty five years ago from Hyderabad with a bag full of testimonials, the level of interest in this regard has increased. Even for me. As a young project engineer, my only thoughts were of how to increase productivity. Over the years I have learned how important sustainability is. And instead of merely talking about it, we are implementing it. I also transfer these ideas to the home we purchased. Look here, these small lights; they only use about 5 Watts per hour. This is not ideal for reading, but provides very interesting lighting. I will switch all our lighting to this. I have already installed LED lights in the hallways of the house. Right now, the committee of home owners is discussing solar panels. When we conserve energy, we also do it for the next generation. My son reminds me of this frequently. If I don’t shut off the car at the stop light, he asks: Why are you wasting fuel? He is attending college to become an engineer for computer technology. The competition is fierce, but he is doing very well. When he comes home, we go out to eat and do some shopping together. My family is my inspiration; every evening I take a long walk with my wife. Initially, I wanted to become a pilot; it’s too late for this now. The closest I ever came to flying was during an appointment in Bangkok. You can see the photo here on the wall: Here is the speed boat, and here the paraglider. You are pulled upwards and move as quickly as the boat. It was fantastic.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 57 People MAKE OUR SUCCESS People MAKE OUR SUCCESS I  n  key markets such as China, United States and Europe, GLOBAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY companies are confronted with increasing challenges when Clariant sees a competitive edge in the heterogeneity of its employtrying to recruit qualified personnel. Almost a third of the ees who come from over 90 countries. These employees have diemployers in those regions describe the task to adequately verse cultural backgrounds and bring different skills and talents to fill positions as difficult. Therefore, a positive perception of compathe company the basis for innovative and creative solutions. nies as attractive employers and the long-term commitment of Consequently, Clariant does not tolerate any discrimination based employees are deciding factors for a lasting success. Companies on race, ethnicity, sex, religion, conviction, disability, age or sexual with successful positioning in the labor market exceed the competiidentity of employees – either within the company or by business tion 1.8 times in sales growth and even 2.4 times in earnings and partners. These values are documented in the Clariant Code of profitability. Conduct and the Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. In order to document its societal commitment, Clariant has adopted a suitable workplace Attractive Programs for Employees directive (Clariant Employment Policy) on these issues. Clariant’s employees are of central importance for the company; their performance alone is responsible for the economic strength Clariant’s global employment policy strives for a diverse workforce and competitiveness. For this reason, Clariant has launched several and aims to find the candidates best suited for an open position. programs for promotion and development of employees by Clariant is a non-discriminatory employer, hiring and promoting offering various services over the past years, with special focus on employees based solely on the qualifications and skills required for apprenticeships and in-service programs. the work. The recruitment of employees is based solely on their qualifications for the open position and their individual potential. Attracting qualified employees and providing ongoing employee At the end of 2014, almost 60 % of the individuals hired at the top training and development are both of great importance to Clariant. four management levels were citizens of the country in which Clariant would like to provide all employees with the skills and the hiring part of the Group was located. resources they need to work in an even more efficient and innovative way. Clariant also aims to become more attractive as an employer Clariant pays wages and salaries that are determined by local releand keep employees within the company for as long as possible vant competitive markets rather than by legally defined minimum through measures including a modern family policy and special wages. Therefore, Clariant does not keep statistics of the salaries demographic management. in relationship to minimum wages. More than half of the employment contracts are based on agreements with employee representatives. Managerial positions are generally not included in such agreements. Clariant is generally committed to paying its employees fair and appropriate compensation in the form of wages and salaries, social components and other perks. This compensation CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 59 should meet minimum statutory standards and in principle exceeds Attractive Benefits in Addition to Salary Payments them in each country in which Clariant is active. Globally, the averPension and other employee benefit plans are monitored globally by age basic salary of female employees was 93 % of that of the average Clariant for relevance, compliance, costs and suitability as a valumale employee in 2014. able employee benefit. Clariant is aware of the significance of these pension and other benefit plans as a way of retaining staff. These The spread of salaries between Clariant employees varies from one plans are regularly matched with benefits in the respective councountry to another. This depends heavily on the relevant local mantries in order to be in line with the current practice. Before every agerial and employment structure, and is frequently culturally inadjustment, Clariant carefully examines the impact the changes fluenced. For this reason, local salary structures cannot be used to have on the employees, and if necessary, conducts direct consultaaddress compensation issues. On a global level, the ratio between tions with them. the averageand the highest base salary is 1:9. In terms of the total compensation, including variable salary components, the spread see Annual Report 2014, page 186 is 1:17. The ratio tends to be higher in growth regions than, for example, in Europe. Salary adjustments are negotiated in accordance No intentional differentiation is made in the company benefits prowith a fixed and unambiguous system and implemented through vided by Clariant according to the type of employment contract, but mutual agreement between the line manager and the HR departthis does not exclude differences depending on the individual case ment. As a basic principle, a consistent »salary philosophy« ensures and local circumstances. The deciding criterion in this case is the that adjustments are made in the context of the local markets and customary market standard, which is being reviewed within the the individual performance. scope of continuing benchmark surveys. However, a systematic survey has yet to be undertaken. see Annual Report 2014, pages 130 ff. 60 People MAKE OUR SUCCESS More Flexibility through Innovative 90 000 »Working Time Account« In a pilot project, Clariant offers the employees at German locations the possibility to retire earlier or take more time for the family without financial loss. The new »long-term Hours of training attended by employees in 2014 account« is an instrument for improved reconciliation of work and family or for more leeway for easier implementation of personal plans. > 9 200 The long-term account functions in principle like a savings book. In the savings phase, employees deposit wages – and Employees took part in training courses other compensation components. This includes parts of gross pay, vacation time, collective allowances, bonuses, or TRAINING AND FURTHER EDUCATION mandatory overtime. Therefore, wage and other compensaIn 2014, more than 9 200 employees took part in Clariant tion components can be contributed per year up to a maxitraining courses, attending a total of about 90 000 hours of mum amount of the double contribution assessment ceiling training. Almost a quarter of this training occurred in the into the German statutory pension insurance. Clariant Academy programs with an emphasis on the socalled leadership trainings with approximately 730 particiThese credits even carry interest. Clariant bears all costs for pants and about 22 000 hours. Local training offerings the establishment and management of the long-term accomprised more than 67 000 hours with emphasis mainly count, as well as for a double trust guarantee. The credit balon language courses, communication and interpersonal ance will be independently managed and is protected relations, performance management and business adminisagainst insolvency. In the event the employee is released from tration. Employees also attended courses in information the job, she/he is guaranteed by law at least the contributed technology (IT), environment, safety, and health (ESH), amounts. The goal is a longer-term, paid release from the law and technology. However, data for these courses is not job – usually right before retirement. What makes this so yet centrally recorded. special is that the social security protection remains intact during the release phase. The credit balance will be available even when the working relationship has been prematurely terminated, or will be dispersed to the heirs in the event of death. CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 61 Custom-Fit Educational Offers Active Family Policy Clariant arms itself against an increased lack of specialists. In 2012, Clariant initiated a program to promote more familyThis happened at the Knapsack location with customized friendly job opportunities. As part of this program, all mothers are apprenticeships and in-service training offers for their exguaranteed a comparable position upon their return to work of up isting staff and new employees. With the Rhein-Erft Acadeto one year following the birth or adoption of a child. For the two my, which evolved from a training department of the former years following the birth or adoption, Clariant grants mothers ten Hoechst AG, Clariant has a renowned private vocational days of paid leave for family purposes, in addition to their standard school specialized in the chemical industry that is available annual vacation. Correspondingly, this provision is available to faat the Knapsack site. thers as well. Close to 10 000 males and females were entitled to this provision in 2014. From the 470 mothers and fathers who took The training at the academy takes place within a modularly advantage of this opportunity, 360 returned back to their workplace configured program, which accurately reflects the operating in 2014, of which 124 were females and 236 were males (return rate procedures. The training measures take place in the categofor mothers: 59 %, for males: 91 %). ries of basic training, equipment and procedural training: It all starts with the basic training, which is completed mostly on a theoretical level. This is followed by the plant training where Clariant’s employees are already schooled on the new equipment. The in-services conclude with the process training where the employees deal specifically with all processes, which could be of any significance for them in their daily jobs. »I have the utmost trust in the expertise and experience of the team. However, it would not be fair to expect everybody to prepare a large number of new employees in a pedagogically valuable manner for their challenging tasks. This is why we are counting on the support from the Rhein-Erft Academy.« Thomas Westerfeld, Operations Manager at the Knapsack location 62 People MAKE OUR SUCCESS Global Employee Survey Should Accelerate Employment with Perspective the Change The internal talent-management process on a local, regional and Clariant would like to be a preferred employer, not only for global level is an important means for the systematic development the employees, but also for potential candidates. For this of the employees and for the needs-based design of the training reason it is important for Clariant to regularly compare its programs. During talent reviews, strengths and development areas attractiveness as an employer with the international compeof key personnel are systematically identified and individual develtition and to receive appropriate feedback from the employopment plans drawn up. One of the aims of the »360-degree feedees. In the fourth quarter of 2014, Clariant has conducted an back process« and the annual »performance dialog« is to identify extensive survey of the employees under the motto »your the ongoing development potential of employees and agree on apvoice matters«. The mood of the employees shall provide inpropriate development goals. The continuous training of employees formation to management about how the staff perceives the within the framework of the internal talent management process working conditions, which aspects of the work environment ensures well-functioning succession planning for important posiare regarded as particularly positive, and which ones are tions within the company: About 85 % of the senior management looked at more critically. More than 6 800 people from 16 positions can be filled internally. countries participated in this survey, which corresponds to a participation rate of 65 %. The survey was conducted confiThe performance management process comprised about 920 peodentially. The findings from the feedback are now being ple in the highest five management levels (ML) by the end of 2014, used to initiate local activities, which generate additional which corresponds to approximately 6 % of the total work force, as value for the employees and for Clariant in terms of profitwell as about 9 200 people in the downstream levels (54 % of the able growth. For this growth, an open-minded, forthright employees). This corresponds to a percentage share of 60 % of all company culture and continuous dialog among the employemployees. Over the next few years the process will be applied to ees are important building blocks. the majority of employees of lower levels. EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY AND GENDER IN 2014 Employee Category Gender FTE in % Management (Level 1 – 5) 822 4.8 Female 94 0.6 Male 728 4.3 Employees (Non-ML) 9 040 53.2 Female 3 003 17.7 Male 6 037 35.5 Worker 7 142 42.0 Female 544 3.2 Male 6 598 38.8 Total 17 003 100 CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 63 COMMITMENT TO A DIVERSE WORKFORCE od, 2 018 new employees joined Clariant. From those who left, 1 258 The number of employees who left the company on their own acmales and 599 females, 34 % were younger than 30 years of age, cord in 2014 has slightly decreased. Altogether 1 857 employees left 41 % were between 30 and 50 years of age, 25 % were over 50 years Clariant, about 7 % were laid off due to organizational or operationof age. From those who were hired, 1 383 males and 635 females, al reasons, or left because of retirement, expiration of temporary 47 % were younger than 30 years of age, 47 % were between 30 and contracts and other reasons. The remaining number, about 3.5 % of 50 years of age, and 6 % were over 50 years of age. the employees, were voluntary terminations. In the same time periTHE STRUCTURE OF THE CLARIANT WORKFORCE IN 2014 Information based on full-time equivalents (FTE) Total in % Headcount 17 003 100.0 Male 13 362 78.6 Female 3 641 21.4 Employment relationship Permanent employees 16 707 98.3 Male 13 164 77.4 Female 3 543 20.8 Full-time 16 396 98.1 Male 13 109 78.5 Female 3 286 19.7 Part-time 311 1.9 Male 55 0.3 Female 257 1.5 Temporary employees 296 1.7 Male 198 1.2 Female 98 0.6 Type of employment Employees 9 862 58.0 Male 6 764 39.8 Female 3 097 18.2 Workers 7 142 42.0 Male 6 598 38.8 Female 544 3.2 64 People MAKE OUR SUCCESS TOTAL WORKFORCE BY REGION & GENDER North America Europe Female 23.5 % 439 Female 23.3 % 1 753 Male 76.5 % 1 428 Male 76.7 % 5 766 Asia Female 19.4 % 824 Male 80.6 % 3 422 Middle East/Africa Latin America Female 18.1 % 151 Female 18.7 % 475 Male 81.9 % 681 Male 81.3 % 2 065 Male Female VERSATILE WORKFORCE > 90 Workforce originating from over 90 countries CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 65 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS WITH AT LEAST ONE DAY'S WORK LOST Avoiding occupational accidents is an essential component of ClariNumber of Accidents ant’s productions activities. The program »AvoidingAccidents@ 2014 44 Clariant« helps to systematically reduce the accident rates and con2013 58 sequences. Significantly decreasing accident rates are the results of 2012 77 this program. In 2014 Clariant saw a total of 44 work accidents with 2011 48 more than one workday lost (down from 58 a year before), involv2010 79 0 20 40 60 80 100 ing 39 men and five women. However, every single accident could be avoided – therefore the target remains: zero accidents. Thanks to AvoidingAccidents@Clariant the accidental downtime could also ACCIDENTS WITH DOWNTIME OF AT LEAST ONE DAY'S be held at a very low level in 2014. The so-called Lost Time Accident WORK LOST by Region Rate (LTAR) of the group sank to 0.23 after 0.26 in 2013 and 0.33 Male Female Total in 2012. LTAR refers to the number of accidents with lost work time Europe 18 2 20 of at least one working day per 200 000 operational working hours. Greater China 2 0 2 Before AvoidingAccidents@Clariant was introduced, this rate was India 2 0 2 above one. Japan 0 0 0 Latin America 9 1 10 The lost work days caused by occupational accidents did not reMiddle East/Africa 5 1 6 main at the same low level as in the preceding year due to two acciNorth America 2 1 3 Southeast Asia/Pacific 1 0 1 dents that occurred with long downtimes. Hence, the lost days in 2014 added up to 1 213 compared to 1 152 and 1 431 respectively in Worldwide 39 5 44 the two previous years. The »Lost Workday Rate« (LWDR, loss of work days caused by occupational accidents in relation to 200 000 hours of work) was at 6.4 after 5.6 and 6.2 in the two periods before. 66 AvoidingAccidents@Clariant SAFETY COUNTS! Your commitment to safety. Our goal is zero accidents! Hence we pay attention to everything that could lead to an accident. Clear safety rules and prescribed personal protection equipment are in place to prevent you from injuries. But mostly it depends on you – on your awareness and your dedication to a safe working environment. Dedicate yourself to AvoidingAccidents@Clariant. It’s worth it for you and your colleagues’ safety! Once again, there were no deaths for operational reasons recorded OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS IN RELATION TO OUTPUT LTAR* in 2014. In the year under review, there were no occupational dis2014 0.23 eases newly registered. Clariant not only keeps track of the acci2013 0.26 dents of its own employees, but also those of the globally employed 2012 0.33 and supervised staff throughout the group. Within this group, there 2011 0.28 were eight accidents altogether in 2014, of which only males were 2010 0.45 affected. This corresponds to an LTAR of 0.31. 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 *0.29 | Benchmark group (2013) The health of employees is regularly examined by Clariant. Depending on the workplace, sometimes extensive health checks are * LTAR = Lost Time Accident Rate (the ratio of the number of occupational accidents where at least one day’s work was lost to every 200 000 hours of work) carried out in order to detect signs of illness as early as possible. For some activities, special health certificates and vaccinations are required, and special attention is paid to ensure that these are obtained and given. Clariant exceeds the legal provisions by far with these programs, and therefore, Clariant does not consider it has a formal obligation towards third parties, namely the representatives of the employees’ interests. However, in some regions, such as countries in North and South America, these programs are explicitly regulated with the corresponding unions. LOST WORKDAYS CAUSED BY OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS in Days 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Days 1 213 1 152 1 431 1 115 1 188 LWDR* 6.4 5.6 6.2 6.5 6.8 * LWDR = Lost Workday Rate (loss of work days caused by occupational accidents in relation to 200 000 hours of work) NUMBER OF RECOGNIZED OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES AND DEATHS 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Occupational diseases 0 2 1 5 7 Fatal accidents* 0 0 0 0 1 * Including accidents unrelated to work with chemicals, such as road accidents 68 People MAKE OUR SUCCESS The Clariant guideline »Prevention from Hazards to Health« serves Safety Awareness as Key to Permanently to avoid work-related diseases. This directive covers all potential Low Accident Rates risks at Clariant, both in its chemicals business, as well as in other It is one thing to continuously lower the accident rates. It is areas. At workplaces with high noise emissions of more than 85 dB another thing to maintain the achieved low level. The re(A), as well as with handling of carcinogens, mutagens, or repro-­ gions take innovative approaches to anchor safety awaretoxic substances (CMR substances) and dust, there are strict rules ness in the minds of the employees and to continue to solidiand minimum requirements. fy the corporate culture of safety in the work place. For instance, the management at the Phoenix (USA) location The management at the Clariant locations conduct regular safety named the paths and streets with signs such as »Correct and health trainings within the scope of AvoidingAccidents@Clariant. Lifting Way«, »Safe Working Street«, »No Lost Days Alley« Clariant operated about 120 production facilities worldwide in or »Safety Boulevard«, so that the team remains aware of 2014, of which 81 had a committee dealing with safety issues. The the dangers relating to their daily tasks. Terminals were inremaining 36 facilities either did not establish such a committee bestalled at the Suzano, Brazil location, which allow for funccause of their small number of employees, or they deal with safety tion-related ESH trainings besides other offers, including an issues in other appropriate panels. This means that 82 % of staff evaluation of test results. Almost 12 000 ESH trainings were employed in production are represented by a safety committee. completed this way during the year under review. The DayTaking the workforce as a whole (production, procurement, sales, abay location in China publishes – like many other sites also – management), 82 % of staff are also represented. At Clariant, safety monthly safety reports and information about dangers in the issues are also addressed in committees that do not primarily deal workplace, which are available to all employees. The locawith this topic. tion has been recognized once again by the local management for the implemented measures of workplace safety. CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 69 Safety in Complex Work Environments The Technology Department of the Clariant Business Unit Industrial & Consumer Specialties (BU ICS) at the Bavarian location in Gendorf has been awarded for 6 000 days or 2.4 million work hours without a reportable accident in 2014. The last »event« occurred in 1997. The technology department’s employees mainly conduct repair, maintenance and inspection tasks on instruments, machines, pipelines, as well as on electrical and measurement technology systems. Employees are promptly informed of all significant operational In view of the diverse risk factors, this performance docuchanges by the company. In addition to the regular and ad hoc inments the permanent adherence to the precautionary rules. formation provided to all employees via the intranet as well as information letters from the CEO and management, the company complies with all local statutory and operational requirements in LABOR PRACTICES regard to the provision of information to employee representatives Clariant processed 79 complaints from employees regarding and employees. Information is also disseminated about the reportbreaches of labor practices or labor laws in 2014. Of these, 58 were ing lines for the relevant hierarchical levels. Moreover, corporate processed conclusively, 42 processed complaints were from earlier information sessions are regularly held. reporting periods. Complaints are received via line managers or works councils within the relevant statutory framework. Beyond Clariant rejects any form of child labor with the aforesaid workthis, complaints can also be made through Group Compliance (i.e. place directive and strictly complies with local regulations concernreported to the regional HR department or compliance officer or ing legal minimum age requirements for work permits. ILO conGroup Compliance Officer). An additional channel through which vention numbers 138 and 182 are expressly acknowledged as the all violations against the Code of Conduct can be reported is the minimum standard here. Clariant is not aware of cases of child labor »Clariant Integrity Line«, which has been introduced during the in the company or with its suppliers. Similarly, Clariant rejects any year under review. Including discrimination or violations of human form of forced labor or slavery. Clariant is also not aware of any casrights. With regard to discrimination in the workplace, a case with es of forced labor or slavery in the company. such accusations has been reported to Clariant and has been resolved in the course of this year. Four cases of accusations with reClariant supports freedom of association. As part of this, it respects gard to violations of human rights have been reported via the rethe right of employees to join unions and to be represented by repgional offices, which have all been settled during the reporting resentatives of these unions internally and externally in accordance period. with the applicable national or local laws and practices. Clariant knows of no cases in which freedom of association or the right to collective bargaining have been seriously jeopardized or even breached. 70 People MAKE OUR SUCCESS Sustainable success can only be achieved when all employees conIn addition to the Group headquarters, the compliance officers at duct themselves according to Clariant’s values to behave in a lawful both regional and local levels are available to provide support in and ethical manner. Since 2007 the Clariant Code of Conduct has connection with issues relating to the ethically correct and legally defined a set of rules and principles that are binding for all employcompliant conduct of employees. A web-based reporting and query ees to protect the company's reputation and keep the risks to shareportal for all employees was built in 2014, the so-called »Clariant holders at an absolute minimum. Integrity Line«. Besides the reporting of breaches of the Code of Conduct and other violations regarding the corporation or its staff, All employees receive the Code of Conduct when they are hired the employees have the possibility, if necessary anonymously, to and must agree to it when signing their contract of employment. place questions about compliance on the portal, which the responSo-called e-learnings are mandatory for all employees. Participasible Compliance Officer of the corresponding country answers or tion in these trainings, which cover different topics or themes of the forwards to the Group Compliance Officer. Code of Conduct, is registered, and those who default are warned; a non-participant would be sanctioned. The Code is available in all In 2014, Clariant unified the process of reporting, compilation of inrelevant national languages (see page 77). formation, investigation and disciplinary action of the violations to the Code of Conduct. Herein the jurisdictions are clearly regulated with respect to the investigation of the Code of Conduct violations between the areas of Group Compliance, Group HR and ESHA. In 2014 Clariant received 34 reports of breaches of the Code of Conduct. Out of these 34 reported breaches, 31 cases were closed in the same year, while in three cases the investigation is ongoing. Twelve employees were disciplined as a result of these 34 reported breaches. Five cases pertained to a suspicion of corruption, out of which four cases were closed in the same year, while in one case the investigation is ongoing. For corruption charges, four employees were disciplined in 2014, three of which were dismissed; one supplier was terminated. There were no legal proceedings against Clariant or its employees for alleged corruption. CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 71 Performance.People.Planet PEOPLE PHOTOGRAPHY JO RÖTTGER, TEXT BERTRAM JOB T  h  e drive from her office at the headquarters in Navi These children recount of days and nights in poorly constructed Mumbai to get here can be as long as an hour and a dwellings or on cardboard on the sidewalk, of child labor, drug half, especially at this time of day, but Gracy Alva has addiction and children gangs. It is often a small miracle to never regretted it. For her, this additional responsisee what becomes of them under different circumstances. The bility is a special privilege, because it always feels right. »My smart Salman, the curious Indrajeet, the restless Abinash heart is with these people,« she stresses, and: »It makes my day and all the others. when I can be useful to others.« The petite woman in her late forties with frizzy curls is Senior Manager of the Department »What do you need?« – this is often the second or third question for Regional Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs with that Gracy asks in the office of the facility. Then she sits across Clariant in India. Ms. Mukherjee, the Director of the children’s home, with a cup of Masala tea. Not many other organizations have as much expeAn afternoon in Mahalaxmi, one of the busiest regions in the rience in this field as the Vatsalya Foundation. It developed from south of Mumbai: On the grounds of the venerable King George a field project for children living on the street, which was initiaMemorial Hospital, in the pleasant ted in 1982 by the College for Social shade of massive Banyan fig trees, you Work (Nirmala Niketan) in Mumbai; can find the flat-roofed buildings of several charitable organizations, among »Be the change since then it has given advice to UNICEF, Misereor and several Indian them a so-called Open-Shelter-Home. Boys between the age of six and 16 are you like to see in authorities. Vatsalya would not be able to operate this or other projects the world.« running and jumping in the two courwithout public subsidies and Corporate tyards between three building sections. supporters like Clariant in India. They play volleyball and cricket or help the gardener who is tending to Mahatma Gandhi Assistance is always needed, explains the plants. Ms. Mukherjee. For example, when the office needs a computer, or when the support staff need to be At Vatsalya, Gracy is called »Didi«, the caring older sister. Sort paid or textbooks need to be ordered for the children. Almost all of like a visiting relative for the agile boys who often barely boys stay in the shelter home, even though this is not a strict reknow their parents. The name of the aid organization that runs quirement, and they adjust to the procedures quickly. The boys this children’s home is »Vatsalya«. It means »parental love« in from the first few batches, who have long since completed highSanskrit and pretty much says it all. India’s mega-cities are teeer education, sometimes return as guests and successful emming with children who grow up under precarious conditions. ployees or small business owners in order to provide an example In some cases, their parents are too poor or involved in drugs or for the younger children at Vatsalya. other problems and thus are unable to take on the responsibility for the children. As such the under-age children run away and live on the street, or are abandoned as orphans. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 73 Every morning the boys can be seen walking on Dr. E. Moses This way, Valentine’s Day becomes a happy celebration for all Road in their school uniforms on their way to school. They have those who are provided with their human right to protection, the noon meal together, but not without saying a prayer first. In shelter, health, education and social inclusion. In light of the the afternoon, some teachers help with their homework. After fact that 44 000 children disappear every year in India, this gethis, there is still enough time for play time or watch a movie on sture by Vatsalya is a noble one. TV together, until all lights go out in the flat-roofed buildings, punctually at half past nine. At Clariant each site has a committee that explores Corporate Citizenship Activities (CCA). A standardized process has been The boys are happiest when Sunil comes, the Capoeira teacher. developed to identify and implement CCA projects. »EngageThen they can burn off energy for an hour and a half with the ments for children and the disadvantaged, health and hygiene Brazilian mixture of artistry, dance and martial arts: Jumping are of primary importance«, explains Puthige Murali, Head of and singing, moving rhythmically to the beat of the tambourine. Regional Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs Clariant in India. Sunil is their hero, their dear friend. They listen to him. »They Above all, Community projects in the surrounding area of the have performed with him for several events of Clariant«, says branches should be supported. Such as supporting homeless Gracy, »to demonstrate their amazing acrobatics«. girls by associating with Ma Niketan in Thane or supporting a primary school as well as an educational establishment for the »Sometimes, on weekends, parents stop by«, explains Ms. Mukmentally challenged in Roha, Maharashtra. Infrastructure supherjee, »in order to visit their sons or take them home, if such a port by way of furniture, roof sheets, canteen items, chairs, cupthing exists«. And on February 14 there is a big birthday party boards and several laboratory apparatus were donated to ten for all as these children are not aware of their real birthdays. needy institutions and NGOs. Barriers were provided to the traffic police department. And an ambulance was donated to an NGO. Or the water supply for a village near Cuddalore in Tamil Nadu. 74 Ms. Swathi Mukherjee, Director – Vatsalya Foundation The number of homeless alone among them is cautiosly estimated at 11 million. Meanwhile, it is not only a voluntary gesture to show social responsibility: For several years now, larger companies who are registered in India have been legally obligated to invest 2 % of their profit in charitable projects. »I am happy if I was able to contribute something here,« says Gracy Alva. Salman, Abinash, and several others chatted with the »Didi« briefly, but have now returned to playing volleyball. The game must go on. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 75 Being PART OF THE WHOLE Being PART OF THE WHOLE C  l ariant takes ethical responsibility for sustainable, ecoFAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES nomic, ecological and fair business practices. This reCorruption risks are investigated as part of the ongoing internal sponsibility forms an integral part of the company’s auditing of Clariant. If corruption is suspected, Compliance and philosophy. All Clariant employees are educated and possibly other Service Units will carry out an investigation, with trained to assume responsibility in line with their function, level of the help of specialized third parties, if necessary. The regional and authority and qualifications. Clariant places great emphasis on upgroup-wide compliance committees assess the findings of the holding human rights within its sphere of influence. A number of investigation and order disciplinary or other measures against internal regulations as well as Clariant’s voluntary commitments in culpable employees, which may also lead to the termination of accordance with international charters are designed to safeguard employment. As a consequence of such investigations, a negative these rights. result can lead to the termination of contracts with business partners, such contracts not being prolonged or changed for Clariant expressly supports UN Global Compact and the United precautionary reasons. Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), also known as the UN Human Rights Charter. The charter comprises Great Importance on Integrity general human rights principles, which serve as a joint ideal for all Sustainable success can only be achieved if all employees behave in people and nations to ensure that each individual and all bodies of a lawful and ethical manner. Since 2007, the Clariant Code of Conthe company constantly strive to promote respect for correspondduct has defined a set of rules and principles that are binding for all ing rights and freedoms through education and training. National employees to protect the company’s reputation and keep the risks and international measures must thereby guarantee the formal as to shareholders to an absolute minimum. The code demands the well as the actual recognition of, and compliance to, human rights. adherence to all applicable laws and other regulations. The code This applies to Clariant also. Accordingly, no complaints about adforbids involvement of employees that could lead to conflicts of inverse conditions were brought forward against Clariant in the year terest; it regulates how to deal with presents and invitations, as well under review because of adverse effects of company concerns. as donations and sponsorships; it forbids bribery and corruption, money laundering, so-called insider trading, violations against anti-­ trust laws, violations against embargoand trade-control regulations, disclosure of confidential information, embezzlement, the misappropriation of corporate assets, as well as violations of data privacy. Employees may not endanger the environment or discriminate against, or harass colleagues through their behavior. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 77 In 2014, Clariant has continued the training throughout the entire Fair Competitive Practices organization in view of avoidance of possible violations against the Clariant was not aware of any cases in the year under review in which code, both with e-learnings as with classroom-based courses. Clariant was accused of not having acted essentially in compliance Therefore, an online-training was initiated in 2014 on the topic of with laws, regulations and voluntary codes of practice. Consequentdata privacy. Furthermore, Clariant rolled out a specific anti-corly, neither corresponding fines or non-monetary penalties for failruption training at the end of 2014. Special target groups receive ure to comply with legal regulations are known. Clariant attaches further regular face-to-face meetings beyond online-trainings, for particular importance to fair dealings with competitors, suppliers example about the competition and anti-trust law. In 2014 more and customers. In the year under review, there were no legal acthan 1 700 employees were trained in anti-trust law during face-totions of anti-competitive conduct, the forming of cartels or monopface meetings lasting several hours. olies, nor legal actions or complaints concerning compliance with legal provisions on unfair competition. Clariant did not have to pay In addition to the Group headquarters, the compliance officers at significant fines or suffer non-monetary penalties for failure to both regional and local levels are available for questions regarding comply with legal regulations on the environment. ethically-correct and legally-compliant conduct of employees. A reporting and query portal for all employees was built in 2014, the soSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES called »Clariant Integrity Line«. Besides the reporting of infracClariant does not focus company commitment on individual showtions of the Code of Conduct and other violations regarding the case projects, but is actively committed to the common good in corporation or its staff – also anonymous, if possible by law – emeach and every location in which the Group operates, acting with ployees have the possibility, if necessary anonymously, to place corporate responsibility in all its activities. Clariant supported questions about compliance on the portal, which the responsible numerous charity projects in 2014, especially in the vicinity of the Compliance Officer of the corresponding country answers or forvarious production sites. wards to the Group Compliance Officer. In 2014, Clariant unified the process of reporting, compilation of information, investigation and disciplinary action of the violation to the Code of Conduct. In the relevant guidelines, the responsibilities are clearly delineated between the areas Group Compliance, Group HR and ESHA in regards to the investigation of Code of Conduct violations. 78 Being PART OF THE WHOLE Successful Battle against Malaria, Reliable Protection at Night Especially in Africa The mosquitoes as carriers infect the people mostly at night. Malaria, triggered by mosquito-transferred single-celled paraThe best defense is therefore a mosquito-free sleep area, and sites, is a widespread, and particularly in developing countries, ideally reliable mosquito nets serve as protection. There are less frequently deadly disease. According to estimations by the than a dozen manufacturers worldwide that offer quality nets, World Health Organization (WHO), there were about 200 milwhich the World Health Organization (WHO) certifies as suffilion people infected altogether in 2013, approximately twociently effective mosquito nets. Clariant has developed a Masthirds of which in Africa. 90 % of the deaths from the disease terbatch Technology for the LLIN nets, which is regarded as were registered there. However, the situation is improving one of the best on the market with respect to bio-efficiency of steadily. While an estimate of 173 million Africans still contractthe nets. In order to be listed with the WHO, one criterion is ed malaria in the year 2000, only 128 million suffered from it in that the nets can be washed at least 20 times without losing 2013 a decrease of 26 %, while at the same time the population their effectiveness. increased by 43 %. The net produced by Clariant takes an innovative approach: BeThe WHO has traced this development back to an improved acsides its mechanical protective function, there is an insecticide cess to insecticide-treated mosquito nets. According to the that is harmless to people incorporated into its fibers, which WHO, 214 million insecticide-treated nets with long-lasting kills mosquitoes on contact. The net thus offers double the proeffect (long-lasting insecticidal nets, LLIN) were supplied to tection. The special feature of this fiber net is its depot function Africa in 2014, and 427 million nets altogether since 2012. In 2013, for the insecticide, wherewith the net has achieved a guaran49 % of the people who lived in the African high-risk regions teed effectiveness of five years. Therefore, Clariant belongs to (approximately 800 million) already had access to such a mosthe market leaders with regards to quality and innovation of quito net; this compares to only 3 % in 2000. Therefore, insec­ mosquito nets. ticide-treated mosquito nets have become the most important weapon in the battle against malaria. Clariant’s activities as an employer, as a consumer of local products Clariant raises the living standards of the population, both directly and services, as well as a payer of taxes and fees in the respective and indirectly, by creating added value. Clariant is not aware of any regions or countries support local economic development, especialsignificant negative effects on local communities as a result of its ly in emerging economies. activities. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 79 India: Volunteer Work for the North America: School Team Successful Well-Being of Children at Science Olympics Company activities in India focus on carefully selected projClariant promotes the interest and enthusiasm of students ects, in which the training and continuing education of for technical, mathematicaland scientific-oriented subjects students is supported on various levels. The projects are se(STEM subjects) in the USA and Canada. For example, the lected based on the needs of the local residents. Thus, the Business Unit Oil and Mining Services (OMS) supported a available knowledge and commitment of Clariant employees team from Stephen F. Austin High School in Sugarland, Texis profitably applied to the projects. A special focus lies with as in their participation at the Texas Science Olympics in the support of homeless children, whose situation Clariant 2014. The team could thereby not only visit the central Busiwants to improve by contributions and volunteer work (see ness Unit OMS and participate in diverse chemical demonpage 72). strations in the laboratories, but they also received a financial contribution that covered the registration fee and the necessary equipment for the Olympics. This commitment was rewarded with the ninth place in the overall evaluation and numerous medals in various categories of the Science Olympics. 80 Being PART OF THE WHOLE »Our employees are proud of working for a socially-engaged corporation.« HANS HERREL, Country Head Indonesia Germany: Youth Develops Visionary Ideas Indonesia: Foster Students and Teachers The »Zukunftsrat Frankfurt« is a public interest consortium Clariant assists school children at the Tangerang location in of personalities from economy and science. The goal of this Indonesia to achieve advanced school degrees and this al»future-focused council« is the development and sketch of ready since 2007. Clariant facilitated the school attendance innovative approaches for more sustainability in economics, of 150 children with financial support in 2014. Since 2012, society and politics in Germany and Europe. The council Clariant, together with the renowned Indonesian Putera develops relevant holistic, universal and future-oriented Sampoerna Foundation, has funded the education of 75 eleconcepts. Clariant’s CEO Hariolf Kottmann belongs to the mentary teachers thus far. Alone in 2014, 25 teachers were board of trustees of this project. Together with the Institute trained in a six month program at a neighboring location, for Corporate Culture Affairs (ICCA), the Frankfurter which again benefits about 700 students annually. From this Zukunftsrat initiated »My Europe«, a platform for youth, improved education, not only the students benefit locally, providing the possibility to exchange ideas with entreprebut also Clariant. The company is well-anchored in the reneurs, scientists and politicians, and develop forward-lookgion and fosters a close exchange with the community. ing visions for Europe and the world. Clariant established a globally binding policy for Corporate CitiThe Clariant Corporate Citizenship Activities Policy explicitly exzenship Activities (CAA) in the year under review to unify control cludes donations to political parties. Accordingly, Clariant did not of non-profit activities in order to centrally record all public interrender donations to parties, politicians and related organizations in est expenditures. Clariant annually spends a single-digit-million 2014. amount for this type of expenditure, in which approximately half is used for sponsorships, and about a quarter each is used for charitaBesides the commitments in the area of promotion of scientific doble donations and for local infrastructure. The CCA policy promains, voluntary services form an important contribution of motes Group-wide transparency with regard to donations (contriClariant’s strive for social cooperation. These activities are expandbutions, sponsorship, or other expenditures) to charitable causes. ed with donations to charities with sustainable orientation, for exSimultaneously, compliance risks are systematically reviewed by an ample, in the areas of training, culture, or environment. appropriate process step in the CCA approach. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 81 China: Program to Promote Education EXTENSIVE DIALOG WITH STAKEHOLDERS Clariant also expands local social interventions in China Clariant communicates continuously and promptly with important with evolving business activities. Concerning this matter, interest groups (stakeholders) in a way that is relevant for the parHOPES, a program to promote education in the neighborticular target group. Clariant’s shareholders, employees, customers hood of the Clariant production plants, should bring a new and the direct environment, but also suppliers, government agenboost to the area: Healthy, Open-minded, Positive, Explorcies and associations are counted among the stakeholders. All of ative and Sustainable. A first partnership agreement was these groups have a strong interest in the development and decimade in November 2014 with an elementary school in Zhensions of Clariant. Therefore, Clariant fosters an open, multi-lateral jiang. As a first step, Clariant donated books for the school’s culture of communication. Depending on the respective production library. The program also plans lessons by Clariant employsites, countries, themes and target groups, this exchange takes place ees in the subjects of language, science, and sustainability, at least once a year. Additionally, the Clariant production sites fosthe support of extracurricular activities, as well as scholarter a frequent dialog with the residents, especially if the facilities ships to students whose parents cannot afford the costs. The are located near the settlement areas. Stated objections and consite manager from Clariant in Zhenjiang was appointed cerns reported to the company are recorded and resolved. In the Honorary Headmaster of the school for the purpose of coorprocess, no significant incidences were dealt with (G4-24, G4-26, dinating the activities. G4-27). Clariant also maintains an intensive dialog with financial market participants, investors such as analysts, as well as financeand chemical trade publications. In 2014 Clariant led well over 100 individual and group conversations with investors and analysts within the scope of 17 international presentation trips, so-called roadshows. In addition, there were still well over 100 of these conversations at conferences and 50 telephone conferences for the financial market. These efforts resulted in valuable suggestions for prioritizing relevant sustainability topics. Moreover, Clariant staged a capital market and media day in Frankfurt for the interested public. 82 Brazil: Music Connects and youth were trained on classical instruments such as the Clariant has maintained a project since 2010 with the community violin, cello, or percussion and chorus. The project is not only of near the production site in Suzano, Brazil. The project was degreat importance for the education, citizenship values reinveloped in cooperation with the Bachiana Foundation, an initiaforcement and development of students, but it also has a positive tive of the well-known Brazilian conductor, João Carlos Martins. influence on their families, classmates and the immediate Within the framework of the project, already over 100 children neighborhood. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 83 Germany: Introduce Children to Steady Expansion of Conversation Natural Sciences Topics and Groups The »Wissensfabrik« (knowledge factory) is an amalgamaClariant wants to ascertain the opinions, interests and trends tion of more than 120 German companies that would like to among the stakeholders on the subject of sustainability and initiatbring children closer to natural sciences. The members of ed a purposeful dialog with these groups within the framework the Wissensfabrik, Clariant included, visit support and of the Portfolio Value Program. Together with the »Collaborating training facilities in their respective neighborhoods and ofCentre on Sustainable Consumption and Production« (CSCP) in fer a multitude of technical themes with different experiWuppertal, Clariant designed a materiality matrix of relevant asments there at special tailor-fitted children’s events. pects and topics about sustainability for Clariant and the stakeholdEmployees demonstrate to the children simple and vivid exers. This analysis is part of a comprehensive and long-term program periments with everyday objects such as tea lights, spoons, that has been initiated by Clariant in order to address sustainability ice cubes or magnets. They show them how exciting the in innovative ways and to foster a continuing dialog about it. The knowledge of scientific relationships can be and thus instill exchange and cooperation with the relevant stakeholders are an inan interest in professions in the chemical industry. tegral part of the program (see figure on page 85). The preparation of the materiality matrix was a first step to initiate a continuing dialog with important opinion leaders and experts from associations, non-governmental organizations, politics, science, research facilities and public interest organizations. In 2015, the dialog will be pursued in a sustainability forum for the first time and on an even broader basis (G4-25). see Annual Report 2014, on pages 48 f. 84 Being PART OF THE WHOLE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT – MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Interests Clariant Identification Prioritization Validation Strategic interests Update for sustainable Reporting corporate management Review Interests Stakeholders Shareholders, Customers, Employees, Associations, NGOs, Policy Makers Clariant Supports Drinking Water Projects water use as much as possible at their facilities. In addition, the Clariant and the Swiss Federation are jointly committed to an companies have started social responsibility projects with the efficient handling of water in selected regions of Latin America local communities, aiming to improve their water availability and Asia. The various approaches of the project »SuizAgua« are and everyday life condition. Clariant's contribution to the projbeing implemented in close coordination with the local authoriect was CHF 150 000 for three years. ties. SuizAgua has been active in Chile since 2012 in order to sensitize the private sector to lower their water use. The initia»Sustainable use of water is important for our business protive started establishing the total water consumption of prodcesses. Analyzing and managing the resources holistically ucts and processes – the so called »water footprint«, including and aligning the interests of all is essential to secure our own raw materials and transport. operations and those of our neighborhood.« Daniel Rodriguez, Head of Services, Maipu Site Chile The participating companies at SuizAgua who maintain production sites in the mentioned regions have committed themselves to search more intensively for possibilities to lower their CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 85 Performance.People.Planet PLANET PHOTOGRAPHY JO RÖTTGER, TEXT BERTRAM JOB T  h  e motorcyclists are the worst«, says Suresh, India cross-country, others may see this as a curious adventure. »because they heed nothing – no rules, no obviousFor people like Suresh, it is a challenging course around dusty ness.« With no warning they shout out, just to roads and barriers. squeeze in front of his truck the next instant, so that he has to slam on the breaks with force. The motorcyclists are If you are not completely awake you will quickly have problems. unpredictable like children, who must be watched every second. All the more important to properly instruct the transport driSometimes it just has to come out, the anger that has accumulated vers and to set standards for the safety of their vehicles. That is for more than 12 hours, smelling of asphalt and burned rubber. the thought behind the initiative that was started in India two years ago by seven companies, Clariant among them. »Nicer Suresh Yadav feels responsible for his loads, thank goodness. Globe«, as it is called, contains an entire package of voluntary With his truck he transports goods that are heavy and potentimeasures to increase the safety of the transport of hazardous ally hazardous, most often. Such as today, when he is on the chemicals as well as uniform procedures for handling incidents road with Feroz, the young »cleaner«, as the co-drivers are and emergencies. called here, because they clean wind­ shields and instruments as required. This also includes a multi-day safety »Sarveshaam training, which should be completed 65 blue plastic drums, weighing 100 by professional drivers at Clariant kg, are in their truck; they contain mangalam bhavatu – sites every six months if possible – chemicals for the treatment of leather especially in Roha, a small town in the and were loaded last afternoon in may everyone District of Raigad, where about 30 prosper« Roha, at the pigment factory of Clariant companies from the industry are locain India. Not necessarily a hazardous ted in the industrial zone close to the substance, which they must transport Kundalika river. In addition, regular to a warehouse in Bhiwandi, 170 km to health checks for drivers and cleaners the north. But Suresh has learned not to take things lightly, as and driving breaks are implemented; by no means a given he explains during a break in a Dhaba, the simple restaurants at everywhere until this time. A call center for emergencies with the side of the road. The two men spent the night in the truck, specific information, maps and contacts is staffed around on factory grounds, in order to start out before sunrise. At that the clock seven days a week. And last but not least, detailed motime the roads belong to the professional drivers, apart from a nitoring via GPS technology is used to keep an eye on routes few exceptions at the side of the road: Farmers and laborers and goods. »No trucking company is required by the law to who are on the way with carts and bicycles or on foot. Then the equip their trucks with GPS«, explains Arun Bavdekar, »but we first signs of daylight appear in the sky, in reddish-purple prefer to hire vehicles that are equipped with this technology. stripes, and soon after the tranquility is a thing of the past. That on its own has an effect on the suppliers...« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 87 The man with a discerning appearance conveys with gestures In India, it is not possible to just fill out a form to attain the Resand body language that he takes no joke when it comes to ponsible Care logo. Even Clariant in India had to pass a comcertain topics. As General Manager for Regional Logistic Serplex, two-step process in this regard, whereby all production lovices he is akin to the top traffic cop for Clariant at the Roha cations throughout the country were fastidiously examined. location. He and his team select partners for the transports preThe excitement at Clariant in India headquarters was that much dominantly set by the criteria of Nicer Globe. greater when the coveted award was given by ICC for the next three years. As the responsible person for sustainability in the Meanwhile, GPS technology has been installed in more than 25 Region of India, Puthige Murali emphasized while receiving the trucks of the freight forwarding companies that Bavdekar hires. Certificate, that their efforts on that account not only streng­ »We know exactly when and where the vehicles are, which route thened environmental and social aspects – they also stimulated they are taking, or whether they are stopped someplace,« he the collective spirit of »continually improving resources and states. This is a pleasant milestone on the way to more transparency solutions« at work. About one year earlier, Mr Anil Mane, Site and predictability to manage transportation of chemicals, which Head – Roha had already accepted the »Best Factory Award« in the end supports the reputation of the entire industry: »The in Maharashtra for the clean and accident-free operation of the question is: Would we rather close our eyes, or do we want to be Roha factory. seen as a responsible company?« The practice of safe transportation must not stop at the factory The Indian Chemical Council (ICC) could not have said it betgate. It should also include interactions with other chemical ter. The national umbrella organization supports the Nicer Glocompanies, suppliers, customers, and also warehouses. For this be campaign and has integrated it into the ambitious »Responsireason, »Nicer Globe« directs its efforts not only to the chemical ble Care« program. With this distinction, it honors companies industry, but also to the logistics companies who provide the who strive for sustainable development – that is economic sucservice for transport and warehousing. In all, to almost everyone cess in harmony with societal goals, such as environmental who participates in the value chain. friendliness and social compatibility. This should create a better image and establish itself in the critically observed chemical Suresh Yadav reports that he recently participated in a two-day industry. safety training in Roha which was very informative. And here, under the roof of the driver’s cabin, the GPS system is installed. 88 He and his cleaner are by no means on their own when fighting their way during 4 – 5 hours through the NH 17 going north. The serious Suresh and the quiet Feroz: They have mastered many trips as a team, way down to Tamil Nadu, south of India. The street is improving, but also becoming more crowded with vehicles, when the truck reaches the greater Mumbai area. It takes Suresh another hour and a half to travel the last 30, 40 km. At about noon he finally turns into the huge compound of the warehouse in Bhiwandi, the former textile metropolis in the District of Thane, north of Mumbai. »The Manchester of the East«, as the city was once called because of its weaving looms. Once more all papers are checked at the entrance, there are lots of them, before the warehouse workers carry the blue drums to the designated spot: Sector P6, row 29c. Then Suresh and Feroz depart in the dust-covered truck. It’s the end of a completely harmless story, and that’s exactly what matters here. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 89 Care FOR NATURE Care FOR NATURE > 900 m kWh Reduction of Energy Consumption in 2014. This is approximately the energy consumption of a small-size European city in one year. E  c onomic handling of limited resources does not only Clariant tries, wherever possible, to use recycled materials in promatter due to environmental and conservation reasons, duction. However, due to the specific conditions in the industry, but has a significant influence on the success of compathis share is small because recycled raw materials with specialty nies. Besides the development of sustainable products, chemicals manufactured by Clariant usually cannot be utilized due an efficient and resource-saving production is very important in orto the high demands on the level of purity and safety reasons. der to reach sustainability goals. In this regard, a comprehensive Therefore, Clariant uses almost entirely new and increasingly reand intensive raw material management renders a decisive contrinewable raw materials with direct intermediate products. It is a difbution. Efficient optimization programs continuously improve waferent story with auxiliary materials, product purification and mater balance and energy efficiency while lowering pollutant emisterial separation in the course of production procedures. In these sions and amounts of waste. Clariant favors renewable raw material instances, there is quite often an internal recirculation, meaning sources and bio-based chemicals, which enables the development materials are being used multiple times. However, the tracking of of an increasingly sustainable value chain. In the last years, Clariant these corresponding quantities is not possible in a meaningful way continually improved the process efficiency and production procedue to the recirculation of materials. dures. Consequently, resources, waste materials, waste water, and emissions have been gradually reduced, absolutely as well as relatively in relationship to the production volume. The lowered producion quantity in the following table is due to the portfolio adjustments made at the end of 2013. These effects are also reflected in the environmental performance indicators. However, a considerable share of these improvements are caused by increase in efficiency, which are between 40 and 60 % for the various indicators. Only DECLINING ENERGY CONSUMPTION for greenhouse gases the effect is predominantely caused by the diClariant’s plants primarily need energy in the form of steam, elecvestment of an individual site. The new environmental targets set at tricity and natural gas. Electric power is mainly used for drives, the beginning of 2015 should be an impulse for further continuous such as electric motors in mixers, pumps and other process-engiimprovement (see page 5). neering equipment. The measurement and control technology, as well as the lighting, require electricity. Clariant uses natural gas for MATERIAL USE AND PRODUCTION in m t heating dryers, firing crack furnaces and generating electricity and Materials used 4.12 steam in its own power plants. Clariant uses steam to heat reactors 2014 Production 3.81 and separators, such as distillation columns. The resulting condenMaterials used 4.48 sate is, whenever possible, used for heating purposes. Across the 2013 Production 4.36 group, Clariant records the total energy consumption, independentMaterials used 4.52 ly of whether it has been internally produced or externally 2012 Production 4.42 procured. Small energy procurements such as transport services during business trips are not recorded. In Clariant’s overall energy balance, these numbers are insignificant. CLARIANT SUNSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 91 Direct energy consumption, i.e. the use of primary energy sources, Since the beginning of the systematic analysis of all energy contakes place at Clariant’s sites and primarily for process heat and sumption at Clariant in 2006, the consumption of energy per prosteam generation purposes. The main primary energy source is duced ton of products has been cut in half within seven years. The natural gas; coal is only being used as an energy source in some energy demand per production unit in 2014 was approx. 813 kWh/t. locations in China and Indonesia. The indirect use results primarily from the consumption of electricity and steam of external sources ENERGY CONSUMPTION in lieu of Clariant’s own energy generation. Clariant procures a mix Absolute in m kWh 3 100 2014 of energy from various sources, with this mix varying greatly from Relative in kWh/t 813 country to country. Clariant endeavors, however, to increase the Absolute in m kWh 4 014 2013 share of energy obtained from renewable sources on an ongoing Relative in kWh/t 921 basis. Absolute in m kWh 4 158 2012 Relative in kWh/t 941 Complete Recording of Energy Consumption Steady Reduction of Energy Consumption For each of its locations, Clariant records all primary energy Economic considerations are not the only reason why the reduction sources, such as natural gas, heating oil, and coal that are used of the energy consumption is one of Clariant’s most important to generate energy (mostly steam) at its own plants. Thereby, goals. There is eWATCH, which stands for a systematic, efficient it also logs non-fossil fuels such as wood and sugar cane baand coordinated energy management program group-wide. The gasse. It reutilizes waste for energy production at some locaprogram permanently records the whole energy consumption, anations, which is also included in the figures. In addition, the lyzes the savings potentials and enables the continuing usage optioperator of each location records all secondary energy obmization of the machines. Plants are being planned and utilized in tained from third parties, such as electricity from local utilithe production process in such a way that they can be optimized ties, and in the case of larger chemical plants, steam or coolcontinuously toward the best efficiency level of each individual using energy. This data is recorded in the relevant conventional age. The lessons learned here help in the performance optimized unit, for example, m3 for natural gas and kWh for electricity. design of plants and in the selection of efficient components. Not These units are then converted into the consolidation unit, only is eWATCH very interesting from an ecological point of view, gigajoules (GJ), to obtain the mean energy content. This is but also especially from economic aspects because the program althen used as a standard measure for representing energy conlows the evaluation of the cost-benefit ratio between investments sumption. If other companies are situated at a Clariant site and energy savings. and integrated into the location’s infrastructure, the amounts of energy supplied to these companies are deducted so that the figures reflect only the energy actually used by Clariant. The energy consumption and energy sources in this report have been determined from the data provided by all 130 Clariant (production) sites. They therefore represent a consolidated and comprehensive picture of Clariant’s energy usage. 92 Care FOR NATURE Environmentally Compatible Cost LED illumination at the German location Lahnstein resulted Savings with eWATCH in an 80 % reduction of the annual electricity consumption while generating a higher luminous efficiency. This allowed the amortization of the expense for the new lamps within three years. Clariant was once again able to record a significant reduction of · The investment for the replacement of a so-called »wax mill« its energy consumption in 2014. All forms of energy, such as was planned at the Gersthofen location. A previous analysis of electricity, heat, cold, steam, as well as natural gas, nitrogen or the process steps in connection with the mill, as well as with desalinated water are included here. Almost all of the savings the product portfolio, led to the determination of the best mill were the result of the measures initiated by the energy managetechnology with the least amount of energy consumption, ment program eWATCH. which in the end determined which equipment was selected. This now enables the manufacturing of very voluminous · The introduction of the so-called »online-monitor« in a larger, products with this new mill instead of a less energy efficient energy intensive production facility in 2013 has resulted in anair separation mill. In comparison with the predecessor, a savnual energy savings in the amount of a CHF 500 000 so far – ings of approx. CHF 150 000 can be achieved while improving with an initial investment of just CHF 200 000. This monitor the yield at the same time. optimizes the operation of production plants by always aligning the control close to the best efficiency level. · Several other measures have resulted in significant annual reductions in expenditures for the purchase of energy. One ex· In 2014 Clariant invested about CHF 70 000 into the optimiample was the review of the compressed air systems for leakzation of the production supply with fully desalinated water at ages and corresponding sealing at the American location in the Gendorf location. This resulted in an improvement in the Louisville, KY, which produced savings of CHF 35 000 per connection of the individual components with the consumers year. Another example was the saving of steam in the producat the location. Consequently, the costs of the plant was retion of pigments with a combination of an optimized handling duced by more than CHF 100 000, and this year after year. and upgrade of heat insulation at the Brazilian location in Suzano in the amount of CHF 120 000 annually; or finally the · Improvements in the company’s own infrastructure led to sigsaving of steam by optimizing the production planning at the nificant energy savings in 2014. For example, alterations in the Mexican location in Puebla (CHF 80 000 per year). With ancompressed air supply (new compressor control, new comother example at the puebla site in Mexico 360 t of CO2-emispressed air distribution and drying) at the Ahrensburg location sions could be saved through energy efficiency in a project resulted in an annual reduction of the energy consumption of Clariant Excellence (CLNX) in Azo pigment production, by about 15 %. The replacement of existing light sources with resulting in cost reduction of CHF 134 000. CLARIANT SUNSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 93 CHF 6 m Cost savings due to eWATCH (2014) Reduction of Waste Water with Many Individual Measures Clariant’s color pigment plant in Höchst underwent a new examination of its costs in 2014. Upon closer review, it was determined that a reduction of the plant’s water use was The energy-saving measures initiated within the scope of eWATCH possible. Approximately 2 700 m3 of waste water accrued up in 2014 will lead to an annual cost reduction of approximately CHF to now. The improvements made subsequently to the analysis 6 million. The investment this requires adds up to at least CHF 10 did not only reduce the waste water amounts, but also the million. On the average, this results in an amortization period for extent of the water contamination with chemical substances. Clariant’s sustainability investments of only two years in the energy The success was actually quite remarkable. The waste water sector, which represents an extremely favorable investment. A spinamount was reduced to below 1 400 m3 daily, a reduction off of eWATCH is the almost nearly complete certification of all of 51 %. The organic contamination of this reduced water German locations according to ISO 50001 (international standard amount dropped by 74 %. In other words: The amount of for establishing efficient energy management systems in compapollutants channeled out through the waste water from the nies). This process is scheduled to be concluded in 2015. Finally, pigment production has been reduced by 74 % over a three eWATCH has raised the awareness of the employees for a more soyear period. With regard to certain substances the success licitous handling of energy with periodic training. This is also rehas been even greater. Thus, the share of methanol per flected in the increasing amount of suggestions for improvements produced ton of finished products was reduced by 63 % and year after year. that of amyl alcohol by 64 %. This could be achieved by process optimization and the application of new technology. »Taking into account all optimization measures, we have reduced the costs by a six figure amount.« Matthias Ganschow, Operations Manager, HPPS, Höchst LESS WATER CONSUMPTION WATER CONSUMPTION in m m3 One of the main auxiliary materials for the chemical industry is Water used 51 2014 water. Foremost, it is used as a coolant and as process water in the Waste water 14 production. Of Clariant’s total 51 million m3 of water quantity Water used 71 2013 purchased in 2014, it has applied about 70 % for the cooling of its Waste water 20 production plants, 20 % for production processes and 10 % as prodWater used 79 2012 uct component or for sanitary purposes. The water requirements, Waste water 21 especially at the large production sites, are primarily supplied by river water. Before it flows into the piping system at each site, the river water is cleaned using various filter systems according to its intended purpose. Remaining amounts are obtained from the respective local water grids, but not in volumes that would significantly impair the water system. 94 Care FOR NATURE At some Clariant locations, cooling water is guided into circulatory of heavy metals remain in the waste water at Clariant’s individual systems, where the temperature is again lowered after use in sites. The projected values are partly based on concentrations that re-cooling plants. This environmentally compatible cooling method are at or below the detection limit. The waste water discharged by is used where technically possible, and in 2013 saved 133 million m3 Clariant is largely cleaned and therefore is not a particular burden. of industrial water, which would otherwise have been additionally Thus, Clariant has already achieved a very high level in terms of procured. waste water treatment and water purification. Clariant uses water for a variety of purposes in the production of chemical products, and the water is partly polluted as a result. At each site, therefore, production waste water is first subject to multiAcetone Recovery from Waste Water stage chemical-physical pre-cleaning before being routed to largely At the Höchst site, Clariant produces diketene, a reactive, biological waste water treatment plants, where it is micro-bio­ colorless liquid, which can be used for the manufacturing of logically cleaned. Water that is only used for cooling can be directly pigments, food additives and vitamin, among other things. released into rivers because it has not come in contact with chemicals. Thereby, the solvent, Acetone, is a by-product. It has been disTo prevent contamination of the intake water through undetected posed of up until now with the plant’s waste water. leaks in the cooling system, the cooling water and rainwater are constantly analyzed at the individual sites as an additional safety Chemists and engineers at the site saw a clear potential for measure. If contamination is discovered, discharge into the rivers improvements here and developed a procedure for the so-called can be prevented by various containment systems. acetone distillation. The new plant separates the acetone contained in waste water with an additional distillation step. The absolute and relative quantity of water used (in relation to Up to 200 t of acetone per year can be stored in a newly production) clearly declined in the period from 2012 – 2014. The constructed storage tank. amount of total waste water in 2014 came to 13.7 million m3 or 3.6 m3 per manufactured ton of production compared to 21 million The plant will re-use this acetone as a raw material instead m3 or 4.9 m3 per t in 2012. of having to procure it, as was the case until now. Surplus acetone can even be sold on the market in the medium term. Clariant reduced the chemical oxygen demand (COD), the meaWhile additional revenues are attained, the costs for the surement for the degree of waste water burdened with organic subtreatment plant are simultaneously lowered because the need stances, in all waste water treatment plants by more than 60 % in for purification of the plant’s waste water is considerably the years from 2005 until 2014. The fees, and as a consequence, also reduced. Therefore, the necessary investment of at least two the production costs are lowered therewith. Only small amounts million Euro is economically sound. »Our operation gains a new raw material from its waste water. This may sound a little like alchemy, but is just thought through to the end.« Martin Koch, Plant Manager, Höchst CLARIANT SUNSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 95 NATURE CONSERVATION Renaturation of the Catawba River Clariant is a chemical company with a long-standing history and in North Carolina some of its production sites are more than a hundred years old. As part of a conversion of a former industrial park near the New locations were chosen because of the required infrastructure Catawba River in North Carolina, Clariant has participated in already existing industrial settlements. For this reasons, Clariant’s in the restoration of a portion of the endangered river landproperties for plants and office buildings are located today almost scape, specifically 175 ac (700 000 m2) along a 6 km stretch exclusively in industrial parks or appropriate commercial districts. of river. The river could be renaturalized to a large extent Because of these targeted locations, animal and plant species inalong this section thanks to the investments made by Clariant cluded on the Red List of the IUCN (International Union for Conand the support of other companies. This was accomplished servation of Nature and Natural Resources) and on national protecby excavating contaminated soil, restoring the original river tion lists are not visibly affected by Clariant’s business activities. course and by reinhabiting animals. Additionally, a so-called »eco-industrial park« was developed on the premises of the Clariant does not operate any sites in biological reserves or in areas former industrial production site. This is an establishment with a high biodiversity value. If forests, which are generally unprofor sustainable and innovative companies in the areas of tected areas, are located in the immediate vicinity, Clariant ensures renewable energy and recycling. Clariant received a recognition that the nature of the plant and the activity carried out there does certificate from the US Environmental Agency EPA for this not have an appreciable adverse effect on the flora and fauna there. contribution in 2014. In areas recultivated by Clariant following bentonite extraction (such as Southern Bavaria), certain types of animals that are on the Red List of Threatened Species have even repopulated. With regard to plants located next to rivers, Clariant has laid down strict environmental regulations so that its activities have no registrable impact on the surrounding flora and fauna. The waste water produced by Clariant in the year under review had no measurable impact on biodiversity. Clariant mostly operates plants in integratREDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ed industrial sites without sensitive adjacent areas. Greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere cannot be completely avoided, despite all environmental protection efforts. They are also side effects of production processes like waste or the consumption of resources and raw materials. Emissions are subject to limits that are laid down in the official operating licenses for the plants. Clariant monitors compliance with these limits at each individual site by taking its own measurements and additionally using measurements taken by independent institutes in accordance with regulatory requirements. 96 Care FOR NATURE Clariant determines the total emissions into the air at each individuGREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS in m t of CO2 Equivalents al site at regular intervals. The directly emitted amount of green2014 2013 2012 house gas by Clariant has been decreasing for years; most recently it Direct emission (scope 1) 0.42 0.68 0.81 decreased from about 0.81 million t to 0.42 million t in the years beIn kg/t production 110 156 184 tween 2012 and 2014. Relatively, that means for each manufactured Indirect emission (scope 2) 0.54 0.63 0.64 ton of production, there was a decrease from 184 kg/t to 110 kg/t. In kg/t 141 145 145 Total emission 0.96 1.31 1.45 The direct greenhouse gas emissions resulting to a large extent In kg/t 252 300 329 from carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) of the combustion processes operated by Clariant are directly proportional to the amount of carClariant does not record additional indirect emissions caused, for bon in the used fuels. To be able to make a comparable global stateinstance, on business trips with planes or cars, due to the difficult ment, Clariant uses mean emission factors. Emissions of other differentiation and the cost-to-benefit ratio. Random checks have greenhouse gases like methane and nitrous oxide (N2O) are meashown that the indirect greenhouse gas emissions caused by sured locally and integrated into the consolidated calculation of Clariant are insignificant in the overall context and are therefore greenhouse gas emissions. Aside from the CO2 inevitably produced not reported as material. For example, CO2 emissions caused by the by combustion, N2O is particularly significant because of its extravelling of Clariant employees are insignificant in relation to overtremely high globalwarming potential. The significant decline comall emissions (< 3 %). Moreover, with more than 17 000 staff, the pared to 2012 is a result of the sale of the responsible business, cost of determining the CO2 emissions generated by employees which occurred at the end of 2013. traveling to the company would not be appropriate given the level of insight this would provide. Initial calculations for preliminary Indirect greenhouse gas emissions are predominantly generated products as part of the »Carbon Disclosure Project« (CDP) also by external energy procurement, usually in the form of electricity point in this direction. and steam – and thereby almost exclusively CO2. Their emergence correlates very much with the amount produced and can be less influenced by Clariant than direct emissions. To calculate the amounts, countryspecific conversion factors are used, which are determined on the basis of the existing infrastructure in the country in question. The amount of all greenhouse gases (expressed in CO2 equivalents) from indirect emissions decreased because of improved energy efficiency and the sale of energyintensive businesses from 0.64 million t to 0.54 million t, or from 145 – 141 kg/per manufactured ton of products between 2012 and 2014. CLARIANT SUNSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 97 EMISSIONS OF GASES in t Substances with ozonedepleting potential are exclusively used in 2014 2013 2012 closed systems, mostly cooling systems. Clariant records both the Sulphur dioxide SO2 344* 770 899 respective filling quantities and also eventual losses. Generally Nitric oxide NOx 872 877 847 speaking, the cooling agents used have no, or significantly lower Hydrogen chloride HCl 39 39 41 ozonedepleting potential than the substances R11 or R22. ConseAmmonia NH3 22 30 17 quently, the entire effect resulting from losses in the ozone level Dinitrogen monoxide N2O 0.1* 517 845 was reduced by almost 90 % over the past 10 years. When cooling Total inorganic emissionen 1 277 1 716 1 804 units are replaced or serviced, only coolants such as ammonia are Volatile organic compounds VOC 179 350 277 used that have no ozonedepleting effect and minimal greenhouse-­ Methane CH4 0.2 0 63 gas potential. Significant emissions of other inorganic pollutants Total organic emissions 179 350 340 such as SO2 and NOx have been reduced by 30 % in the last three years, particle emissions decreased by more than 20 % since 2012. * Sale of a production location with sulphuric acid plant and N2O-producing site Clariant reduces carbon dioxide emissions by continuously optiPARTICLE EMISSIONS (FINE PARTICLES) mizing production processes to make them more environmentally 2014 2013 2012 compatible. For example, the permanently accruing carbon dioxide In t 262 319 335 from catalytic exhaust gas incineration is cleaned at the German In kg/t production 69 73 76 plant in Gendorf and passed on to the partner company, Linde, for pressure liquefaction and further industrial uses. As a result of this cooperation, the CO2 emissions of this Clariant plant were decreased permanently by 95 %. Clariant attempted to reach a reduction in the emissions of greenhouse gases with the use of innovative technologies. 98 Care FOR NATURE Electricity Surplus Can Convert Methane is particularly suited as a storage format, since volumiCarbon Dioxide into Natural Gas nous logistics for the distribution and storage of natural gas Wind doesn’t always blow strongly when much electricity is already exists in Germany. There is also extensive experience needed. The same applies to sunlight. Therefore, it is not with the use of natural gas as fuel for automobiles. Furthermore, uncommon for wind and solar power plants to be removed the raw material of the reaction, carbon dioxide, is available in from the power supply to prevent an overload. Battery or large quantities anyway. Biogas plants produce up to 50 % carbon pumped-storage power plants are thereby only partly the soludioxide along with methane. The largest carbon dioxide sources tion. A meaningful supplement to the storage of large-scale however are power plants, which burn coal, oil or gas, as well energy quantities is chemical storage. This exploits current as energy intensive processes such as cement manufacturing or spikes meaningfully. metal extraction. For more than 100 years, it has been technically possible to conFirst successes have already been registered. By now the first vert carbon dioxide into a gas similar to natural gas. The only catalysts in the pilot plant of MAN Diesel & Turbo at the comproblem was economic efficiency until now. The Federal Minispany’s Deggendorf location achieve yields in the area between try of Education and Research now promotes a project to make 92 and 95 % and generate enough methane to feed the gas into this conversion economically feasible because of its ecological the natural gas grid. Nevertheless, the researchers of the project attractiveness. More than 250 scientists from the University of are mostly interested in the exact conversion process and the Munich (TUM) together with researchers from Clariant and research of the reactions on the catalysts’ surfaces. Wacker Chemie are testing different catalysts and systems under the name of »iC4« (integrated Carbon Capture, Conversion Besides the University of Munich, Clariant, Wacker and MAN, and Cycling) to transform CO2 into a natural gas such as methalso the companies of e.on, Linde and Siemens, as well as the ane under economic requirements. The hydrogen needed for Fraunhofer Institute for Interfacial Engineering and Biotechthis process is acquired by electrolysis of water with excess nology are participating at the iC4 consortium. power from renewable energies. CLARIANT SUNSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 99 Current Recording and Monitoring of WASTE PREVENTION AND RECYCLING Waste Production and Disposal At Clariant, the prevention of waste takes priority over recovery or Waste data at each individual site is assigned to the respecdisposal. Therefore, every effort is made during the development tive producers and disposers and evaluated. Disposers are and manufacturing of products to ensure that as little waste is genchosen responsibly and according to strict quality controls erated as possible. Unavoidable production waste is recycled or and checks. The checks are recorded and information exdisposed of properly. Each type of waste is recorded and precisely changed between Clariant’s different sites. The sum of these analyzed and described. Proper disposal must be proven and documeasures ensures continuous monitoring and control of all mented in internal records. It is important to know from which waste flows at the sites. plant the waste originates, which amounts accrue during what period, what properties the waste components have, whether the waste The waste amounts are recorded separately according to can be classified as hazardous, and how it can be recycled or distype and disposal method. More than 80 % of hazardous posed. waste is being recycled or treated; only waste suitable for landfills will be disposed. Clariant contracts exclusively QUANTITY OF WASTE in thousand t with officially approved disposal companies qualified for a 2014 2013 2012 particular waste. No longer treatable materials, such as Hazardous waste* 55 96 83 filter dust from internal waste incineration and other manuNon-hazardous waste* 113 129 160 facturing processes, are disposed of in special landfills. Total waste 168 225 243 The quantity of these substances is constantly falling thanks * Waste from Clariant activities to improvements in the manufacturing process, thereby continually reducing the amount of waste. QUANTITY OF WASTE in thousand t Clariant uses the term »waste« to refer to hazardous waste, 2014 2013 2012 packaging waste, household waste and excavated soil from Hazardous waste* construction sites. As definitions vary quite widely around Recycling 19 29 21 the world, the corresponding quantities are summarized unTreatment 36 52 41 der »Total waste« to prevent distortions. Landfill 8 27 35 Non-hazardous waste* Recycling 26 25 82 Treatment 12 13 29 Landfill 81 93 133 * The listed treatment and disposal channels also contain waste from other producers 100 Care FOR NATURE The total amount of waste produced by Clariant has clearly deDifferent Practices in the Worldwide creased in the past years. Alone in the years from 2012 – 2014, the Transportation of Chemicals waste production has decreased from about 243 000 t to roughly The handling of recyclable packaging made of steel and 168 000 t. Thus, the amount of waste per metric ton of manufacplastic varies greatly internationally. For instance, in Germatured products fell in the aforementioned period from 55 kg / t by ny the majority of product quantities are being transported about 20 % to 44 kg / t. in silos, tank vehicles and in recyclable packaging. The proportionate larger product quantities in non-recyclable packClariant provides mostly reusable packaging when supplying cusaging are being exported to European countries. Clariant tomers, who will return them to Clariant after they have been empworks together with international packaging manufacturers tied. Often products will be shipped as loose merchandise in tanker for an optimal implementation of these measures in the trucks and tank rail-cars or silo trucks. Moreover, cleanable and course of the worldwide purchasing process. The internareusable packaging is used where possible and acceptable to the tional standardization process is increasingly promoted via customer. To the extent possible, packaging is recycled for material these partners and their network connections. Simultanepurposes or, especially in the case of hazardous materials, used to ously, the re-use and recycling is supported within estabgenerate energy. The packaging used by Clariant meets the legal relished and developing circulatory systems, which meanwhile quirements and ensures product quality. In 2013, Clariant made are also being implemented worldwide in non-European approximately 655 000 deliveries to customers. Only in 0.004 % of markets. Clariant participates in programs for the return of these deliveries, the packaging proved inadequate or became wet; packaging for safe incineration or disposal. The provisions of in 0.09 % it was damaged, and in 0.03 % it leaked. No consequential the European Union are considered standard. damages resulted from this. CLARIANT SUNSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 101 Clariant’s operative business adheres strictly to the company’s inPRODUCTION PROCESS SAFETY ternal control guidelines for the area of »environment, safety, The safety of people and the environment is the highest priority for and health« (ESH). This directive should ensure that there are no chemical companies. One indispensable factor is an effective safety breaches of internal and external regulations. As a result of these management system that can also identify, assess and control risks efforts and stringent voluntary commitments, Clariant was not in the production process using appropriate measures, so as to reaware of any cases in the year under review in which it has been acduce or even entirely avoid these risks. For this reason, Clariant, in cused of not having acted essentially in compliance with laws, reguclose cooperation with the European Process Safety Centre (EPSC), lations and voluntary codes of practice in connection with nature has actively supported the development of a simple and representaand environmental protection. As such, Clariant did not have to pay tive measurement system, also with the aim of establishing an inany substantial fines or non-monetary penalties for non-compliance dustry-wide standard. with environmental laws and regulations. This system records and systematically assesses smaller substance and energy releases in order to avoid major incidents. These incidents, or PSIs (process safety incidents), are categorized according to criteria stipulated by the European Chemical Association (Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l’Industrie Chimique, CEFIC). They are a component of the ongoing improvement procedures for the process safety of the production systems. In 2014, the process safety event rate at Clariant improved from 0.25 – 0.22. This rate denotes the number of incidents per 200 000 working hours. There was a smaller substance release into a stream at the Moosburg location during the year under review. Sodium hydroxide was released into the Schleiferbach, which led to the death of about a dozen fish. After further investigation, no other damages were noted. Longterm damage to the stream is not to be expected, be it through accumulation or long-term biological degradation effects. 102 Care FOR NATURE Investments in Environmental Protection Less Operational Disturbances through Investments and expenditures in the areas of environment, safety, Targeted Prevention and health protection (ESH) are usually triggered by specific events. Clariant places the highest value on the safety of the process These could be altered security or occupational safety requirements, and work safety for the protection of people and the envior in the environmental area, external requirements such as stricter ronment. A comprehensive risk assessment of operations and emissions or waste water limit values. In addition, new production products is a prerequisite for all business processes. They or product changes often require new construction or changes to exare constantly being monitored and examined. The estabisting facilities. These are recorded as the ESH component of overall lishment of type and extent of the measures for minimizing investment. This makes ESH investments a component of the general risk and their traceable documentation using this security investment planning and not the subject of an isolated cost-benefit concept are also goals of the risk analysis. Knowledge from view with distinct capital recovery periods. earlier events are thus recorded and communicated in order to avoid repetition. The total amount of ESH investments in 2014 was about CHF 33 million, of which 53 % was spent on process and plant safety, 10 % on health/safety, 9 % on fire protection, and 27 % on environmental protection, with focus on waste water and air emissions. The expenditures for environmental protection, safety and health protection in the operative facilities amounted to over CHF 164 million in 2014, of which CHF 85 million were used for environmental protection alone. Investments for the reduction of energy consumption are a different story. The aim is to secure permanent resource and cost savings and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A secondary condition of this planning is an amortization period of less than five year for corresponding investments. CLARIANT SUNSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 103 Close Collaboration ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN Close Collaboration ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN B  a lancing cost efficiency and a high level of quality, ecoLeveraging the Advantages of Partnerships logical and social standards with a sustained security of Clariant does not merely carry out sustainability perforsupply is a major challenge in a more and more globalmance monitoring; it also works closely together with its ized value chain. Increasingly closer relationships with suppliers and other business partners in order to achieve suppliers and customers offer opportunities to create sustainable constant improvements in sustainability across the entire value with secure, high value added value chains. At the same time, supply chain. This includes, for instance, projects for optithe supply chains at procurement may be exposed to potentially mized energy and transport management, increased use of significant risks. Clariant is fully committed to continuously reducrenewables, and active waste management reduction as well ing these risks, and therefore, increasing the sustainability in its as the efficient use of resources. Thus, in the reporting supply chain. With a product portfolio that promises growth, Clariant year it was possible to reduce the transport-related CO2 proactively monitors and manages supply chain risks, and takes emissions by 65 % and also to lower the concomitant costs advantage of value chain opportunities as a whole. by switching the transport methods of raw materials in the Oil and Mining Services Business Unit, for example. This SUSTAINABLE SOURCING represents a reduction of 37 t of CO2 per year for a single Clariant produces and markets specialty chemicals for its customintermediate product. This optimization was the result of ers. To this end, it requires raw materials, packaging, capital equipclose collaboration between all the internal and external ment, services, and other inputs, such as energy, sourced from company stakeholders, Clariant sales force, Business Unit suppliers throughout the world. Clariant procures most of its goods and suppliers. and services directly from the relevant producers and suppliers, whereby the company is not significantly dependent on any one supplier. In 2014 Clariant's procurement expenditures were valued at around CHF 4 billion. Of this CHF 2.4 billion was spent on raw materials Clariant selects its suppliers, outsourcing partners and service profrom approx. 5 400 suppliers and CHF 1.6 billion on other products viders based on a comprehensive set of criteria. The selection and services such as technical equipment or energy from a further is not based on economic and product-specific performance aspects approx. 20 000 suppliers. Clariant procured more than 11 000 raw alone, but also non-financial aspects and sustainability considermaterials, whereby approx. one fifth of the total raw materials can ations are explicitly taken into account in the selection process. be divided between five major raw materials and about half beClariant’s sustainability standards are incorporated into its protween 100 products. In total 1 500 raw materials make up around curement strategies, policies, and general guidelines (such as the 98 % of the procurement volume. Approx. 50 % of the commodities Code of Conduct for Suppliers). Therefore sustainability at Clariant acquired are directly or indirectly based on crude oil; more than does not begin and end with its own manufacturing operations. 22 % from naturals such as bentonite and approx. 5 % from renewOn the contrary, through its procurement organization Clariant is able raw materials. actively engaged in ensuring that the most sustainable products and services as possible are sourced from its supply base, in order to continuously increase the sustainability profile and performance level of its entire supply chain and product portfolio. CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 105 Clariant Procurement preferentially sources goods and services based on financial, strategic and sustainability criteria, the latter of from within the region in which its respective operations and manwhich also include human rights aspects. ufacturing plants are located, as far as qualitatively compatible, technically feasible, and economically justifiable. This way, Clariant’s Strict Checks on Suppliers activities support the economic development of the regions Clariant assesses suppliers through an extensive program based on concerned. This is particularly relevant for and encouraged in key sustainability factors such as working conditions, respect for huemerging markets such as Brazil, China, and India. man rights, complaint management, safety standards, and creditworthiness. Clariant views the existence of certified management All investments with a total volume of more than CHF 1 million systems and sustainability policies extending to their related deploymust be approved by the Investment Subcommittee of the Execument and results, as critical supplier evaluation criteria. tive Committee (EC). The Subcommittee makes its decision RAW MATERIAL PROCUREMENT ACCORDING TO REGIONS in CHF million 2014 2013 Asia/Pacific 529 464 of which with local suppliers* 486 421 Number of suppliers** 1 964 1 944 Europe 1 276 1 327 of which with local suppliers* 1 148 1 233 Number of suppliers** 1 526 1 741 Latin America 384 378 of which with local suppliers* 261 243 Number of suppliers** 847 880 Middle East/Africa 85 63 of which with local suppliers* 42 25 Number of suppliers** 506 338 North America 296 270 of which with local suppliers* 263 238 Number of suppliers** 571 516 Global 2 570 2 502 of which with local suppliers* 2 200 2 159 Number of suppliers** 5 414 5 422 * Spendings for raw materials that Clariant (production) sites in this region have procured from suppliers also in this region ** Number of suppliers in the region that supplied Clariant (production) sites globally 106 Close Collaboration ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN Supplier Code of Conduct to abide by this Supplier Code of Conduct and to make every effort Clariant expects all of its material suppliers and service providers to keep the environmental impact and negative social effects arising to commit to and comply with the same high legal, ethical, and from business activities to a minimum. If these standards are not moral standards in its own processes. These standards form the bafollowed by its business partners, Clariant retains the right to end sis for the Supplier Code of Conduct. Clariant expects its suppliers its business relationship with these suppliers. Important Aspects of the Supplier · Freedom of association: Suppliers must observe the right of Code of Conduct their employees to strike and to be members of trade unions Based on the principles of the UN Global Compact and Clariant’s and must also practice a fair system of compensation. stance on human rights, Clariant’s Supplier Code of Conduct · Environment: Suppliers must adhere to safety standards on forms an integral part of and is a binding element in the relationthe protection of nature and people, particularly local residents ship between Clariant and its suppliers. It is incorporated in of nearby production sites. Clariant’s electronic ordering system and the contracts. In the · Product responsibility: Suppliers are expected to control the reporting year the Supplier Code of Conduct was rolled out environmental impact of the goods and services they produce to the company’s entire supply base of about 25 000 suppliers. in their development, production, sales, utilization, and disTo support embedding the Supplier Code of Conduct in its posal processes. supplier business relationships while at the same further raising ·R  esource efficiency and climate protection: Suppliers comsustainability awareness in its supply chain, Clariant hosts Supmit to continuously reducing waste and emissions into air, soil, plier Days during which it presents its comprehensive sustainand water, and to using energy-efficient and sustainable techability vision and strategy. These supplier days take place on nologies. regional or global base and were organized in multiple locations ·C  ompetition and business relationships: Suppliers guaranin 2014. tee law-abiding behavior with regard to competition, waiver of · Human rights: Suppliers must comply with the guidelines use of unjustified advantage, data protection, information segoverning health and safety at the workplace and the guidecurity, exclusion of money laundering, no bribery, and respect lines of the International Labor Organization (ILO) to safeof applicable trade control laws and embargos. guard the health and safety of their employees. · Anti-discrimination: Suppliers may not discriminate against Clariant evaluates, selects, and manages suppliers on key criteany employees on the basis of race, ethnicity, nationality, age, ria such as price, performance, quality, dependability of delivery religion, gender, sexual orientation or political opinion. – and sustainability. Aspects such as the environment, working · Forced labor and child labor: Suppliers may not allow any conditions, respect of human rights and creditworthiness are forced labor or child labor and must, in particular, comply included in the term sustainability. with ILO conventions 138 and 182. CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 107 Risk Assessment With New Suppliers the TfS network Clariant now has access to the assessments of apBy joining the »Together for Sustainability« (TfS) initiative, proximately 2 400 companies in more than 100 countries and to the Clariant has taken the sustainability monitoring of its supresults of numerous audits carried out by TfS. In 2014, in its first pliers to a new and much higher level. In fact the TfS evaluyear of membership, Clariant has nominated 200 suppliers added ation of suppliers – both with regard to raw materials and to the TfS sharing pool in addition to the 20 audits performed in services – is based on a standard approach jointly developed China and India. by leading global chemical companies. It is managed through leading external services providers globally specialWith respect to Supplier Assessments and after a thorough benchized in sustainability such as EcoVadis for assessments and mark of various options, the TfS members decided in 2012 to partDQU-UL, ERM, Intertek, and SGS for the audits. The apner with EcoVadis. The EcoVadis platform is quickly emerging as a proach developed and implemented by TfS leverages synerstandard for supplier sustainability performance monitoring and gies amongst the participants and delivers an independent, continuous improvement, used in many different industry sectors. standardized and quantitative evaluation regarding suppliEcoVadis combines technology and sustainability expertise to deers’ sustainability and risk profiles. The outsourcing to third liver simple and reliable supplier scorecards. A TfS audit is an onparty service guarantees process robustness, independence, site examination of a company’s business sites and practices. The confidentiality and conformity with anti-trust and competiscope of a TfS audit typically covers a single or combined business tion law. Clariant prioritizes the assessment and audit of location such as a production site, a warehouse, or an office buildsuppliers according to country risks, global category prioriing. For the audit to comply with TfS standards it must be conductties, and purchase volumes. ed by pre-approved audit firms. In addition to communication campaigns, to further raise awareness about sustainability and sustainable sourcing, TfS offers online Collaboration in Sustainability training modules and organizes ad-hoc events worldwide, the last Across the Supply Chain of which was held in Shanghai, China, in October 2014. With more than 25 000 suppliers and the level of standards expected, Clariant would be able to deploy its sustainability program only to a limited number of suppliers. This is one of the key reasons why Clariant joined the initiative »Together for Sustainability« (TfS) in March 2014. Clariant prioritizes the selection of suppliers to be assessed and audited according to two major criteria – geographical risk, category priorities and spend. TfS supplier sustainability assessments provide information not only on the consolidated risk, but it also differentiates between the topics of environment, labor law, fair business practices and supplier management. Thanks to 108 Close Collaboration ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN »Sustainability is firmly rooted in our corporate strategy and thus securely anchored throughout our whole value chain. By joining »Together for Sustainability« we have strengthened our sustainablility in procurement as well.« NORBERT MERKLEIN, Head of Group Procurement Services Sustainability and Safety During Transport In order to prevent any environmental impact as much as possible through the transportation of products and other goods and materials, Clariant has laid down strict rules to ensure transport safety – with the corresponding financial expenditure. In accordance with Assessment Criteria of statutory requirements, Clariant stores key information such as »Together for Sustainability« electronic ordering and delivery system classification and labeling The TfS initiative was founded in 2011 by the Chief Procuredata for each product in a database. All the parties in the transport ment Officers of six multinational chemical companies. chain are then informed automatically and the transport docuThe purpose is to develop and implement a global assessment ments are issued with the hazardous-goods information prescribed and audit program to assess and improve sustainability by law. practices within the supply chains of the chemical industry. This is achieved through a shared infrastructure and collabThe selection and definition of suitable packaging for hazardous orative approach built on high-quality third party sustainmaterials are also integrated into this IT solution. Only experienced ability assessments and audits as well as efficient web-based and reliable companies are used to store, pick, schedule and transdata sharing of assessment and audits results and scores. port the goods. This ensures that staff, organization and equipment Sharing is achieved through strict respect of confidentiality all comply with legal requirements. An example of this is the freight and in full compliance with anti-trust provisions. Within forwarder’s requirement profile established by Clariant, which dethe TfS assessment as well as audit the supplier's sustainfines the requirements for reliable partnerships with forwarders. In ability performance is verified against a pre-defined set Europe the SQAS standard, a system to review safety and quality of audit criteria. These topics have been defined by TfS and with transportation, is mandatory. are tailored to the requirements of the chemical industry. These criteria are built on the principles of the United Nations The safety of hazardous materials transport is critically dependent Global Compact and Responsible Care®, but also with on the skill and care of the people involved. Regular task-related respect to the International Labor Organization (ILO) stanand on-going training of Clariant employees contributes to overall dards, and national laws. The scope of a TfS audit or assesssafety. In addition, road vehicles and tankers carrying hazardous ment covers all the critical aspects of management, envimaterials are randomly checked before they leave the plant premisronment, health & safety, labor & human rights (extending es. When receiving deliveries, vehicles with safety defects or with to working conditions and freedom of association), and insufficiently secured loads may not drive into the plant premises governance (including ethics and corruption). (see page 86). CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 109 Recycling of Phosphate with a Change in the Process Chain Saves Costs and New Production Procedure Takes Pressure off the Environment Substantial amounts of phosphoric acid accrue in the course Approximately 10 000 t of the highly flammable ethylene of the production of (color) pigments. Waste water has been oxide are needed annually in the production plant at Clariant’s delivered to the treatment plant with an acid level of 30 % so Tarragona location in Spain. Until now, this ethylene oxide far. The acid level in the water is raised to 40 % with changhas been delivered from a manufacturer by truck located in es in the production procedure by recirculating the washing Lavéra, a town in southern France, about 330 miles from filtrate in the manufacturing cycle and by optimizing the Tarragona. This corresponds to about 500 trips by truck anfiltration procedure. In this composition, the water-acid nually with exhaust gas emissions of roughly 440 t of CO2. mixture can be used as a full-fledged raw material in other Since 2014, a local manufacturer is delivering the ethylene applications. This allowed Clariant to reduce the actual oxide. This change was made possible by the construction waste volume of phosphorous by more than 85 %. The of a pipeline in Tarragona. The yearly cost savings of about worldwide deposits of phosphorous, an important compoEUR 250 000 for the transportation, unloading and adminisnent of agricultural fertilizers, are limited. Although tration amount to a multiple of the investment costs for phosphorous can be recovered from waste water, the direct the new pipeline. The planning safety in production is an extraction in the course of production processes is much additional advantage since deliveries from outside the plant more effective and more environmentally compatible. are no longer necessary. The days lost in production could thus be reduced by about 18 %. Additionally, the pollutant emissions caused by the trucks and the risk during the transport and loading process fall away. 110 Close Collaboration ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN OPTIMIZATION OF PRODUCTS AND PROCESSES The share of renewable raw materials plays a role in this sustainClariant attaches great importance to the minimization of a potenability, as well as the energy-saving production, the safe handling, a tial impact on nature, the environment and people’s health. Clariant long lifetime of the (derived) products and a residue-free reutilizais constantly developing new and improved products and services tion (recycling). to add value for its customers and the environment. At the same time, Clariant cares for the safety of these products during their enInnovation Chain Creates Sustainable Value tire life cycle for employees and customers in particular, and for Innovation is an important element to enable sustainable value the public and the environment in general. An active management creation. At Clariant, all major innovation projects move through of the product portfolio continuously decreases the toxicity of the »Idea-to-Market« process, in order to efficiently use resources the products through the use of more harmless alternatives. and to implement development processes in a timeand cost-saving manner. Customers are being integrated in this process early-on Clariant works continuously with great commitment on the imand their needs are queried already at the beginning of the developprovement of the product properties and the production processes. ment process. This happens with interview or in so-called »Ideation This comprises type and quantity of the material use, the quality Workshops«, a structured process with tools of Clariant Excellence. and benefit of the manufactured goods, as well as the energy deFurther in the course of product development, a close exchange mands and waste. The purchasing and supply strategies, the warewith the customer takes place with sampling of specimens and in a house management, the planning for demand, production, sales and later stage by means of pilot testing. Sustainability aspects already transportation are being coordinated in the best possible way withplay a central role in this phase for the customers, as well as for in the scope of the Clariant Supply Chain System (CSS). The Clariant developers. A sustainability evaluation for all Class 1 Clariant Production System (CPS) identifies and uses optimization projects is required at the transition between the »Scope« and the potentials during the production process. »Execute« phases (see page 112). Before a product is launched, it must undergo another sustainability evaluation in order to receive However, sustainability doesn't restrict itself only to manufacturing the EcoTain® label. and logistics. Every effort is already made by Clariant during the development of products to maximize their »sustainability potential«. BENEFITS OF GLUCAMIDES HIGHLY EFFCIENT RAW RSPO CERTIFIED FATTY ACID HIGHER USAGE OF RENEWABLE MATERIALS FACILITATE ESTERS OR TRIGLYCERIDES RESOURCES AND BIO-BASED AFFORDABLE COSTS RAW MATERIALS CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 111 Novel Sugar-based Product Platform ment, there was a strong focus on sustainability aspects, such as An excellent example of this approach for an integrated innovathe high share of renewable raw materials, along with the tion chain is the product platform Glucamide. These novel sugar-­ customer needs. Glucamides are based on natural oils, which are based tensides can be used in a variety of applications such as certified on the basis of the RSPO criteria next to raw materials cosmetics, purification and crop protection. In their developof a glucose basis (see page 113). CLARIANT’S IDEA-TO-MARKET PROCESS – Example Glucamide CUSTOMER Trend analysis Need Piloting and Launch Customer & MARKET unmet need interviews testing with feedback sampling INPUT analysis (detailed) lead customers monitoring SCOUT SCOPE EXECUTE COMMERCIALIZE PROCESS Conduct Develop Evaluate Conduct Establish Monitor Develop Pilot Prepare Close Opportunity Business OpporDeep Proof of Market Offering Offering Launch Project Ideation Opportunity tunity Dive Concept Introduction INNOVATION Ideation workshops with EXPERT & Technology platforms, project management, technology and market expert TECHNOLOGY coaching and workshop moderation participation INPUT CSIR&D project assessment is mandatory at stage gate from Scope to Execute phase since 2013 for all Class 1 projects and projects with NPV > CHF 10 m and therefore drives R&D projects towards more sustainability already in early stages. 112 Close Collaboration ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN Certified Raw Materials Ensure Clariant Distinguishes Outstanding Sustainability Sustainability of the Sources Performance with the EcoTain® Label Raw materials based on palm oil belong to Clariant’s most Clariant’s EcoTain® label designates products, which possess an exfrequently used renewable basic materials. They are precellent sustainability profile across the entire life cycle – from dominantly used in tensides, emulsifiers and preservatives source material to disposal – and exceed market standards in this for care and cleaning products. The use of renewable raw regard. Clariant has further developed the EcoTain® label of the materials can contribute to a more sustainable profile of the Business Unit Industrial & Consumer Specialties so that it can be products; however, public discussion also frequently highused in all Business Units. This reflects the company’s high sustainlights palm oil because of its negative influence on the enviability standard. It unifies the efficient use of resources with a safe ronment. Certified raw materials ensure the origine handling of the products, and it distinguishes products that are biofrom responsible sources. The procurement of certified raw degradable or easy to recycle. Proposals for new product awards materials from sustainable sources becomes increasingly come from the Business Units. To be considered for an award, the significant in this respect. product must go through the standardized process defined within the framework of the Portfolio Value Program, in which the susClariant will certify all relevant locations that process palm tainability risks and performances are determined over the total life oil-based products until 2016 according to the criteria of the cycle on the basis of an encompassing list of criteria. Only if the »Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil« (RSPO). This certifiproduct meets these high standards can it be distinguished with the cation attests to the locations to monitor the quantity of cerlabel. The development of new products with an excellent sustaintified palm oil in the production process in such a way that ability profile is an important and forward-looking part of the cora certain »mass balance« between certified and non-certified porate strategy. palm oil can be met (»mass balance supply chain certification«). The German plant in Gendorf was the first to be certified in 2014 in accordance with this standard. This was an important step towards completely separated raw material streams. Clariant will organize and certify the locations by 2020 in such a way that the complete separation of certified and non-certified palm oil-based raw materials can be ensured (»100 % segregated supply chain certification«). This also allows us to meet the requirement from customers who increasingly request certified products. CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 113 Color Pigments from Bio-based Raw Materials – an Example for EcoTain® Clariant is the first manufacturer worldwide that uses biotechnology-produced succinic acid based on renewable raw materials for the production of the pigment Hostaperm® Pink E, which is being used, for example, in printer toners as opposed to crude oil-based raw materials. The bio-based succinic acid, purchased from the US manufacturer Myriant, is being used as an intermediate in the production of high-performance pigments. The application could be developed in collaboration with the supplier in intensive joint research and development steps. The use of the bio-based succinic acid reduces the ecological footprint, without interfering with the manufacturing process. The product was awarded the EcoTain® label because of its excellent sustainability profile. Becoming a True Strategic Partner Outstanding Customer Relations To ensure the best possible results for customers using our Clariant places the highest value on the recognition of the liquid color and additive masterbatches, HiFormer® system needs and wishes of its customers, but also the end users is an integrated system founded on three primary value-­ and to provide them with innovative products. Cooperation creating elements: CONVERSE, CO-CREATE and COMwith customers leads to interesting business opportunities PLETE. and benefits for both sides. In the CONVERSE phase, all stakeholders define the paramThe Unilever »Partner to Win Award« is a great example eters of the project and identify major objectives and potenthat shows Clariant as a promising cooperation partner. The tial limitations. In the CO-CREATE phase, Clariant, the company has won this award for the second consecutive brand owner and the plastics processor work together to detime in the category »Joint Value Creation«. The global velop customized solutions to the specific needs of the appackaging platform was standardized and flexible packaging plication. This leads to a customized design for a dosing and was developed exclusively for Unilever through a close cohandling system including a specific carrier tailored to the operation between Unilever and the research and developfinal application. A customized service and support framement experts of Clariant Masterbatches. The advantages of work is established to ensure customers get maximum value developed Masterbatches for Unilever result in an improved from the HiFormer® experience. Finally, when all the imcost efficiency for the packaging while maintaining the same portant decisions have been made, we enter the COMquality and product characteristics. This shows clearly that PLETE phase. Clariant’s global team goes on-site with a Clariant’s tailor-made technical solutions and the coordinatcustomized training program to make sure that the process ed approach for individual customer wishes lead to success continues to perform, delivering long-term profitability. in the long run. 114 Close Collaboration ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN COMPTOX SUITE – SAFE EVALUATION OF CHEMICALS WITHOUT THE NEED FOR ADDITIONAL ANIMAL TESTING COMPTOX SUITE Intelligent integration of existing databases using QSAR* functionality on a single unified platform AMBIT IUCLID 5 ECHA DEREKMETEORNEXUS NEXUS DEVELOPMENT REACH AUTHORIZATION of new chemical structures Data on human and environmental impact • Forecasts of chemical safety profiles, • Use of existing data on similar BENEFITS product composition and improvements chemical structures • Avoidance of animal testing • Targeted development by means of • Filling of data voids based on read-across excluding harmful structures and QSAR* methods • Reduction of research and testing costs • No (animal) testing • Support for category approach (registration of element groups) • Faster research and development of new products • No (animal) testing • Improved performance of laboratories and businesses • Standardized reporting format * QSAR: Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Clariant has been working for years to replace required animal reFor Clariant, innovation and product responsibility means, whersearch by alternative methods. This could succeed to a large degree ever possible, to search for replacements and alternatives to with the newest developments in material evaluation. The reason hazardous substances. Chemical materials are processed in nearly for this optimistic outlook is because Clariant developed a program, all products of today’s everyday life. Therefore, the corresponding the so-called CompTox Suite, which is able to predict toxic propermaterials in these products, with which people and the environties of chemical substances in many cases. The program renders an ment come in contact, are submitted to stringent and, partly elabextremely valuable contribution for the improvement of the prodorate examinations and testing procedures specified by legislation. uct safety by mostly avoiding animal research and costs, while simulThe EU authority ECHA (European Chemicals Agency) controls taneously shortening research and development time. and evaluates these tests. Although growing knowledge about the chemical relationships simplify the test procedures, strict legal requirements still force, however, experimentation with animals. CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 115 High Hurdles for the Authorization of chives. CompTox Suite, developed by Clariant, systematically uniChemical Substances in Europe fies all available information about chemical substances worldwide Since 2007, the European Union (EU) has required that all on a single platform. Data gaps can now be filled with data from chemical substances manufactured inside the EU and imstructurally related substances and by predictions of computer proported into the EU are being assessed in regards to the imgrams. CompTox Suite not only provides traceable information pact of these substances to humans and the environment about the effects of chemical substances and allows for verifiable (dossier). The EU authority ECHA (European Chemicals documentation, but it also delivers suggestions and tips for product Agency) in Helsinki coordinates the recording, assessment improvements or certain desirable product compositions. and continued approval of all chemical substances on the basis of the dossiers (presented test results). To do this, it Thus, CompTox Suite can deliver decisive information about the requests verifiable and authoritative statements from the basic understanding of the interactions between substance and orchemical industry. The research methods must be perfectly ganism. Clariant checks nearly all conceivable uses and application reproducible and is normally associated with considerable possibilities. What could happen during the manufacturing process effort and expense. Clariant is committed to fully completand at the end consumer? How and in what quantities can people ing these requirements on time and thereby strives for the come in contact with the substance? What happens at the disposal? highest levels of cost-efficiency while undertaking as little Thus, the contemplation covers the entire life cycle of a product. animal-testing as possible, as permitted by regulation. Five essential goals can be reached with the help of Clariant’s CompTox Suite: ·F  aster research and development of safe chemical substances and CompTox Suite – a Milestone in Chemical Research products. and Assessment of Chemicals ·A  lmost complete avoidance of animal experiments. Large amounts of substance-related data are generated by the EU · I n some instances, significant reduction of research and experiregistration procedures for chemical substances (REACH – Regismental costs. tration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals). ·E  asing the burden of companies’ research laboratories with more Per substance, these are in part more than 8 500 pieces of informaefficient and effective use of their capacities. tion. Much of this data is not yet available and therefore needs to be ·S  uggestions and advice for product improvements. collected in animal research. Clariant’s approach is to close data gaps with substances that have to be registered by other means. So far this could only be accomplished with time-consuming manual work by searching for suitable comparative data in very diverse ar116 Close Collaboration ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN Product Safety for Customers Frequent Dialog with Customers Product safety takes top priority at Clariant. It also involves comThe results of a representative survey of about 5 000 customers in munication with direct customers and end users in the value chain, 2014 signaled a noticeable improvement in their attitudes since the besides the optimization of safetyand environmentally-relevant last survey in 2012. The quality of the products and the packaging product features. Clariant fosters permanent contact with the cuswere particularly praised. Weak points in claim management altomers, who are supported in the application and use of Clariant’s legedly have been eliminated. Clariant was more significantly rated products. Laboratories are available to solve any specific problems. as a »reliable business partner« than two years earlier. In the future, The service offering also features comprehensive product informaClariant’s customers desire an even stronger support with innovation, in particular with respect to optimum and safe application, tive products and technical services. health risks, waste disposal and handling of packaging. Careful Export Controls for Sensitive Substances Safety data sheets containing the relevant substance data, informaClariant is also dealing with goods that are subject to different trade tion on the safe handling and storage of products, and measures in control regimes such as chemical weapons conventions or the »dual-­ the event of incidents such as product spillages/release and fire are use goods« regulation. All of the respective national and internaprovided by Clariant to all parties involved in the further handling tional trade control provisions, as well as embargo regulations, are of the substances. Clariant has a close relationship with its custommonitored by a global trade control network within the Clariant orers and provides all REACH-relevant information about the supply ganization. With help from IT systems together with organizational chain, also with the help of IT tools. Here, every Clariant customer controls, all deliveries are reviewed in order to ensure trade comis able to securely receive REACH-relevant information on the pliance. Thus, for example, controlled goods can only be delivered specific products that they have purchased. Comprehensive customif the necessary permits are obtained from the relevant authorities, er support ensures the extremely high communication requireas well as end-user statements from the customer. Clariant makes ments by REACH in regards to the use of products in the customer sure that all trade control requirements are fulfilled. chain. In 2014, Clariant received no grievances or complaints concerning A worldwide operating Corporate Sustainability & Regulatory Afcompliance with legal provisions on unfair competition, incidents fairs (CSRA) organization with the functions ESHA (Environment, or complaints of anti-competitive conduct, and no grievances reSafety, Health Affairs), Product Stewardship, and System Managegarding breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data. ment ensures the high global internal standard in Clariant’s producSimilarly, Clariant is not aware of any incidents in which there have tion and with Clariant’s products. In the 2014 year, there have also been infringements of laws/regulations in terms of the procurebeen no incidents at Clariant – neither offenses nor criminal invesment, use or supply of products and services. The need to pay notetigations – due to product-related health and safety issues or on acworthy fines based on corresponding infringements is not known count of breaches against the applicable law and voluntary codes of either. practice in relation to information about the labeling of products and services. CLARIANT SUSTIANABILITY REPORT 2014 117 GRI INDEX DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE 1. Strategy and Analysis G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder G4-1 Foreword from the CEO 2 2 engagement 2 82 G4-2 Key sustainability risks, opportunities and 5. Report Profile impacts 2 5 G4-28 Reporting period 2 122 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2 122 2. Organizational Profile G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 122 G4-3 Name of the organization 2 121 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 2 121 the report 2 122 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 2 121 G4-32 Reporting option chosen for the report 2 122 G4-6 Number of countries where the G4-33 External assurance 2 123 organization operates 2 121 G4-7 Nature of ownership 2 121 6. Governance G4-8 Markets served 121 G4-34 Governance structure 2 AR 115 f. 2 AR 56 G4-35  Process for delegating authority for economic, G4-9 Scale of the organization 2 121 environmental and social topics 2 AR 112 f. G4-10 Total workforce 1 63 G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental G4-11 Bargaining agreements 2 59 and social topics 2 11 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 2 105 G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and governance bodies 2 11, 84 G4-13 Significant changes during the G4-38 Composition of highest governance body 2 AR 112 f. reporting period 2 121 G4-39 Function of highest governance body 2 AR 116 G4-14 Implementation of precautionary principle 2 5 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for 11 G4-15 Support for external initiatives 2 12, 77 highest governance body 2 AR 112 f. G4-16 Memberships in associations/interest groups 2 12 G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure avoidance of conflict of interests 2 AR 112 f. 3. Identified Material Aspects and G4-42  Highest governance body’s role in development Boundaries of organization’s strategies related to G4-17 Entities included in the report 2 121 economic, environmental and social impacts 2 11 G4-18 Definition of report content and boundaries 2 10 G4-43 Highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic environmental G4-19 Material aspects 2 11 and social topics 2 11 G4-20 Material aspects and report boundaries G4-44 Highest governance body’s performance within the organization 2 11, 122 with respect to economic, environmental 11 G4-21 Material aspects and report boundaries and social topics. 2 AR 130 f. outside the organization 2 11, 122 G4-45  ighest governance body’s role in identification H G4-22 Changes to the company compared to and management of economic, environmental, 11 previous year 2 122 and social risks and opportunities. 2 AR 132 f. G4-23 Significant changes in scope and aspect G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing boundaries from previous reporting year 2 122 organization’s risk management for economic, 11 environmental and social topics. 2 AR 131 f. 4. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholders engaged by the organization 2 82 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholder groups 2 84 G4-26 Engagement of stakeholder groups 2 82 1 external assurance of report content (see page 123). 2 no external assurance of report content AR = Annual Report »Materiality Disclosures Service« by GRI 118 UN Global Compact Annex DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE G4-47 Frequency of highest governance body’s review G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services of economic, environmental and social impacts, supported 2 82 risks and opportunities. 2 12 G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts 2 77 G4-48 Review and approval of organization’s G4-EC9 Spending on local suppliers 1 106 sustainability report 2 12 10. Environmental G4-49 Communication of critical concerns to the highest governance body 2 12 G4-EN1 Materials used 1 91 G4-50 Critical concerns communicated to highest G4-EN2 Materials recycled 2 91 governance body 2 12 G4-EN3 Energy consumption inside the organization 1 92 G4-51 Remuneration policies for highest governance G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the body 2 AR 130 f. organization 2 92 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 60 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 1 92 2 AR 130 f. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 2 93 G4-53 Consideration of stakeholder’s view 60 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of regarding remuneration 2 AR 112 f. products and services 2 19 G4-54 Ratios of annual total compensation 2 60 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 1 94 G4-55 Ratios of percentage increase in G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by compensation 2 60 withdrawal of water 2 94 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water 7. Ethics and Integrity recycled and reused 1 95 G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standard G4-EN11 Properties in protected areas or abutting and norms 2 12 protected areas 2 96 G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking G4-EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity in advice on ethical and lawful behavior 2 70 protected areas 2 96 G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for G4-EN13 Habitats protected and restored 2 96 reporting concerns about unethical or G4-EN14 Number of red list species impacted 2 96 unlawful behavior. 2 70 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions 1 96 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (energy) 1 97 8. Specific Standard Disclosures G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 2 97 G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 6 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 1 97 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 2 93, 99 9. Economic G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 1 98 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2 AR 149 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 1 98 G4-EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate G4-EN22 Total water discharge 1 94 change 2 13 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste 1 94 G4-EC3 Benefit plan obligations 60 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 2 102 2 AR 186 G4-EN25 Hazardous waste 1 100 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from G4-EN26 Waste water and biodiversity 2 96 government 2 AR 102 G4-EN27 Environmental impact mitigation of G4-EC5 Ratios of entry level wages 2 59 products and services 2 7 G4-EC6 Senior management hired from local G4-EN28 Packaging material 2 101 community 1 59 G4-EN29 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 1 102 G4-EN30 Environmental impacts of transporting products 2 101 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 119 DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and G4-HR6 Risk of incidents of forced or compulsory investments by type 2 101 labor 2 70, 106 G4-EN32 New suppliers screened using environmental G4-HR7 Security personnel trained 2 70, 78 criteria 2 106 G4-HR8 Number of incidents where the rights of G4-EN33 Environmental impacts in the supply chain 1 106 indigenous people were violated 2 78 G4-EN34 Grievances about environmental impacts 1 102 G4-HR9 Operations subject to human rights reviews 2 70 10.  Social Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-HR10 New suppliers screened using human rights G4-LA1 New employees hired and turnover rate 1 64 criteria 1 106 G4-LA2 Employee benefits 2 60 G4-HR11 Significant human rights impacts in the supply chain 1 106 G4-LA3 Return to work after parental leave 1 62 G4-HR12 Grievances about human rights 2 70 G4-LA4 Notice periods regarding significant changes 2 70 G4-LA5 Employees represented in health and safety committees 1 69 Society G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost G4-SO1 Programs and practices regarding the days, and work-related fatalities 1 66, 68 impacts of operations on communities 2 73, 78 G4-LA7 Risk control and programs regarding serious G4-SO2 Impact of operations on local communities 2 78 diseases 2 69 G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks related to G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal corruption and risks identified 2 77 agreements 2 69 G4-SO4 Employee training in anti-corruption G4-LA9 Hours of training 1 61 policies and procedures 2 78 G4-LA10 Skills management 2 61 G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 1 77 G4-LA11 Performance review and employee development 1 63 G4-SO6 Political contributions 2 81 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and 64 G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior 1 78 breakdown of employees 1 AR 124 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines 1 81 G4-LA13 Ratio of base wages for women and men 1 60 G4-SO9 New suppliers screened using criteria for G4-LA14 New suppliers screened using labor impacts on society 2 106 practices criteria 2 106 G4-SO10 Impacts on society in the supply chain 1 106 G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labor practices in the G4-SO11 Grievances about impacts on society 1 77 supply chain 1 106 G4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices 1 70 Product Responsibility G4-PR1 Impacts of products 2 11 Human Rights G4-PR2 Non-compliance with regulation concerning G4-HR1 Investment agreements that include human health and safety impacts of products 2 117 rights clauses/have undergone human rights screening 2 106 G4-PR3 Information on products and services 2 117 G4-HR2 Training on human rights relevant to G4-PR4 Violations of regulations concerning product operations 2 71, 78 labeling 2 117 G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination and G4-PR5 Surveys of customer satisfaction 2 117 actions taken 1 70, 71 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 2 78 G4-HR4 Risk to right to exercise freedom of G4-PR7 Non-compliance with advertising and association and collective bargaining 2 70 competition law 2 117 G4-HR5 Risk of incidents of child labor 2 70, 106 G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 2 117 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations 2 117 1 external assurance of report content (see page 123). 2 no external assurance of report content AR = Annual Report »Materiality Disclosures Service« by GRI 120 UN Global Compact Reporting limits AND REPORTING STRUCTURE REPORTING STRUCTURE The Business Area Natural Resources is comprised of Oil & Mining The headquarters of Clariant AG are located at Rothausstrasse 61 Services and Functional Minerals. This business area offers in Muttenz, Switzerland. Clariant AG’s business operations are products and services for the oil, refinery and mining industry and conducted through its Group companies. Clariant AG is a holding functional minerals for use in processes such as water treatment. company and directly or indirectly owns all Clariant Group comThe Business Area Plastics & Coatings comprises the Business panies worldwide. Clariant AG is a stock company under Swiss Units Additives, Pigments and Masterbatches. Plastic products law with a very diverse shareholder structure. More details about are designed for clients in a wide range of areas including pathe ownershipand holding structure of Clariant AG can be found ckaging and mobile communications, consumer goods, medicine, in Clariant’s 2014 Annual Report on page 113 (G4-17). Important textiles, transport, and major agricultural groups. key figures about the Clariant Group such as sales, profit, balance structure, employees, research expenditure, etc. can be found in The Clariant Group is active in a multitude of countries with proClariant’s Annual Report on pages 93ff. ductionand operating facilities or representations. For a relevant overview, see Clariant’s 2014 Annual Report on pages 206 ff. The Clariant Group Clariant markets and sells its products worldwide. In the past yeClariant is a leading worldwide specialty chemicals company offears, Clariant has increased the geographical diversification of its ring innovative and sustainable solutions to customers in a wide business and reached a significant sales growth in the emerging variety of markets. Meanwhile, Clariant’s research and developcountries (also see the Clariant 2014 Annual Report on page 56). ment is directed toward the key trends of our time. Among these There were no essential changes in Clariant’s Group structure or are energy efficiency, renewable raw materials, efficient mobility Business Areas in the 2014 year under review. and the maintenance of resources. The business activities of Clariant are divided into four areas. Clariant has based both the structure of this report and the representation of individual sustainability issues and topics on the The Business Area Care Chemicals unites Industrial & Consumer framework of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The report Specialties (ICS) with the operations of New Business Develophas been prepared according to the GRI Guidelines. The topics/inments (primarily food additives) and the future-oriented Biotechdicators we have indentified as material to report on can be found nologies business. Care Chemicals offers the same technology on page 11; all points listed therein will be considered. The materiplatforms for several application possibilities, for example, deterality of the relevant aspects is presented in the chapter entitled gents, cleaningand body care products. The Business Area Strategy & Management. Topics within the G4 profile that have Catalysis & Energy is the only area of Clariant which specializes little or no relevance to Clariant or its stakeholders are mentiin inorganic chemistry. Catalysts for chemical and fuel-related oned, but not discussed in detail. This Clariant Sustainability Reprocesses are being produced here. port encompasses all Group companies and plants (provided Clariant owns more than half of the shares), as well as all relevant CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 121 business and subject areas (G4-20) (G4-21). An overview of the Questions about this report should be addressed to: Corporate most important Clariant AG Group companies can be found on Communications, Daniel Kaufmann, Tel.+ 41 61 469 54 79, and pages 206 ff. of the 2014 Clariant Annual Report. No restrictions Investor Relations, Siegfried Schwirzer, Tel.+ 41 61 469 63 73. are made unless specifically identified. The representation of the Inquiries via e-mail to sustainability@clariant.com Website sustainability areas and activities in this report cover all major www.clariant.com. Orders for this report may be placed on the issues for Clariant. There were no essential changes or correcClariant website: www.clariant.com or sent in writing to the tions in 2014 compared to prior Clariant Sustainability Reports following address: Clariant International AG, Investor Relations, (G4-22, G4-23). This report was prepared with the utmost care Rothausstrasse 61, 4132 Muttenz, Switzerland. An external assfollowing an in-depth evaluation. This is so that Clariant can urance has been conducted for this Report by Pricewaterhousepresent a balanced picture of its sustainability efforts. Coopers (see page 123). The reporting period of this Sustainability Report comprises January 1 through December 31, 2014 and is therefore identical to the financial year of Clariant. Clariant’s Sustainability Report is currently published on an annual basis in the quarter following the reporting year. The last sustainability information published on Clariant in printed form was made available in March 2014 as part of the 2013 Sustainability Report. 122 Independent Assurance Report on the Clariant Sustainability Reporting 2014 To the Board of Directors of Clariant AG, Muttenz Our Responsibility We have been engaged to perform assurance procedures to provide limited assurance We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with International on sustainability indicators in relation to the sustainability reporting of Clariant AG Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits and the consolidated subsidiaries (‚Clariant‘). or Reviews of Historical Financial Information', by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. These standards require that we plan and perform this engaScope and Subject matter gement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Identified Sustainability InforOur limited assurance engagement focused on the following data and information discmation is free from material misstatement. losed in the Sustainability Report of Clariant for the year ended 31 December 2014: a) T  he quantitative 2014 sustainability indicators (Senior management hired from local For the subject matter for which we provide limited assurance, the nature, timing and community on p. 59, Average basic salary of female employees on p. 60, Apprenticeextent of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately liship and in-service training on p. 61 and 78, Active family policy on p. 62, Performited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. mance review on p. 63, Structure of the workforce on p. 63-65, Occupational accidents on p. 6669, Work related violations or complaints on p. 70-71, Material use Main Assurance Procedures and production on p. 91, Energy consumption on p. 92, Water consumption on p. 94Our limited assurance procedures included the following work: 95, Scope 1&2 CO2-emissionens on p. 97, Emissions of gases and particles on p. 98, · Interviews Quantity of waste on p. 100-101, Process safety on p. 102, Procurement spend on p. Interviewing personnel responsible for the collection and reporting of the sustaina105, Raw material procurement by region on p. 106, Supplier sustainability assessbility indicators at Clariant sites in Germany; ments on p. 108 and Financial key figures on cover U4) disclosed in the Sustainabili· Assessment of the key figures ty Report 2014 of Clariant; and Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting the quantitative sustainab) The management and reporting processes to collect and aggregate the data as well bility indicators as outlined in the scope and subject matter section concerning comas the control environment in relation to the data aggregation of these data. pleteness, accuracy, adequacy and consistency; · Review of the documentation and analysis of relevant policies and Criteria basic principles The reporting criteria used by Clariant are described in the internal reporting guideliReviewing the relevant documentation on a sample basis, the management and renes and define those procedures, by which the sustainability indicators are internally porting structures, and the documentation in relation with the sustainability reporgathered, collated and aggregated. The internal guidelines are based on the G4 Sustaiting; nability Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). · Assessment of the processes and data consolidation Reviewing the appropriateness of the management and reporting processes of sustaThe accuracy and completeness of sustainability indicators are subject to inherent liinability indicators; and assessing the consolidation process of data. mitations given their nature and methods for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our assurance report should therefore be read in connection with Clariant’s Limited assurance conclusions internal guidelines, definitions and procedures on sustainability reporting. Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the quantitative sustainability indicators of Clariant as outlined in Responsibility of the Board of Directors the scope and subject matter section has not been prepared and disclosed, in all mateThe Board of Directors of Clariant is responsible for both the preparation and the rial aspects, in accordance with the Clariant internal guidelines and procedures and presentation of the selected subject matter in accordance with the reporting criteria. the underlying GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Our responsibility is to form an independent opinion, based on our limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to our attention to indicate that the subject Basel, 13 March 2015 matter is not stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Independence and quality controls We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. Dr. Marc Schmidli Raphael Rutishauser In accordance with International Standard on Quality Control 1, PricewaterhouseCoopers AG maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 123 Publication DETAILS PUBLISHER EDITOR Clariant International Ltd, Muttenz GFD Finanzkommunikation, Frankfurt CONTACT DESIGN, GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT Corporate Communications Kuhn, Kammann & Kuhn GmbH, Cologne Daniel Kaufmann Tel. + 41 61 469 54 79 CREDITS Jo Röttger: p. 2, 14 – 17, 45 – 57, 72 – 75, 80, 83, 86 – 89 Investor Relations Siegfried Schwirzer PRINTING Tel. + 41 61 469 63 73 Neidhart + Schön, Zurich Enquiries via e-mail to NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING sustainability@clariant.com STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements based on current Website assumptions and projections made by management. Such statewww.clariant.com ments are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results and performance ORDERING ADDRESS of Clariant International Ltd to differ from those expressed in, implied Orders may be placed on the Clariant website or projected by the forward-looking information and statements. www.clariant.com The information published in this report is provided by Clariant or sent in writing to the following address: International Ltd and corresponds to the staus as of the date of puClariant International AG blication of this report. Investor Relations Rothausstrasse 61 DISCLAIMER 4132 Muttenz Clariant International Ltd has published Sustainability Reports in Switzerland English and in German. The German version is legally binding. ® Product and service marks protected by Clariant in many countries ™ Product and service marks licensed to Clariant in many countries © 2015 Clariant International Ltd, Rothausstrasse 61, 4132 Muttenz, Switzerland 124 Financial SUMMARY PERFORMANCE KEY FIGURES in CHF m 2014 2013 Sales 1 6 116 6 076 EBITDA 1 867 858 EBITDA margin before exceptionals ( %) 14.2 14.1 Net income 1 235 323 Basic earnings per share 1 (in CHF) 0.55 0.98 Operating cash flow 334 301 Investment in property, plant and equipment 310 292 Research & Development expenditures 213 199 1 Continuing operations (p. 121) SALES BY BUSINESS AREA in CHF m SALES BY REGION in CHF m Total 2014: 6 116 Total 2014: 6 116 Care Chemicals 1 511 25 % Europe 2 232 37 % Catalysis & Energy 729 12 % Asia/Pacific 1 433 23 % Natural Resources 1 297 21 % Middle East & Africa 461 8% Plastics & Coatings 2 579 42 % Latin America 984 16 % North America 1 006 16 % Glossary ADDITIVE EBIT A substance added to products in small quantities to achieve Earnings before interest and taxes. certain properties or to improve a product (Clariant Additives Business Unit). EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. BUSINESS AREA Clariant is reporting in four Business Areas with similar end-user ESH markets and growth drivers: Care Chemicals, Catalysis & Energy, Environment, Safety & Health Natural Resources, and Plastics & Coatings. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE BUSINESS UNIT Management body of joint-stock companies; at Clariant the Clariant’s’ seven Business Units include: Additives; Catalysts & Executive Committee currently comprises four members. Energy; Functional Minerals; Industrial & Consumer Specialties; Oil & Mining Services; Pigments, Masterbatches. FULL TIME/PART TIME/FTE Full time/Part time status has been derived from FTE per employCLARIANT EXCELLENCE ee as follows: >/= 0.90 FTE has been defined as full time employClariant Excellence is an initiative launched in March 2009 with ment, < 0.90 FTE as part time. the aim of establishing a culture of continuous improvement. The initiative is based on a change in mindset among all employees GLOBAL PRODUCT STRATEGY (GPS) and at all levels of the company. It aims to improve competitiveness The Global Product Strategy aims to establish global product through gains in efficiency and to create added value. The four stewardship standards and practices for companies. The program, elements of Clariant Excellence are: Operational, Commercial, initiated by the International Council of Chemical Associations People, and Innovation Excellence. (ICCA), strives to ensure the safe handling of chemicals by reducing existing differences in risk assessment. CO2 Carbon Dioxide ISO International Organization for Standardization CO2 EQUIVALENT CO2 equivalent is a parameter describing the effect of greenhouse LOST DAYS gas emissions. A factor known as the global warming potential Lost days in which an employee is absent from work due to (GWP) shows the effect of the individual gases compared with CO2 a work-related injury or illness. as the reference value. They do not include: 1. the initial day of injury or illness, COMPLIANCE 2. any days on which the employee would not have worked even Compliance is a key element of Corporate Governance. It refers to though able to work (i. e. holidays, weekends with no scheduled compliance with the law and directives as well as with voluntary work, etc.). codes within the company. LTA CONTRACTOR Lost Time Accidents In the context of the workforce, an (independent) contractor refers to a person not employed directly by Clariant who performs services under contract for Clariant in its premises. In this case Clariant takes responsibility for general safety of the working environment. 125 LTAR SQAS Lost Time Accident Rate: the ratio of the number of occupa­tional The SQAS safety and quality evaluation system is a norm of the accidents where at least one day’s work was lost to every European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) to ensure safety 200 000 hours of work. and environmental compatibility of logistics providers. LWDR STAKEHOLDER LWDR = Lost Workday Rate: the ratio of the number of days lost Stakeholders are people or groups whose interests are linked due to accidents at work to every 200 000 hours of work. in various ways with those of a company. They include shareholders, business partners, employees, neighbors, and the comMATERIALITY MATRIX munity. Presentation of relevance of pertinent topics for Clariant’s stakeholders and the company itself. SUPERVISED WORKER A Supervised Worker is a person who performs regular work OHSAS 18001 for or on behalf of Clariant but does not have a contract of emThe Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) ployment with the company. This individual is always under the comprises, among other things, the standard OHSAS 18001 supervision of a Clariant employee and Clariant is liable for the which includes a management system for occupational safety. general as well as specific safety of the working environment. This system can be integrated into an existing quality and environmental protection management system and certified UNGC accordingly. UN Global Compact is a voluntary United Nations initiative, under which companies commit to ensuring that their business PIGMENT activities and strategies are in line with 10 principles relating Pigments are substances used for coloring; they are used in to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and a technical manner, for example in the manufacture of dyes, the fight against corruption. varnishes, and plastics (Clariant Pigments Business Unit). VALUE CHAIN REACH The value chain describes the series of steps in the production REACH is an EU regulatory framework for the registration, evalprocess, from raw materials through the various intermediate uation and authorization of chemicals. stages to the finished end product. RESPONSIBLE CARE® Responsible Care® refers to a worldwide initiative by the chemical industry to continuously improve its performance in the fields of environmental protection, health and safety. R&D Research & Development 126 CLARIANT INTERNATIONAL LTD Rothausstrasse 61 4132 Muttenz Switzerland © Clariant International Ltd, 2015 SAP-Nr. 1113634 WWW.CLARIANT.COM
