2 0 1 5 United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) June 2014 – June 2015 Company Name CESVA instruments, s.l.u. Address C/ Maracaibo, 6 08030 Barcelona Country Spain Contact name Joan Casamajó Monclús Contact Position General Manager Contact phone no. (+34) 934 335 240 Date 1 June 2015 Membership date 9 June 2008 Number of employees 24 Sector Instruments for acoustics UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 3 CONTENT COMPANY DESCRIPTION ........................................................................ 5 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT.............................. 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUMMARY ...................................... 8 HUMAN RIGHTS ........................................................................................ 9 Policy and Processes ............................................................................. 9 Results.................................................................................................... 9 LABOUR................................................................................................... 10 Policy and Processes ........................................................................... 10 Results.................................................................................................. 10 ENVIRONMENT ....................................................................................... 12 Policy and Processes ........................................................................... 12 Results.................................................................................................. 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION ................................................................................ 20 Policy and Processes ........................................................................... 20 Results.................................................................................................. 20 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 4 COMPANY DESCRIPTION CESVA is company specialized in the design and manufacture of equipment for noise control and measurement, it was founded in 1969 in Barcelona and has since been working to offer acoustic solutions to end problems related to noise and vibration and help protect the environment and improve the quality of people’s life. Our mission is to help our customers to measure and control both noise & vibration. We do this by designing and manufacturing systems that are extremely easy to use, but which do not compromise on power & functionality. Our activities are centered mainly on the development and manufacture of precision microphones and acoustic instruments and software applications for all of them, which makes them more powerful and competitive in the national and international market. CESVA is certified according to the requirements of ISO 9001:2008 for the design, manufacture, distribution and sale of instruments for the measurement and control of noise The concept of quality is fundamental in our business philosophy, since one of our priorities is its continuous search and what creates added value for our customers. We want the future to sound great. We hope to achieve this by offering quality instruments to sound professionals, to enable them to perform measurement & assessment of noise & vibration in the most efficient way possible. We want to help them achieve this whilst meeting & surpassing the technical levels required by the regulations of wherever they are used. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 5 We focus on research and development to create new products, improve quality and maintain competitiveness in the market. Currently CESVA has its own R & D that absorbs 70% of company resources. We like to listen and identify the needs of our customers to create a relationship of mutual trust. We design and manufacture equipment that meet their needs and comply with the requirements of the latest standard in the market. Our ongoing commitment to research and development has enabled us to obtain several patents of acoustic instrumentation and being pioneer in the design of equipment with single measurement range and with simultaneous measurement of all functions, using Bluetooth on sound insulation measures or being the first company in Spain to obtain the pattern approval of a sound level meter. We sit on several committees, both Spanish and International, for the creation and revision of regulations and standards, allowing us to have a global and updated vision of the latest industry requirements. This global reach, together with a foresighted commercial strategy, has led to our range of products becoming a point of reference in the field of precision instrumentation for sound level measurement. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 6 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT On behalf of CESVA instruments SLU, I state the company's commitment to the 10 principles of the Global Compact regarding human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. To this end and in compliance with the commitment made in June 2008 by signing the Global Compact, we present the Communication on Progress COP of CESVA instruments SLU, for the period June 2014June 2015. This communication shows the progress and commitments of CESVA with its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, emphasizing its active policy of sustainable development and respect for human rights, the quality of working conditions within our company and in companies that we operate protection of the environment, especially in the field most closely related to our business: the noise pollution, and the rejection to any act of corruption. With this COP we reiterate, with deep conviction, our willingness to join the Global Compact and to fulfill its principles, for its consistency with our company philosophy and our corporate values over the years. We reaffirm our support to the Global Compact of the United Nations, fully and unreservedly, and thus hope to be a positive role model for all who are within our spheres of influence. Since June 2008, our company has adhered to the Global Compact voluntarily, and is committed to promoting the universal principles that govern it. Joan Casamajó Monclús General Manager of CESVA instruments s.l.u. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUMMARY # PRINCIPLE IMPLEMENTED PROGRESS 1 SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS YES We continue with full commitment MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT 2 COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS YES We continue with full commitment ABUSES. UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF 3 ASSOCIATION AND THE YES We continue with full commitment COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF ALL 4 FORMS OF FORCED AND YES We continue with full commitment COMPULSORY LABOUR. 5 UPHOLD THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR YES We continue with full commitment UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF We have hired a new employee to the 6 DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. YES company according to criteria of nondiscrimination and of closeness and affinity with current workers. SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY We have developed policies to 7 APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL YES measure and control energy CHALLENGES. consumption. UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO We have participated in the “Am i living 8 PROMOTE GREATER YES with noise?” activity marked in the ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY. International Noise Awareness Day. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT We have developed a product to AND DIFFUSION OF monitor noise in smart cities and we 9 ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY YES participate in a committee for its TECHNOLOGIES. standardization. WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN 10 ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING YES We continue with full commitment EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 8 HUMAN RIGHTS The first two principles cover the area of Human Rights: Businesses HUMAN RIGHTS should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1: Businesses should human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights support and respect abuses. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Policy and Processes In order to ensure that CESVA is not complicit in human rights abuses, 2: make sure that they we have adopted a policy of not sourcing materials from countries with are not complicit in a systematically poor human rights record. human rights abuses. All our customers, suppliers and employees have been informed of the policies of corporate social responsibility. Results In 2015 CESVA did not import goods from, nor do business with any companies in countries with a systematically poor human rights record. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 9 LABOUR LABOUR The second area covered by principles 3 to 6 is that of Labour Rights: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 3: Businesses should recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all uphold the freedom of forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child association and the labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment effective recognition of and occupation. the right to collective bargaining; 4: The elimination of all Policy and Processes forms of forced and compulsory labour; CESVA has a policy of recruitment based strictly on qualification and ability. 5: The effective abolition of child Factors such as sex, religion or sexual orientation play no part in the labour; and recruitment process. In addition, in line with the policy described in reference to Human 6: The elimination of Rights, we ensure that our suppliers do not use child labour in their discrimination in production processes. respect of employment and occupation. We reject all forms of intolerance, bullying or discrimination. We consider any of these manifestations are disrespectful and unacceptable practice in our company. The transparency and honesty govern our every action in this area. Training is also an integral part of our company culture. Our workers are aware of the need to constantly improve their knowledge and skills. Results In 2015 CESVA did not import parts from companies that use child labour in their production processes. Employees and Management have taken training courses to improve their knowledge and skills. All CESVA employees are paid according to their qualifications and the work that they carry out, independent of factors such as sex or religion, etc. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 10 As a result of a great effort and counter to Spanish indicators for active population that keep on decreasing, we were able to hire a new worker, in substitution of an old worker who has retired this year. The selection process has been conducted according to criteria of nondiscrimination and of closeness and affinity with current workers. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 11 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Principles 7 to 9 pertain to the area of Environmental Protection: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to 7: Businesses are environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater asked to support a environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and precautionary diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. approach to environmental At CESVA we assume respect for the environment as a fundamental challenges; factor in the performance of our activities, especially in the field more closely linked to our business: noise pollution. 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater We operate responsibly in order to respond to the needs of our environmental responsibility; and customers, always trying to minimize negative environmental impacts that may arise from it. 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Policy and Processes environmentally At CESVA we keep with the policy of “reduce, reuse and recycle” in the friendly technologies. factory. We continue being active members of ECOTIC ECOTIC Foundation is a non-profit private organization that works towards environmental protection and sustainable development through the awareness and training of manufacturers, distributors and users of electrical and electronic devices. ECOTIC Foundation manages the WEEE (collection and recycling of electrical and electronic devices at the end of their lifespan) of its affiliated enterprises through its Integrated Management System (IMS). The mission of ECOTIC Foundation is not only to conveniently recycle the wastes that are generated by its affiliates after the use of these devices, but also to do it in the most efficient and economically feasible way, so that the system is environmentally and economically sustainable to guarantee its durability. We are equally committed to our support for environmental protection, especially in the field most closely related to our business: noise pollution. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 12 Results The results achieved applying the 3R policies are positive. CESVA is listed in the National Register of Industrial Establishments producing Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). And we keep on our policy of buying lead-free electronic components. We continue to make the environmental management of batteries with ECOPILAS Foundation which is recorded in the register of foundations of the Spanish Ministry of Environment ECOPILAS Foundation works from its origins, in the design and organization of an Integrated Management System of waste batteries and accumulators in compliance with communitarian, national and regional rules in force. The collection of batteries is performed using the following procedure: TYPE OF TYPE OF MINIMUM REQUEST STORAGE CONTAINER BATTERIES WITHDRAWAL ECOPILAS Different type of Battery removal CARBOARD ECOPILAS FULL BOX batteries request BOX delivery with the 1st withdrawal UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 13 The batteries are stored using a cardboard box that measures 38.6 x 25.6 x 23.9 cm and has an approximate capacity of 15 liters (20 kg). After reaching 20 kg, we proceed to make the removal order by accessing the ECOPILAS web platform. We have 2 small containers for separate collection of plastic and cardboard. The collection is done daily, Monday to Friday in the morning. The collection of furniture, appliances, wood, etc., is performed in Friday’s afternoons. We have improved our energy efficiency with regard to electric energy consumption. First it was performed a program of measurements to determine which devices were susceptible to reduce their electricity consumption. From this study it was detected that the highest consumption were related to lighting, air conditioning and sockets with 24 hours supply (even when the company is closed). To improve the lighting electricity consumption we have replaced the old bulbs with energy saving bulbs. To reduce the consumption of fluorescent-lit areas, the chosen solution has been zoning the illuminated areas with individual switches for each zone. To reduce electricity consumption in air conditioning a periodic maintenance (summer / winter) of the air-conditioning and heating equipment will be made to have a more optimal performance and avoiding the use of individual heating equipment (small electric stoves). Finally, all equipment unnecessarily connected to 24 hours supplies will be reviewed and monitored. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 14 We have actively participated in the activity AM I LIVING WITH NOISE? held to mark the International noise awareness day (April 29th). The air quality department of the Generalitat de Catalunya (Government of Catalonia) has organized a day of mass noise measurements. The activity consists in involving municipalities, collaborating organizations, acoustic engineering and consulting firms, environmental organizations, schools and citizens to carry out measurements of all kinds of noise in all types of places (parks, gardens, car traffic areas, trains, airports, urban areas, industrial zones...). The aim is familiarizing the public with measurement methodologies, standards, and regulations governing the meaning and perception of scale in decibels (dB). The measurements could be performed with precision sound level meters or via mobile applications as NoiseWatch (free application developed by the European Environment Agency). It has to be kept in mind that these applications for smart phones have very important limitations, both in performance and reliability and accuracy. The measurements, apart from entering the app NOISEWATCH, were made public through Twitter, with the hashtag #diasoroll and through Whatsapp. Finally the Generalitat de Catalunya draw a map in Google Earth KML format for collecting all data measured with the app NoiseWatch and data published on social networks (twitter and whatsapp) CESVA carry out 4 measurements of 10 minutes with a sound level meter and NOISEWATCH application at the following locations:  C/Potosí and C/Caracas. Barcelona  C/de Sant Adrià and C/de SAS. Barcelona.  Av Pallaresa and Av Francesc Macià. Sta Coloma de Gramanet.  The pond of Capellades UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 15 Sound level measurements made with sound level meter during the activity AM I LIVING WITH NOISE? held to mark the International noise awareness day 2015 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 16 Sound level measurements made with NOISE WATCH app during the activity AM I LIVING WITH NOISE? held to mark the International noise awareness day 2015 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 17 The results were published in Twitter: UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 18 CESVA has developed the TA120 sensor for measuring noise levels in smart cities. The TA120 brings together in a small sized single piece of equipment, the precision of a Class 1 sound level meter, maximum protection for professional outdoor kits (rain, snow, wind, dust, birds, IP65) and full connectivity with the most important opensource platforms for sensor connectivity as Sentilo. Its wide measuring range from 35 dBA to 120 dBA makes it suitable both for controlling noisy activities, street and construction works, concerts or music festivals and for monitoring acoustically protected quiet areas. Sentilo is an open-source architecture developed and promoted by the City Council of Barcelona to collect, exploit and disseminate the information generated by sensors deployed in a city. The platform is developed entirely with free software components, so any city can use it directly to interconnect the sensors and actuators that will deploy. Currently the sensor TA120 is already installed in several streets of the city of Barcelona, such as Paseo de Gracia, which is expected to become one of the smarter avenues in the world. CESVA has also become part of the working group GT7.2 “Noise Pollution control systems” in the SC4 / CTN 178 Smart Cities. Energy and Environment of AENOR (It is legally responsible for the development and dissemination of technical standards in Spain). The objective of this group is to establish the guidelines to standardize the actions conducted by smart cities for the diagnosis, monitoring and control of noise pollution and environmental awareness and education. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 19 ANTI-CORRUPTION The tenth principle deals with the problem of Corruption, and states ANTI-CORRUPTION simply that: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and Processes CESVA has always adhered to this principle. It may be that there are companies who resort to bribery to win contracts, but CESVA has never entertained the idea that this could, under any circumstances, be an acceptable business practice, even when it has cost us contracts or tenders. Results CESVA does not, and never has resorted to bribery or extortion. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2015 | page 20 Maracaibo, 6  08030 Barcelona (Spain) www.cesva.com
