KESKON VUOSI 2014 Responsibility in figures 2014 Responsibility in figures Responsibility management GRI report profile 89 Management system 1 Responsibility programme 4 Responsibility monitoring and steering 15 Assurance report 90 Materiality assessment 25 Contact information 29 GRI index 31 Performance indicators Economic impacts 41 Economic performance 42 Indirect economic impacts 47 Procurement practices 50 Environmental impacts 52 Energy 53 Water 58 Biodiversity 59 Emissions 60 Effluents and waste 65 Social impacts 68 Employees 69 Human rights 80 Society 84 Product responsibility 86 K Responsibility management in day-to-day activities Corporate responsibility work at Kesko is integrated in day-to-day activities. Corporate responsibility work is based on Kesko's values and vision and it is guided by Kesko’s general corporate responsibility principles, the guide 'Our Responsible Working Principles' and Kesko’s purchasing principles. Values We exceed our customers’ expectations We are the best operator in the trading sector We create a good working community We bear our corporate responsibility General operating principles guiding responsibility Kesko’s Group Management Board has approved the Group’s general principles of corporate responsibility. These principles define the basic economic, social and environmental responsibility promises. Kesko’s commitments to international declarations and conventions are also included in the principles. The most important ones of them are: • The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Convention of the Rights of the Child • The ILO convention on the Fundamental Rights and Principles at Work • The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Corporations • The ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development and principles against corruption and bribery • The UN Global Compact initiative • The Code of Conduct of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) Kesko has taken account of the ISO 26000 standard as a source document offering guidelines for corporate responsibility. Kesko uses the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 guidelines and the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) Framework as its reporting principles. 1 K Kesko participates in the UN Global Compact initiative and is committed to observing ten generally accepted principles concerning human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption in all of its operating countries. Mikko Helander President and CEO Corporate responsibility organisation in Kesko Corporate responsibility work at Kesko is integrated in day-to-day activities. The management of each business division is responsible for practical implementation. Kesko’s Board and Group Management Board review reporting and the key principles. The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit, assisted by steering groups, is responsible for the development, coordination and reporting. The corporate responsibility function is managed by the Senior Vice President responsible for corporate responsibility, communications and stakeholder relations, who is a member of Kesko’s Group Management Board. Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board Senior Vice President for corporate responsibility, communications and stakeholder relations (Ch.), division representatives, Group representatives • develops the principles that guide the Group’s corporate responsibility • steers and coordinates practical measures • sets the objectives for corporate responsibility work and monitors and, as necessary, supports their achievement Environmental Steering Group The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit (Ch.), divisions’ specialist representatives • develops the Group’s environmental management • promotes the sharing of best practices within the Group • keeps up with changes in legislation pertaining to environmental responsibility Steering Group for Responsible Purchasing The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit (Ch.), divisions’ specialist representatives • develops the Group’s responsible purchasing procedures • promotes the sharing of best purchasing practices within the Group • keeps up with changes in legislation pertaining to purchasing and sourcing 2 K Steering Group for Local Responsibility in Operating Countries Vice President for corporate responsibility (Ch.), representatives of local subsidiaries in operating countries (excluding Finland) • steers the implementation of the responsibility programme in the other operating countries • develops local additions to the responsibility programme • promotes the sharing of best practices within the Group Division-specific responsibility steering groups are, based on the objectives set by the Group-level steering groups, responsible for: • determining their own responsibility objectives • implementing them in accordance with the specific characteristics and strategies of their respective divisions In addition, the Risk Management Steering Group and the HR Management Board support responsibility management and implementation in Kesko with their work. 3 K Responsibility programme Responsible operator: We are committed to responsible working principles and we together generate economic value added • Responsible working principles guide all our operations. • We follow good corporate governance principles. • We improve financial profitability together. • We develop the multi-channel approach in our store network while listening to customers' expectations. Objective Progress All of our personnel act in compliance with our On plan responsible working principles. Guidelines are a material part of the induction of new employees. In 2014, Kesko's Internal Audit conducted a survey on responsible working principles for all Kesko employees in Finland. A total of 93.3% of all respondents were familiar with the Our Responsible Working Principles guidelines. We organise regular training on our responsible On plan working principles. The online training on responsilibity which was prepared in 2014 and is compulsory to all Kesko employees, describes Our Responsible Working Principles. As part of the constant responsibility training, four events on responsible working practices were organised by different divisions in Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia in 2014. On Keskonet, Kesko's intranet, there is a permanent banner on the front page to remind Kesko employees of the guidelines. Kesko's target for return on equity is 12% and On plan the target for return on capital employed is 14%. In 2014, the return on equity excl. non-recurring items was 7.6% and the return on capital employed excl. non-recurring items was 9.9%. 4 K We offer e-commerce services in all divisions Started during 2014. Comprehensive store-specific product information, prices and availability will All our divisions focus on electronic and multi-channel be provided online by the end of 2016. customer service. The Ruoka.citymarket.fi online store for food expanded to all of the Greater Helsinki area in 2014. The Intersport.fi online store opened in 2014 and the online store of the Sotka chain in January 2015. In spring 2015, Kesko's Group Management Board will be joined by the Chief Digital Officer, who will be responsible for Kesko's business development, digital business environment and marketing. 5 K For the benefit of the community: We build a better society together • We establish partnerships and contribute to the development of local communities. • We develop our operations in interaction with customers. • Our personnel act responsibly in day-to-day operations. Objective Progress We are an attractive partner and a responsible On plan neighbour. K-food stores, Anttila and Kodin1 participated in the Blue and White Footprint campaign in 2014, and new participants in 2015 include K-rauta and Rautia stores. In 2014, Local Food Dates were organised in order to increase the supply of local products in Kfood stores. Kesko was the national partner of the Salvation Army's Christmas Kettle Collection in 2014. Some of the proceeds of K-food stores' bottle return raffles are directed either to the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare or to the Association of Friends of the University Children's Hospitals every six months. The K-Group participated in the development project of village stores in 2013–2015. We include our customers and our personnel in On plan our responsibility work. In 2014, a compulsory online course on responsibility was prepared for all Kesko employees and a compulsory online course on responsible purchasing for the employees in the food trade's commerce. An online course on the K-responsibility concept was drawn up for the building and home improvement store staff. An advisory board was established to promote corporate responsibility work in other countries. During 2015, each company will prepare their own responsibility objectives to support Kesko's responsibility programme. Customer expectations are regularly reviewed by conducting various surveys and studies. 6 K We help customers in efficient shopping; onilne On plan stores, SmartPost, in-store collection. All of the divisions focus on electronic and multichannel customer service. K-rauta, Rautia, Kmaatalous and Byggmakker provide customers with comprehensive electronic services across their whole area of operations. Many building and home improvement stores and food stores launched click&collect services in 2014. A total of 137 K-food stores have the automated SmartPost terminal. We expand the contract seed production On plan programme trainings; the objective is to train 100% of the contract farmers within three years. By the end of 2014, 77% of the seed contract farmers had been trained. We develop the organic farming programme On plan into a concept. The K-Group's experimental farm tested plant varieties in the Åland Islands in 2014. The experimental farm is seeking new options to continue organic research with grain varieties in continental Finland. 7 K Working community: We perform and offer high-quality work • We have satisfied employees and competent supervisors. • We offer meaningful and diverse jobs and development opportunities. • We are the most attractive workplace in the trading sector. • We offer a safe and healthy working environment. Objective Progress We are the best employer in the trading sector Behind plan in terms of job satisfaction. In the 2014 personnel survey, the employee engagement index was 53%. In the Universum Young Professionals 2014 survey, Kesko's ranking was 29. We conduct a performance and development On plan review annually with every employee. In the 2014 personnel survey, 83% of respondents said that they had had a performance and development review during the past 12 months. We train our supervisors on a regular basis. On plan Key tools in the development of supervisory work include training courses entitled Let's Talk about Work, Performance Management, Employee Engagement and the extensive online training programme for the various areas of supervisory work, completed in 2014. A total of 2,391 online courses for supervisors were completed in 2014. 8 K We reduce sickness absences and premature On plan disability pensions. Since the beginning of 2011, about 950 supervisors in Finland have been trained in the Let's Talk about Work model, which is used by nearly all of our companies. In Finland, the sickness absence percentage has decreased by 11% since 2009, while the number of disability pensions has decreased by 37% since 2010. In other countries, the sickness absence percentage has decreased by 10% since 2009. 9 K Responsible purchasing and sales: We purchase and sell responsibly and support customers in making sustainable choices • We provide customers with information and support in responsible buying decisions. • We make responsible actions visible and easy for customers. • We develop our product selections while listening to customers. • We ensure responsibility in the supply chain. • We answer for the safety and quality of products. Objective Progress We identify the whole of our supply chain and On plan actively promote the social responsibility audits of our suppliers in high-risk countries. In 2014, 88 full audits and 74 re-audits were conducted in suppliers' factories and farms. In 2014, Kesko's suppliers in high-risk countries had 284 factories or farms within the scope of the BSCI process. Efforts to ensure the sustainability of ingredients imported from high-risk countries continued. Kesko started to assess human rights impacts in 2014. We add indication of origin to our own brand On plan products. Origins are indicated on our own brand products. In 2014, a major project of changing package labelling of own brand products was underway at Kesko Food, based on the EU food information regulation. The project will continue until spring 2015, when the transition period of the complementing regulation on the indication of the origin of certain meats ends. We offer a wide selection of Pirkka responsible Behind plan products; 500 Pirkka products meeting a responsibility criterion by 2015 and 200 Pirkka In 2014, the Pirkka range included 44 Fairtrade organic products by 2015. products, 116 Organic products, 29 MSC certified fishes, 16 UTZ ertified products and 13 products containing certified sustainable palm oil (CSPO). 10 K By 2020, all palm oil in Pirkka products is Behind plan responsibly produced (CSPO). At the end of 2014, about 13% of the palm oil in Kesko Food's and Kespro's products was certified sustainable palm oil. Kesko's website includes a list of Pirkka products containing CSPO. Social responsibility of the production of Kesko On plan Food's own direct imports from high-risk countries is 100% assured by the end of 2015. At the end of 2014, nearly 100% of such imports was assured. 11 K Wellbeing for customers: We offer services which promote customers' wellbeing • We make life easier for our customers. • We offer healthy products and services which promote wellbeing. • We increase our offer of e-services. • We provide advice to customers in using products. Objective Progress Every building and home improvement store On plan has at least one trained Energy Expert or Energy Master and a service cooperation network. In 2014, Energy Expert service products were part of stores' basic selection. Expertise available at retail stores was reinforced with training courses, which were attended by employees from nearly all K-rauta and Rautia stores. All K-food stores will have adopted the KAchieved responsibility concept by 2014. All K-food stores have adopted the K-responsibility concept. In 2014, the concept was adopted by Krauta stores and the introduction to the stores in the Rautia chain started. During 2015, the concept will be implemented at all Rautia stores and in the Kmaatalous chain. The theme 'Let's do good. Together.' is visible in On plan stores and marketing. The theme 'Let's do good. Together.' is a material part of the grocery trade communications and marketing. We train and advise our machinery trade On plan customers in the correct, safe and economical use of machines and devices and in prolonging Customers in the agricultural machinery trade are the service lives of machinery. trained in the use of the machinery they have bought, such as combine harvesters, precision choppers and large tractors. 12 K Mitigation of climate change: We jointly mitigate climate change and promote the sustainable use of natural resources • We reduce our environmental impacts in cooperation with the whole supply chain. • We promote the development towards a low carbon society. • We help our customers reduce their environmental impacts. Objective Progress We increase cooperation with the supply chain Started in order to promote the sustainable use of natural resources and the development towards In late 2014, Kesko joined the Foreign Trade a low carbon society. Association's (FTA) Business Environmental Performance Initiative (BEPI). BEPI helps member companies in the management of the environmental issues of global supply chains. We recover the waste generated in our On plan operations to achieve zero landfill waste. In 2014, the waste recovery rate of Anttila's logistics centre was 99%, and that of Keslog's central warehouses and terminals 98%. The recovery rate of waste generated in stores was 96% and the recycling rate was 67%. VV-Auto Group's waste recovery rate was nearly 100%. We reduce food wastage by 10% by 2020. On plan K-food stores have reduced food wastage with the help of electronic forecast and order systems, efficient logistics, employee training, lowering prices of products approaching their best before dates and by optimising properties of packaging. Many K-food stores also donate food to charity. K-food stores participated in the Consumers' Union of Finland's Wastage Week campaign in 2014. 13 K We improve our annual energy efficiency by 65 On plan GWh by 2016. During 2014, Kesko improved its energy consumption by 59 GWh and achieved 90% of its objective. We reduce the relative carbon dioxide emissions On plan from Keslog's transportation by 10% by 2020. Emissions are reduced by route planning, reverse logistics, two-tier trailers and training in economical driving style. In March 2015, Keslog starts to pilot an extra long Ecotruck on the main logistics route between Vantaa and Oulu. 14 K Responsibility monitoring and steering Responsible operator Management approach We are committed to responsible working principles and we together generate economic value added Material aspects • Economic performance • Indirect economic impacts • Anti-corruption • Public policy • Anti-competitive behaviour • Compliance • Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society • Customer privacy We generate economic value added At Kesko, economic responsibility refers to the good management of finances, the efficient use of resources, as well as generating stable, long-term economic benefits to the various stakeholders. Kesko's operations generate economic benefits for shareholders, personnel, retailers, suppliers of goods and services and their employees, customers, as well as municipalities and states. Responsible working principles (Code of Conduct) and Different aspects of responsibility, such as ethicality of production and sourcing, fair reputation management and equal treatment of employees and environmental protection are increasingly important for customers. Kesko's attitude to bribery and other malpractice is absolutely uncompromising. Responsible working principles are essential for building trust between Kesko, K-stores, our customers and our partners. Public policy Kesko plays an active role in trade and industry organisations in Finland and in the European Union, contributing its expertise to social development and legislative work. Kesko does not donate funds to political parties. Customer privacy Customers' personal data are, for instance, processed in various personal data registers and online stores' customer registers that are collected for the implementation of marketing activities. K-Plus Oy, a Kesko subsidiary, manages and maintains the K-Plussa customer loyalty system, operated by K-chains and K-Plussa partners. Using the information received from the K-Plussa customer loyalty system we can develop and tailor our operations to better suit our customers' needs. Taking care of our customers' privacy is of utmost importance to us. Objectives The objectives have been recorded in the responsibility programme. Policies, working principles and commitments Accounting policies Kesko Group complies with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) approved for adoption by the European Union. Corporate Governance principles Kesko's decision-making and corporate governance are guided by Kesko's values and responsible working principles. Decision-making and corporate governance comply with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, regulations concerning publicly quoted companies, Kesko's Articles of Association, the charters of Kesko's Board and its Committees and the rules and guidelines of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. The company complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies 1 October 2010. Risk management principles The risk management policy confirmed by the Board of Directors guides risk management in Kesko. Good trading practices Kesko Food and Kespro are committed to good trading practices. Our responsible working principles The 'Our responsible working principles' guidelines (Code of Conduct) bind all Kesko employees in all operating countries to act in accordance with shared values and responsible working principles. Data protection policy The data protection policy defines how Kesko Group strives for compliance with the law in the processing of personal data and a high level of data protection in all of its operations and operating countries. Monitoring and control systems; programmes, projects and initiatives Financial reporting and planning Kesko's financial reporting and planning are based on Kesko Group's management system. The Group's financial development and achievement of financial objectives are monitored by financial reporting covering the entire Group. Compliance Kesko runs compliance programmes to ensure that Kesko employees are familiar with the key laws relating to operations and act in compliance with them. For Kesko, knowledge of and compliance with competition laws is of primary importance. Kesko has a competition law compliance programme, composed of training sessions and an e-learning component available to all Kesko employees. Those whose work is largely related to competition laws are separately obligated to complete the training. The Group Legal Affairs Unit supervises the completion of the training. 15 K Prevention of malpractice Kesko's Internal Audit pays special attention to the efficiency of controls that prevent malpractice and financial losses. Measures preventing malpractice have included more effective communications, training and guidelines as well as tightened controls. Kesko's Risk Management, Legal Affairs and Internal Audit have organised value discussions in Kesko subsidiaries with the focus on anti-bribery work. Through Kesko's intranet, employees in all operating countries, except for Belarus, can give feedback and ask questions concerning operations not only in their own units but also directly to top management. Feedback can be given openly or anonymously. Through the intranet or by e-mail at IA (at) kesko.fi, employees can also contact Kesko's Internal Audit in confidence. A new channel for reporting suspected malpractice was taken in use in Kesko's Russian subsidiaries. The channel for suspected malpractice is a Russian-language channel through which the partners and employees of Kesko's Russian subsidiaries can report in confidence any suspicions of malpractice in Kesko's Russian subsidiaries. Risk management Kesko has a uniform risk assessment and reporting system. Risk identification is based on business objectives and opportunities and the defined risk appetite. Risks are prioritised on the basis of their significance by assessing the impacts in euros and probability of their materialisation. When assessing the impact of materialisation, the impacts on reputation, people's wellbeing and the environment, among other things, are considered in addition to impact in terms of euro. Risk management measures are assigned persons in charge who are responsible for planning, implementing and monitoring the measures. The measures defined are added in action plans and monitoring systems. Privacy protection Personal data collected for various purposes on the grounds defined in the Finnish Personal Data Act form separate person registers. For example, the customer information of K-Plussa cardholders forms a customer database that is used, with the customer's permission, for managing customer relationships, for customer contacts and marketing purposes of the companies that have joined the K-Plussa system. K-Plussa customers can prohibit the connection of product or product group level information to their identified customer relationship. In compliance with the Personal Data Act, K-Plus Oy's file description is available in Finnish at www.plussa.com. Data controllers ensure that customer information is only used for the purposes specified in the file description. Information on individual customers is secured by issuing instructions to personnel and by using technical systems. Customer data is only disclosed to third parties if required by law. In 2014, Kesko started a data protection programme which consists of training events and an e-learning session. The implementation of the programme is overseen by the Privacy Officer who works under the supervision of the Legal Affairs Unit. Responsibilities and resources • Kesko's Corporate Governance structure is laid out in Kesko's Corporate Governance • The Group Legal Affairs Unit • The Group Internal Audit and Risk Management Unit • K-Plus Oy Management approach assessment The management approach is assessed continuously as part of operations. Changes in the operating environment and in Kesko are taken into account by adjusting objectives, operating principles, monitoring systems and resources. In January 2015, the risk management function took part in an international selfassessment concerning the level of risk management. The results will be used to further improve Kesko's risk management. Kesko Group's internal audit conducts audits in data protection issues as part of its normal auditing functions. For the benefit of the community Management approach We build a better society together Material aspects • Purchase practices A local approach has an effect on the entire society Retail trade plays an important role in a local community. It serves and employs local people. In addition to its direct employment impact, the retail trade is also a significant indirect employer through its suppliers and business partners. Retailers, supported by Kesko's district organisations, represent local activities. The K-retailer entrepreneur is responsible for his or her store's staff and customer satisfaction. Listening to the wishes of local customers and making use of customer data, K-retailers build a selection of products and services that meet customer needs. We develop our business in interaction with our customers. Kesko purchases the majority of the products it sells from Finland and encourages Kretailers to include locally produced products in their selections. The impact of Finnish products on employment is significant. For example, Pirkka products are produced in nearly 160 companies all over Finland. 16 K Objectives The objectives have been recorded in the responsibility programme. Policies, operating principles and commitments Good trading practices Kesko Food and Kespro are committed to good trading practices. Our responsible working principles Kesko requires that its suppliers and other partners act in compliance with Kesko's responsible operating principles. A responsibility clause has been incorporated in all significant new agreements since the beginning of 2013. Chain business model The principal business model in the Finnish market is the chain business model, in which independent K-retailers run retail stores in Kesko's retail chains. In Finland, all food stores, building and home improvement stores and agricultural stores in the KGroup are run by K-retailer entrepreneurs. In the retailer model, through its chain operations Kesko provides a first-class setting for its retailer entrepreneurs to provide the best possible service to their customers. The K-retailer entrepreneur implements the chain concept and is responsible for store management, customer satisfaction, personnel and business profitability. Stakeholder interaction In Kesko's operations, social impact on local communities is estimated as part of the development of the store network. The establishment of a new store or the expansion or change of an existing store involves various statutory reports – both at the planning and building permit stages – and hearings of local inhabitants and operators, depending on the extent of the project. Reports take a stand on the impact of the project on the community structure, traffic and employment, among other things. Monitoring and control systems; programmes, projects and initiatives The Blue and White Footprint campaign K-food stores, K-citymarket Oy (home and speciality goods), Anttila department stores, Kodin1 department stores for interior decoration and home goods participated in the Blue and White Footprint campaign of the Association for Finnish Work in 2014. The campaign will continue in 2015 when K-rauta and Rautia stores will also join in. The campaign aims to increase the sales of Finnish products and consciousness of the positive impacts of buying Finnish work. Responsibilities and resources • K-retailers and K-Retailers' Association • Kesko's district organisation • Steering group for responsible purchasing and Kesko's buyers • Division Management Boards Management approach assessment The management approach is assessed continuously as part of operations. Changes in the operating environment and in Kesko are taken into account by adjusting objectives, operating principles, monitoring systems and resources. Working community Management approach We perform and offer high-quality work Material aspects • Employment • Labour/management relations • Occupational health and safety • Training • Diversity and equal opportunity • Equal remuneration • Labour practices grievance mechanisms Employment and labour/management relations We want to be the most attractive workplace in the trading sector, with satisfied employees and competent supervisors. The K-Group offers varied career and personal development opportunities in varied jobs of the trading sector. In reorganisation situations, Kesko complies with the local legislation in all its operating countries. In Finland, the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings determines the key statutes concerning reorganisations. Health and safety at work Kesko and K-stores are responsible for providing employees a safe working environment and appropriate training and guiding for their work. Development of personnel Systematic, business-driven development of personnel and management is critical for future success. In line with its values, Kesko invests in the development of the working environment and the quality of management with the objective that the employees think highly of their work and employer and are motivated to perform well. In the K-Group, there are many kinds of development paths an employee may follow. Diversity and equal opportunity A pluralist organisation that promotes diversity guarantees equal opportunities, rights and treatment to all. Equality, justice and non-discrimination are important principles which are observed at Kesko throughout the employment relationship. The most suitable person with the most development potential is selected for the job, and applicants are judged according to their competence, skills and accomplishments. 17 K Remuneration The objective of remuneration in Kesko is to encourage employees to exceed the objectives given and to motivate them to do long-term work in order to meet the goals of Kesko Group and its subsidiaries. Remuneration is fair and is based on principles that are commonly known. Labour practices grievance mechanisms Employees can ask questions and give feedback or development proposals on issues related to the operations of Kesko or its subsidiaries anonymously via the Direct Line available on the Keskonet intranet. Answers are published for all to see on Keskonet. Objectives The objectives have been recorded in the responsibility programme. Policies, working principles and commitments HR policy Kesko's HR management is based on Kesko's values and responsible operating practices, which are described in the guide 'Our Responsible Working Principles'. Kesko's HR policy defines key operating principles in the various areas of HR management. The HR strategy defines HR management objectives, critical success factors and key development initiatives. Diversity commitment Kesko is a member of Diversity Charter Finland. The operations of Diversity Charter Finland are based on a charter that is signed by all members. Monitoring and control systems; programmes, projects and initiatives Wellbeing at work programme In the development of wellbeing at work, the objective is to increase employees' job satisfaction and motivation, reducing sickness, increasing the retirement age and enhancing employer image and, in this way, increasing personnel productivity. The wellbeing at work programme focuses on the development of supervisory work and management and on improving the efficiency of cooperation in occupational healthcare and labour protection. Labour protection programme The personnel's ability to work is protected by creating a safe and supportive working environment. The goal of labour protection is to secure and maintain employees' ability to work and to prevent and avoid occupational injuries, occupational diseases and other physical and mental health hazards arising from work or the working environment. Youth Guarantee in the K-Group programme Kesko and K-stores participated in the Youth Guarantee programme launched at the beginning of 2013 to promote employment and prevent social exclusion among young people.The aim of the Youth Guarantee in the K-Group programme was to employ 1,000 young people during 2013-2014. By the end of December 2014, nearly 1,800 young people had found employment in K-stores and Kesko across Finland. Employment of disabled people and people with partial In 2012, the K-Retailers' Association launched a project called 'Many kinds of work capacity performers' in cooperation with the Finnish Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (FAIDD). The project was turned into a permanent working model in 2013. In the Greater Helsinki area, Kesko's Occupational Health Service directs employees to AMI rehabilitation, which promotes mental health. A partial daily allowance can help an employee return to work after sick leave. The support provided by pension insurance companies for occupational rehabilitation has been used to promote return to work. Responsibilities and resources • HR Management Board • Kesko HR/Common Services • Division and company HR • HR Service Centres • Each supervisor is responsible for labour protection in his/her area as it is part of the line organisation's normal management and supervisory work. Management approach assessment The management approach is assessed continuously as part of operations. Changes in the operating environment and in Kesko are taken into account by adjusting goals, operating principles, monitoring systems and resources. The personnel survey, to be implemented at about 18 month intervals since 2015, measures the quality of management. The results of the survey are used when agreeing on development measures that are integrated as part of the yearly action plan and personnel plan. The fulfilment of the measures is monitored. Responsible purchasing and sales 18 K Responsible purchasing and sales Management approach We purchase and sell responsibly and support our customers in their sustainable choices Material aspects • Products and services • Supplier assessment for labour practices • Labour practices grievance mechanisms • Human rights • Customer health and safety • Product and service labelling • Marketing communications • Compliance Purchasing from high-risk countries In its operations, Kesko pays special attention to human rights issues and working conditions in its purchasing chain and, in monitoring these, primarily focuses on suppliers in high-risk countries. In accordance with the BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative), these are countries and areas where there is a risk of human rights and workers' rights violations. The classification is based on the World Bank's Worldwide Governance Indicators. High-risk countries typically produce clothing and home textiles, shoes and other leather goods, furniture, carpets, interior decoration items, sports equipment, toys, agricultural products (such as coffee, tea, cocoa, fruit, vegetables, wines) and canned fish, fruit and vegetables. In 2014, direct purchases by Kesko's Finnish companies from suppliers in risk areas totalled €131 million (€123 million in 2013) and accounted for 1.5% (1.6%) of Kesko's total purchases. The most significant high-risk countries in terms of imports are listed at human rights assessments. Direct imports from high-risk countries accounted for 21.1% (21.7%) of Kesko's total imports into Finland. There are no statistics available on the imports of Kesko's subsidiaries in other countries from high-risk countries, but in 2014 Kesko's purchases analysed by a company's country of domicile and by a supplier's country of domicile also included purchases from high-risk countries at a total value of €367 (€328) million, or 4.2% (4.2%) of Kesko's total purchases. Around 76% (74%) of Kesko's imports into Finland (excluding imports by VV-Auto) come from EU countries. In addition to its own direct imports, Kesko also purchases goods produced in highrisk countries from other brand and import companies operating in Finland. There are no reliable statistics available on the countries of origin of these imports.There may also be social risks involved in the manufacture of products imported to Finland through third countries or in the production of their ingredients. Product safety and product labelling Kesko and K-Group stores are responsible to the products' end-users for ensuring that the products comply with all the requirements of Finnish and EU legislation, are safe for users and meet quality and other promises. Product labelling and marketing communications comply with legislative requirements and authorities' recommendations. Kesko and K-Group stores want to support customers in making sustainable choices and offer a wide selection of products with responsibility criteria. Objectives The objectives have been recorded in the responsibility programme. Policies, working principles and commitments Purchasing principles Responsible purchasing is guided by Kesko's purchasing principles. The principles are based on national labour protection legislation and corresponding conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), which are applied when national legislation does not correspond to the same level. Policy on chemicals Kesko's policy on chemicals applies to home textiles, clothing, leather goods, shoes and upholstered furniture. Based on EU and Finnish legislation, it lists the chemicals which are prohibited or the quantity of which is restricted in the products supplied to Kesko. In addition, for substances of very high concern, Kesko sets restrictions that are stricter than those set in legislation. PVC statement Kesko reduces its impact on the environment by actively seeking options for PVC plastic, both in the packaging of its own brands and in the products themselves. It has been estimated that the elements and compounds contained in PVC, such as chlorine and phthalates, have significant environmental and health impacts. Therefore, replacing PVC with materials more suitable for recycling is appropriate, particularly in packaging and products with short life spans. Sustainability statements Various product group-specific policy statements, such as the palm oil policy, the fish and shellfish statement, the timber policy, and the stand on the sandblasting of jeans, have been prepared to support purchasing operations. K-responsibility concept Responsible choices are communicated to customers in stores according to the Kresponsibility concept with shelf labelling and product labelling, among other things. The selection and marketing policies of organic, eco-labelled and Fairtrade products are included in K-food stores' chain concepts. The K-responsibility concept was first adopted by K-food stores in 2013. During 2014, the concept was adopted by K-rauta stores and the adoption started in Rautia chain stores. During 2015, it will be visible in all Rautia stores and the K-maatalous chain. 19 K Monitoring and control systems; programmes, projects and initiatives Audits of suppliers in high-risk countries Kesko requires its suppliers in high-risk countries to have social responsibility certification or audits. Kesko is a member in the European BSCI audit system and is committed to the BSCI Code of Conduct, the content of which is practically the same as Kesko's own purchasing principles. In cooperation with the BSCI, Kesko follows other audit systems in the market and accepts audits based on them, provided that the level of requirements is the same as in the BSCI audit. Below is a table of the certification and audit systems Kesko uses in various product groups. In China and India, Kesko supports its suppliers through monitoring. A local monitoring officer guides and oversees Kesko's suppliers in issues related to terms of employment and working conditions and compliance with environmental and chemical regulations. Kesko's own monitoring principles are based on the BSCI audit requirements. The ultimate aim is to get the factory to apply for a third-party BSCI audit or SA8000 certification. The responsibility of the purchasing chain is also monitored and developed as part of the sourcing cooperation with other European retail chains (Swisstec, ICA, AMS). Kesko has a SUMO (supplier monitoring) database, in which the information on supplier audits, certifications and monitoring visits to suppliers in high-risk countries is saved alongside their respective risk ratings. The information on BSCI audits is also saved in the database maintained by the BSCI and is available to all members. In 2014, a risk assessment tool was developed with the purpose of better identifying risks across the entire purchasing chain of Kesko's own brands, incuding indirect purchases from high-risk countries. The intention is to first adopt the tool for Kesko Food's purchases, where it has already been piloted. Audits of Kesko Food's own brand product Kesko Food requires that the manufacturers and producers of its own brand manufacturers and producers products have an international food safety certification. Kesko Food accepts the following audit procedures: BRC, IFS, ISO 22000, SQF1000/2000 and GlobalGAP (in Finland, the 'Quality Requirements for Vegetables' requirements). Kesko Product Research Unit's laboratory The Product Research Unit Laboratory monitors the quality of products sold by Kfood stores, Anttila department stores, K-citymarket hypermarkets and Kodin1 department stores for interior decoration and home goods. It is a testing laboratory T251 which has been accredited by the FINAS accreditation services and approved to comply with the SFS-EN ISO/IEC 17025 standard. K-responsibility concept audits The assessment of a store's responsible operations comprises the store's annual selfassessment, the criteria defined in the store's quality system and a responsibility audit performed by an external party on a specified sample. The auditor reports the results to the store and to Kesko. Responsibilites and resources • The Group's Corporate Responsibility Steering Group • The Steering Group for Responsible Purchasing and Kesko's buyers • Kesko Food Commerce's Responsibility Steering Group • Kesko Product Research Unit • Division parent companies' employees responsible for communications and marketing • K-stores Management approach assessment The management approach is assessed continuously as part of the operations of the steering groups. Changes in the operating environment and in Kesko are responded to by adjusting objectives, working principles, monitoring systems and resources. Internal Audit conducts audits on responsible sourcing in Kesko companies. The audits evaluate the effectiveness of controls and provide recommendations on how shortcomings can be corrected. The self-control of Kesko Food and K-food stores is developed on the basis of the results of official inspections, among other things. The Product Research Unit's laboratory is audited annually as required by the SFS-EN ISO/IEC 17025 standard. In addition, its operations are assessed annually with an internal audit and an inspection by the management. Certification and audit systems related to production in high-risk 20 K Certification and audit systems related to production in high-risk countries used by Kesko Certification/audit system Product group Coverage of criteria Product label BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) All product groups Social, limited environmental part No SA8000 All product groups Social No ETI All product groups Social No Sedex/SMETA All product groups Social, limited environmental part No ICS All product groups Social No ICTI CARE Toys Social No FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) Wood products and timber Social, environmental Yes Fairtrade Agricultural products, incl. cotton Social, environmental Yes Rainforest Alliance Agricultural products Social, environmental Yes UTZ Certified Coffee, cocoa, tea Social, environmental Yes RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) Products containing palm oil Economic, environmental, social Yes WIETA Wines Social Yes MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) Caught fish and shellfish Environmental (sustainable fishing) Yes ASC (Aquaculture Stewardship Council) Farmed fish and shellfish Social, environmental Yes Wellbeing for customers Management approach We offer services that promote customers' wellbeing Material aspects • Customer health and safety Products and services that promote wellbeing Kesko and K-stores aim to make their customers' lives easier, providing them with services that promote health and wellbeing and guidance on the proper use of products. Promoting healthy ways of living and eating habits as well as physical activity is central to the K-Group's food and sports stores. E-commerce and multi-channel services Customers' needs and consumption behaviour change greatly as new electronic services and, particularly, mobile services become increasingly widespread. Kesko's key strategic objective is to provide customers with optimal service in all of its divisions in electronic channels irrespective of place and time. Objectives The objectives have been recorded in the responsibility programme. Policies, working principles and commitments K-responsibility concept The K-responsibility concept is used to tell customers about the store's good deeds and to help them make healthy and sustainable choices easily. The K-responsibility concept was first introduced in K-food stores in 2013. The concept was taken into use in K-rauta stores and its launch in Rautia stores started over the course of 2014. It will be introduced in all Rautia stores and in the K-maatalous chain in 2015. E-commerce and multi-channel services The development of electronic services requires major investments in competence development and capital expenditure in technology and logistics. At the beginning of 2015, the building and home improvement division and the home and speciality goods division were combined into the home improvement and speciality goods division which provides customers with multi-channel stores and services in the building, interior decoration and speciality goods trade. Kesko also strongly develops e-services and online sales in the grocery trade, and e-services in the car and machinery trade. Monitoring and control systems; programmes, projects and initiatives Product research Kesko Product Research Unit's laboratory monitors the safety and quality of groceries and home and speciality goods sold by K-food stores, Anttila department stores, K-citymarket hypermarkets and Kodin1 department stores for interior decoration and home goods. In addition to the laboratory, the Product Research Unit includes the test kitchen and Kesko Food's consumer service. The test kitchen's duties include sensory evaluations of products and testing their cooking properties. The consumer service provides information on Pirkka products. Customers give feedback about products and ask about various aspects such as product origins, ingredients, their suitability for different kinds of users and instructions for use and preparation. 21 K Recipe service The home economics teachers in the Pirkka test kitchen develop and test hundreds of new food recipes annually. The nutritional contents for about 5,400 recipes found in the K-ruoka.fi recipe service have been calculated to help customers make choices. K-responsibility concept audits The assessment of a store's responsible operations comprises the store's annual selfassessment, the criteria defined in the store's quality system and and an external responsibility audit based on a defined sample. The auditor reports the results to the store and Kesko. Customer satisfaction The recognition level and images of Kesko's chains are regularly monitored in brand surveys targeted at consumers in all product lines. The same practice is applied to the K-Plussa customer loyalty programme and the grocery trade's own brand products. Store-level customer satisfaction is measured by customer satisfaction surveys and the mystery shopping method in food stores and the building and home improvement stores. Responsibilities and resources • Kesko's divisions • Kesko's Product Research Unit • K-stores Management approach assessment The management approach is assessed continuously as part of the operations. Changes in the operating environment and in Kesko are responded to by adjusting objectives, operating principles, monitoring systems and resources. Mitigation of climate change Management approach We take part in mitigating climate change and promote the sustainable use of natural resources Material aspects • Energy • Water • Biodiversity • Emissions • Wastewater and waste • Environmental assessment of suppliers Energy consumption Energy consumption has a significant impact on both the progress of climate change and the costs of the K-Group's operations. The energy consumption of properties accounts for a considerable share of the greenhouse gas emissions caused by the K-Group. Mitigating climate change resulting from energy consumption is one of the focus areas in Kesko's environmental work. Water Properties managed by Kesko use municipal water. In the K-Group's own operations, water is used mainly for cleaning. Biodiversity Kesko concentrates on diminishing the effects of climate change to preserve biodiversity. Kesko only builds retail stores in areas zoned for business properties, so building does not have significant direct biodiversity impacts. Indirect impacts occur through the products sold. Emissions Kesko's logistics company Keslog has long reduced emissions from the K-store supply chain by centralising distribution. New replacements in the vehicle fleet have reduced unit-specific emissions. Key tools in improving logistics efficiency also include the optimisation of transport routes and a high volumetric efficiency. A significant part is also played by efficient reverse logistics. Drivers have been trained in economical driving styles. Waste management Preventing the generation of waste, increasing the recovery rate and recycling of materials are the means by which Kesko reduces the amount of waste. Environmental assessments of suppliers The assessment procedures of Kesko's procurement practices include environmental criteria. Objectives The objectives have been recorded in the responsibility programme. Policies, working principles and commitments Environmental and energy policy The K-Group's environmental and energy policy covers the operations of Kesko Group and the K-Group stores both in Finland and the other operating countries. The K-Group's key business partners are also expected to observe corresponding environmental management principles. Environmental management is part of the K-Group's management system and is based on the ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development, environmental management standards, as well as requirements set by legislation and the authorities. 22 K Monitoring and control systems, programmes, projects and initiatives Environmental work steering Kesko Group's Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board defines the main policies for environmental work and the target levels for the Group companies, taking account of the environmental impacts of operations and their significance throughout the whole life cycle and supply chain. The division parent companies and subsidiaries specify the main policies of their environmental work into environmental action programmes which support their business operations. The action programmes are monitored and updated annually as part of strategy work. Environmental systems At the end of 2014, environmental systems covered 63% of the Kesko companies' net sales in Finland and 53% of the whole Group's net sales. The coverage has been calculated in proportion to retail sales. The logistics operations of Kesko and Anttila are ISO 14001 certified. VV-Auto Group Oy and its subsidiaries fulfil the requirements of environmental programme of Finnish Central Organisation for Motor Trades and Repairs Association and the ISO 9001 quality system. In the food stores and the building and home improvement stores, environmental management is based on the K-responsibility concept. Key environmental issues are also included in the concept measurement of the food store chains. The Kresponsibility concept was also taken into use in K-maatalous stores. No certified environmental systems were yet in use in operations in other countries. Energy consumption monitoring Kesko's maintenance partners monitor the energy consumption of properties with the help of the EnerKey.com system supplied by Energiakolmio Oy. Energiakolmio reads remotely energy consumption measurement terminals located in properties and records the data in the database by the hour. Also the consumption figures for properties where the data are collected manually are saved in the EnerKey system. The EnerKey programme responds to even minor location-specific changes in consumption and sends an alarm to the person in charge. Energy efficiency agreement Kesko has signed the trading sector energy efficiency agreement. In terms of specific energy consumption, the types of properties with the highest energy consumption are K-citymarkets, K-supermarkets, Anttila department stores and large wholesale and warehouse buildings. Kesko conducts energy reviews in the properties managed by it on a regular basis. Water consumption monitoring Water consumption monitoring is part of real estate consumption monitoring. Biodiversity In line with Kesko's sourcing recommendation, the garden furniture made of tropical wood and sold by the K-Group stores is either FSC certified or made of wood species whose cultivation is possible in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. The K-Group’s fish and shellfish statement directs Kesko Food's and Kespro's own sourcing, as well as K-food retailers' sourcing to safeguard responsible fishing and cultivation of fish. Palm oil must be produced in a responsible manner, taking account of economic, social and environmental aspects. Kesko Food is a member of the RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil). Kesko Food's objective is that by 2020, all palm oil used in Pirkka products will be responsibly produced (CSPO). Sustainability statements Waste management Kesko develops recycling systems in cooperation with other operators and promotes waste recycling by developing packaging methods and the use of materials. The generation of waste is prevented by using reusable transport units and by minimising the wastage of products on sale. According to Kesko's business model, retailer entrepreneurs are responsible for wastage management in K-stores. Building contracting and maintenance Kesko's building contracting is based on target conditions and key technical quality factors determined for each business concept and the planning and execution instructions in respect of building services and construction engineering based on them. Kesko measures the efficiency and quality of planning and execution by providing its individual properties with international environmental certificates, such as BREEAM and LEED. In 2014, Kesko's partners in the maintenance and service of properties were Caverion Oy, Ovenia Oy and L&T plc. The environmental systems of Caverion Oy and L&T plc are ISO 14001 certified. Business Environmental Performance Initiative BEPI In late 2014, Kesko joined the Foreign Trade Association's (FTA) Business Environmental Performance Initiative (BEPI). BEPI is aimed at helping member companies in the management of global supply chains and, consequently, increasing the transparency and risk management of their product supply chains. BEPI provides a practical framework and guidelines for suppliers to improve their environmental activities. 23 K Responsibilities and resources • Group Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board • Environmental Steering Group • Store Sites and Real Estate Unit • Keslog Ltd Management approach assessment The management approach is assessed continuously as part of the operations. Changes in the operating environment and in Kesko are responded to by adjusting objectives, operating principles, monitoring systems and resources. Audits and reviews of the environmental systems. Environmental systems at Kesko Function Environmental management system Comment Keslog's warehousing, terminal and Certificate revised in transportation operations ISO 14001 2013. Anttila Oy's logistics centre Certificate revised in ISO 14001 2014. Real estate service and maintenance ISO 14001, ISO 9001: operations Caverion, L&T ISO 14001, ISO 9001 ISO 9001: Ovenia VV-Auto Group Oy ISO 14001 certificate: Audi Center Espoo. Action programme of The Finnish Central Organisation for Motor Trades and Repairs ISO 14001 and AKL's environmental programme (AKL): VV-Autotalot Oy K-food stores: 845 K-responsibility stores Chain requirement for K-citymarket, Ksupermarket, K-market K-responsibility concept and K-extra stores K-rauta stores: 40 K-responsibility stores Total number of stores: K-responsibility concept 42 Rautia stores: 88 K-responsibility or Kenvironmental stores (including combination Total number of stores: stores) K-responsibility concept and K-environmental store concept 96 K-maatalous stores: 24 K-environmental Total number of stores: stores K-environmental store concept 35 24 K Responsibility work focuses on materiality Go to: Identified material aspects of corporate responsibility The frame of reference for Kesko’s vision for corporate responsibility and materiality assessment is Kesko’s responsibility programme, megatrends in responsibility, aspects of significance for stakeholders and Kesko’s strategic objectives. Corporate responsibility vision Kesko’s vision for corporate responsibility is: in all areas of responsibility, we are one of the trading sector’s pioneers on a global scale. The corporate responsibility vision is also described by key stakeholder groups. Responsibility programme The responsibility programme applies to all of Kesko’s divisions and contains short-term, mid-term and longterm objectives. Each division has prepared its own, division-specific objectives for the sections. The commitments of the programme form its framework, and the details of individual objectives can be specified annually. Materiality assessment The purpose of the materiality assessment of Kesko’s responsibility is to identify the key responsibility aspects for Kesko and its stakeholders. The materiality assessment guides Kesko’s corporate responsibility and stakeholder work and defines activities for meeting stakeholder expectations. Kesko’s material corporate responsibility aspects are presented in the matrix below, where the vertical axis shows the level of concern for stakeholders and the horizontal axis the current or potential impact on Kesko. The level of concern for stakeholders has been assessed as a whole, which is why the weightings of the various areas by individual stakeholders are not reflected in the matrix. The materiality assessment was last updated in 2012. In 2013, the material aspects for reporting were defined according to the requirements of the new GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The aspects identified were already included in Kesko’s materiality assessment, and there was no need to update the materiality matrix. 25 K Identified material aspects of corporate 26 K Identified material aspects of corporate responsibility The Group’s boundaries The Group’s boundaries include the parent company, Kesko Corporation, its subsidiaries and the subsidiaries owned by them and listed in a note to the financial statements. The subsidiaries are listed in a note to the Kesko Group's financial statements. The reporting covers all of Kesko's operations: • Most economic responsibility indicators are derived from the consolidated financial statements, the preparation and representation of which are governed by IFRS standards. • The key environmental indicators, such as energy consumption, water consumption, waste and direct greenhouse gas emission from operations, cover the most significant environmental impacts of the parent company, Kesko Corporation, and its subsidiaries in all countries in which they operate, excluding Intersport stores in Russia. • The HR indicators cover the personnel of Kesko Group in all operating countries. Around three quarters of Kesko’s employees work in retail stores. The report does not cover the personnel employed by retailer entrepreneurs, unless separately stated in the text. Indicator reporting does not cover contractors or suppliers of goods and services, unless stated otherwise. Kesko’s division parent companies and chains act in close cooperation with retailer entrepreneurs and other partners. The report presents information on K-stores (e.g. energy monitoring) when it is materially related to Kesko’s reporting and complements the overall picture of the relations of Kesko and K-retailers with society and other stakeholders. Any deviations and limitations in the boundary are reported in connection with the indicators in question. If changes have taken place in the indicators, their scope, boundary or measurement methods reported previously, related information is given in connection with the respective indicators. Defining report content In 2013, the material aspects for reporting were defined according to the new requirements in the GRI G4 reporting guidelines. Responsibility aspects that had been identified earlier, were discovered in Kesko’s operations during the reporting year or were brought up by stakeholders were assessed critically in terms of impact in the value chain and interest by the central stakeholders. In order to identify material aspects, a set of decision criteria were set up for use in assessing the materiality of aspects with respect to the entire value chain. A boundary was also defined for each aspect to reflect the material impact of the aspect on Kesko’s value chain. As a result of the analysis, 33 aspects were identified that are material with respect to impact. They are discussed in this report. The related impacts by aspect are described in the disclosures on the management approach. The aspects and related boundaries are listed in the table below. The material aspects were discussed by Kesko’s Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board, Group Management Board and Board of Directors. Material aspects and boundary 27 K Material aspects and boundary GRI aspect (G4-19) Aspect boundary (G4-20-21) ECONOMIC IMPACTS Economic performance Kesko Group Indirect economic impacts Kesko Group and K-stores Procurement practices Kesko Group and K-stores ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Energy Kesko Group and K-stores Water Kesko Group and K-stores Biodiversity Kesko Group and suppliers Emissions Kesko Group (Scopes 1 and 2), K-stores (Scope 2) and supply chain (Scope 3) Effluents and waste Kesko Group Products and services Suppliers Environmental assessment of suppliers Suppliers. This aspect has been identified as material and reporting is under development. SOCIAL IMPACTS Personnel and working conditions Employment Kesko Group Labour/management relations Kesko Group Occupational health and safety Kesko Group Training Kesko Group Diversity and equal opportunity Kesko Group Equal remuneration Kesko Group Supplier assessment for labour practices Suppliers in high-risk countries Labour practices grievance mechanisms Kesko Group, suppliers in high-risk countries. This aspect has been identified as material and reporting is under development. Human rights Non-discrimination Kesko Group Freedom of association and rights of collective bargaining Kesko Group Human rights assessments Kesko Group Human rights assessments of suppliers Suppliers in high-risk countries Grievance mechanisms for issues in human rights Kesko Group, suppliers in high-risk countries. This aspect has been identified as material and reporting is under development. Society Anti-corruption Kesko Group Public policy Kesko Group Anti-competitive behaviour Kesko Group Compliance Kesko Group Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Kesko Group. This aspect has been identified as material and reporting is under development. Product responsibility Customer health and safety Kesko Group – Own brand products and own imports Product and service labelling Kesko Group – Own brand products and own imports Marketing communications Kesko Group Customer privacy Kesko Group, K-Plus Oy Compliance Kesko Group 28 K Contact information Contacts The list gives contact information on the personnel who primarily provide additional information on different areas of the report. The list does not include all Kesko employees who have participated in editing the report. E-mail addresses: firstname.lastname (at) kesko.fi Name Title Unit DEVELOPMENT, COORDINATION AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR EDITING THE REPORT: Eva Kaukinen Vice President, Group Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Accounting Matti Kalervo Vice President, Corporate Responsibility Kesko Corporation, Group Corporate Responsibility Lena Leeve Financial Communications Officer Kesko Corporation, Investor Relations Pirjo Nieminen (pirjo.j.nieminen (at) kesko.fi) Communications Officer Kesko Corporation, Group Corporate Responsibility ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY: Jukka Erlund Senior Vice President, CFO Kesko Corporation, Finance and Accounting Eva Kaukinen Vice President, Group Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Accounting Tiina Nyrhi Corporate Financial Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Accounting Riikka Toivonen Investor Relations Manager Kesko Corporation, Investor Relations Lena Leeve Financial Communications Officer Kesko Corporation, Investor Relations Esko Mansikka Managing Director Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy HUMAN RESOURCES RESPONSIBILITY: Matti Mettälä Senior Vice President, Human Resources Kesko Corporation Ari Svensk Vice President, Human Resources Kesko Corporation, Kesko HR / Common Services Janna Anttila Manager, Wellbeing at Work Kesko Corporation, Kesko HR / Common Services Susanna Kukkonen HRIS Manager Kesko Corporation, Kesko HR / Common Services RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING: Marjut Lovio Corporate Responsibility Manager Kesko Corporation, Group Corporate Responsibility Johanna Teinilä-Kurvinen Project Manager Kesko Food Ltd, Commerce Leena Takaveräjä Purchase Manager Rautakesko Ltd, Commerce Support 29 K PRODUCT SAFETY: Matti Kalervo Vice President, Corporate Responsibility and Product Safety Kesko Corporation, Group Corporate Responsibility Heta Rautpalo Product Research Manager Kesko Food Ltd, Product Research ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY: Minna Saari Environmental Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Corporate Responsibility Timo Jäske Sustainability Manager Kesko Food Ltd, Commerce Jari Suuronen Manager, Engineering Kesko Food Ltd, Store Sites and Retailer Functions Satu Kuoppamäki Project Manager Kesko Food Ltd, Store Sites and Retailer Functions Toni Pelin Environmental and Safety Manager Keslog Ltd, Supply Chain Development Jesse Mether Sustainability Manager Rautakesko Ltd, Commerce Support Harri Jyränkö Development Manager VV-Autotalot Oy CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE SECURITY: Anne Leppälä-Nilsson Senior Vice President, Group General Counsel Kesko Corporation, Group Legal Affairs Pasi Mäkinen Chief Audit Executive Kesko Corporation, Group Internal Audit Timo Pajala Risk Manager Kesko Corporation, Group Risk Management Petri Käyhkö Security Manager Kesko Corporation, Group Risk Management PRIVACY PROTECTION/CUSTOMER LOYALTY SYSTEM: Ismo Riitala Managing Director K-Plus Oy 30 K GRI index GRI G4 content index Code GRI Location Omissions Further Assurance Global content information Compact General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the President and CEO Review by the President and CEO G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Trends in trading sector operating environment, Description of value creation, We listen to our stakeholders, Responsibility programme Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of the organisation Kesko in brief G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Kesko in brief, Divisions in brief G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters Kesko in brief G4-6 The number of countries where the organisation Kesko in brief operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Kesko in brief, Impact on society G4-8 Markets served Kesko in brief G4-9 Scale of organisation Kesko in brief G4-10 Total number of employees by employment Social impacts No distribution by There are no Yes x contract, region and gender Employees gender. Information independent not available. The aim entrepreneurs is to report the among Kesko information 2016– employees, 2018. nor does suppliers' or hired labour perform a significant part of the work. There are no significant seasonal fluctuations in the number of employees. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by Social impacts Yes x collective bargaining agreements Human rights G4-12 Organisation's supply chain Trends in trading sector operating environment, Procurement practices 31 K G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period No significant regarding the organisation's size, structure , changes during ownership, or its supply chain the reporting period. G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or Trends in trading principle is addressed by the organisation sector operating environment Opportunities and risks related to the operating environment G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or Responsibility initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or management in which it endorses day-to-day activities, Responsibility monitoring and steering G4-16 Memberships of associations and advocacy Activities in organisations organisations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organisation's Identified consolidated financial statements material aspects of corporate responsibility G4-18 Process of defining the report content Identified material aspects of corporate responsibility G4-19 Material aspects Identified material aspects of corporate responsibility, Responsibility monitoring and steering G4-20 Aspect boundary for each material aspect within Identified the organisation material aspects of corporate responsibility G4-21 Aspect boundary for each material aspect ouside Identified the organisation material aspects of corporate responsibility G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous Changes reports reported in connection with relevant performance indicators. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting No significant periods in the scope and aspect boundaries changes. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged in the We listen to our organisation stakeholders G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of We listen to our stakeholders with whom to engage stakeholders G4-26 Organisation's approach to stakeholder We listen to our engagement stakeholders 32 K G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised We listen to our through stakeholder engagement stakeholders, Stakeholder addresses, Product responsibility Marketing communications Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period GRI Report Profile G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report GRI Report Profile G4-30 Reporting cycle GRI Report Profile G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact of its contents information G4-32 GRI content index GRI G4 Content Yes Index, GRI Report Profile G4-33 Organisation's policy with regard to external GRI Report assurance profile, Independent Assurance Report Governance Governance Structure and Composition G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation and Corporate committees Governance Statement 2014 G4-35 Delegating authority Responsibility management in day-to-day activities G4-36 Positions with responsibility Senior Vice President, CFO and Senior Vice President, Corporate Responsibility, Communications and Stakeholder Relations G4-37 Consultation with stakeholders We listen to our stakeholders, Corporate Governance Statement 2014 G4-38 Composition of the Board of Directors Board of Directors, Corporate Governance Statement 2014 G4-39 Position of the Chair of the Board Corporate Governance Statement 2014 G4-40 Selection of the Board Corporate Governance Statement 2014, Responsibility management in day-to-day activities 33 K G4-41 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are Corporate Kesko avoided Governance complies with Statement 2014 the Finnish Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies. Board's Role in Setting the Organisation's Purpose, Values and Strategy G4-42 Board's role in setting the organisation's purpose, Corporate values and strategy Governance Statement 2014, Responsibility management in day-to-day activities Board's Competencies and Performance Evaluation G4-44 Board's performance evaluation Corporate Only the Board's selfGovernance assessment has been Statement 2014 reported. Board's Role in Risk Management G4-45 Board's role in the identification and management Corporate of risks Governance Statement 2014 G4-46 Reviewing the effectiveness of risk management Corporate Governance Statement 2014 G4-47 Frequency of risk reviews Corporate Governance Statement 2014 Board's Role in Sustainability Reporting G4-48 Formal approval of the organisation's Responsibility sustainability report management in day-to-day activities Board's Role in Evaluating Economic, Environmental and Social Performance G4-49 Communicating critical concerns We listen to our shareholders, Corporate Governance Statement 2014 Remuneration and Incentives G4-51 Remuneration policies for the Board and senior Corporate executives Governance Statement 2014, Remuneration Statement 2014 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organisation's values, principles and codes Responsibility x management in day-to-day activities, Responsibility monitoring and steering Responsible operator G4-58 Reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful Responsibility x behaviour monitoring and steering Responsible operator Specific Standard Disclosures 34 K Specific Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures are reported regarding aspects identified as material. Disclosure on Management Approach Disclosure of management approach (DMA) Responsibility monitoring and steering, Responsibility programme, Responsibility management in day-to-day activities Economic Impacts Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic Yes impacts – Economic performance G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Economic Monetary evaluations x opportunities for the organisation's activities due impacts – or realisations have to climate change Economic not been reported. performance G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit Economic Yes plan obligations impacts – Economic performance G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Economic Yes impacts – Economic performance, Analysis of shareholding Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure Economic investments and services supported impacts – Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including Economic Yes the extent of impacts impacts – Indirect economic impacts Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Economic Yes significant locations of operation impacts – Procurement practices Environmental Impacts Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Environmental Yes x impacts – Energy G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation Environmental Only a limited x impacts – amount of data is Energy collected on energy consumption outside the organisation for EN17 / Scope 3 review. G4-EN5 Energy intensity Environmental Yes x impacts – Energy G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental Yes x impacts – Energy 35 K G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products Environmental No numerical data on x and services impacts – energy requirements Energy of products and services have been reported. As for vehicles sold, average CO₂ emissions are reported. Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental Yes x impacts – Water G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal Environmental x of water impacts – Water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Environmental x and reused impacts – Water Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Environmental x adjacent to, protected areas and ares of high impacts – biodiversity value outside protected areas Biodiversity G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of actitivies, Environmental x products, and services on biodiversity in impacts – protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environmental Yes x impacts – Biodiversity G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and Environmental x national conservation list species with habitats in impacts – areas affected by operations, by level of extinction Biodiversity risk Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Environmental Yes x impacts – Emissions G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental Yes x (Scope 2) impacts – Emissions G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental Yes x (Scope 3) impacts – Emissions G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Environmental Yes x impacts – Emissions G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental Review has not been Yes x impacts – made in CO₂e Emissions tonnes. G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environmental Review has not been Yes x impacts – made in CFC-11e Emissions tonnes. G4-EN21 NOᵪ , SOᵪ and other significant air emissions Environmental Yes x impacts – Emissions Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environmental Effluents from x impacts– Kesko's Effluents operations go and waste to municipal water systems. There is no water discharge referred to by GRI from Kesko's operations. 36 K G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Environmental Yes x method impacts– Effluents and waste G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental Yes x impacts– Effluents and waste Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitagation of environmental Product's path, GRI indicator impacts of products and services Responsibility is not suitable programme for Kesko's operations. Information material to Kesko is presented in the business review and the responsibility programme. G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Product's path, GRI indicator materials that are reclaimed by category Environmental is not suitable impacts for Kesko's Effluents and operations. waste Information material to Kesko is presented in the business review and in EN23. Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Information not x using environmental criteria available. The aim is to report the information 2016– 2018. Social Impacts Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires Social impacts – New employees Yes x and employee turnover by age group, gender, Employees hired have not been and region reported by age group. Turnover rate has not been reported by age group and gender. Information not available. The aim is to report the information 2016– 2018. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Social impacts – Benefits exceeding not provided to temporary or part-time Employees the statutory level employees, by significant location of operation have not been reported in detail. Varying practices in different operating countries. Labour/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Social impacts – Arrangements x changes, including whether these are specified in Employees compliant to collective agreements legislation. The law does not define minimum notice periods at the precision required by GRI. 37 K Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in Social impacts – Percentage of formal management-worker health and safety Employees employees has not committees that help monitor and advise on been reported. occupational health and safety programmes Information not available. The aim is to report the information in 2016. G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Social impacts – Reporting does not Yes diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total Employees cover suppliers. Not number of work-related fatalities, by region and reported by gender. by gender Information not available. The aim is to report the information 2016– 2018. Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee Social impacts – Not reported by Yes x by gender, and by employee category Employees gender and employee category. Information not available. G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong Social impacts – Yes learning that support the continued employability Employees of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Social impacts – Not reported by Yes x performance and career development reviews, by Employees gender and gender and by employee category employee category. Information not available. Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Social impacts – Not reported by age Yes x breakdown of employees per employee category Employees group or minority according to gender, age group, minority group group. Information membership, and other indicators of diversity not available/material. The aim is to report age group information 2016– 2018. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Social impacts – The ratio of basic x to men by employee category, by significant Employees salary of men and locations of operation women has not been reported. Information not available. The aim is to report the information 2016– 2018. Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Social impacts – The percentage of Yes using labour practices criteria Human rights suppliers screened has not been separately reported out of new suppliers but out of all suppliers in high-risk countries. G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts Social impacts – Yes for labour practices in the supply chain and Human rights actions taken Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices The aspect identified filed, addressed, and resolved through formal as material. grievance mechanisms Information not available. The aim is to report the information 2018– 2020. 38 K Human Rights Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Social impacts – Yes x corrective actions taken Human rights Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the Social impacts – Kesko has not Yes x right to exercise freedom of association and Human rights, identified collective bargaining may be violated or at a Responsibility operations, in significant risk, and measures taken to support monitoring and which the these rights steering, right to Product's path exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining had been violated or at a significant risk. Human Rights Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that Social impacts – Not reported by x have been subject to human rights reviews or Human rights country. Information impact assessments not available. The aim is to report the information in 2016. Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Social impacts – The percentage of Yes x using human rights criteria Human rights suppliers screened has not been separately reported out of new suppliers but out of all suppliers in high-risk countries. G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human Social impacts – Yes x rights impacts in the supply chain and actions Human rights taken Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights The aspect identified x impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through as material. formal grievance mechanisms Reporting is being developed according to the schedule the BSCI grievance mechanism is developed. Society Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations Social impacts – The number and Risks related x assessed for risks related to corruption and the Society percentage of to corruption significant risks identified assessments have are discussed not been reported. as part of Risks related to Kesko's risk corruption have not management. been specified in Key risks are detail. identified and assessed regularly throughout the year. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Social impacts – Percentages have not x policies and procedures Society been reported. Information not available. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Social impacts – Yes x taken Society Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country Social impacts – Not reported by Yes x and recipient/beneficiary Society country and recipient/beneficiary. 39 K Anti-competitive Behaviour G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Social impacts – Yes behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Society and their outcomes Compliance G4-SO8 Monatery value of significant fines and total Social impacts – Yes number of non-monetary sanctions for nonSociety compliance with laws and regulations Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society The aspect identified filed, addressed, and resolved through formal as material. We grievance mechanisms monitor the development of the reporting practice. Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service Social impacts – Percentages have not Yes categories for which health and safety impacts are Product been reported. assessed for improvement responsibility Information is not available. G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Social impacts – Yes regulations and voluntary codes concerning the Product health and safety impacts of products and services responsibility during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service Labelling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required Social impacts – Percentages have not Yes by the organisation's procedures for product and Product been reported. service information and labelling, and percentage responsibility Information is not of significant product and service categories available. subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Social impacts – Yes regulations and voluntary codes concerning Product product and service information and labelling, by responsibility type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Social impacts – Results of customer Yes satisfaction Product satisfaction surveys responsibility have not been reported. No Grouplevel results are available. Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Social impacts – Yes Product responsibility G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Social impacts – Yes regulations and voluntary codes concerning Product marketing communications, including responsibility advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Social impacts – Yes regarding breaches of customer privacy and Product losses of customer data responsibility Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonSocial impacts – Yes compliance with laws and regulations concerning Product the provision and use of products and services responsibility 40 K Economic impacts The management approach to economic responsibility, including operating principles and monitoring and control systems, is described in the section on Responsibility management. INDICATORS INDICATORS INDICATORS Economic Indirect Procurement performance economic practices Indicators: EC1–EC4 impacts Indicators: EC9 Indicators: EC7–EC8 41 K Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Kesko assesses the economic benefits it generates with regard to different stakeholder groups and market areas. Stakeholder welfare in its market areas is important for Kesko and its international trading operations also promote increasing welfare outside its own markets, especially in developing countries. The following tables show cash flows between Kesko and its stakeholders, as well as the distribution of economic value added between stakeholder groups. The consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated statement of cash flows are presented in full in the Financial statements. According to its dividend policy, Kesko Corporation distributes at least 50% of its earnings per share excluding non-recurring items as dividends, taking into account, however, the company’s financial position and operating strategy. Kesko’s Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a total dividend of €149 million be paid for the year 2014, which represents 91.1% of earnings per share excluding non-recurring items. In 2014, Kesko distributed a total of €138 million as dividends for the 2013 profit, which represented 83.3% of earnings per share excluding non-recurring items. As at 31 December 2014, foreign ownership of all shares was 27%. Foreign ownership of B shares was 39% as at 31 December 2014. The price of the liquid B shares increased by 12.6% and that of the less liquid A shares by 6.6%, while the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki All Share Index increased by 5.7%. The B share trading volume fell by 7.8%, but the value increased by 14.0% on the Helsinki stock exchange. The A share trading volume increased by 75.3% and the value by 104.9% from the previous year. The largest foreign shareholders are from the United States, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Norway (source: BigDough). Economic benefits from Kesko's operations to stakeholder groups € million 2014 2013 2012 Customers¹ Revenues 9,800 10,050 10,433 Value added generated 9,800 10,050 10,433 Distribution of value added: Suppliers Goods, materials and services purchased -8,839 -9,037 -9,454 Employees Salaries, fees and social security costs -614 -611 -608 Payments to providers of capital Net finance income/costs -6 -6 -2 Owners Dividend -149² -138 -118 Public sector Taxes³ -37 -58 -75 Community investments Donations -1 -1 -1 Development of business activities 154 198 176 ¹ Incl. net sales and other operating income ² Proposal to the General Meeting ³ Incl. income tax and changes in deferred taxes Basic information on Kesko shares and shareholders as at 31 42 K Basic information on Kesko shares and shareholders as at 31 December 2014 2013 2012 Number of shares (1,000 pcs) 100,020 99,833 98,712 Share capital (€ million) 197 197 197 A shares as percentage of all shares (%) 32 32 32 B shares as percentage of all shares (%) 68 68 68 A shares as percentage of all votes (%) 82 82 83 B shares as percentage of all votes (%) 18 18 17 Market capitalisation of A shares (€ million) 906 851 774 Market capitalisation of B shares (€ million) 2,031 1,810 1,644 Number of shareholders 39,869 42,809 44,554 Earnings per share, diluted (€) 0.97 1.75 1.26 Dividend per share (€) 1.50¹ 1.40 1.20 ¹ Proposal to the General Meeting Economic benefits from Kesko’s operations by market area in 2014 Pension and Salaries and social Capital sharesecurity Purchases expenditure based payments expenses Taxes¹ Total € million Finland 5,203 115 360 80 732 6,491 Other Nordic countries 639 6 44 14 33 737 Baltic countries 253 6 54 4 26 344 Russia and Belarus 342 66 45 13 20 485 Other countries 1,185 1,185 Total 7,623 194 503 111 810 9,242 ¹ Taxes include income taxes, real estate taxes, value-added taxes, excise duties, car taxes, customs duties, net-worth taxes and withholding taxes 10 largest shareholders by number of shares held (A and B 43 K 10 largest shareholders by number of shares held (A and B series) as at 31 December 2014 Percentage of Percentage of votes, shares, % % K-Retailers' Association 3.74 9.70 Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy 3.49 7.04 Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy 3.44 8.92 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1.88 1.19 Valluga-sijoitus Oy 1.34 3.48 Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1.19 0.31 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1.13 0.29 Foundation for Vocational Training in the Retail Trade 1.06 2.39 Oy The English Tearoom Ab 1.00 0.26 Kesko Corporation 1.00 0.26 Store network The K-Group’s store network is diverse: more online stores are being opened to complement the network of around 2,000 physical stores. The K-Group has a comprehensive network of over 900 K-food stores. The grocery trade services cover nearly all municipalities in Finland and K-food stores are visited by around 900,000 customers every day. Kesko also has a large number of B2B customers. Outside Finland, Kesko engages in the food trade, the building and home improvement trade, the machinery trade and the sports trade. At the end of 2014, Kesko had 1,030 independent K-retailer entrepreneurs and, in addition, 147 other retailer entrepreneurs as partners. Kesko’s sales to retailer entrepreneurs accounted for 51% of total sales in 2014. Kesko and K-retailers form the K-Group, whose retail sales totalled €11.3 billion (VAT 0%) in 2014. The KGroup employs approximately 45,000 people. Employee benefit expenses € million 2014 2013 2012 Salaries and fees 497 495 503 Social security expenses pension costs 64 64 52 social security costs 47 49 49 Share-based payments 6 3 3 Total 614 611 608 In 2014, foreign operations accounted for €143 million of total salaries. In 2014, foreign operations accounted for €31 million of total pension costs and other social security expenses. Kesko’s community investments 44 K Kesko’s community investments €1,000 2014 2013 2012 Non-governmental, environmental and other organisations 474 207 109 Science, research and education 65 32 86 Culture 36 59 51 Sports (adults) 556 575 470 Health care 11 2 0 Youth sports and other youth work 244 281 125 Veteran organisations and national defense 4 6 15 Political parties and organisations 5 5 4 Total 1,395 1,168 860 In addition, Veikkaus Oy contributed an estimated revenue of €55-60 million to the Ministry of Education and Culture, generated from sales of games by Veikkaus points of sale located at K-stores. The calculation is based on the average breakdown of each euro spent on games in 2014. The estimate has been calculated by Veikkaus Oy. The Ministry of Education and Culture distributes the total proceeds to Finnish arts, sports, science and youth work. K-food stores in Finnish municipalities (as at 31 December 2014) Number of K-food stores Municipalities in 2014 % of all municipalities 10 or more 15 4.7 7–9 9 2.8 5–6 18 5.6 3–4 48 15.0 2 53 16.6 1 132 41.3 0 45 14.1 Municipalities, total 320 100.0 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities related to climate change Key objectives of Kesko’s responsibility work include mitigating the progress of climate change. Kesko’s operations are surveyed by continuous risk assessments, which also cover changes that may be necessitated by climate change. Kesko Group’s risk map, the most significant risks and uncertainties, as well as changes in and management responses to them are discussed at the Kesko Board’s Audit Committee when the interim reports and financial statements are handled. More detailed information about risk management and control practices at www.kesko.fi. Climate change presents physical and regulatory risks and opportunities as well as risks and opportunities affecting reputation factors Physical impact • Extreme weather phenomena, such as storms and heavy rains, have consequences for the built environment. Physical risks are related to both the physical store network and logistics. Unusual weather patterns can cause interruptions in operations or problems in the availability of products and changes in sales particularly in the home improvement and speciality goods trade. • Climate change can affect the procurement sources and availability of products both within and outside Europe. Due to drought and desertification, water has become less available in many countries, reducing the productive potential of local economies. Agricultural production will suffer if 45 K desertification and rising sea levels reduce the arable land area. Drought or floods may also destroy agricultural harvests. • The availability of energy sources and emission limitations may affect energy prices. • Accidents and epidemics resulting from natural phenomena can cause damage or business interruptions that cannot be prevented. Regulation • Climate change may have an impact in terms of risks involved in regulation, such as various permit procedures, or costs arising from emissions trading and taxation. • The implementation of the EU and Finnish Government climate and energy policy will affect future energy solutions and may increase energy prices, adding to pressures for energy savings. Customers • Customers are paying increasing attention to issues related to climate change. Environmentally friendly products, corporate responsibility communications, retail stores’ K-responsibility concept and package labelling can help customers make purchasing decisions that mitigate climate change. Any failures to implement responsible practices in this area may weaken Kesko’s reputation. • K-maatalous’ cultivation programme tests the suitability of plant varieties for the Finnish climate. The aim is to help customers choose the best varieties and cultivation methods for Finnish conditions. • The Energy Expert concept, which has been deployed in the building and home improvement stores, makes it easy for customers to improve the energy efficiency of their homes. Opportunities and risks related to climate change are also described in the report’s Our operating environment / Opportunities and risks section. EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations Kesko Group operates several pension plans in its various operating countries. In Finland, statutory pension provision for personnel is organised through pension insurance companies and voluntary supplementary pension provision is mainly organised through Kesko Pension Fund’s department A. At the end of the year, the number of employees eligible to receive supplementary retirement benefits from department A was 486. The statutory pensions organised through pension insurance companies are defined contribution plans. The supplementary pension provision organised by Kesko Pension Fund is a defined benefit plan. As at 31 December 2014, the plan obligation was €289.3 million (€247.5 million in 2013), which is fully covered. In accordance with IFRS, the surplus amount was €147.2 million as at 31 December 2014 (€170.2 million in 2013). Calculated in compliance with IFRS (Pension Fund’s insurance premium is based on a defined benefit plan), the Group’s total premium represents 12.8% of the amount of salaries (12.9% in 2013). Read more in the Financial Statement, Note 17. In the other countries, retirement benefits are arranged in compliance with local legislation, and there are no defined benefit plans, except in Norway. The number of employees eligible to receive supplementary retirement benefits in Norway is immaterial in proportion to the whole Group. EC4 Financial assistance received from government In 2014, the Group received financial assistance of €1.4 million from the Finnish government. No significant financial assistance has been received from other governments. 46 K Indirect economic impacts The figures are for those K-retailers whose accounts and payroll are managed by Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, representing around 85% of K-retailers' total business volume. EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Especially outside growth centres, retail stores can offer community services which may otherwise be scarcely available. In 2014, the following were located in connection with K-food stores: • 160 postal sales outlets and 137 parcel points • 17 pharmacy service points • 8 Matkahuolto outlets and 4 parcel points • Cashback service at more than 700 stores In addition to statutory waste recycling obligations, K-stores provide the following recycling services: • Collection of impregnated wood • Collection of clothing Waste statistics are presented under EN23 Waste. Kesko’s community investments are presented in more detail under EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. Kesko’s community investments 2014 2013 2012 € 1,000 1,395 1,168 860 EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Kesko is a service sector company which, in addition to its own direct impacts, has indirect impacts related to the production, use and recyclability of products, which play a significant part of the whole. Purchases by Kesko and the retailers have economic impacts on the suppliers and service providers, such as an increase in the number of jobs. Furthermore, purchases from local producers affect regional business activities. The salaries, taxes, social security expenses and capital expenditure paid by Kesko and its retailers have impacts on regional economic wellbeing. Kesko is a significant tax payer. In 2014, the income taxes paid by Kesko to Finland were €23.7 million and to other countries €12.9 million. The Group’s effective tax rate was 25.2%. Kesko paid €4.9 million in real estate to Finland, and €5.6 million in real estate and net-worth taxes to its other operating countries in 2014. Kesko also collects, reports and remits indirect taxes. Indirect taxes include, for example, value-added tax and excise taxes. Value-added tax is a consumption tax paid by the end consumers of goods and services – in other words, households. Kesko remits value-added taxes to tax recipients in its capacity as a company selling goods and services. In 2014, Kesko remitted value-added taxes to Finland in the amount of €358.3 million, and €32.9 million to other countries. As for excise tax, it is a consumption tax collected from the manufacturer, producer, importer or wholesaler of certain products and remitted to tax recipients. Excise tax is included in the product price, which makes it payable by the consumer. Kesko remits excise taxes on products such as confectionery, alcohol and soft drinks. In 2014, Kesko remitted excise taxes to Finland in a total amount of €59.8 million. Kesko’s measurable indirect impact on society, such as its employment impact, increased municipal tax income, or income in the producer and supplier chain, should be evaluated case-by-case, in connection with the establishment of a new store, for example. Taxes 47 K Taxes € million 2014 2013 2012 Income taxes, Finland 23.7 51.7 69.4 Income taxes, other countries 12.9 5.9 5.3 Real estate taxes, Finland 4.9 4.4 3.8 Real estate and net-worth taxes, other countries 5.6 5.8 4.2 Taxes remitted € million 2014 2013 2012 Value-added taxes, Finland 358.3 377.6 319.8 Value-added taxes, other countries 32.9 42.9 42.0 Withholding taxes, Finland 93.3 92.2 91.7 Withholding taxes, other countries 20.5 22.8 23.1 Car taxes, Finland 179.8 178.3 ¹ Customs duties, Finland 12.2 13.0 ¹ Customs duties, other countries 6.7 6.8 ¹ Excise duties, Finland 59.8 71.0 ¹ ¹ Information not available Economic benefit generated by Kesko and K-retailers to 48 K Economic benefit generated by Kesko and K-retailers to Finnish regions in 2014 Region K-retailers’ Kesko’s and Kesko’s direct K-retailers’ Salaries Salaries purchases purchases capital paid by paid by Taxes paid by of goods of goods expenditure¹ Kesko K-retailers K-retailers Total € million Southern Karelia 5.6 14.9 7.7 5.3 12.0 1.1 46.6 Southern Ostrobothnia 255.1 35.3 0.7 5.1 12.3 0.8 309.4 Southern Savo 31.6 13.9 1.2 4.3 11.5 1.0 63.4 Kainuu 4.7 6.3 1.0 1.4 6.5 0.6 20.5 Kanta-Häme 93.9 24.5 0.9 4.4 10.8 0.5 135.1 Central Ostrobothnia 43.0 14.8 5.1 1.9 4.5 0.7 70.0 Central Finland 52.1 21.5 3.6 9.3 17.8 1.7 106.0 Kymenlaakso 44.1 16.9 1.3 6.2 11.7 1.0 81.2 Lapland 19.0 25.3 0.9 5.5 17.4 1.8 69.9 Pirkanmaa 318.0 28.7 4.9 25.0 32.4 2.6 411.7 Ostrobothnia 134.1 8.6 2.2 4.8 8.5 0.6 158.8 Northern Karelia 23.8 22.3 0.3 4.2 11.3 1.6 63.4 Northern Ostrobothnia 108.0 41.5 6.9 16.1 25.3 2.1 199.9 Northern Savo 162.8 30.3 3.4 11.2 19.6 1.4 228.6 Päijät-Häme 128.7 32.5 7.1 8.7 12.5 0.7 190.2 Satakunta 106.6 27.2 7.5 4.0 15.2 0.9 161.4 Uusimaa 2,967.4 147.3 81.4 261.5 114.4 10.1 3,582.1 Varsinais-Suomi 652.0 55.0 7.1 23.5 33.0 2.6 773.3 Åland 28.6 28.6 Total 5,179.2 566.7 143.5 402.3 376.8 31.8 6,700.3 The figures are for those K-retailers whose accounts and payroll are managed by Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, representing around 85% of K-retailers’ total business volume. ¹ Incl. increase in lease liabilities of K-retailers' equipment 49 K Procurement practices EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Kesko assesses the economic benefits it generates by reporting its purchases by operating country and the company’s country of domicile. Kesko also reports K-retailers’ direct purchases of goods in Finland by region. Most of the economic benefits generated by Kesko’s operations – approximately 84% of Kesko’s net sales – flow to suppliers of goods, from which purchases were valued at €7.6 billion in 2014. In 2014, Kesko had around 21,800 suppliers and service providers from whom purchases were valued at over €1,000 during the year. Of these, around 10,200 operated in Finland, around 8,500 in Kesko’s other operating countries, and around 3,100 elsewhere. The 10 largest suppliers accounted for 23.5% (23.6% in 2013) of the Group’s purchases of goods, and the 100 largest suppliers for 52.2% (52.0% in 2013). Six out of the 10 largest suppliers were Finnish food industry companies, one import company operating in Finland, one a grocery trade company and two German car manufacturers. The purchases of all Kesko companies from suppliers of goods operating in Finland totalled €5,203 million, accounting for 68.3% (68.9% in 2013) of the Group’s total purchases. The purchases of goods by Kesko Group’s Finnish companies totalled €6,330 million. Of these purchases, 81.8% were from suppliers operating in Finland and 18.2% from other countries. It should be noted that because some of the suppliers operating in Finland are import companies, reliable statistics cannot be compiled on the origin of goods supplied by them. Kesko actively increases the amount of local purchases and encourages K-retailers to include products from near-by producers in their selections. In 2014, K-retailers’ direct purchases from Finnish regions totalled €567 million. Capital expenditure In 2014, Kesko’s capital expenditure totalled €194 million (€171 million in 2013), or 2.1% of net sales (1.8% in 2013). Capital expenditure in store sites was €143 million (€125 million in 2013). Capital expenditure in foreign operations accounted for 40.5% (41.3% in 2013) of the total capital expenditure. In addition to Kesko, K-retailers annually make capital expenditures in the fixtures of stores used by the KGroup. When these figures are included, the total capital expenditure in Finland was around €143 million in 2014. Kesko’s capital expenditure has a positive financial impact on the operations of building firms, building sector service companies, and suppliers of fixtures, equipment and information systems, for example. Kesko’s purchases by operating country in 2014 50 K Kesko’s purchases by operating country in 2014 Suppliers of goods Suppliers of and services in Purchases from suppliers of goods and services Purchases from suppliers of operating country¹ goods² in other countries¹ goods² number € million % number € million % Finland 10,052 5,179 81.8 2,052 1,151 18.2 Sweden 858 111 84.8 100 20 15.2 Norway 940 377 97.5 31 10 2.5 Estonia 774 49 54.5 203 41 45.5 Latvia 694 28 37.9 238 47 62.1 Lithuania 826 79 32.5 1,191 165 67.5 Russia 2,156 263 95.9 57 11 4.1 Belarus 1,222 57 62.6 385 34 37.4 Total 17,522 6,144 80.6 4,257 1,479 19.4 ¹ Suppliers of goods and services ² Suppliers of goods Kesko’s purchases by company’s and supplier’s country of domicile in 2014 Supplier's country of domicile Company’s country Other of domicile Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia Belarus countries Total € million Finland 5,179 132 8 37 3 8 0 0 962 6,330 Sweden 4 111 3 0 0 0 0 0 12 131 Norway 0 6 377 0 0 0 0 0 3 386 Estonia 12 1 0 49 5 2 0 0 21 90 Latvia 3 0 0 7 28 2 0 0 34 75 Lithuania 4 1 0 8 20 79 3 2 128 245 Russia 0 0 0 1 0 0 263 0 10 275 Belarus 1 0 0 0 0 2 17 57 15 92 Total 5,203 251 389 104 57 92 283 59 1,185 7,623 51 K Environmental impacts At the end of 2014, the environmental systems covered: • 63% of the net sales of Group companies in Finland • 53% of the net sales of the whole Group The coverage has been calculated in proportion to retail sales. Environmental systems are not yet used for operations in the other operating countries. INDICATORS INDICATORS INDICATORS Energy Water Biodiversity Indicators: EN3–EN7 Indicators: EN8–EN10 Indicators: EN11–EN14 The K-Group's environmental and energy policy is available on the Kesko website. INDICATORS INDICATORS Emissions Effluents and Indicators: EN15–EN21 waste Indicators: EN22–EN24 52 K Energy Energy consumption Finland 2014 2013 2012 Electricity (MWh) 754,301 764,387 778,961 Heat (MWh) 292,453 304,141 ¹ 347,643 Total electricity and heat (MWh) 1,046,754 1,068,528 1,126,604 Water (m³) 935,472 920,414 893,803 Other operating countries Electricity (MWh) 96,231 91,658 88,367 Heat (MWh) 46,723 39,685 38,308 Total electricity and heat (MWh) 142,954 131,343 126,675 Water (m³) 176,784 154,733 127,658 All operating countries Total electricity (MWh) 850,532 856,045 867,328 Total heat (MWh) 339,176 343,826 385,951 Total electricity and heat (MWh) 1,189,708 1,199,871 1,253,279 Total water (m³) 1,112,256 1,075,147 1,021,461 ¹ Figure adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report 53 K EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation and EN5 Energy intensity Consumption of electric and heating energy in Kesko's office and warehouse properties and the K-Group stores in 2014: • In Finland: 3,768 TJ (1,047 GWh) • In other operating countries: 515 TJ (143 GWh) Consumption of fuel (diesel oil) in Kesko's (Keslog / Kesko Food and Anttila) own transport of goods or in transport under its direct control in 2014: • In Finland: 527 TJ (146 GWh) • No figures available for other operating countries Kesko's total energy consumption within the organisation in 2014 was 4,810 TJ. Energy consumption in real estate in Finland Energy consumption in properties managed by Kesko in 2014: • Total consumption of electricity: 754 GWh (764 GWh in 2013) • Specific consumption of electricity: 205 kWh/gross m² (209 kWh/gross m² in 2013) • Total consumption of heating energy: 292 GWh (304 GWh in 2013, figure adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report) • Specific consumption of heating energy: 79 kWh/gross m² (83 kWh/gross m² in 2013, figure adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report) The K-Group is a signatory of the trading sector energy efficiency agreement. Read more about our actions related to reducing electricity and heating energy in section EN6. It must be noted that according to the statistics of the Finnish Meteorological Institute, the average temperature of 2014 was higher than the previous year, although the average temperature of 2013 was also 1–2 °C higher than the long-term average. Energy consumption is monitored in some properties using multi-energy monitoring and in some properties by monitoring the consumption of electricity. Multi-energy monitoring includes accounting for the consumption of electricity, heating energy and water. The total area of the properties covered by multi-energy monitoring is 2,647,129 m². This corresponds to 72% of all properties. The total area of properties that are monitored for electricity consumption only is 496,162 m², which corresponds to 13% of all properties. 54 K Specific consumption rates for all property types were determined on the basis of monitoring data. The energy consumption of properties outside the scope of monitoring activities was then also calculated using these specific consumption rates. Electricity and heating energy consumption statistics by property type and changes in properties in Finland are available in the report by Energiakolmio. Energy consumption in real estate in other operating countries Energy consumption in real estate managed by Kesko in 2014: • Total consumption of electricity: 96 GWh (92 GWh in 2013) • Specific consumption of electricity: 94 kWh/gross m² (90 kWh/gross m² in 2013) • Total consumption of heating energy: 47 GWh (40 GWh in 2013) • Specific consumption of heating energy: 46 kWh/gross m² (39 kWh/gross m² in 2013) The increases in the total and specific consumptions of electricity and heating energy since the previous year can be attributed to the four K-food stores that opened in Russia in 2013 and 2014. The cold chain and the need for heated premises in grocery stores and food warehouses require greater amounts of energy in comparison with other retail sectors. The specific consumptions in foreign operations are, however, smaller on average than in Finland, because food retailing still accounts for a small proportion of business operations. Some of the heating energy was self-produced. Heat is mainly produced using non-renewable energy types: gas and oil. In Belarus, timber (516 MWh) and peat (105 MWh) were also used for heating. In 2014, selfproduced heat totalled 29 GWh. Self-produced electricity was no longer used at K-food Russia stores in 2014. In 2014, the total area of subsidiaries' properties in other operating countries was 1,024,000 m². Fuel consumption of transport of goods in Finland – Calculation Fuel consumption was calculated using data on kilometres driven, volumetric efficiencies and the transportation fleet. In 2014, the total distance driven by Keslog was 33.4 million kilometres (32.2 million km in 2013). The calculation was made in accordance with the Lipasto calculation system of VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland. EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation The consumption of energy purchased by retailers is included in the EN3 indicator. Only a limited amount of data on energy consumption outside of the organisation is collected for Scope 3 reporting (EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions). EN6 Reduction of energy consumption The K-Group has signed the trading sector energy efficiency agreement and committed to improving its annual energy consumption by 65 GWh by the end of 2016. The agreement is based on the 9% savings target set in the EU Directive on Energy End-Use Efficiency and Energy Services for the period 2008–2016. The agreement covers all store chains that belong to the K-Group. During 2014, Kesko improved its energy consumption by 59 GWh with the implemention of varying energysaving activities, which means that 90% of the savings commitment of the energy-efficiency agreement was achieved. Plans are underway for a continuation of the energy-efficiency agreement after 2016. Kesko has committed to negotiate a new agreement with the other trading sector companies that will begin in 2017. The energy consumption at store sites consists of: • consumption related to store operations, such as lighting and electrical equipment • consumption related to the property, such as HVAC equipment and outdoor lighting In food stores, the consumption of refrigeration systems can account for more than half of the total electricity 55 K consumption at small store sites. K-food stores have installed a total length of over eight kilometres of lids and doors on freezer equipment. Lids on freezer chests save 40% of the electrical energy consumed by uncovered equipment. Installing doors on dairy and juice cabinets also helps grocery stores save electricity. The remote monitoring of refrigeration systems in stores helped save approximately 4.1 GWh of energy in 2014. Remote monitoring enables refrigeration equipment to be adjusted for optimum temperatures and defrosting cycles. In addition, deviations can be responded to immediately. Condensation heat from refrigeration equipment is recovered at nearly all K-food stores, which means additional heat energy is needed only during very low sub-zero temperatures. Increasingly many K-food stores also save energy by using carbon dioxide recovered from industrial processes as the refrigerant in their refrigeration equipment. Carbon dioxide is an environmentally friendly refrigerant. CO₂ refrigeration plants enable the efficient use of condensation energy together with low temperature heating systems. This combination achieves a considerably higher heat energy recovery efficiency compared to the traditional solutions using condensation heat from HFC-refrigeration units. When Kesko builds new stores or shopping centres, the lifecycle energy and material efficiencies of the buildings are considered already during the planning phase. For example, the Veturi shopping centre, which opened in 2013, uses a geothermal heating and cooling system that generates around half of the centre’s heating and cooling energy. This solution generates an annual energy saving of 1.9 GWh. The Kodin1 department store for interior decoration and home goods in Raisio, which opened in 2013, is the first passive retail store building in the Nordic countries. Eco-efficient activities reduce the consumption of heating energy by about 60% and the consumption of electricity by about 50% compared with a traditional department store. Modern building automation saves energy by adjusting the lighting and air conditioning according to the movement of people and the time of day at Veturi and Raisio. In February 2015, the building automation of 167 Kesko facilities was monitored by a remote energy management centre. The set points of properties and equipment running hours can be changed from the management centre as necessary, which also enables rapid responses to disturbances. Setting the correct running times and set points is the easiest and most effective way to improve energy efficiency. The average specific heat energy consumption of remote controlled properties was 11% lower compared to non-remote controlled properties. The specific electrical energy consumption of remote controlled properties was 2.8% lower than non-remote controlled properties. Kesko's 37 Real Estate Managers help K-stores find ways in which to make their energy consumption more efficient. Regular monitoring, technical supervision and comparison of reports from separate properties are used to maintain an optimal level of energy consumption. Real Estate Managers also help stores with longterm planning. The renovation programme contains estimates of the refurbishment that should be made within 10 years. LED technology is used in the illuminated signs of all new stores. The resulting savings compared to ordinary neon and fluorescent tube solutions are 60–70%. LED technology is also used to light outdoor areas at Ksupermarket Jalasjärvi and the Veturi shopping centre, for example. Information about energy savings in Keslog's logistics is in the section EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Rautakesko's Energy Expert service concept is available at K-rauta and Rautia stores. The concept involves a range of solutions for higher energy efficiency in homes, which a sales assistant familiar with building services can use to find the best solution for the customer. The Energy Expert concept also includes an optional installation service provided by K-rauta and Rautia stores. In 2014, the expertise available at stores was reinforced with training courses, which were attended by employees from almost all of the K-rauta and Rautia stores. In 2014, the CO₂ emissions of passenger cars registered for the first time in Finland were 128.40 g/km (130.0 g/km in 2013). Of the car brands imported by Kesko last year, the average CO₂ emissions of Volkswagen passenger cars, for example, were 118.00 g/km (123.63 g/km in 2013). The Volkswagen Group is committed 56 K to reducing the average CO₂emissions of its entire range to 95 g/km in Europe by 2020. In 2014, Volkswagen launched two battery electric vehicles with zero emissions on the Finnish market, the eGolf and e-up! models. In addition, the cars brands imported by Kesko included three hybrid models: the Jetta and Golf GTE by Volkswagen and the Audi A3 Sportback e-tron. 57 K Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Finland has abundant water resources. Due to the virtual water footprint associated with the import of processed goods, around half of the water footprint of Finnish consumption falls outside of Finland (source: www.waterfootprint.org), which means that Kesko’s most significant impacts from water consumption are caused through the products on sale. Properties managed by Kesko in Finland and in other operating countries use water from municipal water supplies. Exceptions are one well on a property of Konekesko Eesti and two wells used by UAB Senukai in Lithuania. In the K-Group's own operations, water is mainly used for cleaning. Maintaining a high level of hygiene is particularly important in food stores. General requirements for hygiene concerning food stores are described in the Finnish Food Act and the decree on premises selling food. In Russia, three K-food stores opened during 2013 and one in 2014, causing water consumption to rise 72% in 2014. The purchase and repair of used machinery at Konekesko Lithuania has grown in 2014 leading to a water use increase of 69% due to washing of used machinery before repair. Car wash facilities at Neste Oil Kmarkets in Finland are big individual consumers of water. Water consumption at properties managed by the K-Group in 2014: • In Finland: 935,472 m³ (920,414 m³ in 2013) • In the other operating countries: 176,784 m³ (154,733 m³ in 2013) Water consumption statistics by property type and changes in properties in Finland are available in the report by Energiakolmio. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water All properties managed by Kesko use water from municipal water supplies. Exceptions are one well on a property of Konekesko Eesti and two wells used by UAB Senukai in Lithuania. Significant water withdrawal from water sources does not occur. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Kesko does not recycle or reuse water. All wastewater from operations goes to municipal sewer systems. 58 K Biodiversity EN11 Operational sites owned and managed in areas of high biodiversity value, and EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Kesko builds store sites only in areas planned for business properties. Kesko does not cause any significant direct impacts on biodiversity. Kesko does not own property or operate in areas adjacent to protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. Indirect impacts occur through products on sale. Read more about our Statements and Policies regarding products on the Kesko website. Kesko participates in the Business & Biodiversity Finland programme organised jointly by the Corporate Responsibility Network FIBS and the Ministry of Environment of Finland. The programme, initiated in 2014, offers companies information and tools for managing their own environmental impacts, risks and opportunities. The goal of the programme is to increase awareness of the significance of biodiversity in business operations. EN13 Habitats protected or restored Kesko does not have any protected or restored habitats. Surveys of contaminated land are made annually in connection with construction work and real estate transactions. In 2014, contaminated soil was found at two sites in Savonlinna and Espoo from which a total of 552 tonnes of contaminated soil was removed. The restoration at Savonlinna was carried out by Ramboll Finland Oy with permission of the South Savo Centre for Economic Development, Transport and the Environment (ELY Centre). The residual content samples were verified at SGS Inspection Services laboratories for compliance with regulatory threshold levels. At the Espoo site, VV-Auto Group Oy restored the contamined land under technical supervision from Insinööritoimisto Pohjatekniikka Oy. The Espoo Environment Department acted as the supervising authority and the residual content samples were verified by Novalab Oy laboratories as compliant with regulatory threshold levels. The contaminated soil was successfully removed from both sites and follow-up actions are not required at either site. EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations No endangered species are directly affected by Kesko's operations. Indirect impacts occur through products on sale. Read more about our Statements and Policies regarding products on the Kesko website. 59 K Emissions Kesko reports direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from its operations using the GHG Protocol. EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 60 K EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse gas emissions produced by Kesko’s operations in 2014 include: • Own transport of goods and transport directly controlled by Kesko in Finland (Keslog): 36,915 tonnes of CO₂e (35,582 tonnes of CO₂e in 2013) • Heating in Finland (properties managed by Kesko; oil and natural gas): 1,102 tonnes of CO₂e (943 tonnes of CO₂e in 2013) • Total own transport of goods and transport directly controlled by Kesko and heating in Finland: 38,017 tonnes CO₂e (36,525 tonnes CO₂e in 2013) • Data on transport of goods in the other operating countries is not available • Heating in the other operating countries (oil, gas, peat and timber¹): 5,988 tonnes of CO₂e (6,563 tonnes of CO₂e in 2013) In Finland, the logistics for Kesko Food and Anttila is managed by Keslog. The emission values of Keslog’s own transport of goods and transport under its direct control were calculated based on data including kilometres driven, volumetric efficiencies and the transportation fleet. The calculations were made using the Lipasto system developed by VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland. The calculation principles and more detailed calculations for heating are available in the reports by Energiakolmio: • Finland • Other operating countries ¹ The biogenous CO₂ emission figure of the timber used for heating one facility in Belarus has been reported in the Scope 1 total emission figures of the other operating countries, because its proportion of the total fuel quantity is insignificant (about 2%). EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Indirect greenhouse gas emissions caused by energy consumption by properties managed by Kesko in 2014: • Electricity purchased in Finland: 79,795 tonnes of CO₂e (73,836 tonnes of CO₂e in 2013; figure adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report) • District heat purchased in Finland: 60,127 tonnes of CO₂e (62,720 tonnes of CO₂e in 2013; figure adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report) • Total electricity and district heat purchased in Finland: 139,922 tonnes of CO₂e (136,556 tonnes of CO₂e in 2013; figure adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report) • Electricity purchased in the other operating countries: 17,362 tonnes of CO₂e (14,442 tonnes of CO₂e in 2013) • District heat purchased in the other operating countries: 4,438 tonnes of CO₂e (2,718 tonnes of CO₂e in 2013) • Total electricity and district heat purchased in the other operating countries: 21,800 tonnes of CO₂e (17,160 tonnes of CO₂e in 2013) The electricity supplied by Kesko, 469 GWh (501 GWh in 2013), covers 62.2% of the total consumption of Kesko's properties in Finland. The electricity supplied by Kesko was largely carbon-free electricity from Helsingin Energia produced by nuclear power. However, a portion of the electricity was carbon-free electricity produced with biogas by KSS Energia. Consequently, the carbon dioxide emissions from the electricity purchased by Kesko were zero in 2014. The calculation principles and more detailed calculations are available in the reports by Energiakolmio: • Finland • Other operating countries 61 K EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Scope 3 categories Tonnes of CO₂e 2014 2013 Upstream Purchased goods and services 5,922,000 Capital goods (buildings) 9,900 20,200 Indirect emissions of purchased energy (other than Scope 1 and Scope 2) 76,100 54,900 Transport and distribution of goods ¹ 18,600 26,300 Waste 10,100 8,500 Business travel ² ³ 2,800 3,000 Employee commuting ² 7,800 10,800 Downstream Customer visits (shopping trips) ² 166,100 174,000 Use of sold products 1,093,900 End-of-life treatment of sold products 28,000 Franchises ² 27,800 ¹ Calculation includes distribution of goods in Finland and, to a limited extent, transportation of imports (car trade and building and home improvement trade) ² Only calculated for operations in Finland ³ Calculation includes travel (by air, sea, rail, and road) and hotel accommodations No information on kilometres driven or any emission calculations are available for transport of imports. Goods were transported from other European countries by truck, semi-trailer and container. Containers were the only form of transport for imports from outside of Europe. Transport of goods by subsidiaries in other countries is divided between a larger number of logistics companies than in Finland. Some manufacturers transport their products directly to stores. The transport statistics are incomplete and emissions have not been calculated for 2014. The development of collecting transport statistics for the other operating countries will continue in order to report emissions for 2015. The greenhouse gases are reported in CO₂-equivalents; more information on the calculation principles can be found in the Scope 3 GHG Inventory Report. EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Emissions intensity ratio (Scope 1 and 2) calculated based on net sales in 2014 (€9,071 million): 22.7 tonnes of CO₂e/€ million (21.1 tonnes of CO₂e/€ million in 2013; figure adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report) Emissions intensity ratio (Scope 1 and 2) calculated based on the average number of employees in 2014 (19,976 full-time employees): 10.3 tonnes of CO₂e/person (10.1 tonnes of CO₂e/person in 2013; figure adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report) The greenhouse gases are reported in CO₂-equivalents; more information on the calculation methods can be found in the reports by Energiakolmio, see EN15 or EN16 above. EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Keslog has worked ambitiously to reduce emissions from the K-store supply chain by centralising distribution. New replacements in the vehicle fleet have reduced unit-specific emissions. Key tools in improving logistics efficiency also include the optimisation of transport routes and a high volumetric efficiency. Efficient reverse logistics also play a significant part through the collection of purchase loads, carrier trays, pallets, roller cages and recycling components, such as cardboard, bottles or cans, on the return 62 K route. All of Keslog's contract drivers, who number more than 500, have been trained in economical driving courses. In February 2015, a total of nine two-tier trailers were in use for long distance transport between main warehouses. Starting in March 2015, Keslog will be piloting an extra-long two-tier trailer on its main VantaaOulu logistics route. This Ecotruck improves logistics efficiency significantly compared to a traditional fulltrailer combination vehicle because it can hold twice as many roller cages. The Ecotruck will be the first of its kind in food transport in Finland and has been granted a temporary special operating permit by the Finnish Transport Safety Agency (Trafi). In 2014, the air miles of Kesko employees travelling on business totalled 8.1 million (7.8 million in 2013). Encouraging the use of virtual meetings is one way Kesko endeavours to decrease the amount of air travel. The number of virtual meetings held via employees’ own computers (Microsoft Lync) has almost doubled since the previous year. In 2014, a total of 39,924 hours of Lync-meetings were held (21,901 hours in 2013). At the end of 2014, the Kesko Group had 28 Videra video conferencing facilities in use and the total duration of all video meetings between two or more facilities was 4,341 hours (5,483 hours in 2013). At the end of 2014, Kesko had 644 company cars in use in Finland (642 in 2013). • 17 ethanol-fuelled cars (14 in 2013) • 268 petrol-fuelled cars (272 in 2013) • 358 diesel-fuelled cars (355 in 2013) • 1 natural gas car (1 in 2013) Kesko's company car policy recommends an emission level below 160 g CO₂/km. In 2014, the average emission level was 132 g CO₂/km (137 g CO₂/km in 2013) and the emissions from company cars totalled 2,497 CO₂ tonnes (2,569 CO₂ tonnes in 2013). This calculation also includes private use of company cars. EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) The building services equipment in properties managed by Kesko contains approximately 16 tonnes of refrigerants. Refrigerants are added because of leaks in the equipment. Kesko monitors the use of refrigerants by compiling refill data from its maintenance partners. In 2014, around 747 kilograms of refrigerants were added. HFC substances, such as R404, are the most frequently used refrigerant in K-food stores. New K-food stores use R744 technology, in which the carbon dioxide used as a refrigerant is 100% recovered from industrial processes. Refrigeration units also make use of the gas temperature in the carbon dioxide process – higher than that generated in the traditional refrigeration process – by building an efficient heat recovery system for heating service water and the incoming air of the air-conditioning system. HCFC chlorofluorohydrocarbon refrigerants, such as R22, were used at around 20 stores at the end of 2014. Refrigeration equipment that uses HCFC is technologically outdated. The use of HCFC substances in the maintenance of equipment is banned after 2014. Therefore, HCFC substances will be replaced with other permitted refrigeration substances or new equipment will be installed whenever maintenance is necessary. CFCs are no longer used in K-food store refrigeration equipment. The leading refrigerants in Keslog’s warehouses are NH₃ (ammonia) and R404a. 63 K EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions In 2014, from electric and heat energy used in properties managed by Kesko: • The acidifying emissions of nitrogen oxide emissions (NOx) were 239 tonnes (236 tonnes in 2013) • The acidifying emissions of sulphur dioxide (SO₂) were 202 tonnes (200 tonnes in 2013, figure adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report) • The ethylene emissions producing lower atmosphere ozone (C₂H₄e) were 9 tonnes (9 tonnes in 2013) • The quantity of radioactive waste from electricity produced by using nuclear power was 1.4 tonnes (1.5 tonnes in 2013, figure adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report). The calculation principles and more detailed calculations are available in the report by Energiakolmio. Only CO₂ emissions data is collected on transport of goods and business travel. 64 K Effluents and waste EN22 Total water discharge Wastewater from Kesko's operations goes to municipal sewer systems. Water discharge referred to by GRI does not occur from Kesko's operations. EN23 Waste Waste management statistics on operations in Finland Kesko Food Anttila (logistics Car and machinery (logistics) Kespro centre) Rautakesko trade Tonnes 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 Waste for recovery 7,762 7,048 7,473 1,076 1,239 849 378 413 542 1,679 1,869 640 589 618 734 WEEE for recycling 7 9 1 0.5 2 30 51 71 3 0.3 5 Landfill waste ¹ 156 152 291 188 239 328 4 4 4 4 166 102 13 37 41 Hazardous waste ² 8 2 4 0.2 1 0.1 0.7 4 0.8 31 35 149 Total 7,933 7,211 7,769 1,265 1,478 1,180 412 469 617 1,687 2,036 742 636 690 929 Recovery rate, % ³ 98 98 96 85 84 72 99 99 99 99 92 86 98 95 96 ¹ Waste not suitable for recovery ² Hazardous waste is disposed through hazardous waste treatment or recycling ³ Composted organic waste and hazardous waste are included in the recovery rate Waste management statistics for Sweden and Norway Sweden Norway Tonnes 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 Waste for recovery 2,206 2,464 1,998 1,019 1,057 1,199 Landfill waste 582 838 727 3 6 11 Hazardous waste ¹ 29 169 164 55 37 45 Total 2,817 3,471 2,889 1,077 1,100 1,255 Recovery rate, % ² 79 76 75 99 99 99 ¹ Hazardous waste is disposed through hazardous waste treatment or recycling ² Composted organic waste and hazardous waste are included in the recovery rate Waste management statistics for the Baltics, Russia and Belarus 65 K Waste management statistics for the Baltics, Russia and Belarus Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia Belarus Tonnes 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 Waste for recovery 392 193 387 127 183 153 2,430 1,793 2,304 1,918 1,138 438 58 38 40 Landfill waste 239 350 176 418 419 464 1,115 1,111 938 6,619 3,520 2,109 1,683 467 290 Hazardous waste ¹ 14 11 10 3 2 2 18 16 22 0.6 1 1 1 0.2 0 Total 645 554 573 548 603 619 3,563 2,920 3,264 8,538 4,659 2,548 1,742 505 330 Recovery rate, % ² 63 37 69 24 31 25 69 62 71 22 24 17 3 8 12 ¹ Hazardous waste is disposed through hazardous waste treatment or recycling ² Composted organic waste and hazardous waste are included in the recovery rate In 2014, the total weight of hazardous waste in all operating countries was 164 tons and non-hazardous waste 30,699 tons. The recovery rate of waste management in Finland was 97% and in the other operating countries 44% in 2014. Almost all of VV Auto Group’s waste is recycled or recovered, 99.83%. Read more in the Car and machinery trade section. The waste management statistics in Finland cover mostly warehousing operations, while in the other countries statistics cover mostly store operations. In 2014, Kesko Food's centralised waste management agreement included around 110 K-stores. The recovery rate of the waste generated in stores was about 96% (90% in 2013) and the recycling rate was about 67%. The incineration of mixed waste for energy has increased the recovery rate considerably. In addition, cardboard and plastic bales from approximately 165 K-food stores were centrally directed by Kesko Food for industry reuse in 2014. Recycling services available at K-food stores are helpful in the daily lives of customers and provide an efficient way to increase household recycling of items no longer used and consumer packaging waste. In 2014, around 252 recycling points for consumer packaging (fibre, glass, metal) were located at K-food store sites. Eleven of these included collection of plastic for recycling. Several of them also accepted wastepaper and discarded clothing. All K-food stores accepted deposit beverage containers. In 2014, customers returned: • 320 million cans • 96 million recyclable plastic bottles • 27 million recyclable glass bottles All K-food stores accepted portable batteries and small accumulators for recycling by customers. The obligation to accept waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) depends on a store's sales area, its product selection and on the size of the equipment. When buying a new product, customers can return large equipment (over 25 cm) to all stores that sell corresponding products. Small equipment (under 25 cm) can be returned to large grocery stores of over 1,000 m² and to speciality stores of over 200 m² without requiring the customer to buy a new product. The total amount of WEEE collected at stores in Finland was around 900 tonnes. K-stores’ share of this was approximately 170 tonnes, which is 19%. Packaging delivered by Kesko Food's reverse logistics (Keslog) for recovery 66 K Packaging delivered by Kesko Food's reverse logistics (Keslog) for recovery and reuse 1,000 pcs 2014 2013 2012 Aluminium cans 93,107 85,009 95,252 PET bottles 54,296 52,511 53,453 Recyclable glass bottles ¹ 9,667 12,508 6,606 Reusable crates 16,501 18,457 12,097 ¹ Part of the recycling of glass bottles was separated from Keslog reverse logistics. Impregnated timber and lead-acid accumulators recycled by the building and home improvement trade (K-rauta and Rautia), Finland Tonnes 2014 2013 2012 Impregnated timber 1,003 1,080 891 Lead-acid accumulators 4.3 2.4 4.0 Batteries and accumulators (RECSER) collected at K-Group stores, Finland Tonnes 2014 2013 2012 Batteries and accumulators 193 174 152 Clothing collected through UFF recycling points located at K-store sites Tonnes 2014 2013 2012 Recycling of clothes 2,507 2,280 1,736 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills In 2014, no significant oil, fuel, waste, chemical or other spills occurred. See also EN13. 67 K Social impacts The approach to social responsibility management, including the operating principles and monitoring and control systems, is described in the section entitled ‘Responsibility management’. INDICATORS INDICATORS INDICATORS Employees Human rights Society Indicators: LA1–LA2, Indicators: HR3–HR4, Indicators: SO3–SO8 LA4–LA6, LA9–LA13 HR9–HR11, LA14–LA15 INDICATORS Product responsibility Indicators: PR1–PR9 68 K Employees LA1 Employee turnover In 2014, Kesko had an average of 19,976 (19,489 in 2013) full-time equivalent employees in eight countries: Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia and Belarus. Of the employees 48% worked in Finland and 52% in other countries. Around three quarters of all employees worked in retailing. In 2014, Kesko Group recruited 3,711 (4,417 in 2013) new employees in Finland, while 3,820 (4,095 in 2013) left the Group in Finland. In other countries, the Group recruited 6,478 employees (6,330 in 2013), while 6,163 employees (5,964 in 2013) left the Group. The most common reason for employment relationships being terminated in Finland was expiring fixed-term contracts, which explained about 55% (53% in 2013) of departures. In other countries, the most common reason – for 58% (61% in 2013) – of departures was the employee’s resignation. In Finland, 6.4% (245) of the terminated employment relationships and 20.5% (1,262) in other countries were terminated by the employer for financial or production-related reasons, or due to the employer's operational reorganisation, or for other reasons based on the Employment Contracts Act. The corresponding figures in 2013 were 6.8% (278) and 23.3% (1,389), respectively. In 2014, Kesko Group companies had seven employment disputes ongoing in different courts in Finland. One ruling was given in favour of the employer and one in favour of the employee. Five employment disputes are pending. In Kesko's other operating countries, there were two employment disputes ongoing, one of which was settled and one is still pending. Changes in the number of Kesko employees 69 K Changes in the number of Kesko employees 2014 2013 2012 Finland at 31 Dec. 12,180 12,776 13,278 Other operating countries at 31 Dec. 11,614 11,087 10,802 Total at 31 Dec. 23,794 23,863 24,080 Finland, average 9,580 9,805 10,231 Other operating countries, average 10,396 9,683 9,515 Total, average 19,976 19,489 19,747 Fixed-term and part-time employments at Kesko 2014 2013 2012 Fixed-term employees of total personnel at 31 Dec., % Finland 13.9 12.9 14.7 Companies in other operating countries 7.2 7.0 8.0 Whole Group, total 10.7 10.2 11.0 Part-time employees of total personnel at 31 Dec., % Finland 43.6 45.4 45.4 Companies in other operating countries 7.1 8.0 8.4 Whole Group, total 25.8 28.1 28.7 Kesko’s personnel statistics for 2014 analysed by operating country Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia Belarus Total number of personnel at 31 Dec. 12,180 767 331 575 494 3,898 3,338 2,211 Average number of personnel in 2014 9,580 814 310 535 479 3,455 2,854 1,950 Number of new employments ¹ 3,711 226 72 182 176 2,226 1,956 1,640 women ² 1,575 86 11 38 44 0³ 897 350 men ² 1,181 140 58 70 95 8³ 1,053 592 Number of terminated employments ¹ 3,820 347 232 172 162 2,073 1,785 1,392 Terminated by employer, % 6.4 17.9 31.9 8.1 27.2 15.1 17.0 32.3 Total turnover rate, % ² 23.5 45.2 69.2 17.0 25.3 51.3 53.3 31.4 ¹ Including summer employees ² Excluding summer employees ³ Excluding Senukai, Lithuania LA2 Benefits provided to employees 70 K LA2 Benefits provided to employees Kesko Group provides its employees in all its countries of operation with employee benefits. In Finland, benefits provided to both permanent as well as fixed-term and part-time employees include occupational health services, insurance against occupational injuries and diseases, parental leave and retirement benefits. Group companies in Finland honour their employees on various special days. If, for instance, an employee's 50th or 60th birthday falls on a workday, it will be a paid day off. Kesko also supports leisure activities in Finnish companies through the Kesko Staff Club. The purpose of the Club is to create a good team spirit and promote sport, cultural and recreational activities. Some of the companies operating in Estonia and Latvia also give financial support to their employees through various life stages, such as when a child is born, during the child's first year at school, and in the event of the death of a close relative. Employees are also provided with a diverse range of shopping benefits that apply in K-Group stores and staff shops. A company phone and car are also provided if required for the job. Bonus payments and share-based payment plan In spring 2014, around €12.7 million (€10.5 million in 2013) was paid in Finland in bonuses under the 2013 performance bonus schemes, accounting for some 3.6% (3.0% in 2013) of the total payroll. The performance bonus schemes cover the entire personnel, with the exception of sales assistants and jobs covered by other types of bonus and commission systems. In 2014, the amount of different bonuses paid in operations in Finland was €13.4 million (€11.1 million in 2013) consisting of bonuses, sales commissions and other similar monetary remuneration. The indicators in the performance bonus scheme include the total performance of Kesko Group and the division, the sales and performance of the employee’s own unit and customer satisfaction. The job satisfaction of personnel also contributes to supervisors' bonuses. In 2014, the companies outside Finland paid €6.2 million in bonuses and other remuneration, accounting for 4.3% of the payroll. The corresponding figure for 2013 was €2.9 million, accounting for 2.1% of the payroll. Kesko Group’s management and key people – comprising around 150 people – are covered by a performancebased bonus scheme. The maximum bonus amounts vary depending on the profit impact of the person’s job and are equivalent to 3–8 months' salary. Kesko has a share-based payment system for 2014–2016 covering around 145 Kesko management personnel and other named key personnel. The share-based payment system has three vesting periods: the calendar years 2014, 2015 and 2016. A commitment period of three calendar years follows each vesting period. During this period, shares must not be transferred. In February 2015, the Board decided to grant a total of 120,022 of the company’s series B shares to 146 Kesko management personnel and other named key personnel based on the fulfilment of the vesting criteria for the 2014 vesting period in the share-based payment system. Pensions In Finland, new pensions were granted to 155 employees (162 in 2013) who retired from Kesko Group. In addition to old-age and disability pensions, this figure also includes employees retiring on part-time pension or partial pension and those receiving cash rehabilitation benefit. Rehabilitation allowance was granted for vocational retraining or trials for 40 (26 in 2013) employees with an obvious risk of incapacity for work in the next few years. The number of disability pensions has remained low since the turn of the century. In this period, the Occupational Health Service has focused on actions targeted at maintaining employees' working capacity. In 2014, the average retirement age of employees was 59 (59 in 2013). In the other operating countries, a total of 14 (19 in 2013) employees retired. Labour/management relations LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes In all of its operating countries, Kesko complies with local legislation. The key statutes governing restructuring are included in the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings, according to which the employer 71 K has to communicate the decisions under consideration on the basis of the negotiations within a reasonable period of time. Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes have not been defined in the trading sector collective bargaining agreement. Kesko Group has a company-specific shop steward system in place in all of its largest subsidiaries in Finland. Keslog Ltd has site-specific shop stewards, whereas Anttila Oy and K-citymarket Oy also have store-specific shop stewards. In all of its operating countries, Kesko applies the notice periods specified in local labour legislation. In Finland, the notice period is between two weeks and six months, depending on the duration of the employment relationship. Employees can ask questions, give feedback or development proposals on issues related to the operations of Kesko or its subsidiaries anonymously via the 'Direct Line' available on the Keskonet intranet. Answers are published for all to see on Keskonet. Employees can also send their wishes, comments and proposals directly to the President and CEO through the feedback channel available on Keskonet. Occupational health and safety LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal health and safety committees Labour protection activities are arranged separately by each company or place of business in compliance with local legislation. Outside the Nordic countries, labour protection matters are dealt with in workplace committees. K-instituutti provides occupational safety training for Kesko employees and K-retailers. Different Group companies also arranged training sessions tailored to their needs. LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and work-related fatalities At Kesko Group, the counselling and guidance of employees, appraisal and prevention of work-related health risks and illnesses, including treatment of serious illnesses, in cooperation with the primary and specialised health care providers are part of the normal operations of the Occupational Health Service. In Finland, approximately 10,500 (9,500 in 2013) Kesko Group employees were covered by Kesko’s in-house Occupational Health Service. In Finland, occupational health services for employees outside the Greater Helsinki area are mainly procured from other service providers. Centralised procurement and target-oriented management enable uniform contents and operating practices in occupational health care. In other countries, occupational health care is arranged according to local practice and legislation. A total of around €5.2 million (€5.0 million in 2013) was spent on occupational health care in Finland in 2014. The Social Insurance Institution of Finland compensated Kesko for around €2.5 million (€2.4 million in 2013) of this amount. In 2014, Kesko’s Occupational Health Service spent €412 (€481 in 2013) per covered employee on maintaining employees’ working capacity and providing medical care. Kesko’s contribution to occupational health care, Finland 2014 2013 2012 €/person 412 481 479 The expertise of the Occupational Health Service is widely used by Kesko’s retail companies to develop workplace ergonomics. In this context, ergonomics is a broad concept, including chemical and physical, motion-related and psychosocial factors. 72 K Occupational health care interviews involving the employee, the supervisor and a representative of the Occupational Health Service are part of basic operations in occupational health care. These negotiations can be conducted when an employee’s working capacity appears to have decreased, vocational rehabilitation is being planned, the absence rate is high, employees have work-related strain or there is a conflict in the working community. The objective is early intervention in situations threatening the individual's working capacity. Injuries and occupational diseases in Finland 2014 2013 2012 Fatal injuries 0 0 0 Occupational injuries, excl. commuting injuries 124 116 143 Commuting injuries 32 43 53 Injury rate/million working hours ¹ 6 6 7 Average degree of injury severity, days 17.6 18.3 20.7 Suspected occupational diseases 11 4 2 Occupational diseases 0 9 0 Sick days due to injuries and occupational diseases 2,751 2,902 4,056 per employee 0.29 0.30 0.40 The calculation method: small injuries, i.e. those leading to absence of less than three days, are not included in the figures. Statistics do not include contractors or the following companies: Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, the Agricultural Foundation of Trade. ¹ Excl. small injuries and commuting injuries, calculated with actual working hours Sickness absences by country in 2014 Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia Belarus Total number of sick days 116,066 7,714 3,173 3,253 5,383 24,435 28,759 21,844 per employee 12.1 9.5 10.2 6.1 11.2 7.1 10.1 11.2 per million working hours 6,424 5,385 5,821 2,997 5,568 3,501 5,089 5,513 The calculation method: Sick days per employee have been calculated on the average number of employees during the year. 2014 data of Konsoma JLLC, Belarus not included. 73 K The statistics on injuries in Finland and the analysis of sickness days by country are presented in the above tables. In other countries, there were a total of 46 injuries resulting in sickness absence of more than three days in 2014. In Finland, the corresponding number was 124. In 2014, the sickness absence rate in Finnish companies was 4.5% (4.6% in 2013) of hours worked. Around 78% (79% in 2013) of the sickness absences were short-term absences (paid sick days). In other countries, the sickness absence rate was 3.7% (4.0% in 2013). The figures do not include the data for Konsoma JLLC. Training and personnel development LA9 Average hours of training per employee, and LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning K-instituutti is in charge of planning, providing and sourcing training services for the K-Group in Finland. In 2014, a total of 37,118 (30,247 in 2013) K-Group employees, including the store staff employed by retailers and the employees who completed online courses, received training at K-instituutti. 74 K Systematic, business-driven development of personnel and management is a critical factor for future success. Core competence development areas include sales and service competence, product line specific competence advantage projects, immediate leadership and management, as well as e-commerce and services. IT and language courses also play an important role in the continuous competence development process. In 2014, approximately 1,100 Kesko employees participated in training courses organised by Kesko HR / Common Services and targeted for all of the employees. More than half of all participants attended courses in management and immediate supervisory work. The participants in the Personal Development Programmes for potential future management and the Leadership Development Programme consisted of international groups. Since 2011, Kesko has been implementing a wellbeing at work programme aimed at enhancing employees’ job satisfaction and working capacity and lowering the total costs of wellbeing at work. The K-instituutti training provider is responsible for carrying out the Master Sales Assistant training, one of Finland’s largest adult training programmes. Access to the Master Sales Assistant training programme via the training portal allows everyone to study according to their own schedule and choose the most interesting and useful online courses from among of all Kesko Group’s e-learning material. The objective is to continuously develop the service attitude, sales skills and product knowledge of sales assistants in cooperation with suppliers. The Master Sales Assistant training programme was also offered in about 100 business colleges and polytechnics. In 2014, about 167,500 online courses in the Master Sales Assistant training programme were completed by employees of K-stores, while the corresponding figure for business college and polytechnic students was about 53,000. Over the course of 2014, the common learning environment in online training, managed by K-instituutti, was expanded to other operating countries in cooperation with Rautakesko. In Latvia, Russia, Estonia and Sweden, there were a total of nearly 2,400 students, who have completed more than 14,000 online courses. The implementation in various operating countries will also continue with other divisions in 2015. Regional and store-specific training courses provided by K-instituutti in Finland had about 2,100 students in 2014. The vocational and specialist vocational qualification training programmes organised by K-instituutti had 560 students (539 in 2013), of whom 185 (223 in 2013) completed the qualification. 75 K In-house job rotation provides an extensive selection of career alternatives. In Finland, there were around 1,900 (1,500 in 2013) internal transfers to new jobs, while the corresponding total figure in other countries was around 2,500 (3,000 in 2013). In Finland, recruitment in the K-Group is supported by the K-trainee and retailer training programmes. The fifth K-trainee programme was launched in June 2014 and the content was made increasingly flexible: in addition to newly graduated young people, applicants may also include those about to finish their studies and those with some work experience. Out of 340 applicants, 11 were selected for the K-trainee programme. Future K-retailers are trained in the retailer training programmes. Coaching involves online studies and onthe-job training under a mentor retailer, as well as regional and national on-site training periods. Those completing the programme are qualified to start a career as independent K-retailers. Find out more about the K-trainee and retailer coaching programmes on the Kesko website. Training days and costs in 2014 2014 2013 2012 Training days Finland 9,083 9,021 9,498 Other countries ¹ ² 14,285 16,848 7,819 Training days per employee Finland 0.9 0.9 0.9 Other countries ¹ ² 1.4 1.7 0.8 Training costs, € million Finland 2.9 2.0 2.6 Other countries 0.8 0.9 1.2 Training costs per employee, € Finland 298 205 255 Other countries 80 94 121 Training days excluding eLearning. ¹ 2012: Excluding Byggmakker, Norway and Konsoma JLLC, Belarus ² 2013 and 2014: Excluding Konsoma JLLC, Belarus LA11 Performance and career development reviews Performance and development reviews and performance assessment of key personnel are carried out in all Kesko Group companies and operating countries. In the performance and development reviews, the performance of the past period is evaluated and targets are set for the upcoming period, including a discussion on the development of the employee, supervisory work and the working community. Performance and development reviews apply to all employees. In 2014, 86% (85% in 2013) of the Group’s employees in Finland and 76% (76% in 2013) of those in other countries participated in reviews. Of those who had had a review, 74% were satisfied with it. The objective of performance assessment is to support employees' development and encourage them to improve their performance. Uniform evaluation criteria enable systematic assessment of key personnel and management resources and support job rotation between Group companies. Personnel survey The personnel survey is one of the key tools in developing internal working practices and the quality of supervisory work. The survey is conducted simultaneously in Kesko Group and some of the K-stores in Finland and other countries. It looks into employee engagement in the organisation, practices that enable good performance, employee wellbeing and satisfaction with the performance of their immediate supervisors and management. In 2014, the response rate was higher than before: 81% (78% in 2013). Employees felt that cooperation with other employees was very good: 82% (80%). The assessment given for supervisory work improved to 73% (72%). 76 K The greatest decline was in the employee engagement index, which dropped to 53% (55%). Supervisors always discuss the results of the survey with their personnel. Based on the results, they agree on development activities, which are linked to the annual action and HR plan and are monitored. After the results for 2014 had been obtained, two Employee Engagement training courses were organised for a total of 100 representatives of Kesko’s management, focusing on how to make improvements in this area. Personnel survey Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Employee commitment 50% 54% 42% 49% 51% 48% 63% 56% 59% 56% 75% 79% 63% 58% Performance enablement 68% 69% 51% 54% 72% 70% 71% 68% 70% 69% 82% 83% 81% 75% Supervisory work 70% 70% 61% 60% 66% 70% 73% 71% 78% 79% 75% 80% 85% 83% Wellbeing at work 58% 60% 37% 45% 68% 69% 72% 69% 69% 68% 81% 83% 69% 65% Diversity LA12 composition and diversity of governance bodies and employee categories In 2014, the average age of personnel in Finland was 36.0 (35.2 in 2013). In other countries, the average age varies from 27 (25 in 2013) to 46 (44 in 2013). Kesko Corporation and its Finnish division parent companies and subsidiaries draw up statutory companyspecific HR and equality plans and define objectives for improvement. The plans cover recruitment, career development and training, compensation, and the reconciliation of work and family life. In addition to gender equality, employees’ experiences of equality have been monitored as part of the personnel survey by following the equal treatment of people in different age groups or with different cultural backgrounds. The survey looks into the equal treatment of employees regardless of their age, race, working ability, religion or sexual orientation. In 2014, 74% of the respondents felt that all employees are treated equally. At year-end, 59% (59% in 2013) of Kesko Group employees in Finland were female and 41% (41% in 2013) were male. In foreign companies, the figures were 52% and 48% (50% and 50% in 2013) respectively. 77 K In 2014, two of the seven members of Kesko's Board of Directors and two of the eight members of the Group Management Board were women. In 2015, the Group Management Board has nine members, two of whom are women. In the retailing subsidiaries in Finland, women hold a significant percentage of the supervisory 78 K positions. Of K-citymarket home and speciality goods’ department managers, 83% (84% in 2013) are women and 75% (75% in 2013) of Anttila department stores’ department managers are women. In Finland, 54% (53% in 2013) of all supervisory positions were held by women and 46% (47% in 2013) by men at the end of 2014. In 2012, the K-Retailers’ Association launched a project called ’Many kinds of performers’ in cooperation with the Finnish Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (FAIDD). In 2013, a permanent operations model was created based on the project. Since August 2013, Kesko has implemented the ‘Youth Guarantee in the K-Group’ programme, which aimed to employ at least 1,000 young people by the end of 2014. All expectations were exceeded and K-stores and Kesko Group had employed 1,800 young people by the end of 2014. Equality of men and women LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women The average annual salary of Kesko employees was €36,930 in Finland, €39,418 in the other Nordic countries, and €10,649 in the Baltic countries, Russia and Belarus. As Kesko Group operates in many lines of business, the average salary is not a good indicator of salary level or structure. The wage groups and tables specified in the collective trading sector labour agreement are applied to jobs covered by the agreement, such as sales assistants and warehouse workers. Salaries are affected by job-based responsibility bonuses, work experience and the cost-of-living category, which depends on locality. Besides the role and job requirements, the salary of a senior white-collar employee is determined by competence, work experience, performance and results. Because of the diversity of job descriptions, it is not possible to comprehensively compare the salaries between genders at the Group level. Equality in compensation is considered as part of annual company-specific equality plans. Gender is not a factor in determining pay levels, and no significant differences in comparable jobs have been detected. Company-specific equality plans strive to promote pay equality in jobs where comparisons can be made. Percentage of women by employee category, Finland 2014 2013 2012 Top management 15.6 16.7 24.4 Middle management 18.6 19.8 17.1 Supervisors and specialists 48.2 47.7 46.6 Workers and white-collar employees 61.5 61.9 63.0 Total 58.8 59.3 59.9 Percentage of women by employee category, other countries 2014 2013 2012 Top management 0.0 0.0 0.0 Middle management 46.8 48.6 46.0 Supervisors and specialists 54.7 52.6 47.0 Workers and white-collar employees 46.2 48.9 48.1 Total 51.5 50.2 47.7 2012 and 2013: Excluding Senukai, Lithuania and Byggmakker, Norway 2014: Excluding Senukai, Lithuania 79 K Human rights Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken In 2014, there was one case in the Finnish courts of law in which a company belonging to Kesko Group was sued for compensation on grounds of alleged discrimination. The proceedings will continue in 2015. Freedom of association HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk A total of 41.8% (41.4% in 2013) of Kesko Group employees in Finland were members of trade unions, mainly the Service Union United PAM. The statistics include the employees whose trade union membership fees are deducted at source from pay. In Norway, the unionisation rate was 25.7% (22.1% in 2013). Statistics on employee unionisation in the other operating countries are not available. In the Baltic countries, Kesko’s subsidiaries have workplace committees composed of management and employee representatives. The National Works Council meets twice a year. The international Group-level European Works Council (EWC) meets once a year. Collective agreements cover all of Kesko's employees in Sweden and Norway, and around 83% (84% in 2013) in Finland. So far, no binding industry-wide collective bargaining agreements have been drawn up in the Baltic countries or Russia. The control of the unionisation of suppliers’ employees in high-risk countries and corrective actions are included in the SA8000 and BSCI audits. Human rights assessments HR9 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews, HR10 Suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria, HR11 Significant negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken In 2014, Kesko initiated a human rights impact assessment in compliance with the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Kesko also participated in retail round table discussions with businesses, labour market organisations and NGOs organised by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs as part of the national implementation of the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. These discussions aim to build a dialogue between different stakeholders, identify the material risks associated with each sector and find a sufficient level of risk management and compliance with the due diligence principle. The round table discussions will continue in 2015. Suppliers in high-risk countries are mainly assessed by BSCI audits. Kesko’s BSCI results for 2014 in different areas are presented in a diagram (see Supplier assessment for labour practices). Corrective actions and their monitoring are included in the audit process. Supplier assessment for labour practices 80 K Supplier assessment for labour practices LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria, LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in supply chain and actions taken SA8000 certifications and BSCI audits Kesko mainly uses BSCI auditing and the SA8000 standard for assessing its suppliers in high-risk countries. Kesko also accepts other social responsibility systems, if their criteria correspond to those of BSCI auditing and the audit is conducted by an independent party. These systems are listed in the section Responsibility monitoring and steering, at Responsible purchasing and sales. Kesko’s most significant high-risk countries of import are listed in the table below. Of Kesko’s suppliers in high-risk countries at the beginning of 2015 • 14 had SA8000 certification (15 at the beginning of 2014) • 284 were included in BSCI audits (254 at the beginning of 2014) In 2014, suppliers’ factories or farms had • 88 full BSCI audits (81 in 2013) • 74 BSCI re-audits (25 in 2013) • 39 monitoring visits (53 in 2013) Some of Kesko’s suppliers are members of BSCI and promote audits in their own supply chains. Kesko’s principle is to cooperate only with suppliers which are already included in the BSCI auditing process or start the process at the beginning of the cooperation. The results of the BSCI audits of Kesko’s suppliers’ factories for 2014 are presented below. Most deficiencies occur in the observance of working time regulations, in compensation and occupational health and safety matters. Experiences gained from monitoring work in China and India are similar. Corrective actions and their monitoring are included in the audit and monitoring process. Kesko does not terminate cooperation with a supplier which undertakes to resolve the grievances specified in the audit report. In 2014, cooperation was not terminated with any supplier on the basis of an audit. 81 K Fairtrade products Kesko Food has a comprehensive cooperation agreement with Fairtrade Finland and a licence for Fairtrade products in the Pirkka range. The selections of Fairtrade products at store level are determined by the K-food trade chain concepts. • In 2014, Kesko Food had more than 230 Fairtrade products in its selections, of which 44 (35 in 2013) were Pirkka products. • According to the statistics of Fairtrade Finland, Kesko Food had a total of 166 Fairtrade suppliers (175 in 2013). • The products sold by Kesko Food generated over €360,000 in Fairtrade premium for social development projects. The figure for 2013 includes only those Pirkka Fairtrade products which were included in the selections at the end of the year, and the figure for 2014 includes all Pirkka Fairtrade products which were included in the selections during the year. SA8000 and Fairtrade certifications and BSCI audits included, nearly 90% of Kesko’s direct suppliers in highrisk countries have at least one of their factories or farms included in social assessments. The acceptance of other approved procedures adds to the coverage. Kesko's own direct imports from high-risk countries, 10 largest 82 K Kesko's own direct imports from high-risk countries, 10 largest countries in 2014 ¹ Country Value of imports, € million China 74.0 India 13.7 Turkey 9.0 Vietnam 8.5 Thailand 6.6 Bangladesh 4.5 Brazil 2.7 Indonesia 1.4 Argentina 1.3 Philippines 1.2 ¹ Direct imports forwarded by Keslog only, excluding imports by VV-Auto. 83 K Society Anti-corruption SO3 Total number of operations assessed for risks related to corruption, SO4 Training on anticorruption policies and procedures, SO5 Confirmed incidents or corruption and actions taken Risks related to corruption are considered as part of Kesko Group’s risk management. Key risks, including those related to corruption, are regularly identified, assessed, managed, monitored and reported as part of business operations at the Group, division, company and unit levels in all operating countries. Rankings of Kesko’s operating countries in the Corruption Perceptions Index 2014 by Transparency International are presented below. Kesko’s anti-corruption principles are included in the ‘Our Responsible Working Principles’ guidelines, which is available on the Kesko website. The website includes animations related to responsible operating practices. The guide and the website are available in the languages of all of Kesko’s operating countries. In 2015, responsible working principles will be highlighted by introducing a new e-learning programme called ‘Kesko’s responsibility’. This programme will first be implemented in Kesko’s operations in Finland. The training is compulsory for all Kesko employees and participation will be monitored. The aim is to roll out the training in the other operating countries at a later date. From the beginning of 2015, all of Kesko’s Russian business companies have had their own anti-corruption policies. The new policies take account of the requirements of the Russian anti-corruption laws. Kesko’s Russian business companies have also introduced anti-fraud (whistleblowing) channels for reporting suspected malpractice. The Russian-language channel is intended for confidential use by the business partners of Kesko subsidiaries and other third parties, as well as personnel for notifying any suspicions of malpractice or unethical conduct in Kesko’s Russian subsidiaries. Kesko arranges annual Value Discussions on responsible working principles in its companies. In 2014, four Value Discussions were organised for different divisions in Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. They focused on issues related to corruption and malpractice. In 2014, one of the focus areas of Kesko’s internal audit was the audit of malpractice risks. In 2014, Kesko was not informed of any corruption-related lawsuits against any Kesko Group company. Rankings of Kesko’s operating countries in the Transparency Corruption Perceptions Index in 2014 Ranking Country Score 3 Finland 89 4 Sweden 87 5 Norway 86 26 Estonia 69 39 Lithuania 58 43 Latvia 55 119 Belarus 31 136 Russia 27 Public policy SO6 Total value of political contributions In election years, political parties and candidates are given equal opportunities to arrange campaign events in K-Group stores’ yards and entrance halls. In addition, Kesko may participate in economic and tax policy seminars arranged by political parties, at its discretion and without indicating partiality. Kesko does not 84 K make monetary donations to political parties. In 2014, the seminar attendance fees and commercial advertising in party newspapers paid by Kesko totalled approximately €5,000. Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices, and SO8 Fines and other sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations In 2014, Kesko was not informed of any legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour or significant fines or other sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 85 K Product responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 Product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement, PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products The activities of Kesko Food’s Product Research include assessing the impacts of products on health and safety. In 2014, Product Research audited 26 suppliers (20 in 2013), of which 14 (11 in 2013) were Finnish. These audited companies were manufacturers of Kesko Food’s own brands, and the audits were conducted in compliance with Kesko Food’s own audit guidelines. A total of 8,864 (9,460 in 2013) product samples were analysed. Most of them related to the product development of own brands. A total of 1,779 (1,625 in 2013) own control samples were analysed. When developing own brand products, Kesko Food pays special attention, in line with its strategy, to the health aspects of the products. Sugar, saturated fat and salt have been reduced from nearly 160 Pirkka products that contained high levels of them. This so-called reformulation was completed in 2013. The health aspects of new Pirkka products are taken into account already at the product development stage. Product Research is also responsible for product recalls, which numbered 125 in 2014 (127 in 2013). Of these, 24 (35 in 2013) were Kesko Food’s own brands; in the other cases, Product Research assisted the manufacturers in recalls. There were no public recalls involving a potential health hazard resulting from product flaws or defects in Kesko Food’s own brand products (6 in 2013). In November 2014, the problem with MRSA (the “hospital super bug”) in European pork became a topic in public discussion. MRSA bacteria were also found in one lot of K-Menu bacon cubes. The lot was recalled immediately. Kesko Food’s Product Research Unit included MRSA monitoring in its own control programme. In 2014, there were no lawsuits or fines concerning product health or safety. Product and service labelling PR3 Product and service information and labelling, and PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling Kesko complies with Finnish law and with EU legislation on the product labelling of its own brand products and imports. The transition period for the EU regulation No. 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers ended in December 2014. During the three-year transition period, Kesko Food updated the labels of around 2,500 own brand products to comply with the requirements of the regulation. Changes will continue to be made until spring 2015, when the transition period of the EU regulation No. 1337/2013 laying down rules for the indication of country of origin for certain meats will end. In addition to statutory package labelling, voluntary labelling can be added to inform the consumer of the product’s responsibility aspects. Such labelling may include organic and eco-labelling, as well as labelling indicating social responsibility. Labelling is discussed in the section Responsibility monitoring and steering at Responsible purchasing and sales. The selection of labelled products is discussed in the section Business review. The name and location of the manufacturer are indicated on all Finnish Pirkka products. Foreign Pirkka products carry the name of the country of manufacture. The country of origin of meat is indicated in the list of ingredients on those Pirkka products that have meat as one of the main ingredients. The country of origin is indicated on all own brand products of K-citymarket, Anttila and Rautakesko as their selections are updated. 86 K There were 40 (27 in 2013) product recalls resulting from defective product labelling, 11 (6 in 2013) of which were Kesko Food’s own brands. PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction The recognition level and images of Kesko’s chains are regularly monitored by brand surveys targeted at consumers in all product lines. The same practice is applied to the K-Plussa customer loyalty programme and the grocery trade’s own brand products. Store-level customer satisfaction is measured by customer satisfaction surveys, as well as by using the mystery shopping method in the food trade and the building and home improvement trade. The chains have different channels for customer feedback, and Group-level feedback can be given on Kesko's website. All messages received via all the feedback channels are responded to. During the year, Kesko Food’s Consumer Service, maintained by Product Research, was contacted by customers 20,911 (23,074 in 2013) times. Approximately 80% of these were product complaints. Marketing communications PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products During 2014, Kesko’s stakeholders raised questions and concerns regarding several products and the conditions under which they are produced. In January 2014, Finnwatch published a follow-up report on private label products. The report indicates that the grievances revealed in 2013 on Thai pineapple juice and tuna factories have not been resolved in all respects. The survey also revealed grievances in a new pineapple juice factory. A BSCI audit was conducted in the factory at the end of March 2014. Part of the audit results supported the Finnwatch report findings. In 2013, Kesko Food added an item on assuring the sustainability of ingredients to purchase agreements. From the beginning of 2014, all Kesko companies have attached the BSCI Code of Conduct to all purchasing agreements. Kesko has actively cooperated with stakeholders in Thailand with the aim of improving conditions in purchasing chains. Examples of cooperation include participation in ILO’s Good Labour Practices buyer reference group, and research cooperation with Plan, an international development organisation promoting children’s rights, launched at the beginning of 2015. In autumn 2014, Pro Ethical Trade Finland (Eetti) published a survey on the responsibility of Finnish clothing companies. The survey focused on the payment of living wages at suppliers’ factories. Read more in the stakeholder address. Kesko was thanked for its monitoring work and for starting a human rights impact assessment in compliance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The discussion concerning products produced in Israeli settlements continued. Kesko Food has made a policy statement and informed its suppliers that it will not accept fruit and vegetables from Israeli settlements in its selections. The origin of a product can be seen on labelling in stores and on the product. Imports by Kesko’s other divisions from Israel are small, but these divisions also actively discuss issues of product origins with suppliers. There has been a long-felt need in the European cocoa and chocolate industry for an international standard to help in the assurance of responsibility and traceability of cocoa. The International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO), and the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN), decided in October 2014 to start preparing a responsibility standard for cocoa. The target timeline for its completion is three years. A monitoring group has been set up in the Finnish Standards Association (SFS) in order to influence the content of the standard. Kesko has a representative in the monitoring group. Read more on the Kesko website. In spring 2014, Kesko joined WWF’s soy programme, which aims to reduce the environmental impacts of soy production in South America. Kesko Food recommends that manufacturers of own brand products use responsible soy. The working conditions of wild berry pickers who come to Finland from other countries and their ability to earn sufficient income were discussed during the berry season in particular. The berry companies of the Wild 87 K Organic Products Industries’ Association have developed a self-regulation mechanism to ensure the availability of berries for processing and to take care of the pickers in a responsible manner. The selfregulation mechanism consists of principles that must be followed by businesses that invite wild berry pickers to come to Finland. The business advises pickers on the general rules and provides them with information about berry crop forecasts, picking areas and accommodation alternatives. Already in spring 2012, Kesko Food recommended that its suppliers comply with the berry picking guidelines prepared by the Finnish Food and Drink Industries’ Federation (ETL) and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. In 2014, all of Kesko Food’s suppliers of wild berries were committed to compliance with wild berry picking principles following the self-regulation mechanism. Read more on the Kesko website. In 2014, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs signed a letter of intent on wild berry picking with a number of berry industry companies. The agreement is a continuation of earlier development actions. The agreement took effect immediately, meaning that it will apply to the 2015 picking season. A working group that was set up by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry completed a national salmon strategy in November 2013. Kesko had a representative in the working group. The objective of the salmon strategy is to support the strengthening of the wild Baltic salmon population in a way which enables professional and recreational fishing to continue. The working group undertook to increase salmon and seatrout stocks with measures extending up to 2020. The publication of the strategy in spring 2014 provoked discussion about the adequacy of measures. The government approved the strategy in October 2014. In February 2015, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry decided to set up a working group to monitor the implementation of the salmon and seatrout strategy and the fishway strategy. Kesko has a representative in the working group. The K-Group’s fish and shellfish selections are formed following WWF's fish guide and the report by the national salmon strategy working group. Kesko Food’s selections do not include species on the red list of WWF’s fish guide with the exception of wild Baltic salmon, for which we observe the EU quotas in line with the national salmon strategy. PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications Kesko monitors the amendments to legislation and authorities’ recommendations related to marketing communications and provides information about them to the staff responsible for marketing in each unit. In 2014, there were no advertisements by Kesko or its subsidiaries submitted for consideration by the Council of Ethics in Advertising nor were there any incidents of non-compliance with legislation or voluntary principles. Sponsorship is guided by Kesko’s sponsorship principles. Customer privacy PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data In 2014, K-Plus Oy did not detect any leaks of information or other personal data breaches. Neither did the company receive complaints from customers or the data protection authorities. Compliance PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services No fines in 2014. 88 K GRI report profile GRI G4 guidelines applied to the report Since 2000, Kesko has annually reported on its corporate responsibility in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for reporting on sustainable development. The Responsibility in figures section of Kesko’s Integrated Annual Report is prepared in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines and covers the key areas of economic, social and environmental responsibility. In our operations, we apply the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (stakeholder inclusivity, identification of material aspects and responsiveness to stakeholders). We have divided the GRI report into three sections: corporate responsibility management, GRI index and indicators. The report is available in Finnish and English, and the report is published online only. The scope of the GRI guidelines that Kesko uses in this report is Core. However, the General Standard Disclosures according to the GRI G4 guidelines are presented in a much wider scope than required by the Core option. Specific Standard Disclosures, that is, the disclosures on management approach and indicators, are made with respect to the material aspects for Kesko. However, indicators are reported in a much wider scope than required by the Core option. A comparison of the contents of the report and the GRI G4 guidelines is given in the GRI index. Assurance of reporting An independent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, has provided assurance on corporate responsibility information disclosed in Kesko's Integrated Annual Report 2014 and indicated as assured in the GRI G4 index, as well as other corporate responsibility information disclosed in the report and agreed to be assured, for the reporting period 2014. The congruence between responsibility information presented in the Finnish and English versions has been checked. The assurance also comprised the application of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles in Kesko. The conclusions, observations and recommendations by PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy are detailed in the assurance report. The assurance is commissioned by the operative management of Kesko Corporation. Global Compact reporting The report describes Kesko’s progress on the 10 principles of the Global Compact initiative. The GRI index shows which indicators have been used for evaluating performance in fulfilling human rights, labour rights, environment principles and anti-corruption principles. Report stakeholders Kesko’s reporting is comprehensive, and many stakeholders use the report as their source of information when assessing Kesko’s results in various areas of responsibility. The most important target groups of the report include investors, shareholders, analysts and rating agencies, as well as society (the media, authorities, NGOs and other organisations, and trade unions). In the report, we also aim to take into account Kesko’s other important stakeholders: retailers, personnel, potential employees, suppliers and service providers, and customers. Reporting period and contact information This report is about the progress and results of responsibility work in 2014. It includes some information from January to March 2015. The report for 2013 was published in April 2014, and the report for 2015 will be published in the spring of 2016. Further information on the topics covered in the report can be obtained from Kesko’s contact people. 89 K Independent Assurance Report (Translation from the Finnish original) To the Management of Kesko Corporation We have been engaged by the Management of Kesko Corporation (hereinafter also the Company) to perform a limited assurance engagement on the corporate responsibility information disclosed in Kesko Corporation’s online report “Kesko’s Integrated Annual Report 2014” and indicated as assured in the Company’s GRI Index 2014, as well as other corporate responsibility information disclosed in the online report and agreed to be assured, for the reporting period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 (hereinafter CR Information). Furthermore, the assurance engagement has covered Kesko Corporation’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles with moderate (limited) level of assurance. Management’s responsibility The Management of Kesko Corporation is responsible for preparing the CR Information in accordance with the Reporting criteria as set out in the Company’s reporting instructions and the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. The Management of Kesko Corporation is also responsible for the Company’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as set out in AccountAbility’s AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008. Practitioner’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the CR Information and on the Company’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles based on our work performed. Our assurance report has been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to Kesko Corporation for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we have reached. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe that the CR Information has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. In addition, we have conducted our work in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008. For conducting a Type 2 assurance engagement as agreed with the Company, this Standard requires planning and performing of the assurance engagement to obtain moderate (limited) assurance on whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe that Kesko Corporation does not adhere, in all material respects, to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and that the CR Information is not reliable, in all material respects, based on the Reporting criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. An assurance engagement involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the CR Information, and about the Company’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the CR Information and an assessment of the risks of the Company’s material nonadherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: • Interviewing senior management of the Company. • Interviewing employees from various organisational levels of the Company with regards to materiality, stakeholder expectations, meeting of those expectations, as well as stakeholder engagement. • Assessing stakeholder inclusivity and responsiveness based on the Company’s documentation and internal communication. 90 K • Assessing the Company’s defined material aspects of corporate responsibility as well as assessing the CR Information based on these aspects. • Analysing references to the Company from the reporting period in online media. • Visiting the Company’s Head Office as well as one site in Norway. • Interviewing employees responsible for collecting and reporting the CR Information at the Group level and at the site where our visit took place. • Assessing how Group employees apply the reporting instructions and procedures of the Company. • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from original documents and systems on a sample basis. • Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a sample basis. Conclusion Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Kesko Corporation does not adhere, in all material respects, to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. Furthermore nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Kesko Corporation’s CR Information has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria, or that the CR Information is not reliable, in all material respects, based on the Reporting criteria. When reading our assurance report, the inherent limitations to the accuracy and completeness of corporate responsibility information should be taken into consideration. Observations and recommendations Based on our work described in this report, we provide the following observations and recommendations in relation to Kesko Corporation’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. These observations and recommendations do not affect the conclusions presented earlier. • Regarding Inclusivity: Kesko Corporation has processes in place for stakeholder inclusivity, collection of feedback and stakeholder engagement. We recommend that the Company continues to systemise the stakeholder dialogue and pays specific attention to the possibilities for increasingly utilising social media as a channel for stakeholder dialogue. • Regarding Materiality: Kesko Corporation has a systematic process in place to evaluate and determine the materiality of corporate responsibility aspects. We recommend that the Company continues the execution of its responsibility programme based on its materiality assessment and pays specific attention to the concretisation of division specific targets and the communication of the progress against targets. • Regarding Responsiveness: Kesko Corporation has processes in place for responding to stakeholder expectations. We recommend that the Company further invests in sharing best practices and information within and amongst divisions. Practitioner’s independence and qualifications 91 K Practitioner’s independence and qualifications We comply with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the IESBA (the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants). Our multi-disciplinary team of corporate responsibility and assurance specialists possesses the requisite skills and experience within financial and non-financial assurance, corporate responsibility strategy and management, social and environmental issues, as well as knowledge of the retail sector, to undertake this assurance engagement. Helsinki, 17 March 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Sirpa Juutinen Maj-Lis Steiner Partner Director, Authorised Public Accountant Sustainability & Climate Change Assurance Services 92
