Sustainability Report 2014 Contents 01 Highlights 2014 3 02 Message from the CEO 4 03 Orkla’s sustainability work 6 04 Nutrition and health 10 05 Food and product safety 20 06 Responsible sourcing 26 07 Environment 38 08 Orkla and society 44 The Nordic region’s leading branded consumer goods company Orkla is a leading supplier of branded consumer goods and concept solutions to the grocery sector, out-of-home sector and bakery market, with its main markets in the Nordics and the Baltics. The Group also holds good positions in selected product categories in Central Europe and India. The Branded Consumer Goods business comprises four business ” Orkla’s mission areas: Orkla Foods, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks, Orkla Home «Improving everyday life with & Personal and Orkla Food Ingredients. Orkla also has operations healthier and more enjoyable organised under the Orkla Investments business area which consists of Hydro Power, real estate and ﬁnancial assets, in addition local brands » to the Group’s investments in Sapa (JV) (50% interest), Jotun (42.5% interest) and Gränges (31% interest). Orkla ASA is listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange and is headquartered in Oslo. As of 31 December 2014, Orkla had approximately 13,000 employees. The Group’s turnover in 2014 totalled around NOK 30 billion. GEOGRAPHICAL SPREAD OF SALES REVENUES1 Norway 11,160 38% Nordics ex. Norway 11,469 39% Baltics 1,053 4% Europe other 4,533 16% World other 987 3% Total: NOK million 29,202 100% 1 Excluding internal sales and other operating revenues. Business areas ORKLA ORKLA ORKLA ORKLA CONFECTIONERY & HOME & FOOD FOODS SNACKS PERSONAL INGREDIENTS Operating revenues Operating revenues Operating revenues Operating revenues (NOK million): (NOK million): (NOK million): (NOK million): 12,232 4,987 4,960 6,534 Organic growth (%): Organic growth (%): Organic growth (%): Organic growth (%): -1.1 -0.4 2.5 3.7 EBIT (adj.)1 (NOK million): EBIT (adj.)1 (NOK million): EBIT (adj.)1 (NOK million): EBIT (adj.)1 (NOK million): 1,488 693 852 345 Number of employees: Number of employees: Number of employees: Number of employees: 5,977 2,359 1,775 2,438 ORKLA INVESTMENTS Sapa ( JV ) 2 Jotun 2 Gränges 2 Hydro Orkla Shares and (50%) (42.5%) (31%) Power Eiendom financial Underlying EBITDA EBIT EBIT (adj.)1 EBIT (adj.)1 Book value assets (NOK billion): (NOK billion): (NOK million): (NOK million): (NOK billion): Book value (NOK billion): 1.9 1.3 463 216 1.9 0.7 Corporate centre and support functions 1 Operating proﬁt before other income and expenses. 2 The ﬁgures from associates and joint ventures are on a 100% basis. Sustainability Report 2014 HIGHLIGHTS 2014 Highlights 2014 IMPORTANT RESULTS OUR PLANS AHEAD We reduced the content of salt in Orkla We will continue to develop products products by 30 tonnes in 2014. containing less salt, sugar and saturated fat. The salt content of Norwegian favourites We have committed to eliminating like Pizza Grandiosa and Stabburet 80 tonnes of salt from our Norwegian S Nutrition Leverpostei paté was cut by 5% in 2014. products by 2018. and health Our ready-for-dinner ﬁsh sauces, which We will continue to work closely with make it easier to eat ﬁsh, have been research communities to develop launched in four Nordic countries under innovative products that promote a the Abba, NemFisk and TORO brands. healthier lifestyle. We carried out 83 internal food safety We will continue work on our stringent audits. procedures aimed at ensuring safe food throughout the value chain. Food safety We implemented new official requireIn 2015, we will apply a revised version ments for the clear and uniform labelling of Orkla’s food safety standard which of food products across companies and sets stricter requirements for supplier product categories. monitoring. We set ambitious targets for sustainable We aim to ensure that all palm oil used palm oil sourcing and removed 4,300 in Orkla’s branded consumer products is tonnes of palm oil from Orkla products sustainably produced by the end of 2017 in 2014. at the latest. We have reduced our consumption of palm oil by 19,000 tonnes since 2008. Responsible sourcing 50% of all marine raw materials purchased We aim to ensure that marine raw by Orkla Foods were MSC-certiﬁed. All materials and agricultural products that Abba herring and 100% of marine raw are part of global value chains are materials for Abba ﬁshballs and Kalles sustainably produced by 2020. Kaviar ﬁsh roe spread are MSC-certiﬁed. Pierre Robert Group introduced country of origin labelling on all its garments. We set ambitious targets for our We will develop more environmentally Environment environmental efforts. friendly packaging and products with a smaller environmental footprint. 3 Sustainability Report 2014 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Sustainability is tomorrow’s competitive edge Orkla seeks to promote a sustainable value chain for grocery products. Sustainable production will give us competitive advantages in the future. We live in a world of constant change. One of our era’s We have achieved progress in all our main focus areas. At greatest challenges is to tackle resource scarcity and climate the same time, we recognise that a great deal remains to be change, and at the same time to enhance the quality of life done. Through our new strategy, we have established a clear of people all over the world. In 2050, there will be around direction for the years up to 2020, and we will work actively nine billion people on our planet. Some three billion new to deliver on our sustainability pledges. middle-class consumers will want the same standard of living as we have today. Yet humanity is already using natural THESE ARE: resources equivalent to 1.5 planet Earths. In other words, we Nutrition and health – We will promote better public health are not living off the return on nature’s capital, we are eating by developing healthier products, providing good consumer into that capital. guidance, marketing our products responsibly and engaging in broad collaboration with others. If we are to solve this problem, we must all contribute, including Orkla. We are conscious of our responsibility towards Food safety – We will ensure safe food throughout our value society and the environment, both because we consider it to chain by setting uniform product quality and product safety be our moral responsibility, and because we think it makes standards, regardless of the country in which we manufacture good business sense. and sell our products. In 2014, Orkla drew up a sustainability strategy with ambiResponsible sourcing – We will develop sustainable value tious goals for the years up to 2020. We have deﬁned four chains. All purchasing will be carried out in compliance with areas in which Orkla has considerable inﬂuence, and where Orkla’s principles for sustainable production. we can make an important, positive difference. These areas are nutrition and health, food safety, responsible sourcing and Environment – We will operate on a sound, long-term, environment. In each of these areas, we have established sustainable basis, which means minimising our environmental concrete targets and action plans. footprint. Several of Orkla’s products are part of consumers’ everyday Orkla has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since diet, and even small changes can lead to signiﬁcant improve2005. This means that we have committed to conducting ments in public health. In 2014, we have made substantial our operations in accordance with the UN’s Ten Principles progress in our efforts to make our popular favourites healthfor sustainable development. Through this work, we have ier by reducing salt and saturated fat. Our dialogue with the experienced the importance of collaboration and dialogue Norwegian health authorities has also spurred us to action, for solving major challenges. inspiring us to set ambitious new targets for Orkla’s future work in the area of nutrition and health. Sustainable growth is about understanding the world around us and being well positioned to realise the opportunities that Our production of food makes us a major purchaser of raw arise. Those who succeed in reconciling the dual objectives materials. We consider it important to ensure that the raw of global sustainability and proﬁtable growth are tomorrow’s materials we use are sustainably produced, and are therefore winners. actively engaged in several supply chain improvement projects. A good example in this respect is our work to promote sustainable palm oil. In 2014, we adopted a proactive new strategy that commits us to protecting the rainforest. We have succeeded in replacing palm oil with healthier oils in a large number of our products, and in the past seven years we Peter A. Ruzicka have reduced our palm oil consumption by 19,000 tonnes. President and CEO Where it is impossible to replace the palm oil, we aim to ensure that the oil used in Orkla’s branded consumer goods is sustainably produced by the end of 2017 at the latest. 4 5 Sustainability Report 2014 ORKLA’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK 03 ORKLA’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK 6 Sustainability Report 2014 ORKLA’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK The big picture With a global population of over seven billion, the Earth’s resources are under severe pressure. The world faces major sustainability challenges that will affect Orkla and the society of which we are a part. Close to one third of the global population is now Population growth and climate change put presoverweight. Lifestyle-related diseases are increasingly sure on natural resources. This affects the quality, prevalent, heightening the need for healthier food availability and price of key raw materials. and more physical activity. Consumers are attaching increasing importance to Production and consumption of food generate product content and the origin of raw materials. one fourth of all global greenhouse gas emissions This necessitates higher standards of transparency and are one of the primary sources of water conand traceability at every level of the value chain for sumption. This calls for efficient use of resources food and grocery products. and the development of products with a smaller environmental footprint. OUR RESPONSE TO THESE CHALLENGES In our sustainability strategy up to 2020, we have identiﬁed four areas in which Orkla has considerable inﬂuence on society, and where we can make a signiﬁcant contribution to ensuring a sustainable value chain. In each of these areas, Orkla has formulated a sustainability pledge. NUTRITION AND HEALTH FOOD SAFETY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING ENVIRONMENT Promote a Ensure safe food throughDevelop sustainable Minimise our healthy lifestyle out the value chain value chains environmental footprint Orkla seeks to promote Orkla sets the same Orkla is committed to We strive to minimise better public health by standards for product developing sustainable our footprint by ensuring means of healthier quality regardless of the value chains. In 2020, that our activities and products, good consumer country in which the all purchasing is to be products are not harmful labelling, responsible product is manufactured carried out in compliance to the environment. marketing and measures or sold. with Orkla’s sustainable to increase the physical production principles. activity of the population. 7 Sustainability Report 2014 ORKLA’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK Our approach to sustainability As one of the leading Nordic manufacturers of branded consumer goods, we have a farmto-fork responsibility. We consider it our corporate responsibility to conduct our operations with respect for people and the environment, in a way that creates positive ripple effects for the communities around us. At the same time, Orkla’s operations are affected by global The ﬁrst four areas are related to Orkla’s external inﬂuence health and sustainability trends. Our ability to reduce and the sustainability challenges associated with the value commercial risk and take advantage of the opportunities chain for food and consumer products. In 2013–2014, we offered by these trends will be crucial to achieving long-term prepared a strategy for addressing these issues in the period proﬁtable growth. up to 2020. The strategy describes how Orkla’s operations in the next ﬁve years will contribute to solving the challenges OUR FOOTPRINT linked to our value chain and ensure that our operations are Our grocery products are purchased regularly by several million well aligned with signiﬁcant sustainability trends. In drawing consumers, and affect their diet, health and well-being. Even up Orkla’s sustainability strategy, we attached importance to small changes in product content can bring about important the broad involvement of internal specialists and management improvements in public health. staff, and solicited input from external organisations, centres of expertise and other key stakeholder groups. Orkla’s food production makes us one of the largest purchasers of agricultural and marine raw materials in the Nordic region. STATUS OF ORKLA’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK At the same time, our use of energy and water and our Orkla has made progress in all six main focus areas in the sourcing of packaging and transport services impact on the past few years. Improvement and development work is environment. Orkla is also involved in certain global raw mainly carried out by the companies, with the support of material chains with complex economic, social and environOrkla’s Corporate Centre. The work done by the companies mental challenges. is monitored through internal reporting procedures and management follow-up. Through our new sustainability Orkla is a major employer with its own extensive manufacturing strategy, we have established clearer common goals and a activities and operations in many countries. Consequently, more uniform approach to cross-company collaboration we have a considerable inﬂuence on our employees’ wellwithin the Group. The status and goals of efforts to address being, health and personal development. Moreover, Orkla the four main areas nutrition and health, food safety, responcompanies create economic ripple effects in the form of sible sourcing and environment are described in this report. jobs, tax revenues and sourcing from local suppliers in the Efforts related to the two internal areas occupational health communities and countries in which we are present. and safety and human resource development and corporate culture are described in Orkla’s Annual Report for 2014. ORKLA’S 2020 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY For several years, in light of Orkla’s inﬂuence on society and the expectations that we face, we have divided Orkla’s corporate responsibility into six main focus areas: • Nutrition and health • Food safety • Responsible sourcing • Environment • Occupational health and safety • Human resource development and corporate culture 8 9 Sustainability Report 2014 NUTRITION AND HEALTH 04 NUTRITION AND HEALTH 10 Sustainability Report 2014 NUTRITION AND HEALTH Easier to make healthy choices Good health is a shared responsibility. In 2014, Orkla devoted substantial resources to making popular favourites healthier and developing new products that make it easier to choose a balanced diet. Obesity, overweight and malnutrition are becoming society’s OUR APPROACH biggest health problem. More than 2.1 billion people are Product development and innovation work at Orkla are overweight today, according to a new report prepared by based on local needs and taste preferences. Several Orkla the McKinsey Global Institute. If the global obesity epidemic companies have their own R&D departments staffed by continues, close to half of the world’s population will be overnutrition experts. Knowledge and experience are shared weight by 2030. Tackling these challenges requires dialogue through Orkla’s internal professional networks for nutrition and cross-cutting, concerted efforts by the food industry, the and health and innovation, and steps are taken to facilitate retail sector, specialised experts and public authorities. cross-company collaboration. Orkla partners with external centres of expertise and is involved in a number of research We at Orkla are committed to shouldering our share of projects. These efforts will be intensiﬁed in the years ahead, responsibility and promoting better public health. By developing with a view to ﬁnding effective solutions to the health chalhealthier variants of the products that consumers eat and lenges we face. drink every day, we can help to improve people’s diet. We can inspire consumers to make healthy choices by developMany Orkla products are part of consumers’ daily diet. Coning new tasty, healthy foods. By providing clear, easily undersequently, even small changes in salt, fat and sugar content standable information on products’ nutritional content, we will impact on public health. In 2015, we will pursue our make it easier to choose a balanced diet. In 2014, we drew efforts to develop category-speciﬁc targets for reducing salt, up goals for our health and nutrition efforts up to 2020 that sugar and saturated fat, and establish a system for internal will apply to all Orkla’s food companies. measurement and follow-up. The companies will continue to develop healthier concepts and products for consumers to OUR FOUR PRIORITY AREAS: enjoy. In recent years, Orkla has strengthened its focus on ﬁsh, 1. Healthier innovations high-ﬁbre grain products and natural foods with no additives. 2. Responsible marketing 3. Clear product labelling CONTACT WITH AUTHORITIES 4. Physical activity Orkla seeks to be an effective partner for the public authorities in promoting good nutrition and improving public health. In 2014, we engaged in active dialogue with the health authorities in several of the countries in which the Group operates. Primary objectives up to 2020 In Norway, Orkla took part in the Norwegian Minister of • Develop products containing less salt, sugar Health and Care Services’ working group for food businesses, and saturated fat where the main topics of discussion were reduction of salt in food products and better product labelling. Orkla companies • Launch concepts and innovations that also participated in meetings with the Swedish National Food promote a healthier lifestyle Agency and the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration to discuss the revision of the Green Keyhole labelling system • Help to increase consumption of fish for healthy products. Orkla also engaged in dialogue with the • Make it easier for consumers to choose authorities on the interpretation of claims concerning the healthy products health effects of products in Norway and Sweden. • Avoid marketing to children • Engage consumers in healthy lifestyle activities 11 Sustainability Report 2014 NUTRITION AND HEALTH GOOD, CONSUMER-FRIENDLY PRODUCT LABELLING RESPONSIBLE MARKETING OF FOOD Orkla considers it very important that consumers ﬁnd it Orkla is committed to protecting children and youth from easy to make healthy choices in stores. To be able to do so, marketing that may be misleading or put undue pressure on consumers must have good, easily accessible information on them to buy products. We therefore pursue a restrictive policy the nutritional content of food. In 2013, Orkla drew up new in this area. In 2014, the Orkla companies implemented new internal guidelines for clear, uniform nutritional labelling of voluntary guidelines for marketing of food and beverages to foods which apply to all companies and product categories. children and young people in Norway. Orkla is a member of Work on implementing these guidelines began in 2014. The the Food and Drink Industry Professional Practices Committee guidelines cover information on types of ingredients, nutri(MFU) and is represented on the MFU Board. tional content, allergens and speciﬁcation of vegetable oils, and in some areas exceed the official requirements in the In 2014, Orkla companies had four cases in which the supernew food labelling rules. Orkla’s nutritional labelling strategy visory authorities criticised the use of product claims in maris scheduled to be fully implemented by the end of 2016. keting and ﬁve cases related to product labelling non-conformities. None of these matters resulted in a substantial ﬁne. Orkla companies have dedicated consumer service staffs who respond to inquiries, deal with complaints and answer Orkla’s companies are in dialogue with the authorities, and questions from consumers by telephone, e-mail, on their have implemented relevant changes. websites and on Facebook. Free of palm oil Research-based innovation By replacing palm oil with healthier types of fat, the Orkla is engaged in research collaboration with the Orkla companies reduced their use of palm oil by Igelösa Life Science Community in Sweden to develop around 19,000 tonnes in the period 2008-2014. Orkla innovative products that are good for health. Through removed 4,300 tonnes of palm oil from its products in this partnership, Orkla companies gain access to a 2014. Kornmo, Tom & Jerry and Bokstavkjeks biscuits, community of experts with long experience of researchPolly peanuts, New Energy chocolate and IFA lozenges ing and developing products and meal solutions that are among the products that are now palm oil-free. have a beneﬁcial effect on health. This collaboration Orkla Foods Norge has substantially reduced its consumphas resulted in FELIX Smart Mat (smart food), a range of tion of palm oil, and aims to ensure that all its grocery healthy, climate-friendly forcemeat products from Orkla products are free of palm oil by the end of 2015. Foods Sverige. The latest addition to the product range is a new chicken meatball made of Swedish chicken combined with whole millet and oat kernels. 12 13 Sustainability Report 2014 NUTRITION AND HEALTH Healthier favourites At Orkla we work actively to make our food and beverage products healthier. In 2014, we continued to make progress in our efforts to reduce the content of salt, sugar and saturated fat in our most popular products. Several of Orkla’s products are part of the daily diet of many LESS SATURATED FAT consumers. By making everyday food healthier, Orkla is helping Saturated fat is known to increase LDL cholesterol, which is to improve the population’s diet. The Group companies work linked to the risk of cardiovascular disease. The Norwegian systematically to reduce the amount of salt, sugar, saturated fat health authorities recommend that we limit the percentage of and artiﬁcial additives in food. However, altering products can saturated fat in our diet to a maximum of 10% of our energy affect their taste, consistency and shelf life. Thorough risk intake. assessments and innovative approaches to the use of raw materials, recipes and production processes are therefore essential. Orkla seeks to reduce the population’s intake of saturated fat, for instance by replacing palm oil with healthier types of fat. LESS SALT In 2014, beneﬁcial fatty acids such as olive oil and sunﬂower Nordic consumers currently eat almost twice as much salt as oil were substituted for palm oil in several products, including the recommended intake. A high salt intake increases the risk of Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge’s biscuits and snacks. cardiovascular and other disease. Norwegian and international health authorities therefore recommend limiting the daily intake REDUCED SUGAR CONSUMPTION of salt to a maximum of 5 grams. A high sugar intake can have adverse effects on health. Norwegian health authorities recommend that the total Orkla wants to contribute to lowering people’s salt intake. In sugar content in our diet account for no more than 10% of 2014, Orkla participated in the Norwegian Minister of Health our daily energy intake. Orkla offers sugar-free or low-sugar and Care Service’s working group for food businesses. We options in several categories, such as beverages, toppings have set ambitious targets for reducing salt in our products and spreads, jams and ketchup, and is working on reducing and categories. Several of the Orkla companies are focusing the amount of sugar in more products. actively on achieving this goal. One example is MTR Foods in India, which in 2014 developed a major internal programme for reducing the salt content of its ready meals. Stabburet Leverpostei paté with less fat Norway’s best-selling liver paté was given a more beneﬁcial fat composition and lower salt content in 2014. By reducing the proportion of animal fat and adding a small percentage of rapeseed oil to Stabburet Leverpostei paté, the proportion of saturated fat will be reduced by the equivalent of an annual consumption of around 80 tonnes in 2015. The salt content has been cut correspondingly by the equivalent of an annual consumption of around 5 tonnes. Salt has been reduced in stages so that consumers gradually become accustomed to the lower concentration of salt. In 2010, the salt content was 1.8%. In 2014, it was reduced to 1.6%. 14 Sustainability Report 2014 NUTRITION AND HEALTH Bread with less salt 80 tonnes less salt Bread and grain products are one of the main sources of Orkla has committed to removing 80 tonnes of salt from salt in people’s diet. Over a period of several years, the its Norwegian products in the period from 2014 to 2018. Dutch company Sonneveld has gradually reduced the salt In 2014, the salt content of its Norwegian products was in its bread mixes for bakeries. Now the company has set reduced by 15 tonnes. The lower-salt products include an ambitious goal of further reducing the salt content in its TORO ready meals and soups, Pizza Grandiosa, Stabburet bread mixes, from 2.2% to 1.3%, without compromising the Leverpostei paté and KiMs crisps. TORO has also launched products’ taste or baking properties. This means that the a new range of low-salt soups, Våre Beste. salt content of the baked bread will gradually drop from 1.3% to around 0.8%. In 2014, Sonneveld developed a new technology designed to ensure a better taste experience with less salt. 15 NUTRITION AND HEALTH 16 Developing healthier food in 2014 Salt Saturated fat 30 tonnes less salt. Orkla has reduced the content 300 tonnes less saturated fat. In 2014, Orkla of salt in a wide range of products. The effect of doing lowered the saturated fat content of a number of so was equivalent to an annual reduction in salt products. The effect of doing so is equivalent to an consumption of 30 tonnes in 2014. Since 2008, the annual reduction in saturated fat consumption of amount of salt in Orkla products has decreased by 300 tonnes. Since 2008, the amount of saturated the equivalent of an annual consumption reduction fat in Orkla products has been reduced by the of 500 tonnes*. equivalent of an annual consumption reduction of 7,500 tonnes*. Sugar Keyhole Over a period of several years, Orkla has reduced 30 of Orkla’s products on the Swedish and the content of sugar in several products. The effect Norwegian markets bear the Green Keyhole label of doing so is equivalent to an annual reduction in denoting healthy products. These account for consumption of 14,000 tonnes. 30% of Orkla Foods Sverige’s products and 20% of Orkla Foods Norge’s products in the Keyhole-labelled categories. *Part of the change in accumulated consumption from 2013 to 2014 is ascribable to underreporting in 2013. 17 Sustainability Report 2014 NUTRITION AND HEALTH Innovations that promote a healthier lifestyle Through close collaboration with external centres of expertise, Orkla applies new knowledge in the ﬁelds of health and diet to developing tasty, innovative products with a sound nutritional proﬁle. A number of studies in connection with Orkla’s branded proGLUTEN-FREE ALTERNATIVES ducts and product categories are currently being carried out. A growing number of consumers are concerned about food Orkla companies are involved in 20 different research projects, allergens, including gluten. Orkla has a long history of develo11 of which are health-related. These include the following: ping products that are free of gluten, lactose and eggs, and intensiﬁed its focus on this area in 2014. An example is the Orkla • Orkla Foods Norge is participating in a research project that company Sonneveld in the Netherlands, which launched 100% examines the development of children’s taste experiences, gluten-free bread mixes for the professional bakery market. taste preferences and food choices. The project, which is run by Noﬁma, commenced in 2014. • Several Orkla companies are collaborating with the Antidiabetic Food Centre at the University of Lund, Sweden, on the development of food products designed to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, obesity and age-related diabetes. • Orkla Foods Norge headed the SALTO project, a collaborative endeavour that was concluded in 2014. Several Norwegian food companies, research institutions and industry organisations have spent three years researching salt reduction in everyday foods. Popular dinners now gluten-free Healthy meals Several hundred thousand Norwegians are gluten-intoIn 2014, Orkla Foods Sverige launched Paulúns Superlerant. In 2014, Orkla Foods Norge launched gluten-free lunch, a new range of chilled soups that are rich in versions of the family favourites Pizza Grandiosa and protein and made exclusively of natural raw materials TORO Lasagne. The products were welcomed by perwith no additives. Other healthy products include Paulúns sons affected by coeliac disease and gluten-sensitivity, Granola, a high-ﬁbre, whole grain breakfast cereal. and generated substantial growth in the gluten-free category. The close to 500,000 gluten-free Grandiosa pizzas sold since the launch in May 2014 helped to triple segment sales. 18 Sustainability Report 2014 NUTRITION AND HEALTH INCREASED FOCUS ON FISH AND OMEGA-3 A total of ﬁve studies related to Orkla’s branded ﬁsh oil proLarge sectors of the Nordic population still do not eat enough ducts and the companies’ mackerel and herring products are ﬁsh. In 2014, the Orkla companies launched on the Nordic currently in progress. These studies are being conducted in grocery market several products designed to make it easy to partnership with institutions including Linköping University consume more of the healthy ﬁsh oils. Orkla Health, one of Hospital and Lund University in Sweden, and SINTEF in Europe’s largest players in the omega-3 segment, is involved in Norway. The results of these research studies are expected to several research projects in the Nordic region. The company be presented in 2015 and in the period up to 2018. is also exploring new and relevant ways of delivering omega-3 that will also meet taste criteria. Ready-for-dinner fish sauces In 2014, the Orkla companies launched several products, including TORO Middagsklart, aimed at encouraging consumers to eat more ﬁsh. This range of “just-add-ﬁsh” sauces are designed to make it easy for families with children to eat good ﬁsh dinners on an everyday basis. The product range was ﬁrst launched in Sweden, and is now sold in four Nordic countries under the local brands Abba, NemFisk and TORO. Orkla Foods Sverige launched Abba Fiskesupper, a new range of ﬁsh soups made entirely of natural raw materials. The soup is packaged in practical beakers that are simple to heat up. Orkla’s spearhead in the health sector Weight reduction Axellus, which is part of the Orkla Group, changed its Orkla has products with well-documented weightname to Orkla Health in 2014, in order to highlight the reduction effects. In 2014, Nutrilett Very Low Calorie company’s identity and affiliation. Orkla Health is the Diet (VLCD) helped almost 800,000 adults in the Nordic biggest marketer and manufacturer of a broad assortment region to lose weight. Given an average weight loss of of health products in the omega-3, vitamin, weight 5 kg, this is equivalent to a total weight reduction in the reduction and sports nutrition segments. Nordic population of around 4,000 tonnes. A total of 20 clinical studies were conducted on Nutrilett VLCD in collaboration with institutions such as Ullevål University Hospital in Oslo, Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm and Rigshospitalet in Copenhagen. 19 Sustainability Report 2014 FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY 05 FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY 20 Sustainability Report 2014 FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY Winning trust with safe products Orkla takes an uncompromising stance on food safety. We apply the same product quality and product safety standards regardless of the country in which we manufacture or sell our products. Several million consumers buy our food products regularly. It OUR APPROACH is essential that they be able to feel that the food they eat is The Orkla Food Safety Standard forms the basis for Orkla’s safe and that they can trust our products. Above all, this means food safety work. It is based on the British Retail Consortium that we, as a food and drink manufacturer, must assume (BRC)’s internationally recognised food safety standard, but responsibility for people’s health and put in place effective a number of additional requirements have been included food safety procedures in every part of our value chain. to cover risk factors of particular relevance for Orkla’s food manufacturing operations. All food products launched by Orkla aims to be on a par with the best companies in the world Orkla have undergone a rigorous risk assessment during the when it comes to food safety. Through our own Orkla Food development process to identify and control potential health Safety Standard (OFSS), we ensure a high, uniform standard at hazards associated with ingredients, packaging or use. all our factories. We have equally stringent guidelines for our suppliers, to ensure the safe production of raw materials. Orkla has a large number of raw material suppliers all over the world. As a prerequisite for collaboration with Orkla, they must The main risk factors for food safety are pathogenic bacteria, observe the Orkla Supplier Code of Conduct and comply with allergens, foreign bodies, undesirable substance content and our stringent food safety requirements. Orkla’s system for the risk of sabotage. ensuring food safety in sourcing was introduced in 2008, and consists of guidelines for risk identiﬁcation and supplier audits, In the next ﬁve-year period, we will continue to reﬁne and imwith associated tools. prove the tools and methods that we are already using. At the same time, we will take steps to counter the challenges that ORKLA FACTORY AUDITS we expect to face in the food industry in the coming years. To ensure that all Orkla companies that manufacture food, beverages and dietary supplements operate in compliance with the OFSS requirements, we conduct regular factory audits. After each audit, binding action plans are drawn up which Primary objectives up to 2020 specify improvement measures, assign responsibility and set implementation deadlines. • Ensure a strong food safety culture in all our companies and factories. The audits are carried out by Orkla’s internal food safety auditors. The team, consisting of ten persons with highly speci• Ensure that all factories meet OFSS alised expertise in this ﬁeld, regularly participates in training requirements by the end of 2016. programmes with external specialists. To upgrade the skills of • Ensure that all suppliers comply with key quality and production employees, Orkla has developed Orkla’s stringent food safety requirements. the Orkla Food Safety Training Course. • Intensify our efforts to ensure safe, healthy MONITORING ORKLA’S SUPPLIERS raw materials throughout our value chain Orkla’s Group-wide supplier approval and monitoring system through collaboration with farmers and effecensures that the Group companies have the necessary tools tive traceability systems. and guidelines for carrying out risk assessments, and approving and following up on suppliers of raw materials, packaging • Strengthen our ability to deal with new risk and ﬁnished goods manufactured under contract. factors in our value chain through collaboration with external centres of expertise. Suppliers are monitored by means of self-assessment forms and physical audits conducted by Orkla’s audit team. The Food Safety Department at Orkla trains internal food safety auditors and provides courses on Orkla’s food safety system. 21 Sustainability Report 2014 FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY CONTINGENCY MANAGEMENT INCREASED FOCUS ON RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIERS Orkla has drawn up a contingency plan to deal effectively with In its revised food safety standard for 2015, the BRC has set unforeseen and undesirable incidents. Customised emergency several new, more rigorous requirements for supplier moniexercises are held for the management teams of selected toring, including risk assessment and vulnerability analyses companies, with focus on the importance of a good underof raw materials, where we as customers may be exposed to standing of contingency preparedness, methods for dealing fraud. Similar stringent requirements will be included in the with a contingency situation and media training. Three continnew edition of the Orkla Food Safety Standard, which will gency exercises were organised in 2014. In addition, each apply as from the second half of 2015. factory is required to hold annual drills. Orkal’s Food Safety Department regularly evaluates the OFSS, There were no serious food safety incidents in 2014. and decisions on improvements are made in consultation with Orkla’s Group Executive Board. Results in 2014 Orkla factory audits: Supplier monitoring: • 83 audits of food manufacturing facilities, compared with • 1,456 self-assessment forms were distributed to Orkla suppliers, 56 in 2013. compared with 1,219 in 2013. • 662 audits have been conducted since the introduction of OFSS • 1,183 risk assessments were carried out by Orkla companies. in 2004. • 216 physical audits were conducted, compared with 118 in 2013. Food safety training: Supplier audit training: • 21 persons took part in the Orkla Food Safety Training • 17 employees received training in supplier auditing, Course, compared with 16 in 2013. compared with 32 in 2013. • 113 employees have completed the course since it was first • In addition, 43 trained auditors took part in a refresher offered in 2010 seminar in 2014. 22 Sustainability Report 2014 FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY Safe, high-quality products We at Orkla focus on ensuring that all our products are safe for consumers. We set strict requirements for quality and product safety in our development of cleaning products, textiles and personal care products. In the same way as in our food manufacturing operations, the NEW LABELLING RULES companies in Orkla Home & Personal apply stringent guideIn 2014, Lilleborg and Lilleborg Profesjonell made a major lines to ensure product safety throughout the value chain, effort to review the composition and classiﬁcation of some from innovation, product development and manufacture until 300 products to ensure that they are in conformity with the the product reaches the consumer. Our product safety work EU’s new Regulation on classiﬁcation, labelling and packais based on the precautionary principle, and our companies ging of chemical substances and mixtures. Under this Reguwork systematically to replace ingredients that could have an lation, which entered into force in 2013, all products subject adverse impact on health or the environment. to labelling requirements must bear new hazard pictograms and labelling by 1 June 2015. Lilleborg will be compliant with WELL-DOCUMENTED INGREDIENTS these requirements well before the deadline. When developing detergents and personal care products, Lilleborg uses only ingredients which have well-documented SAFE TEXTILES properties and have been approved under rigorous EuroPierre Robert Group’s garments are worn directly against the pean rules. The company is engaged in continuous efforts to skin and must be safe to use, particularly on children’s sensifurther develop and improve its products from a health and tive skin. Pierre Robert Group therefore sets rigorous requireenvironmental perspective. Through intensive, systematic ments for the use of chemicals. To ensure that the garments focus on substitution, the company strives to phase out ingredo not contain any hazardous or environmentally harmful dients about which there is any uncertainty. In 2014, Lilleborg substances, all suppliers are obliged to comply with Pierre carried out several major development projects culminating in Robert Group’s chemicals rules. These guidelines are aligned products that will be introduced on the market in 2015. These with or stricter than the EU Regulation and are kept up-tolaunches offer substantial environmental gains in the form date with applicable legislation. Pierre Robert Group regularly of reduced consumption of chemicals and packaging, and conducts random testing of products during manufacture and controversial ingredients have deliberately been avoided in delivery. The tests are carried out by independent certiﬁed product formulation. laboratories. 23 Sustainability Report 2014 FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY New, more consumer-friendly food labelling In 2014, Orkla implemented new official requirements for clear, uniform labelling of food products in all its companies and product categories. As a result of the new food labelling rules that entered into In some areas, Orkla has chosen to go beyond what is required force in December 2014, all of Orkla’s food products are now by law. Information on portion size and nutritional content labelled with a uniform, clearly visible nutrition declaration. An must be related to the portion speciﬁed on the product. For expanded nutrition declaration with fact-based, easily undersome products, the nutritional content will also be shown in standable information on types of ingredients and nutritional a label on the front of the packaging. Consumers can ﬁnd inforcontent is designed to make it easier for consumers to undermation on nutrition and health on the companies’ websites. stand what the food contains. The main changes consist of information on allergens, speciﬁcation of vegetable oils, origin labelling of unprocessed meat, and certiﬁcation schemes. 24 Sustainability Report 2014 FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY Our food safety value chain Raw materials Raw material specification, risk assessment, supplier approval and monitoring. Transport Receiving inspection Checking of cleanliness, odour, maintenance Inspection, labelling, packaging and and, if relevant, temperature. certification of raw materials. Production Warehousing In compliance with the Orkla Food Safety In compliance with requirements for hygiene, Standard and HACCP. safe storage and, if relevant, temperature. Transport to customers In compliance with requirements relating to cleanliness, odour, maintenance and, if relevant, temperature. 25 Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 06 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 26 Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Developing sustainable value chains Orkla sources raw materials from all over the world. We seek to contribute to sustainable development by setting clear requirements for our suppliers and working together to resolve complex challenges arising in the value chain. Sustainable development is about meeting the needs of people to monitor suppliers at risk of breaching standards. Risk living today without compromising the ability of future genidentiﬁcation and supplier monitoring procedures have been erations to meet their own needs. implemented in 23 companies that together account for 85% of purchasing value in Orkla’s core operations. The combination of population growth, climate change and unsustainable farming and ﬁshing methods puts natural resources RISK IDENTIFICATION under heavy pressure. The production of certain raw materials In view of the large number of Orkla’s suppliers, it is crucial to may also present serious challenges with respect to poverty, give priority to monitoring those suppliers and raw-material child labour, animal welfare and breaches of labour standards. chains most at risk of non-compliance. We perform a general risk assessment of our supplier portfolio that is based on Orkla sets clearly deﬁned requirements for its suppliers and known risk factors associated with country, industry and proworks in partnership with them to solve complex environduction process. All suppliers of raw materials and packaging mental and social challenges arising in the value chain. We and other important suppliers have been subjected to a general require that all suppliers, irrespective of country, observe risk assessment of this nature. New suppliers undergo a similar Orkla’s Code of Conduct and principles for sustainable and assessment. 85% of Orkla’s purchasing is from suppliers fair production. In 2014, we drew up a strategy for Orkla’s assessed as being low-risk. responsible sourcing in the period up to 2020 that is applicable to the whole Group. Potential high-risk suppliers must undergo a more detailed risk assessment based on a standardised method developed by the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange organisation (Sedex). Primary objectives up to 2020 At the end of 2014, 228 of Orkla’s suppliers were registered with Sedex, i.e. 80% of the suppliers classiﬁed as high-risk. • Ensure that all suppliers comply with Orkla’s Supplier Code of Conduct. MONITORING OF SUPPLIERS The Orkla companies monitor potentially risky suppliers • Ensure that important agricultural by engaging in dialogue, conducting audits and providing products, marine raw materials and packagguidance. Audits of business ethics are performed in cases ing are produced in a sustainable manner. where more detailed and independent scrutiny is needed. • This applies to products such as cocoa, palm All audits are summed up in a non-conformity report with oil, soybean, vegetables, berries, fruit, nuts an appurtenant corrective action plan, and the supplier is and seeds. required to undertake to remedy identiﬁed non-conformi• Contribute to long-term improvement in ties within an agreed period of time. The most common conditions for 10,000 farmers. non-conformities are lack of adequate protective equipment, inadequate ﬁre safety, ﬁrst aid and noise protection procedures, excessive use of overtime and non-conformities related to pay and overtime compensation. OUR APPROACH Orkla has procedures for responsible sourcing designed to COMPETENCE-BUILDING ensure the desired product quality and ensure that production Purchasing staff across the Orkla companies exchange in all segments of the supplier chain is in accordance with knowledge and experience in an internal network headed by international human rights standards, working conditions, Orkla’s Group Procurement Department. Responsible sourcing protection of the physical environment and anti-corruption is also a topic covered in Orkla’s leadership development efforts. We require that all our suppliers comply with Orkla’s programme and in the Group’s purchasing, marketing and Supplier Code of Conduct. We identify the risk of breach sales training programmes. of these standards and use dialogue, audits and guidance 27 Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Sourcing at Orkla The value of Orkla’s overall purchases in 2014 was NOK 17,136 million. Approximately 60% of procurements are made from suppliers in the Nordic and Baltic countries, which are Orkla’s most important markets. Orkla’s branded consumer goods companies purchase raw materials, other materials and services from some 21,000 suppliers, 2,000 of them major suppliers. Totalled NOK 17,136 million Europe excl. Nordic and Baltic regions NOK 4,566 million 27 % North and South America 1% NOK 213 million 28 Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 62 % Nordic and Baltic regions 6% Russian Federation NOK 951 million NOK 10,604 million 5% Asia NOK 782 million 0% Africa NOK 12 million 0% Oceania NOK 7.4 million 29 Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Results in 2014 Audits • In the period 2013–2014, 48 audits of business ethics were performed. • A total of 222 non-conformities were detected, of which 206 were rectified. Goals for 2015 • All risky suppliers must be audited by the end of 2015. Non-conformities identified in previous audits will be followed up. Internal competence-building • A total of 894 hours was spent on training 98 staff members in 2014. • The corresponding figures for 2013 were 845 hours of training for 82 staff members. Partners The Ethical Trading Initiative (IEH) The Ethical Trading Initiative (IEH) is a member-based centre of resources and expertise on ethical trade made up of companies, public sector enterprises and organisations. The objective is to achieve cooperation on trade that promotes human rights, labour rights, development and the environment. IEH membership binds members to engage in concrete, targeted work for improvement over time. Orkla is a member of IEH, and is represented on the board of the organisation. AIM-PROGRESS Orkla is a member of AIM-PROGRESS, an international industry network that cooperates on courses and other measures to bring about improvements in the supplier chain. SEDEX Sedex is an organisation that offers systems for standardised risk identification and simple information-sharing. Orkla uses Sedex to identify risky suppliers. 30 31 Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Raw material supply chains that present complex challenges Orkla collaborates with raw material suppliers all over the world. There are social and environmental challenges associated with the supply chains for some raw materials, such as cocoa, palm oil, ﬁsh and shellﬁsh. Orkla is committed to sourcing safe, environmentally friendly raw materials. A number of Orkla companies are engaged in PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL PURCHASING VOLUME, BY CATEGORY efforts to make improvements in the production of cocoa, palm oil, ﬁsh and shellﬁsh, vegetables, fruit and berries. This 23 % entails using certiﬁcation schemes, taking part in industry initiatives and collaborating on projects with authorities and 20 % expert organisations. In 2014, Orkla drew up objectives and 16 % general plans of action for these categories of raw material 12 % for the period up to 2020. 10 % Vegetables Sugar and starch 8% Vegetable oils Results in 2014 5% Packaging Cereals • Category-specific strategies, with objectives and action 2% Fruit and berries plans, were drawn up for selected categories of raw Dairy products materials in the period up to 2020. 2% Cocoa Seafood 1% Meat and poultry • Recycled or FSC-certified material accounted for 87% of Egg Orkla’s purchases of cardboard in 2014. 0% 32 Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Sustainable cultivation of cocoa West Africa is the world’s largest cocoa producer. With almost a million cocoa farms, this region accounts for close to 70% of global production. Orkla wishes to help to improve the earning potential and living UTZ MEANS IMPROVEMENT conditions of cocoa farmers, and has been involved in a UTZ Certiﬁed is the world’s largest certiﬁed cocoa programme. series of projects aimed at promoting sustainable cocoa culCocoa farmers take part in a four-year training programme tivation. Our goal is that all cocoa purchased by Orkla should in which they learn how to obtain larger harvests and higher be sustainably produced by 2020. A number of companies quality cocoa. The expertise they gain through UTZ Certiﬁed currently procure certiﬁed cocoa through UTZ Certiﬁed. yields dividends in the form of higher income and accordingly better living conditions for the farmers and their families. In In 2014, Kalev became the ﬁrst Baltic chocolate company to Côte d’Ivoire, more than 330,000 cocoa farmers are currently make the switch to sustainably certiﬁed cocoa for its Klassika members of UTZ Certiﬁed. brand. The company aims to be using only UTZ-certiﬁed cocoa by the end of 2016. The Nidar chocolate factory became a part of UTZ Certiﬁed’s cocoa programme in 2010 already, and all cocoa purchased by Orkla Confectionery & Results in 2014 Snacks for Nidar chocolate is 100% certiﬁed. The certiﬁcation scheme enables cocoa farmers to make a living from cocoa, • Of the cocoa Orkla purchases, 38% is certified according to and ensures that it is cultivated with the interests of both the UTZ certified standard. people and the environment in mind. • All cocoa sourced by Orkla for Nidar chocolate is 100% UTZ certified. • In 2014, Kalev made the switch to UTZ certified cocoa for its Klassika brand. 33 Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Increased sourcing of certiﬁed ﬁsh A full 70% of the Earth’s surface is covered by water. To ensure viable species diversity, we must manage marine resources in a sustainable manner. Orkla Foods Sverige mainly sources ﬁsh from the north-east Further information about Orkla Foods Sverige’s goals for Atlantic for the manufacture of food products under the Abba protecting the ocean environment is available at and Kalles brands. The company conducts an annual assesswww.orklafoods.se. ment of the sustainability situation for ﬁsh and shellﬁsh to ensure that the raw materials come from sustainable stocks. In 2014, Orkla Foods Sverige launched new goals for the Results in 2014 protection of ﬁsh and the marine environment. By the end • A total of 50% of marine raw materials sourced by Orkla of 2020, all products containing ﬁsh or shellﬁsh are to be Foods were MSC-certified. MSC-/ASC-certiﬁed. The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) is a global organisation offering certiﬁcation programmes. • All herring products manufactured under the Abba brand MSC-ecolabelled ﬁsh from the world’s oceans are certiﬁed were MSC-certified. as having been caught using approved methods and from a • A full 100% of all marine raw materials for Abba fishballs and sustainable stock. Kalles fish roe spread stem from MSC-certified fish stocks. In 2014, Orkla Foods Sverige received an award from • All cod oil purchased by Orkla Health for the manufacture of Swedish out-of-home wholesaler Martin & Servera for the cod liver oil is certified under the Friend of the Sea scheme. company’s long-term involvement in marine environmental issues. As early as in 2009, Orkla Foods Sverige received the WWF Green Fish Award for its wide range of ecolabelled ﬁsh and shellﬁsh products. 34 Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Responsible textile manufacturing Pierre Robert Group works actively to ensure that its garments are manufactured bearing the interests of people, animals and the environment in mind. In 2014 the company introduced country of origin labelling on all its clothing. The Orkla company Pierre Robert Group is Norway’s largest RESPONSIBLE TEXTILE MANUFACTURING supplier to the grocery sector of basic textiles for children, Pierre Robert Group has been working closely with suppliers women and men. Pierre Robert Group started country of for a number of years to create good workplaces and establish a origin labelling of all its clothing in autumn 2014, making it high standard of product quality and animal welfare. Suppliers easy for consumers to see which country the garment was are obliged to observe Pierre Robert Group’s Code of Conduct manufactured in. The label on merino wool garments speciﬁes and are monitored by means of regular audits and visits to the country of origin of the wool, and that it comes from a factories. As well as improving working conditions for textile sheep that has not been subjected to mulesing. Mulesing is a workers, the cooperation and follow-up has helped to raise painful procedure that prevents ﬂy larvae from infesting folds the quality of the factories’ deliveries. in the skin of merino sheep (ﬂystrike). CERTIFIED MERINO WOOL Pierre Robert Group sets stringent animal welfare requirements through its Code of Conduct and is strongly opposed to mulesing. The company only buys certiﬁed merino wool from suppliers who can document that their sheep have not been subjected to this procedure. In 2014, Pierre Robert Group actively made known its zero tolerance stance on mulesing through information on product packaging and campaigns targeting consumers through various channels. 35 Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Joining forces to save the rainforest Rainforest destruction as a consequence of non-sustainable palm oil production is one of the major environmental challenges facing us. Orkla is committing itself to protect the rainforest by means of a new strategy. Palm oil is the most traded vegetable oil worldwide, and is Similarly, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks has worked intenused as an ingredient in a variety of consumer goods. A large sively to ﬁnd fully adequate substitutes, and has thereby proportion of palm oil production takes place in Indonesia reduced palm oil consumption by 77% in the same period. and Malaysia, where expansion of production has led to the This means that the great majority of food products, biscuits, felling of rainforest. snacks and sweets manufactured by Orkla for the Nordic grocery market now contain no palm oil. To achieve sustainable palm oil production, it is necessary to solve complex environmental, social and forest management Orkla’s palm oil sourcing is now primarily related to Orkla challenges, which requires the combined efforts of manuFood Ingredients’ operations in the European market for facturers, retailers, purchasers and authorities. bakery ingredients. Some of this activity consists of manufacture under contract for private labels. Orkla wishes to do its utmost to protect the rainforest, avert breaches of human rights and ensure compliance with other EN ROUTE TO SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION ethical requirements in the palm oil supplier chain. We are Where it is not possible to replace palm oil, our goal is to therefore increasing our efforts through explicit commitment purchase only sustainably produced palm oil. In order to attain and new measures in connection with Orkla’s sourcing of this goal, we set rigorous requirements for our suppliers. palm oil. We maintained a constructive dialogue with the In 2014 Orkla renegotiated its purchasing agreements and Rainforest Fund and Greenpeace through 2014, and received selected suppliers with ambitious, sound plans for traceable, important input for our work. sustainable production. We also wish to support the certiﬁcation scheme of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil OUR AMBITIONS (RSPO), which sets stringent requirements for sustainable Through a new sustainable palm oil policy, we have committed palm oil production. Orkla’s goal is that all palm oil used in to eliminating the link between our products and deOrkla’s branded consumer goods must be sustainably proforestation. duced by the end of 2017 at the latest. By sustainable production we mean that palm oil producers must comply with • We will actively seek to reduce the use of palm oil in our Supplier Code of Conduct and meet our requirements of Orkla’s branded consumer goods by replacing palm oil no tropical deforestation, protection of peat land and respect with alternatives that are superior from both a nutritional for human rights. and an environmental perspective. • Where this is not possible, we will ensure that the palm oil used in Orkla’s branded consumer goods is traceable and sustainably produced by the end of 2017 at the latest. Orkla implements a new traceability system PALM OIL-FREE BRANDED CONSUMER GOODS Orkla has made substantial progress in its work to reduce Orkla is the second branded consumer goods company the use of palm oil. The Orkla companies have succeeded in the world to implement the newly developed Knownthrough extensive product development in replacing palm oil Sources traceability system. The traceability system with healthier oils in a number of products, while preserving will provide an overview of where palm oil is produced the ﬂavour of the products. Orkla’s palm oil purchases has and make it possible to carry out targeted improvement been reduced by a full 19,000 tonnes over the past seven work in the value chain. KnownSources already contains years. In 2014, 4,300 tonnes less palm oil was used in Orkla information on over 2,000 palm oil mills. The demanding products. process of registering information about individual farms begins in 2015. By using the KnownSources system, Orkla In the period 2008–2014, Orkla Foods’ Nordic operations seeks to promote a new global industry standard for reduced the use of palm oil in their food products by 89%. traceable production. 36 Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 89% Orkla Foods’ Nordic operations reduced the use of palm oil in their food products by 89% 37 Sustainability Report 2014 ENVIRONMENT 07 ENVIRONMENT 38 Sustainability Report 2014 ENVIRONMENT Shared responsibility for the environment Climate-related challenges are our shared responsibility. Orkla aims to contribute to meeting these challenges by reducing our own energy consumption and limiting greenhouse gas emissions in all parts of the value chain. Climate change is the greatest environmental challenge facing of environmental protection measures play a central part. In the world. The changes we are experiencing will affect people’s 2014 Orkla drew up a uniform standard for environment, health livelihoods, food production, access to water, health and physical and safety (EHS), with guidelines that apply to all business environment. areas and companies. The guidelines are intended to ensure monitoring and continuous improvement over time. The individual companies are to prepare goals and activity plans, The world is now using resources equivalent to 1.5 planet establish systems and audit procedures, implement measures Earths. A key question is how we can ensure social and and report on their EHS activities. The new standard is to be economic development without causing irreparable damage implemented in 2015. to the physical environment. The value chain for food and groceries presents major environmental challenges. A quarter All our managers are expected to display a strong commitment of global CO2 emissions are attributable to the production to EHS work, and all staff to be involved in EHS activities at and consumption of food. The combination of population the workplace. Training of all employees is an important asgrowth, climate change and non-sustainable agricultural and pect of the implementation of the new standard, and in 2014 ﬁshing methods is impoverishing the soil, destroying raintraining material covering all areas of EHS work was developed. forest and putting pressure on agricultural raw materials, ﬁsh Orkla has an internal network of EHS specialists. An imporstocks and other natural resources. tant part of the improvement work consists of cooperation and exchange of experience, and the network will contribute to the implementation of the new, uniform principles underlying Access to raw materials, water, energy and other resources is essential to Orkla’s operations. In 2014, Orkla set ambitious goals for minimising our environmental footprint throughout its value chain. New ketchup bottle yields environmental benefits Primary objectives up to 2020 In 2014, Orkla Foods Sverige invested in a new production line for manufacturing its own bottles at the Fågelmara • Develop more environmentally friendly packafactory. Prior to this, bottles and bottletops were sourging and products with a smaller environmental ced from the UK. The new ketchup bottle from Felix cuts footprint. CO2 emissions generated by the transport of bottles by 90%. The new bottle design also helps to reduce food • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% wastage. A wide top allows the bottle to be stood upside • Reduce energy consumption by 20% down, making it simple to extract the entire contents. In 2014, the Felix ketchup bottle won the Swedish Packa• Reduce water consumption by 20% ging Sustainability Award. • Reduce waste by 30% • Reduce manufacturing waste to landfills to zero • Promote more efficient transport systems OUR APPROACH Awareness and commitment on the part of our own employees are crucial to successful environmental efforts. Orkla’s environmental work is organised at enterprise level, and each company is responsible for ensuring that focus on the environment is a part of day-to-day operations. Internal training, risk identiﬁcation and planning and implementation 39 Sustainability Report 2014 ENVIRONMENT Emissions EHS work. Organised EHS training is provided, but learning using fossil energy sources to produce steam and heat. There through day-to-day work is equally important. are also challenges associated with noise and odour. Process water, containing organic compounds and fat, is treated either Orkla is in the process of establishing a uniform system for in Orkla’s own water treatment facilities or tested before it is monitoring enterprises by means of regular EHS audits at all delivered to municipal waste water facilities. Orkla factories. At the same time, the existing reporting routines are being further developed. Quarterly reports on the status Orkla presents an annual carbon accounting which shows of EHS work are submitted to Orkla’s Board of Directors. the total carbon footprint attributable to its activities. These accounts are based on the international GHG protocol and One of Orkla’s fundamental principles is that EHS work must have been reported for several years to CDP, an independent be preventive. Risk assessment is therefore a key element, and organisation that provides investors all over the world with a all Orkla units must conduct such assessments. Risk analysis basis for assessing how the world’s largest companies handle forms the basis for the measures that must be implemented, climate-related challenges. and is intended to help the enterprises in their improvement work by ensuring that priority is given to the most important measures and that effective action plans are established. EMISSIONS Results in 2014 Emissions associated with Orkla’s own manufacture of food • In 2014, greenhouse gases emitted by Orkla’s own global actproducts are limited. The main sources of environmental ivities totalled NOK 102,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, compaimpact are greenhouse gas emissions and use of water in red with corresponding emissions of 100,000 tonnes in 2013. the cultivation of raw materials. Other sources are packaging manufacture and transport. Emissions from Orkla factories • If emissions from sourced energy are included, 2014 emisare primarily released to the air. These emissions include greensions totalled approximately 165,000 tonnes of CO2 equivahouse gases, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide generated by lent, compared with 168,000 1 tonnes in 2013. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Environmentally friendly hybrid cars chosen 200 000 The companies Kalev and Pöltsamaa Felix have now 180 000 replaced their vehicle ﬂeet with 51 new hybrid cars. This was the largest single purchase of hybrid cars in the 160 000 Baltic countries in 2014. By switching to an environ140 000 mentally friendly ﬂeet of vehicles, the companies reduce fuel consumption by 20%, at the same time cutting CO2 120 000 emissions. 100 000 80 000 60 000 40 000 20 000 TONNES 2012 2013 2014 Emissions from fossil fuels Emissions from purchased energy (electricity) 1 The figure for 2013 has been adjusted to take account of changes in Orkla’s 40 organisational structure. Sustainability Report 2014 ENVIRONMENT Energy Orkla is committed to reducing energy consumption and using renewable energy to the greatest extent possible. A Results in 2014 number of Orkla enterprises have been engaged for some • Total energy consumption in 2014 was 850 GWh (of which time in mapping energy consumption and considering approximately 400 GWh was electricity), compared wih 832 possibilities for more efficient energy use. The companies GWh1 in 2013. The change in energy consumption was 2.2%. are carrying out energy efficiency and investment projects to reduce energy consumption and increase energy recycling. • Orkla’s own hydro-electric power plants in Norway produced 2,571 GWh. MTR Foods has introduced environmentally friendly alternatives to fossil fuel in some manufacturing operations. By • The reason for the rise in energy consumption is changes in switching to biomass briquettes, the company has cut its Orkla’s organisational structure with new companies and diesel consumption by 70%. The result is an annual reduction increased production. in CO2 emissions of 2,550 tonnes. In 2015, Orkla will develop a major programme for introducing energy management and following up on improvements and other initiatives. The factories are to draw up energy reduction plans. ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWH) MTR Foods goes in for solar energy 900 000 MTR Foods is now placing solar cells on the roof of its factory buildings in Bangalore. In the long term, 30% of 800 000 its total power needs are to be met by solar energy. This will bring about an annual reduction in CO2 emissions 700 000 of about 400 tonnes. The company is also considering projects such as heating water by means of solar energy 600 000 in some manufacturing operations. 500 000 400 000 300 000 MWh 2012 2013 2014 Fossil fuels Purchased energy (electricity) 41 Sustainability Report 2014 ENVIRONMENT Waste Raw materials Escalating waste and food wastage is one of the principal Production of raw materials has a major impact on the global environmental challenges. Orkla works continuously to environment. Orkla strives to maximise raw material yield boost production yield and reduce food wastage. This is while minimising wastage. important both for the environment and for Orkla’s proﬁtability. Results in 2014 Results in 2014 • Total waste in 2014 amounted to 103,000 tonnes, of which • Total greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the production 4.4% was sent to landfills, compared with 93,500 tonnes in of Orkla’s raw materials were on the same level in 2014 as in 2013, of which 6% was sent to landfills. 2013, at 1 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. • The reason for the rise in total waste is changes in Orkla’s organisational structure with new companies and increased production. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM RAW MATERIAL WASTE (TONNES) PRODUCTION COMPARED WITH CONSUMPTION VOLUME (2014) 110 000 100 000 90 000 100 80 000 70 000 80 60 000 50 000 60 40 000 40 30 000 20 000 20 10 000 0 TONNES 12 13 14 Tonnes Carbon raw materials footprint Animal feed Material recovery Landﬁll Meat Sugar and starch Seafood Dairy products Grains Fruit and berries Oil and fat Vegetables Cocoa 42 Sustainability Report 2014 ENVIRONMENT Water Packaging Fresh water is an increasingly scarce resource in many parts The Orkla companies are engaged in developing packaging of the world. In order to operate in a sustainable manner, we solutions that are optimal in terms of food safety, quality and need to reduce water consumption throughout our value the environment. Examples are measures to avoid double chain. We will start with our own operations by measuring packaging, more efficient stacking on pallets and packaging water consumption, improvements and other action taken at that is more readily recyclable. our factories. Results in 2014 Results in 2014 • Our water consumption in 2014 was 6.5 million m tonnes, 3 • Our packaging consumption results in greenhouse gas which is the same level as in 2013. emissions of approximately 94,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, unchanged from 2013. Small bottles – large benefits A new innovation from OMO and Blenda is good news for the environment. Highly concentrated liquid detergents mean fewer chemicals, less consumption of plastic and GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM PRODUCTION OF fewer trucks on the road. Using new technology and new PACKAGING MATERIALS COMPARED WITH raw materials, Lilleborg developed a formulation that washes CONSUMPTION VOLUME (2014) effectively at signiﬁcantly lower doses. The result is a smaller bottle that provides just as many washloads as before. Consumption of chemicals per washload is decreased by the equivalent of 1,328 tonnes per year. Less packaging saves the environment from 252 tonnes of plastic every year, and fewer trucks are needed to transport the products to 100 stores. This reduces annual CO2 emissions by the equivalent of emissions from 100 fully-loaded articulated lorries. New highly concentrated liquid laundry detergents under the 80 OMO and Blenda labels were launched on the Norwegian market at the beginning of 2015. The two products also come in reﬁll packages, which require 70% less plastic than 60 the recyclable bottle. 40 20 0 Tonnes Carbon packaging materials footprint Cellulose based Plastic Glass Metals 43 Sustainability Report 2014 ORKLA AND SOCIETY 08 ORKLA AND SOCIETY 44 Sustainability Report 2014 ORKLA AND SOCIETY A good dialogue with stakeholders An active dialogue with customers, suppliers, employees, owners, authorities and civil society actors is fundamental to Orkla’s corporate responsibility work. We believe that partnership with others is a prerequisite for making greater progress in our efforts to achieve a sustainable value chain. A good dialogue with stakeholders is important for undercustomers, interest organisations and other specialist standing and adapting to changes in society and for creating communities. Input from these meetings has been used to conﬁdence in Orkla’s branded consumer goods and companies. shape the company’s new sustainability strategy. Orkla maintains a close dialogue with its main stakeholder groups and attaches importance to understanding their PROMOTING IMPROVEMENT IN THE SUPPLIER CHAIN viewpoints. By collaborating with other companies, authorities, Orkla and a number of its companies are in regular contact research communities and interest organisations, we can with interest organisations concerning issues relating to Orkla’s help to solve complex challenges in areas in which we have activities. In 2014, constructive meetings were held with common interests. Greenpeace and the Rainforest Fund on the environmental challenges posed by palm oil. The dialogue provided Orkla with valuable input and support for the work of formulating Orkla’s main stakeholders the Group’s new sustainable palm oil policy. • Customers and consumers Orkla, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge, Pierre Robert • Investors Group, Lilleborg and Orkla Foods Norge are members of the Ethical Trading Initiative (IEH), and in 2014 had discussions • Suppliers with the organisation about relevant issues. The companies • Authorities also prepare annual status reports on their work for IEH. In 2014, Orkla Foods Sverige had several meetings with the • Interest organisations World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) on red-listing of ﬁsh • Research communities species. The company was also invited to present its project on sustainable management of tonggol (longtail) tuna at a • Local communities seminar organised by the WWF. • Employees TRADE POLICY PARAMETERS Orkla holds dialogues with national and EU authorities and politicians on framework conditions created by trade policy STAKEHOLDERS’ VIEW OF ORKLA and other matters that require collaboration between busiIn autumn 2014, Orkla conducted an interview survey of seness and authorities. Among the important matters under lected stakeholders in order to ascertain their views of Orkla discussion in 2014 were clear labelling of the contents of and of central challenges facing the industry. An external food products, improvements in the supplier chain, and consulting company without prior connections with Orkla framework conditions for Norwegian agriculture and the or the grocery industry held in-depth interviews with 25 key Norwegian food industry. Orkla maintains a running dialogue persons representing the retail trade, employer and employee with the agricultural authorities on the framework conditions organisations, interest organisations, the media, analysts for Norwegian food production. Orkla received NOK 33.8 and authorities. An analysis of the results was presented to million in government support in 2014 in the form of subsiOrkla’s Group Executive Board and Board of Directors. The dies for research and development and for energy-efficiency general impression received is that Orkla is a large, robust measures. The Group received an additional NOK 126.7 million and important branded consumer goods company. At the in raw material price compensation. This is a scheme that same time, the analysis provides important input for Orkla’s enables Orkla’s Norwegian companies to compete on equal further work. terms with foreign competitors. Orkla has also engaged in extensive discussions on health issues with the authorities of DIALOGUE ON SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY the Nordic countries. These are described in more detail in In 2014, Orkla held meetings with important stakeholders and the chapter ”Nutrition and health”. obtained input for the company’s work on a corporate sustainability strategy. Orkla Foods Sverige has engaged in similar More information about Orkla’s dialogue with stakeholders is dialogues with selected grocery chains, out-of-home available at www.orkla.com. 45 Sustainability Report 2014 ORKLA AND SOCIETY Important topics in dialogues with stakeholders in 2014 Authorities Employees • Reduction of salt in food products • Restructuring of Orkla businesses • Product labelling rules • Corporate culture and organisational development • The Green Keyhole symbol • Anti-corruption and competition law • Sustainable palm oil production • Increase in grocery prices • Marketing of food and drink to children and young people • Raw material price compensation • Framework conditions for food production Customers and consumers • Traceability • Sustainable raw materials • Nutrition labelling • Allergies Local communities • Contingencies • Animal welfare • Cooperation on vocational training • Product safety • Cultural and sporting activities • Questions associated with products • Restructuring of Orkla businesses 46 Sustainability Report 2014 ORKLA AND SOCIETY Interest organisations Investors • Print size on product packaging • Sustainability analyses • Sustainable palm oil production • Risk management • The Green Keyhole symbol • Red-listing of fish species • Production of fish oil • The Swan environmental label Suppliers Research communities • Follow-up of Orkla’s Supplier Code of Conduct • Reduction of salt in food products • Sustainable palm oil production • Development of healthy, ecologically sustainable food • Working conditions for berry-pickers in • Omega-3 and fish Sweden • Analysis of the environmental footprint of • Sustainable fish and shellfish important raw materials • Improvement work in the cocoa sector in • Gender balance in management Côte d’Ivoire 47 Sustainability Report 2014 ORKLA AND SOCIETY Strong social commitment In 2014, Orkla and the Group companies contributed NOK 17.3 million in ﬁnancial support to activities in the spheres of sport, humanitarian work, culture, education and efforts to bring about improvements in the supplier chain. Orkla has been the main sponsor for SOS Children’s Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge supported Villages since 2000. 2014 saw the opening of the agricultural training for cocoa farmers, in Orkla-funded children’s village in Pleiku, Vietnam. collaboration with the UTZ Certified scheme. Orkla Foods Sverige has adopted an active stance Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Sverige supported against bullying, and in 2014 substantially increased the Swedish Prostate Cancer Federation and its its financial support to the organisation Friends. work to combat testicle cancer. Orkla Foods Norge supported Fredrikstad football Kalev supported an organisation in Estonia that team Gatelaget in Fredrikstad, a team of former contributes products to disadvantaged families substance abusers. and arranges various events that foster a healthy, active lifestyle for children and adolescents. Spilva in Latvia supported organisations that The Dutch company Sonneveld supported the assist foster families and disabled children. organisation Bake for Life and their work for education in Africa. The company also supported several initiatives to promote sustainability in the Dutch food product sector. Suslavicius-Felix supported an organisation that The Indian company MTR Foods provided funding encourages children and young people to maintain for a daily meal for 471 school children through the a balanced diet and engage in physical activity. ”Food to Educate – Food to Develop” programme. Pierre Robert Group donated surplus products The company Idun Industri is collaborating with from clothes collections to the Red Cross. NMBU and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital on developing products for persons with food allergies. Lilleborg has been working with UNICEF since 2013 to provide children in poverty-stricken countries with access to clean water and instruction in hand hygiene. The Orkla companies collaborate with a number of external research communities in the ﬁelds of nutrition and health, and contributed a total of NOK 7 million to support projects in 2014. 48 Sustainability Report 2014 ORKLA AND SOCIETY Awards to Orkla companies Orkla was on the Dow Jones European sustainability Orkla Foods Sverige received the Sustainability index for the fourth year in succession. Award from Packmarknaden for Felix Ketchup, The index lists the 20% best of a total of 600 with its new bottle design which has reduced CO2 European companies. emissions from transport by 90%. Orkla Foods Sverige received a sustainability Sonneveld’s new gluten-free baking mix won a award from restaurant wholesaler Martin & prize in the Dutch Year Award for Good Nutrition Servera for its work for sustainable fish. 2014. For its sustainability efforts, Felix Austria earned second place in the voting on Austria’s Leading Companies in Burgenland. Cooperation with Matsentralen (the Food Centre) Clean milk, healthy cows Over 350,000 tonnes of food is discarded annually in By means of the campaign ”Clean Milk, Healthy Cows”, Norway. Orkla has joined forces with Matsentralen SA to MTR Foods provides Indian dairy farmers with stainless enable companies to donate surplus food to those who steel milk cans. In 2014, 5-litre milk cans were distrineed it, instead of throwing the food away. Matsentralen buted to 2,000 struggling dairy farmers in Karnataka. was established in 2014 and is an enterprise for collecting Through this initiative, MTR Foods wishes to help to food and other groceries from producers, grocery chains assure the quality of the milk. The campaign is part of a and shops. The products are collected and distributed long-term partnership, and MTR Foods has previously to organisations that hand out or serve food to people assisted the dairy farmers with medicines for dairy cattle. in need. In 2014, Matsentralen distributed 607 tonnes of food to people in difficult circumstances. This is equivalent to 1.2 million meals. 49 Sustainability Report 2014 ORKLA AND SOCIETY CAPITAL EMPLOYED VALUE CREATION AT ORKLA EMPLOYEES BY GEORGAPHICAL AREA BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA 6000 5000 4000 3000 4,3 % 2000 1000 0 2014 2013 2012 Norway 24.091 64 % Employee wages (payroll expense) Norway 3,508 27% Sweden 4.471 12 % To society in the form of taxes (cash ﬂow) Sweden 2,631 20% Denmark 3.818 10 % To Orkla shareholders in the form of dividends Denmark 1,343 11% Finland and Iceland 2.051 6% and buyback/sale of treasury shares Finland and Iceland 649 5% Baltics 839 2% Baltics 1,050 8% Rest of Europe 1.687 4% Rest of Europe 2,339 18% Rest of the world 562 2% Rest of the world 1,401 11% Total (NOK million) 37.519 100% Total number of employees 12,921 100% Key ﬁgures 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Operating revenues (NOK million) 29,599 33,045 30,001 61,009 57,338 Operating revenues Branded Consumer Goods (NOK million) 28,584 27,731 24,105 24,621 23,627 1 EBIT (adj.) (NOK million) 3,214 3,142 3,279 3,986 3,892 1 EBIT (adj.) Branded Consumer Goods (NOK million) 3,378 2,961 2,803 2,769 2,956 EBIT (adj.)1-margin (%) 10.9 9.5 10.9 6.5 6.8 1 EBIT (adj.) -margin Branded Consumer Goods (%) 11.8 10.7 11.6 11.2 12.5 Ordinary proﬁt before tax (NOK million) 2,872 2,664 3,873 -923 20 Earnings per share, diluted (NOK) 1.63 0.68 1.56 -0.76 -0.90 Return on capital employed Branded Consumer Goods2 (%) 14.4 13.3 16.8 16.6 18.1 3 Total dividends per share (NOK) 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.50 7.50 Equity ratio (%) 62.5 59.1 53.9 51.8 53.6 Figures as reported (2010-2013). 1 Operating proﬁt before other income and expenses. 2 See deﬁnition page 112 in Orkla’s Annual Report. 3 Proposed dividend. 50 51 Sustainability Report 2014 ABOUT THE REPORT About the report Orkla’s Sustainability Report for 2014 should be seen in conjunction with Orkla’s Annual Report and other information on our website. This report presents the results of Orkla’s work in 2014 to Orkla has previously reported according to Global Reporting achieve sustainability. It covers the four main themes of Initiative’s reporting standard GRI G3. We have made some Orkla’s sustainability work: nutrition and health, food and changes in our reporting for 2014 in order to bring us into product safety, responsible sourcing and the environment. line with reporting requirements pursuant to the revised These are areas in which our efforts will be of major longstandard, G4. Orkla’s sustainability reporting for 2014 includes term importance, both for society in general and for Orkla’s data for a number of standard disclosures according to the competitiveness. In the period 2013–2014 we developed a GRI guidelines, but does not fully satisfy the requirements for strategy for Orkla’s work in these four general ﬁelds between reporting according to GRI G4. An overview of the indicators now and 2020. The strategy is based on an analysis of sustainthat are covered is provided at www.orkla.com/Sustainability trends and the expectations that important stakeability/Results-and-reporting. Apart from this, choices and holder groups have of Orkla. These emerge from in-depth processing of information are based on GRI’s principles for interviews with representatives of the investor community, good reporting practice. We have placed emphasis on providretail trade, interest organisations and relevant specialist ing a good overall understanding of Orkla’s work, reporting on communities. During the process of developing our strategy, essential matters and initiatives, providing a balanced presenwe identiﬁed a number of subsidiary topics (aspects) as being tation and making a comparison with 2013 possible. of importance to Orkla. These are set out in the table below, and our work in connection with these aspects is presented Orkla’s Sustainability Report and Annual Report for 2014 in this report. present the progress of the Group’s work to promote the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. A detailed overview of Orkla’s corporate responsibility work also includes targeted Orkla’s reporting for 2014 pursuant to the Global Compact’s efforts in connection with human resource development, ten principles is available at www.orkla.com/Sustainability/ corporate culture (including our anti-corruption policy), Results-and-reporting. working environment, health and safety. We provide an account of the results of our work in these spheres in Orkla’s Orkla’s Sustainability Report 2014 should be viewed in conAnnual Report for 2014. junction with Orkla’s Annual Report for 2014 and other information available on Orkla’s website. The Sustainability Report The report presents key ﬁgures and activities for the 2014 has been approved by Orkla’s Group Executive Board. The ﬁnancial year and is based on information gathered through account of the exercise of corporate responsibility in Orkla our internal procedures for preparing annual and sustainability given in Orkla’s Annual Report for 2014 has been approved reports. Unless otherwise stated, the reported key ﬁgures by Orkla’s Board of Directors. Key ﬁgures for emissions and cover all enterprises in which Orkla had a more than 50% for energy and water consumption have been veriﬁed by the ownership interest as at 31 December 2014. As the agreement independent company CO2 Focus. For information on sustainon the sale of Orkla Brands Russia had already been made at ability work in Orkla’s subsidiaries Sapa and Jotun, please see this time, this enterprise is not included in the ﬁgures. the companies’ own reports. Topics identified as being of importance during the work on Orkla’s sustainability strategy Nutrition and health Food safety Responsible sourcing Environment • Reduction of salt, saturated • Food safety culture and system • Supplier Code of Conduct • Reduction of greenhouse gas fat and sugar • Sourcing of safe raw materials • Risk identification and supplier emissions • Development of products • Preparedness for new risk monitoring • Energy efficiency promoting a healthy lifestyle factors • Sustainable raw materials • Reduction of water consumption • Clear product labelling • Efficient waste management • Responsible marketing • Environmentally sound packaging and products 52 Copyright notice: The content of this sustainability report is copyright protected material. The content may be freely distributed, reproduced and electronically stored. This consent is given on the condition that the source of the material is correctly cited. © 2015 Orkla ASA Photo: Ole Walter Jacobsen Orkla employees, their children and friends are models in the photos taken by Ole Walter Jacobsen. Photo: Pierre Robert Group (page 26, 35) Photo: Colourbox (page 32, 37) Photo: UTZ Certiﬁed (page 33) Photo: Orkla Foods Sverige (page 34) Orkla ASA P.O. Box 423 Skøyen NO-0213 Oslo, Norway Office address: Nedre Skøyen vei 26 NO-0276 Oslo, Norway Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 www.orkla.com Enterprise number: NO 910 747 711 If you have views or questions regarding Orkla or our sustainability work, send an email to: info@orkla.no Ø M ER KE ILJ T M 24 16 1 TR 7 YKKERI
