TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Statement of continued support to United Nations global compact Page 1 2. Introduction Page 2 3. Human Rights Principle Page 3 4. Labour Principle Page 4 5. Environmental Principle Page 3 6. Anticorruption Principle Page 7 7. Appendix I Page 8 Communication on progress COP/ETG/1/2015 1|Page INTRODUCTION Express Travel Group has been operating in East Africa since 1955. The company specializes in cost-effective, customizable travel services to serve over 5,000 travellers each year. A privately owned Company since 2004, Express Travel Group has 6 offices in Kenya. Express Travel Group provides a wide range of travel management services which include but not limited to the following; International and local air ticketing International and local hotel bookings Airport transfers and car hire services (in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) American Express® card services 24 hours travel and related services at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport Travel Insurance Organizing meetings, incentives, conferences and events Meet and assist at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport Providing Management Information Systems reports Visa expediting Express Travel Group operates a 24-hour office at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. This office can assist with emergency ticketing, airline information, car hire or transfers. The office is open 24 hours a day 7 days a week. Express Travel Group offers clients professional, personal and cost-effective travel services with over 100 staff employed, many of whom have been with the Group for over 15 years, clients can be assured they will receive a high level of travel management services unrivalled in East Africa. 3|Page Express Travel Group’s understanding is that the United Nations Global Compact is a platform for business and non-business entities to proactively network and engage in areas of human rights, labour, environment, anticorruption and contributing to UN goals in order to achieve the common objectives of building a sustainable and inclusive global economy. Communication on Progress COP/ETG/1/2015 4|Page 1. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 1.1 Assessment, policy and goals Express Travel Group will not tolerate human rights abuses and will not engage in human rights abuses. 1.2 Implementation  By incorporating human rights in the company’s Human Resource Manual, Express Travel Group is demonstrating that we will not tolerate or abide by human rights violations.  Further, while dealing with external stakeholders, all Express Travel Group respects human rights. 1.3 Measurement of outcomes Express Travel Group ensures that all staff and vendors agree to adhere to human rights policies of Kenya 5|Page 2. LABOUR PRINCIPLE Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals Express Travel Group will ensure that all employees are treated fairly and with dignity while applying fair labour practices and providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment. Express Travel Group will ensure a safe working environment for all employees. 2.2 Implementation Express Travel Group is an equal opportunity employer Express Travel Group’s staff undergoes training on labour law and safety at work. Express Travel Group does not discriminate or tolerate discrimination against employees or job applicants on any grounds, including HIV status. While Express Travel Group Ltd recognizes that there are circumstances unique to HIV infection, this policy rests on the principle that HIV infection and AIDS should be treated like any other serious condition or illness that may affect employees. It takes into account the fact that employees with HIV may live full and active lives for a number of years. The Company's commitment to maintaining a safe and healthy work environment for all employees is based on the recognition that HIV is not transmitted by casual contact. 6|Page 2.3 Measurement of outcomes Express Travel Group ensures that all employees remunerated in accordance with the Kenya Labour Laws and the prevailing and other relevant statutory requirements. 7|Page 3. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals Express Travel Group remains fully conscious that our planet is fragile and that we must do all we can to look after it including recycling, restricting carbon emissions, and minimizing our overall impact. Express Travel Group is committed to protecting the natural resources we use and reducing our environmental footprint with the ultimate goal of having a net-neutral impact on the planet. Please see appendix I for Express Travel Group’ portrayal on our environment. 3.2 Implementation 3.2.1 Express Travel Group’s Go Green Initiative The main objective of this noble initiative is to instil a sense of environmental awareness and responsibility among children who are the future beneficiary of a wonderful environment. Under the programme, Express Travel Group pledges to plant African rare and endangered tree species. In April 2013 & 2014 At Olesere Primary School & at Hemingways Ol Seki, Masai Mara, Express Travel Group planted both Olive Tree and African Hut tree species which are best suited for the areas’ climate. 3.2.2 Express Travel Group’s waste management and recycling Express Travel Group undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility amongst all staff by sensitising them on the importance of sustainability. Express Travel Group has embraced sustainable operations in an effort to preserve the environment by proper waste management and recycling processes. 8|Page To this objective, Express Travel Group has a paper tray for used paper, the used paper is placed next to the printer and staffs are encouraged to recycle these papers. Express Travel Group’s staffs are encouraged to use clean papers only when necessary. For all copies of documents that are to be filed recycled papers are used. Express Travel Group utilizes 100% recycled carrier bags for client’s welcome packs. Express Travel Group has contracted Kawangware Street Children and Youth Project for the provision of 100% recyclable carrier bags. 3.2.3 Partnership with various environmental groups Express Travel Group has partnered with stakeholders in the local areas that we operate in to help clean up, protect green space and assist in wildlife conservation. Express Travel Group has partnered with Olesere Primary School in Masai Mara where we have planted over fifty (50) trees in the past one year. Express Travel Group has also partnered with Wildlife Direct, a Kenyan NGO and US registered organization co-founded in 2004 by Kenyan conservationist Dr. Richard Leakey, who is credited with putting an end to the elephant slaughter in Kenya in the 1980s and delivering an international ban on ivory trade, and Hal Wackman, previous World Bank Country Director in Kenya to conserve wildlife and in particular the endangered African Elephant. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes Express Travel Group has an environmental committee which conducts quarterly reviews on environmental matters affecting the company and the communicate that we operate in. 9|Page 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals Express Travel Group is committed to ethical business practices and exercises ‘zero tolerance to corruption’ policy. 4.2 Implementation Express Travel Group shall not violate any applicable anti-bribery/anticorruption law and agrees to comply with Kenya’s anti-bribery policy which promotes ‘zero tolerance to corruption’ policy. All Express Travel Group undergo continuous anti-bribery training conducted by American Express AMEX (of which Express Travel Group is the representative in Kenya). Express Travel Group has and must at all times implement adequate procedures designed to prevent it or any associated person from engaging in any activity which would constitute an offence under the applicable laws, or violate any applicable Anti-Bribery Law or Kenya Anti-corruption Policy. 4.3 Measurement of outcomes All employees have been asked to read and comply with the relevant policies and certify in writing that they understand and will comply. Express Travel Group’s suppliers are required to sign a ‘contractual obligation statement’ indicating that they are not induced, either financially or by any other means, by any member of staff of Express Travel Group in the supply of any products and / or services to Express Travel Group. 10 | P a g e Appendix I 11 | P a g e
