sustainability report From Here to Sustainability CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 1 We view our sustainability efforts as a long journey we are taking together with our customers. We call this journey From Here to Sustainability. 2 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 Contents The sustainability agenda is becoming increasingly integrated in Clas Ohlson’s business strategy and way of working. CLAS OHLSON This report presents a summary of our efforts in 2014/15. This is Clas Ohlson 4 CEO’s statement 6 Clas Ohlson strives to report our sustainability work in a relevant and transparent way. We have applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines in this work. To the OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA greatest possible extent, we have used G4 disclosures to Our sustainability agenda 8 structure the report and, where relevant, its indicators to Eight prioritised areas 9 measure progress. A GRI index, published as a separate How we prioritise 10 document, is available online. Focus on our greatest impact 11 Our value chain 14 With the exception of energy consumption, all data has An integrated approach 16 been collected during the May 2014 to April 2015 financial year. Methods for collecting data on transportation and CO2 have been adjusted during the reporting year. No significant PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR changes to the organisation have been made since the Progress over the past year 18 publication of the most recent report in August 2014. Products for a more sustainable lifestyle 19 Resource-efficient business models 21 As our Communication on Progress, this report also highBeing an attractive employer 22 lights how Clas Ohlson’s approach reflects our commitment Energy efficiency 24 to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The report Materials and chemicals in products 26 has been reviewed by Clas Ohlson’s Board. It has not been Human rights, children’s rights and subjected to external review. working conditions 27 This Sustainability Report has been prepared in Business ethics 29 Swedish and translated into English. In the event Please visit us at about.clasohlson.com or contact Åsa Our role in society 30 of any discrepancies between the Swedish and the English version, the former shall have precedence. Portnoff Sundström, Head of Sustainability. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 3 THIS IS CLAS OHLSON This is Clas Ohlson Through our vision of developing Clas Ohlson into a leading international modern hardware retailer, with high profitability we add value for all our stakeholders. Our business • The major portion of our store network is located We help and inspire people to enhance everyday life by offering a broad range of smart products at attractive in city centres or centrally located in popular shopping centres. 5 markets prices, a proactive, knowledgeable and available customer service, and an inspirational shopping experience • The aim is to offer fully integrated sales channels through an omni-channel structure. 7.3 billion SEK in sales through all sales channels. Our operations must be sustainable; respecting people and the environment. Our core values Our strong core values are the compass for all work 15,000 products You can find us here • We are located in Sweden, Norway, Finland, the UK conducted by the Group and the guiding principle for how we approach and communicate with each other, 4,700 employees and Dubai through a well-distributed store network our customers, suppliers and society at large. comprising 198 stores and online shopping as well as in China with our own purchasing offices. Salesmanship is the core of the Clas Ohlson spirit and 76 million visitors 198 stores Starting in summer of 2016, we will also establish rests on four cornerstones: drive, warmth, innovation operations in the German market. and commitment. 4 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 THIS IS CLAS OHLSON Business concept We will sell dependable products at low prices and with the right quality according to need. (The founder, Clas Ohslon’s original business concept) Our vision Our mission To develop Clas Ohlson into a leading To help and inspire people to improve their international modern hardware retailer, everyday life by offering smart, simple, with high profitability that adds value practical solutions at attractive prices. for all stakeholders. Our values Salesmanship is the core of the Clas Ohlson spirit and rests on four cornerstones: drive, warmth, innovation and commitment. Long-term financial objectives • Sales growth in comparable units of at least 2%. • A forecast for the number of new stores is given each year. For the 2014/15 financial year, the target was ten to 15 new stores, the same target has been set for the 2015/16 financial year. • An operating margin of at least 10%. Strategic focus areas 1 Our customer offer We will be the natural choice for practical problem solutions 4 Our supply network We will continue to optimise our supply chain 2 Our customer interaction We will increase customer loyalty and attract new 5 Our ways of working We will enhance efficiency and simplify our ways of customers working 3 Our expansion We will continue to expand operations 6 Our people We will ensure a high-performance and customer-oriented organisation CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 5 CEO’S STATEMENT Focus on a more sustainable lifestyle Clas Ohlson has existed for 97 years. This knowledge humbles me ahead of the assignment that I and my 4,700 colleagues have been entrusted with, namely taking care of our inheritance and, in parallel, setting the course for the next 97 years. We understand that the world in which our Our strong core values are the guiding principle for Moreover, when we have our new business system customers will be living, with climate change and how we approach and communicate with each other, in place we will be able to further raise the tempo increasingly limited resources, will fundamentally our customers, suppliers and society at large. This is a in terms of implementing all of the good ideas that change expectations of us as a company. We must strength when we are now integrating sustainability in promote our sustainability efforts. be well prepared to meet these expectations. A our operations. In our long-term business planning, we commitment to sustainability is a direct prerequisihave defined six strategic focus areas that we must sucDuring the year, we defined the criteria that a Clas te for the long-term development of the company ceed with to reach our targets. We bring sustainability Ohlson product must meet to be considered as if we are to compete for customers, employees and to life in day-to-day operations through all employees promoting a more sustainable lifestyle and set a the right products in the future. visualising their roles as we develop our customer offer, target for these products’ proportion of total sales. our customer interaction, our expansion initiatives, our Two examples of products for a more sustainable This means creating value at all stages, applying a supply network, our ways of working and our people. lifestyle that we launched during the year are: long-term approach and understanding our role It’s wonderful to see the energy in the change process the world’s first reusable tea light and the range in society. We have decided to become a leading that is taking place every day in various parts of the of eco-labelled paint we now offer. And more international modern hardware retailer and our business. products are on their way. With our broad product sustainability agenda supports us on this journey. range and store traffic of 76 million visitors every 6 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 CEO’S STATEMENT I am convinced that retailers can play a major role in changing society for the better. year, products promoting a sustainable lifestyle and, moreover, with the products we sell and the future needs, and convey information about how comprise the most important method by which we knowledge we convey, we can change the attitudes and customers can reduce their environmental impact. can drive positive change. behaviour of our customers. Collaboration with other organisations is important to be able to understand the During the year, we will increase communication To ensure that the products we retail are manufull picture. Our core expertise is in retail but, on other in stores, catalogues and through online shopping factured under good conditions, we have an audit issues, we are trying to learn as much as possible from so that our customers will be able to make more team in place in Asia. The team is responsible for other organisations with expertise in other areas. sustainable choices. In parallel, we will increase verifying, assessing and monitoring suppliers’ comsustainability training initiatives for all employees. pliance with our Code of Conduct. The audits we One good example is the UN Global Compact, of perform also provide us with an excellent entry to which we are a signatory. This comprises ten principles We view our sustainability efforts as a long journey dialogues on the development of suppliers’ sustaicovering human rights, labour practices, environment we are taking together with our customers. nability efforts. During the year, we carried out 395 and anti-corruption and which act as an excellent guide audits. for our relationships with all stakeholders along the We call this journey From Here to Sustainability. value chain. With regard to children’s rights – an issue Another part of our operations with a major impact in which we have long been committed – we base our is our supply chain. Much of our efforts here focus efforts on the Children’s rights and business principles. on moving overland freight to rail and we have We also collaborate with Save the Children, currentset ambitious new goals for how we will reduce ly in a project that aims to help the large number of environmental impact from our transportation by migrant workers and their families moving from the 2020. Chinese countryside to urban areas for work. Klas Balkow, CEO and President, Clas Ohlson From the long-term perspective, it is important to There is scope for substantial improvement. Given the Insjön, Sweden, June 2015 view the entire value chain to identify how we can targets we have set for operations, sustainability efforts contribute to changes that have the greatest impact. can never cease. Among other initiatives, we need to I am convinced that retailers can play a major role continue building an understanding of these issues and in changing society for the better. Trade creates providing our employees with tools to meet customers’ improved economic conditions for many people CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 7 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Our sustainability agenda Our commitment to sustainability is a key element in reaching our vision of being a leading international modern hardware retailer. Therefore, the sustainability agenda permeates all aspects of our business strategy. Four questions about our sustainability agenda to Åsa Portnoff Sundström, Head of Sustainability: How does Clas Ohlson view sustainability? work, we took the time to work through the issues with ty agenda and non-financial risk management are “We see sustainability as a precondition for healthy a fine tooth comb to define how we want to work.” regularly on the Board’s agenda. To back up our financial development. We can always be clearer on commitment, we have sustainability-related policies how sustainability and business goes hand in hand, What does that mean in practice? and targets in place.” which is something we try to achieve every day. In “We have carried out a materiality analysis, which the long term, we want to create value for our custodefines the importance of various issues for our stakeHow will Clas Ohlson customer notice this? mers and that a sustainable mindset permeates our holders and our business development from an overall “Customers will notice this perhaps primarily when operations. For us, it is most important to retail properspective. Based on this analysis, we have defined meeting our colleagues. During the year, we have ducts and services that support a more sustainable relevant targets, key indicators and activities for susprepared a new training course for our employees lifestyle and for customers to be able to use products tainability and integrated them into operations and the that deals with sustainability in general and how we longer. We call this ‘wear but not waste’.” six strategic focus areas that comprise our business work with these issues in a tangible format. This bestrategy.” nefits employee who gains greater confidence as well What has stood out in Clas Ohlson’s susas the customer who receives better information how tainability efforts since the last sustainabiOur approach to sustainability is not an aside. With the products we sell are used most efficiently and lity report? roots as a family-owned company, long-term thinking their environmental impact.” “We have done our homework in terms of the strateis fundamental to how our Board works and how we gic direction for sustainability efforts. In our strategy perceive our role in society. In fact, our sustainabili8 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Eight prioritised areas By working strategically in these eight areas, Clas Ohlson can create value for its key stakeholders and contribute to a reduction of the negative impact along our entire value chain. LEADING THE WAY DECISIVE MEETING EXPECTATIONS By being an industry leader with an innovative By offsetting our negative impact on the enBy being a listening organisation, acting in line and sustainable product range as well as by vironment and people from our growth strawith the expectations of others and by being reaching out to as many as possible with an atttegy with more energy and resource-efficient aware of our role in society, we create confidenractive offering, we can position ourselves as a solutions and by attracting and retaining the ce in our brand and our way of doing business. more sustainable company and help our custoright employees, we have the right conditions mers to live in a slightly more aware fashion. for long-term profitability. • Products for a more sustainable • Being an attractive employer • Human rights, children’s rights lifestyle and working conditions • Energy efficiency • Resource-efficient business models • Business ethics • Materials and chemicals in products • Our role in society CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 9 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA How we prioritise To find our compass, we have to first identify the issues that have the greatest influence over our ability to create long-term value and have the greatest significance for our stakeholders perception of us. As part of our strategy work, we pinpoint these issues and assess where their impacts lie. As part of strategy work in 2014, we analysed which The basis of the analysis was to look at the issues from The results of the materiality analysis were reviewed sustainability issues were most important through a the perspective of their impacts on both product and by Clas Ohlson’s Group Management and Board of materiality analysis. our company and their relevance to 2020 were assesDirectors. sed. We also compiled insights from external factors, Initially, we defined key stakeholders to be our custostakeholder dialogue, employee surveys and our own Mapping boundaries mers, current and prospective employees, our investors strategic planning. Analysing the issues along the value chain allows us to and owners, not-for-profit organisations as well as the understand their direct and indirect impacts and how media and legislators. The outcome of the analysis was 10 areas. Eight areas we should manage them. identify ’what’ we should focus on. The other two areas In terms of which issues have the greatest possibilities – being a value-driven company and building and poWe re-evaluate the issues’ importance and impact on of creating long-term value, the starting point for assigsitioning Clas Ohlson as a sustainable brand – describe the value chain each year. The annual review helps us ning priorities was a list with approximately 50 issues. ’how’ we should efficiently integrate these eight areas ensure that our strategic priorities are in line with our These were divided into the following categories: corinto our operations. stakeholders’ expectations of us, in terms of the sustaiporate governance, the environment, society, employees nability agenda and with changing market conditions. and human rights. 10 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Products for a more Resource-efficient sustainable lifestyle business models Focus on our Our product range of more than 15,000 products is where we have Our society is shifting slowly from a traditional linear approach to manugreatest impact the possibility to make the greatest difference from a sustainability perspective. By defining criteria that facturing, use and waste toward a more circular economy. The eight prioritised areas define what we should must be met for ’products for a To meet the challenge of the circular work with, why these areas are important and more sustainable lifestyles’ we are economy, Clas Ohlson needs to furhow we will measure our progress. setting the products with signifither develop resource-efficient busicantly enhanced environmental ness models. Moving forward, when performance apart from comparable we have more products for a more products. Accordingly, ‘products sustainable lifestyle, more environmefor a more sustainable lifestyle’ perntally-minded customers and more tains to an additional level over and ways to contribute to the recovery above our requirements for quality, of end-of-life products, we will have product safety as well as labour and a reduced negative environmental environmental standards. impact and generated less waste. Target: The share of products for a Developments in the area will be more sustainable lifestyle at least analysed before targets are set. represent 12 per cent of sales by 2020. Sales pertaining to products for a more sustainable lifestyle, % Sales trend for spare parts, % Percentage of products for a more sustainable lifestyle, 6% Target 2020, 12% 350 226 150 100 115 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 Target CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 11 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Materials and chemicals Being an attractive employer Energy efficiency in products Today, Clas Ohlson has about 4,700 Identifying more efficient transport Requirements stemming from conemployees in six countries. We need solutions contributes most to our disumers and legislation regarding to both attract new skilled colleagues rect CO2 emissions reductions. We’ll chemicals and materials used in and develop the skills we have in the achieve this aim by carrying more products and packaging are becocompany in pace with our expanof our goods by rail instead of by ming increasingly stringent. sion. We have to train and develop road and use sea transport instead our employees’ skills, ensure that of air. We also work with reducing We have imposed higher requirewe focus on health and well-beenergy use in our daily operations ments than those set by legislation ing, and continue to strengthen – our stores, our warehouses and for textiles and leather products our leadership. Part of successful our offices. As part of our energy and for products used by children leadership includes taking into saving program, we are switching to as well as products that come into account diversity issues, since we more energy-efficient LED lighting in contact with skin or food. believe this benefits innovation and stores. helps us to anticipate the needs and We work with improving our prochallenges of our growing markets. Target: Reduce relative emissions cedures for managing information of CO2 attributable to freight 50 per about chemicals in our products. Target: Employee attendance should cent by 2020 (compared with 2007). We will increase customer confidenexceed 96 per cent. ce through greater transparency. The area must be analysed in more detail in order to define long-term goals and indicators. Relative CO2 emissions from transportation, gram CO2 per tonne Employee attendance, % kilometre 40 96 95 95 95 94 30 20 10 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 Target, 96 % Target 2020, 16 grams CO2 per tonne kilometre Baseline 2007, 32 grams CO2 per tonne kilometre 12 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Human rights, children’s rights and working conditions Business ethics Our role in society Our supply chain comprises 600 We build trust and integrity through By acting as a positive force in the manufacturers and 700 suppliers in responsible actions from each Clas communities in which we operaabout 30 countries. Although Clas Ohlson employee. A strong corporate te, we increase our commitment Ohlson is often a relatively small culture based on our core values is and build trust among employees, customer for many of our suppa good start. In addition, there are customers, and other local stakeliers, we see that we can make a structures and policies at the comholders. Another core commitment difference by setting high standards pany to support individuals in issues for us is working to strengthen for human rights, labour conditions pertaining to business ethics. Our children’s rights. For many years, and children’s rights issues. We can updated Code of Conduct and Code Clas Ohlson has pursued preventive influence and support suppliers in of Business Ethics contain a clear efforts on issues to do with child work with human rights and improframework for all employees and labour, product safety and responved working conditions, not least partners to respond to. sible marketing but also other issues through collaboration with other that have an impact on children. companies and organisations. Target: That during the year, all employees in the relevant functions The area must be analysed in more Developments in the area will be undergo a course in practical guidandetail in order to define long-term analysed before targets are set. ce regarding business ethics. goals and indicators. The area must be analysed in more detail in order to define long-term goals and indicators. Finding at supplier, % 100 0 Minor Finding Major Critical finding finding finding Finding at audit Finding after follow-up of audit CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 13 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Our value chain Effectively managing our negative and positive impact requires an understanding of where in the value chain we can make the biggest difference. The value-chain perspective helps us to identify possibilities and risks, take responsibility and create value for our stakeholders. Manufacturing • Human rights, children’s rights and working conditions Product development • Business ethics Transportation • Materials and chemicals in products • Our role in society • Energy efficiency • Products for a more sustainable lifestyle Operations • Business ethics • Being an attractive employer Sales End-of-life products • Products for a more sustainable lifestyle • Materials and chemicals in Product use • Resource-efficient business models products • Products for a more sustainable lifestyle • Business ethics • Resource-efficient business models LEASDING THE WAY DECISIVE MEETING EXPECTATIONS 14 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Product development Manufacturing Transportation Operations Sales Product use End-of-life products Develop innovative products 600 suppliers and 700 A large amount of products 4,700 employees in six Sales via 198 stores, Many electrical products Participate in collection for our own brands together manufacturers, with 69 were transported countries web shop, catalogue and have their greatest impact and recycling schemes AREA with strategic partners per cent of our products telephone sales channels during the use phase manufactured in Asia. • Water and energy • Code of Conduct and • Emissions of CO2 and • Skills development • Availability of products • Product life • Waste efficiency quality requirements energy consumption • Diversity with favourable environ• Environmental impact • Recycling • Replace materials with • Anti-corruption and • Transportation efficiency • Health and well-being mental performance during the product life • Reuse more sustainable bribes • Packing rate • Young people in our • Information about cycle • Producer responsibility ISSUES alternatives • Human rights in new and workforce products for a more • Hazardous chemicals and collection system • Packaging existing markets • Energy efficiency and sustainable lifestyle • Product safety • Chemicals • Recyclability • Migrant worker condiwaste • Energy efficiency in • Services for a more • Functionality tions • Anti-corruption and stores sustainable lifestyle • Product life bribes • Spare parts • Reduced impact from • Contributing to raising • Curb CO2 emissions from • A high performing • Differentiated product • Loyal customers • Contribute to the circular product use and recycling standards for suppliers, transportation, thereby organisation offering, tailored to future • High confidence in the economy VALUE CREATION • Brand differentiation their workers and families addressing a key chal• Attract and retain skilled customer needs products • Reduced waste and and local communities lenge for Clas Ohlson employees • Increased sales • Reduced waste and in increased material • Increased confidence in and society • Increased employee • Reduced energy costs creased resource efficiency recycling the Clas Ohlson brand • Achieve cost and commitment • Committed employees • Reduced energy • Less chemicals to the environmentally efficient and satisfied customers consumption and CO2 environment transportation solutions • Increased transparency emissions • Enable expansion into about environmental • Cost savings new purchasing markets impact CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 15 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA An integrated approach Clas Ohlson has a forum that works with defining strategy, setting targets, planning and following up our environmental, social responsibility and community involvement initiatives. The composition of the group represents all significant parts of our operations and helps us to work in an integrated fashion with environmental and social priorities. We have asked the forum to explain its view of how to integrate sustainability into operations. To start with, are you facing challenges in means that we know which actions will have the greaKlas Balkow (KB), CEO and President your striving to integrate sustainability into test effect and the greatest value for our stakeholders.” Åsa Portnoff Sundström (ÅPS), Head of Sustainability Clas Ohlson’s operations? Karin Svenske-Nyberg, (KSN), Director of Human EB: “For example, our range of products for a more Resources KB: “I would say both yes and no. Yes, in that it is sustainable lifestyle. Here, I can see that we need to Sara Kraft Westrell (SKW), Director of Information and IR always a challenge to work with long-term change. continue efforts to identify strategic partnerships Eva Berg (EB), Category Manager No, in that our corporate culture lays a strong founwith suppliers that help us get there, both in terms of Lars-Johan Strand (LJS), Marketing Director dation for us to treat each other and our operating developing products that help our customers live more Magnus Höjman (MH), Director of Supply Network environment with respect.” sustainably and to increase transparency regarding the Tina Englyst (TE), General Counsel impact of the materials and chemicals used.” Roger Edbom (RE), Controller ÅPS: “I agree, sustainability cannot be something we conduct in parallel. In that case we would never reach LJS: “And to increase the availability and visibility of our long-term goals and contribute to society’s shift sustainable products in our sales channels. We have to from a linear to a circular mindset.” maintain a strong customer focus in everything we do. If we can get customers to understand the product’s KSN: “However, it’s clear that there are challenges. impact during the use phase as well as the importance The first phase of the transition is to Gaining the commitment of all employees to our goals of extending the product life and recycling, we will equip the organisation to be among is not without complications, even if deep down our create value in several stages.” the industry leaders in sustainability employees want to make a difference. I believe that the efforts. materiality analysis will make things much easier. It Is success dependent on the right suppliers? clearly states what we need to focus on.” ÅPS: “Having suppliers who are strategic partners in Can we achieve full integration without a our sustainability efforts is an absolute necessity. But materiality analysis? we also need to be better at guiding our suppliers in what we need and expect from them. We have a little SKW: “It’s about focus. It is important that change work left to do there.” has a clear direction and an understanding of the issues that are key to Clas Ohlson and why. Moreover, this 16 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA It is important that change has a clear direction. MH: “We are currently helping suppliers meet our tation stage, namely to refine methodology to calculate expectations regarding the Code of Conduct to ensure our CO2 footprint and better understand the environthat they live up to the requirements we set with mental impact of the supply chain.” respect to human rights, labour conditions and the environment. This comprises a challenge given that we are What role do Clas Ohlson’s employees have often a relatively small buyer to many of our suppliers, in sustainability? but we can see that we can make a difference and that we are progressing.” KB: “Everything starts and finishes with personnel. The first phase of the transition is to rig the organisation to Many of Clas Ohlson’s suppliers are in China. be among the industry leaders in sustainability. This Does this pose any particular challenges? means that we must provide all employees with knowledge about what we are doing and why.” TE: “Aside from the work carried out promoting human rights and working conditions in the supply chain, KSN: “How we develop internal skills and give there is a general risk of corruption in the purchase employees possibilities to grow within the company process in several of the countries that we buy products are also key elements. We have to attract the right skills from. We need to ensure ethical working methods, and this means we must act in line with the expectaprimarily through education and information in this tions tomorrow’s employees will have of a sustainable area.” employer.” RE: “Yes and, naturally, the fact that we have TE: “We are onto something here. Being a sustainable long transportation routes from our purchasing company is a competitive advantage even for We have to maintain a strong markets mean that we face a challenge in achieving employees. In the same manner as consumers, customer focus in everything transportation solutions that are both cost and tomorrow’s employees require that our actions are we do. environmentally efficient.” sustainable and that they are given the possibility to Lars-Johan Strand influence and make a difference.” Marketing Director ÅPS: “I would like to add that we have to do our homework with regard to our impact in the transporCLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 17 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Progress over the past year Over the past year, Clas Ohlson made progress in all eight prioritised areas. Our most significant achievements pertained to supply chain and transportation. Three questions about how we are managing our sustainability work to Peter Jelke, Deputy CEO: Why is it important that sustainability issues Are there management processes in place in all What are your main management tools? are managed effectively? prioritised sustainability areas? “We have policies in place for ethical, environ“To ensure that our sustainability work is making a “We are currently implementing a new business mental, conduct and human resources issues. Our difference, we must follow up and report on targets system to support our growing organisation. Suspolicies are linked to clear processes. For example, in a systematic way. At the moment, our focus is on tainability is a natural part of this work and all eight Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct contains a number developing tools for identifying and managing risks. prioritised areas will be included. We are also working of requirements that we impose on ourselves, our In 2014/15, we also worked to clarify our prioriproactively to strengthen our culture and values and manufacturers and our suppliers with respect to ties, to integrate sustainability into the pertinent to ensure compliance with our Code of Conduct and such issues as work environment, working condiprocesses and to identify relevant targets and key Code of Business Ethics. Internal audits, third-party tions, environmental impact and anti-corruption. indicators for our prioritised areas.” audits and training contribute to effective risk manaWe are continuing our efforts to refine our supplier gement and have a positive impact on Clas Ohlson risk assessment model in order to become even and on our suppliers.” more efficient at prioritising our resources as we now expand into new purchasing markets.” 18 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Products for a more sustainable lifestyle The number one item on Clas Ohlson’s sustainability agenda is the development of products that help our customers reduce their own negative environmental impact. To succeed in this task, we must work in close cooperation with our suppliers. At Clas Ohlson, we aim to promote products that or significantly lower environmental impact during its mittee that is responsible for assessing whether maximise our financial objectives, strengthen our life cycle than a standard product in the same category. products fulfil our criteria. brands and support our sustainability agenda. The key Products for a more sustainable lifestyle are characteto achieving this balance is to expand our range of rized by at least one of the following: We will continue to develop our range of products for products for a more sustainable lifestyle. That’s why we a sustainable lifestyle, with a focus on Clas Ohlson’s established during the year qualifying criteria products • Reduce customers energy or water consumption at own brands. To succeed, we must gain a greater undermust meet. home. standing of the coming needs of our current and future • Support recycling or are made from recycled customers. This means that we also need to develop Our goal is to increase the proportion of products that materials. relationships with strategic suppliers who can support promote a more sustainable lifestyle from the current • Help reuse or reduce waste. us in this process. At the same time, we must review level of 6 per cent to 12 per cent by 2020. This is • Have an improved environmental performance, our existing range and replace the products that have something our customers want. Our surveys show that e.g. are eco-labelled. the most negative environmental impact. 54 per cent of our target group demand sustainable • Materials use is optimised or potentially hazardous products. chemicals are replaced. We are also developing a branding concept for our range of products for a more sustainable lifestyle, According to our definition, a product that supports We have established an approval process for products regardless of whether customers choose to shop in a more sustainable lifestyle is one that has a positive for a more sustainable lifestyle and established a comour stores or online. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 19 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Eva Berg, Category Manager, explains how Clas Ohlson began selling the world’s first eco-labelled and reusable tea lights: “The inventor actually called our purchasing department. He explained that he had an idea and wondered if we would be interested in working together to develop the product. The decision was a no-brainier. A recyclable tea light. Quite simply a brilliant idea! We set a date to meet and started discussing what to do next. We considered various alternatives and tried out different manufacturers. Two years later, we had a reusable tea light in our stores – without the disposable aluminium cup and made from 100 per cent stearin. Customers truly appreciate this product and we are now looking at how we can optimise the packaging and further reduce its environmental impact.” During the year, Clas Ohlson introduced a rake made from recycled plastic. The material comes from broken plastic crates once used to transport products from our distribution centre to our stores. Thanks to an efficient use of resources and lower cost of materials, we can offer the rake at a highly favourable price. The addition of paint to our product range marked another change during the year. Customer demand for these products has been high and many people appreciate being able to buy everything they need to paint under one roof at convenient locations in the city centre or shopping centres. Clas Ohlson’s paint is marked with the EU Ecolabel and sold at highly competitive prices. 20 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Sales of spare parts have increased 50 per cent every year for the past two years. Resource-efficient business models Under the catchphrase ‘wear but not waste’, we actively seek new methods of delivering services and encourage consumers to use their products for a long time and in the right way. Global driving forces such as increased consumpthe past two years. This is good for our business and cartridges for printers at our stores, we ensure that tion and limited access to resources are progressively for our customers, and also means that we are using these products are handled properly rather than ending becoming more relevant. By taking action to address fewer resources and producing less waste. up in customers’ household waste. Our return service is these issues, we can help create value for ourselves, our available to all customers, and members of our loyalty customers and society as a whole. The next step in the development of our spare-parts program Club Clas and our concept targeting business operation will be to begin offering our most frequently to business customers Clas Office are even reimbursed We must design for improved recyclability, manage used spare parts in our stores during the next year. for returning their used cartridges. After the used ink the recovery of end-of-life products, involve customers Given the positive trend in online shopping and our and toner cartridges are returned, we send them to our in our efforts to extend the product life and ensure expansion into additional channels in order to increase supplier, where they are refilled and returned to us. We that end-of-life products are properly managed. For availability, we believe that demand for our spare-parts then sell them under our own brand at a favourable many products, the greatest impact occurs when range will be even greater in the future. price. During the first two months of the initiative, products are in use. That’s why it is important to 20,000 cartridges were collected for reuse. The project train and involve our employees so that they can help New reuse initiative is now being evaluated and may be expanded into other customers choose the right product and quality, and In a circular economy, the focus is on reusing products markets. explain how products are to be used. or their components. At Clas Ohlson, we support this approach and our goal is to develop a model for handTo better meet the expectations of our future customers We feel it is a natural step to offer customers repairs in ling the reuse and recycling of end-of-life products in a and position ourselves as a sustainable and profitable Clas Ohlson’s own workshops, as well as spare parts in more effective manner and involving our customers in company, we will continue to develop our existing conorder to extend the life of their products. By making the process. cepts, as well as new, more resource-efficient business our spare-parts range, which comprises some 10,000 models. We must also gain a better understanding of parts, more visible in our online store, we have increIn spring 2015, we introduced just such an initiative in and give prominence to CO2 efficient sales channels. ased our sales by more than 50 per cent every year in Sweden and Finland. By collecting used ink and toner CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 21 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Being an attractive employer A high-performance organisation is a prerequisite for succeeding with our expansion strategy. We must be able to develop the skills we have in the company and attract new, talented employees. This will require strong leadership and a deliberate focus on providing the right of competency. Through our induction programme, we ensure that all ployee survey stated that they are proud of working for based on this, we can see a connection between emplonew employees receive a broad understanding of Clas Clas Ohlson, and the majority would recommend us to yee commitment, customer satisfaction and profitability. Ohlson’s history and values to carry with them when others as an employer. dealing with customers. Our sustainability efforts are a Another way to gather feedback from our employees is natural part of this programme. As of summer 2015, all Based on these results, we have developed action plans through all employee dialogues, which we conduct every employees who participate in the induction programme to further increase the commitment of our employees. year. We also further developed our process for employee will receive our updated training on sustainability. dialogues during the year in order to include additional The results of the employee survey are also systematiaspects of our employees’ performance. We are convinced that a growing number of people, cally linked to the customer surveys we perform, and particularly young people, feel it is important that the companies they work for share their personal values. Our goal is to be the workplace for the modern family, where we treat our employees responsibly and offer safe working conditions. In order to better understand and measure how well we are meeting our employees’ expectations, we conducted an employee survey during the year, in which we looked at such factors as commitment and leadership. A full 89 per cent of Clas Ohlson’s employees chose to participate in the survey, compared with 84 per cent in the most recent survey in 2012/13, which suggests that our employees are committed to improving their workplace. The survey also shows a healthy work climate and good leadership. We use a Net Promoter Score (NPS) to measure how attractive Clas Ohlson is as an employer and how loyal our employees are. In total, just over 85 per cent of the employees who responded to the em22 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Good health a prerequisite for success Through a project conducted with the Swedish Public Ensuring the well-being of our employees is naturally Employment Service, we have been working since Age distribution, % important when it comes to creating the right condi2013 to help young people – who are excluded from tions for long-term success. Our long-term goal is for the labour market to a certain extent – to gain importemployee attendance in the Group to exceed 96 per ant practical work experience. In 2014/15, within the Between 30 and 50 years and older, 12% 49 years old, 46% cent on an annual basis. The figure for 2014/15 was framework of this programme, we hired 107 trainees in 94 per cent. A pilot project was launched at the end of our Swedish stores, approximately 40 per cent of whom the financial year to evaluate whether we can reduce were offered jobs at the end of their trainee period, short-term sickness absence by helping employees who which is to be considered a high figure. We are now Below 30 year old, 42% fall ill to contact a healthcare provider more quickly, working to expand the programme to include training combined with clearer follow-up of the reasons for the in other areas in order to provide the participants with absence. A number of stores in Sweden will be included additional skills and experience. in the evaluation stage of the project. In Finland, Clas Ohlson has offered its store personnel Focus on diversity continuing sales and management training since 2013. We believe that diversity creates innovation and helps After the year-long programme, employees earn a prous to anticipate the needs and challenges of our growfessional diploma in sales (store sales representatives) ing markets. We work to increase diversity through or special professional diploma in store management recruitment and focused skills development. (store managers or team leaders). We have seen positive results in the stores where employees have undergone One of our goals pertains to equality and states that such training and plan to take another step during the neither men nor women should account for less than coming year by offering international trainee opportu40 per cent of any individual professional category. nities within the framework of the programme. In 2014, 33 per cent of Group Management were comprised of women, down from 38 per cent in the Over the next year, we will also focus on developing previous year. This was due to the appointment of an our leaders and strengthening our internal supply of additional man to Group Management. expertise through our work with succession planning and related development plans, as well as offering skills We have a relatively low average age among our development to raise the level of competency among employees and 42 per cent are under the age of 30. our existing employees. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 23 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR We have established a challenging new target of a 50-per cent reduction in our relative CO2 emissions from transportation by 2020. Peter Bergstål Transport Manager Energy efficiency We are now entering the next phase of our work to reduce our climate impact. We are raising our ambition level when it comes to reducing our CO2 emissions from transportation and broadening our programme to optimise our in-store energy consumption. More than 75 per cent of our direct CO2 emissions ted for 55 per cent of our CO2 emissions deriving from the effects of our new transport agreement in Norway, are linked to the transportation of goods. Accordingly, freight transportation. under which we now transport goods from Oslo to six we are focusing intensely on further improving our distribution hubs by rail. The goods are then distributransportation efficiency. The fact that we have a high In conjunction with changing our calculation model ted to stores by road. Today, 41 per cent of overland proportion of sea transport, compared with road and for CO2 emissions from transportation, we also saw freight goes by rail. We are on track to realizing this air transport, is helping to reduce our CO2 emissions. an opportunity to set a new, challenging objective for objective. reducing relative CO2 emissions. Our current objective When procuring transportation, we require that the is a reduction by 50 per cent between 2007 and 2020, Another change that is yielding results is the introductrucks used to transport our goods are equipped with compared with our previous objective of 30 per cent. tion of stackable plastic pallets for deliveries from our Euro IV engines. We also require the transport compaIn total, we reduced our relative CO2 emissions from distribution centre to our stores. This has enabled us to nies to sign our Code of Conduct. As part of the tender 23 grams to 22 grams per tonne kilometre of goods reduce the number of return trips with pallets from the procedure, we require that companies submit their during the year. This corresponds to a reduction of 4 stores to the distribution centre by 3 per cent, thereby environmental policy. Companies engaged to transport per cent. saving money and reducing our CO2 emissions. our products agree to submit an environmental report once per year, which serves as a basis for follow-ups of Another objective is to increase the share of overland This reduction in CO2 emissions should be viewed in our objectives and key indicators. freight carried by rail to 50 per cent by 2020. During light of the new calculation principles and methods the year, we reorganised the transportation of goods we developed during the year. To allow us to better During 2014/15, 86 per cent of our products were between Insjön and Gothenburg to stores in the UK, follow up the results of implemented and future fill rate transported by sea. This form of transportation accounchanging to rail transportation. We also started to see optimisations and other improvements with respect to 24 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR transportation, we now use a calculation model based We also have a good opportunity to influence our ten additional stores in Sweden, as well as preparing to on the actual weight of the goods, rather than the electricity consumption by installing more energy-effiintroduce the energy efficiency programme in Norway. weight used for tax assessment purposes. Historical data cient lighting in our stores. For the past couple of years, from 2007 and onwards has been restated in accordanwe have had an energy efficiency programme in place We do not own our store premises, and heating and ce with the new model. for our stores, focusing on lighting issues, effective ventilation are often included in our rent, which means cooperation with suppliers and the proportion of enerthat it is currently a challenge for us to have any major In addition to our efforts to reduce our CO2 emissions gy-efficient light fixtures and fittings. During 2014/15, influence in these areas. Our efforts to reduce the total from transportation and travel, we are also working to we reduced electricity consumption in nine stores electricity consumption in our stores must be carried optimise our energy consumption in our daily operarebuilt within the framework of this programme by a out in cooperation with our landlords and property tions – at our stores, our warehouse and our offices. For total of 27 per cent and the electricity consumption of owners. When signing new leases, we require that LED example, at our offices and stores, we are saving energy our Nordic stores by 16 per cent compared with the lighting be installed in the premises. by automatically turning off lights and lowering the preceding year. Over the next year, we plan to rebuild temperature in unused areas. CO2 emissions from electricity CO2 emissions from Clas Ohlson’s Share of total overland freight CO2 emissions from transporconsumption and energy operations, % carried by rail, % tation and travel, tonne production, tonne 50 16 000 1000 4000 300 Energy consumption, 20% Transportation, 77% 40 14 000 800 3000 200 Travel, 3% 30 12 000 400 2000 100 20 10 000 200 1000 0 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 Target 2020, 50 % Transportation Travel Electricity consumption Energy production Baseline 2007, 25 % CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 25 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Materials and chemicals in products We work continuously to replace materials and hazardous chemicals with more sustainable alternatives throughout our product range. We see growing awareness and greater interest among volumes and past experience of collaboration with the Objective for the use of palmoil consumers for sustainability. There is also increasingly, supplier. The risk assessment determines which tests we An area in which our work has been driven by growing stringent legislative requirements and raised insight perform and their frequency. Each delivery of high-risk consumer awareness is palm oil, and we have now defiinto how chemicals impact our health and the environproducts is subjected to test and analysis. Methodoloned our position on the use of palm oil in candles. The ment, setting new, challenging expectations for us as gies are defined in standards and our own requirement aim is for all palm oil to be Roundtable on Sustainable a company. In order to stay ahead of meeting these specifications. Palm Oil (RSPO) certified from June 2015 and, in expectations, we have to manage and be transparent addition, that from June 2016, it should be possible to about materials and chemicals in products, and strive During the year, we launched a new series of detergents trace palm oil to its source of origin. to replace these with mores sustainable alternatives. and a range of indoor paints in which all products are eco-labelled. Eco-labelling sets stringent requirements Continued efforts to build strategic partnerships with To a great extent, our work with chemicals in products in terms of the chemicals used in the products and suppliers for greater transparency in terms of chemicals is about ensuring that we meet legislative requirements that the products must be at least as effective as other and materials used in the products forms the basis for and have access to correct information. Through setproducts. being able to work even more proactively with phasing ting clear requirements and diligent follow-up with out undesirable chemicals and optimizing the use of suppliers, we can provide our customers and authorities Our expectations are also in line with the EU’s Timber materials. We will focus on this area moving forward. with the information they need and are entitled to. We Regulation. This means that we must be able to ensure During the year we will also analyse and define our impose more stringent requirements than those set by that the products we retail do not come from illegally needs in terms of how we are developing our chemical legislation for products that come into contact with harvested forests. We have also specified requirements management system. When we have a better overview, skin or food and for products intended for children. for and information on biocides in products and we will be able to define relevant targets and key indicarried out a substantial review of and expanded the cators in this area. Risk-based testing requirements for materials that come into contact with We carry out a risk assessment for each new item in food. our product range on the basis of material, use, sales 26 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Human rights, children’s rights and working conditions By adopting a clear stance we can make a major impact on many people’s lives. It comes down to dialogue, audits, training and building strategic partnerships if we are to succeed in creating lasting change. Clas Ohlson strives to be a responsible employer and to more quickly rectify serious shortcomings at our we assessed as having a significant level of risk, which is contribute to society. Our Code of Conduct outlines suppliers. in line with our target of 400 audits per year. Of these, our expectations with regards to environmental perfor126 were first-time audits and 269 were follow-ups. mance, human rights, working conditions and business A new routine for this year, is that we perform com364 audits were carried out by our own auditors and ethics. The Code of Conduct applies to practices across plete audits prior to placing the first order. external companies audited a further 31 plants in the value chain – from supplier practices to product use Taiwan, Vietnam, India and China. We carry out both and how we deliver our services. In 2014/15, we carried out 395 audits of plants that announced and unannounced audits. 69 per cent of the products we retail are manufactured in Asia, where the risk of deviations from the Code of Deviations from the Code of Conduct at audit, % Conduct are relatively high. Therefore, we place great focus on ensuring that suppliers meet our stringent Discrimination requirements. Even as a small customer, we can contriChild labour bute to lasting change through the combination of Forced labour audits, training initiatives at factories and involvement Compensation in issues. Freedom of association Audits in China Audit access denied Our audit team in China is responsible for verifying, Authorized minors assessing and monitoring suppliers’ compliance with Working hours our Code of Conduct. Before we start working with a Laws and regulations new supplier, we assess whether our requirements are Environment fulfilled, and if not, whether the supplier is willing to Social insurance rectify any deviations. All new suppliers have been asHealth and safety sessed according to working conditions criteria. During the year, we have further improved procedures, which include the audit team and purchasing organisation, CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 27 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR We seldom come across child labour when we conduct safety, labour rights and how to promote an enhanChildren on page 30. Collaborating with organisaaudits. When it occurs, we work with the factory, the ced workplace dialogue at Chinese factories. QuizRR tions with expertise in human rights, children’s rights child and the parents to identify a solution that will comprises short educational films followed by muland working conditions is an important method for safeguard the child’s rights in the best possible way. tiple-choice questions. The aim now is to reach more us to gather knowledge and continue developing our plants, improve the quality of the training and to make initiatives. During the year, two cases of child labour were identhe training courses more effective and enjoyable. In tified, in both cases the children were almost 16. The September, the first prototype of QuizRR was tested at In 2015/16, we will focus on expanding existing suppaction plan included pay compensation up to the day three of our suppliers and in July 2015, a pilot project lier program to include all new and existing suppliers the children turned 16 and it became legal to work. was started to run over a three-month period. in high-risk countries and to improve our assessment model to enable prioritisation of which factories to We also encountered three plants where salary payAs a complement to our programme for suppliers, audit. ments had not been made on a monthly basis, a form we are also working together with strategic partners of forced labour. In two of these cases, the factories on local projects to improve conditions for suppliers’ Having the right skills in place internally is equally changed their payment routines and we now follow this employees and their families, not least through our as important as our ability to raise awareness levels at up on a monthly basis. The third plant is no longer one long-term collaboration with Save the Children. At external suppliers. Part of these efforts comprises a new of our suppliers. present, we work primarily with helping Chinese miginternal training course on sustainability which, naturant workers and their families. The project’s target is to rally, also includes the Code of Conduct, which Terminating collaboration with suppliers is seen as a reach 300 children and 1,000 migrant workers. More all employees at Clas Ohlson will be able to attend. last resort. During the year, six agreements were ended information is available about our work with Save the either because we were not given permission to audit the factory or because the supplier was not prepared to take the necessary measures that had been identified by Kyle Zhang, auditor and responsible for the the audit. Excellent Programme: “Last year we evaluated the Exhealth and safety, and the environThrough collaborating with suppliers, we support them cellent Project and we have now ment. Efforts focus primarily on the in their improvement initiatives. One example of how remade it into a programme. In management system, since this we work to develop our key suppliers is the Excellent October, I assumed responsibility for forms a prerequisite for being able Programme. We are convinced that by actively working the programme and, since then, I to improve other areas. With the fowith long-term change initiatives and skills developmehave been working with each of the cus we now have on improvement nt, we contribute to positive development. 12 suppliers who are participating efforts in partnership with strategic in preparing a detailed development suppliers, we are noting clear, posiTogether with other companies and partners, we have plan. The programme comprises tive commitment, which also builds also developed a new educational tool, QuizRR, which three areas – management system, relationships with suppliers.” consists of four training modules: health and safety, fire 28 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Business ethics All of Clas Ohlson’s employees, irrespective of where they work, must know and act in line with our values. These values comprise the foundation for how we work and our corporate culture. We are to maintain high ethical standards and our Code of Business Ethics and training in business ethics is designed to support this. Our Code of Conduct and our Code of Business Ethics particularly important as we expand into new purchasdescribe our expectations on employees, suppliers and ing markets. Tina Englyst, General Counsel, business partners for high ethical standards. For us, on the new business ethics course: an ethical approach means sound business decisions Now, when we are rolling out an updated global traiwithout consideration for personal or third party gains. ning programme with practical guidance in business “After updating the Code of Business Ethics, It also means that we neither accept, offer nor pay ethics we are placing more focus on this issue. The aim in 2014/15, we developed a new training bribes, that we comply with laws and regulations and is that all employees in relevant functions and selected course to provide deeper understanding of act according to applicable competition law. partners undergo training in 2015/16. The Code of our core values and our approach to working Business Ethics is part of our Code of Conduct, which with, among other things, zero tolerance of Clas Ohlson has zero tolerance for corruption and is included in all purchase agreements and which we corruption, competition law and related-party bribery. We are clear that violation of this policy could, strive to include in all major contracts. transactions. We conduct trainings in smaller in addition to the termination of the partnership, lead Colleagues and employees are encouraged to report any groups, using relevant language, in which inteto consequences under labour law and criminal law. suspected deviations from the Code of Conduct and ractive discussion examples are a key compoCode of Business Ethics by e-mail, to their immediate nent. Thus far, we have trained employees at Regular trainings superior or to the nearest Manager or the company’s our offices in China. To date, three of our key Our most significant risks for corruption exist in the General Counsel. Any such report can be made anonyagents in China have completed this training. purchasing process and when entering into larger mously. In the next phase, the course will continue to contracts. Therefore, we conduct regular training for be rolled out at Group level. The aim is to fully all our employees who work with high-value contracts implement this training in the 2015/16 financial and purchasing and for our agents in Asia. Continued year.” development and the management of ethical risks is CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 29 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Our role in society Clas Ohlson has a tradition of giving back to society and our commitment extends throughout our value chain – from projects in the countries where our products are manufactured, through our role in the local community to engaging our customers on key issues. A core commitment for us is working to strengthen Disney, HP, H&M and ICA, with the aim of increasing package regarding why it is important to handle spent children’s rights. In 2014/15, we continued our colsuppliers’ skills in how to, for example, manage cases of batteries properly. The commitment of Clas Ohlson laboration with Save the Children, where our focus child labour, work actively to promote a better dialogue employees and all of pupils was fantastic and, together, was supporting migrant worker families in China. In between workers and factory management and support we managed to collect 287.5 tonnes of batteries in China, many workers have moved from their homes workers in their role as a long-distance parent, for Sweden and 80 tonnes of batteries in Norway during in the countryside to work at a factory that is often those that have moved, from rural to industrial areas the competition in March setting a record for Battery located far from home. Since the right to education and left their children with grandparents. Clas Ohlson Hunt. A total of 46,000 pupils took part in the compeand health care is tied to where one resides, this causes also contributes to their disaster relief fund, that allows tition in Sweden and Norway, up again from last year. major problems for migrant workers and their families. Save the Children to be on site immediately in disasTherefore, we believe it is important to support with ter-stricken areas. New partnership with ECPAT homework and other after-school activities for the Clas Ohlson has entered into a collaboration with children. Migrant workers are also offered consultaRecord in the Battery Hunt ECPAT Sweden. ECPAT works with preventing and tions with regard to health, education and integration, Clas Ohlson participated in the Battery Hunt for the stopping all forms of commercial sexual exploitation of as well as legal support in the case of labour disputes, second consecutive year. In Sweden, the competition is children. During the year, we will work together with if necessary. Through a fundraising campaign in our organised together with Håll Sverige Rent and VARTA ECPAT Sweden to review and update our policies and stores, we and our customers together have donated and, in Norway, together with Miljøagentene and guidelines in terms of travel, IT and business ethics to money to Save the Children’s project in China. VARTA. The Battery Hunt is a fun and instructive clearly take a stand against sexual exploitation of childcompetition for fourth-year students that, in addition ren, and manage risks of inadvertent associating Clas Another of Save the Children’s projects in China is to the contest in which the pupils gather as many used Ohlson with related commercial activities. WeSupport. Under WeSupport, we work together with batteries for recycling as possible, includes a training 30 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 Sweden Clas Ohlson AB SE-793 85 Insjön Tel: +46 247 444 00 www.clasohlson.se Norway Clas Ohlson AS Torggata 2–6 N-0105 Oslo Tel: +47 23 21 40 05 www.clasohlson.no Finland Clas Ohlson Oy Magistratsporten 4 A FIN-00240 Helsingfors Tel: +358 20 111 22 22 www.clasohlson.fi UK Clas Ohlson Ltd 10-13 Market Place Kingston upon Thames Surrey KT1 1JP Tel: +44 845 671 8215 www.clasohlson.co.uk Dubai Clas Ohlson Level 1, Mirdif City Centre Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 285 8596 www.clasohlson.ae China Clas Ohlson (Shanghai) Co, Ltd Room 1102-1103, No. 666 Gubei Road, Kirin Plaza, Changning Distict, Shanghai Tel: +86 21 3387 0055 IRONMEN Produced by Clas Ohlson AB in cooperation with Yra:Form. NV T Print: Produktionshuset DMM. E AL NORDIC L A B EL Photo: Clas Ohlson, Gustav Kaiser, Tony Klintasp, Henric Lindsten. For more information about Clas Ohlson 5041-0004 PRINTED MATTER see about.clasohlson.com CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 31 Smart solutions from Clas Ohlson We offer a broad range of attractively priced products that make it easy for people to solve everyday practical projects and small problems. www.clasohlson.com 32 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15
