TRANS NEW TECHNOLOGY, INC. COP THROUGH JUN.2014 TO MAY.2015 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Trans New Technology, Inc (TNT) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mitsunori KIMURA President of Trans New Technology, Inc. Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human p. 1 TRANS NEW TECHNOLOGY, INC. COP THROUGH JUN.2014 TO MAY.2015 rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Board members of TNT always learns about human rights, and they strive for the knowledge about human rights to spread in the company. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Board members checks so that infringement of human rights may not take place in our company. Measurement of outcomes p. 2 TRANS NEW TECHNOLOGY, INC. COP THROUGH JUN.2014 TO MAY.2015 Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. We installed the anonymous suggestion box to check Human Rights violation. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Board members of TNT respected the workers' and worker representative's rights and prepared the place of periodical talks. Implementation p. 3 TRANS NEW TECHNOLOGY, INC. COP THROUGH JUN.2014 TO MAY.2015 Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. We established the committee for shortening of working hours, and argued the method best for a company between employer and employees. We raised the augmented wage concerning the overtime work exceeding 60 hours per month to 50%. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. The effect was looked at by reduction of an employee's working hours. Environment Assessment, policy and goals p. 4 TRANS NEW TECHNOLOGY, INC. COP THROUGH JUN.2014 TO MAY.2015 Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. We have the consciousness which takes part in the research and development about environment positively. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Taking advantage of our speciality nature, it took part in the project for reducing power consumption. Measurement of outcomes p. 5 TRANS NEW TECHNOLOGY, INC. COP THROUGH JUN.2014 TO MAY.2015 Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. We made research presentation in collaboration with some companies and/or universities. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Board members of TNT controls themselves so that it may not be concerned with all forms of corruption, and they performs the education to employees. p. 6 TRANS NEW TECHNOLOGY, INC. COP THROUGH JUN.2014 TO MAY.2015 Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. We stopped dealings with the company which may be concerned with corruption. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. We participated in the corruption of not an affair. p. 7
