NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS for the year ended 31 December 2014 CONTENTS Overview of our group Letter from our Chief Executive 2 A profile of our business 3 Chief Executive’s Review 5 Chairman’s Review 11 Our summarised five-year track record 17 Drivers guiding our strategy 19 Material matters 21 Strategic focus areas 28 Stakeholder overview Engaging with our stakeholders 39 Operational overview Global Reporting Initiative G4 Index 61 Our contact details IBC This document is intended to fulfil Nedbank Group’s reporting obligation as part of its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The Nedbank Group 2014 Integrated Report has been aligned with the requirements of the King Code of Governance Principles for SA (King III Code), the Intenational Integrated Reporting Framework and complies with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines (G4) which inform not only Nedbank Group’s annual reporting, but also our ongoing reporting initiatives throughout the year. On the understanding that the sustainability imperative forms the foundation of the UNGC Principles; Nedbank Group’s activities as they relate to the Principles are comprehensively addressed in the Nedbank Group 2014 Integrated Report which is available on line nedbankgroup.co.za. Please note that Nedbank Group has interpreted Principles 1 and 2 to have both an internal and external impact. 1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS LETTER FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE Attention: United Nations Global Compact Office Nedbank Group – continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact As Chief Executive of Nedbank Group, I reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the 10 principles that underpin it. In addition, as a group, we remain a signatory to the Equator Principles and the CEO Water mandate and we continue to actively support the NEP FI African Task Force. These commitments form an important part of our overall sustainablitity journey as we aspire to a better future for all. We consider it a privilege to be a part of such a vital and valuable initiative. Yours sincerely, Mike Brown Chief Executive Nedbank Group SUSTAINABILITY CREDENTIALS AND INDICES ■■ Carbon neutral – Africa's first carbon-neutral financial organisation. We are represented on, ■■ Dow Jones World Sustainability Index membership – the world's or a signatory to, the following: premier performance benchmark for companies in terms of ■■ Equator Principles. corporate sustainability. We were included for the ninth year. ■■ Principles for Responsible Investment (through Old Mutual plc). ■■ JSE SRI Index – inclusion since 2004. ■■ UNEP FI African Task Force. ■■ WWF Water Balance Programme – invested R9m in SA's water security. ■■ UNEP FI National Capital Declaration. ■■ WWF-SA Green Trust partnership. ■■ UNEP FI Social Working Group. ■■ WWF Sustainable Agriculture Programme – official sponsor – ■■ United Nations Global Compact Advisory Committee. invested R8,3m. ■■ United Nations Global Compact CEO Water Mandate. ■■ South African Carbon Disclosure Project Index 2014 – 99% ■■ National Business Initiative Advisory Committee on Climate Change. Disclosure Score and an ‘A minus’ for performance. ■■ National Energy Efficiency Accord. ■■ Nedbank occupies four Green Star-rated buildings. ■■ Energy Efficiency Leadership Network Pledge. ■■ Natural Capital Leaders Index – Natural Capital Decoupling Leader. ■■ The Banking Association SA: Sustainable Finance Committee. ■■ 2014 – highest score in the IRAS Sustainability Data Transparency ■■ Association of Ethics Officers in Africa. Index in the Banking and Financial Services Sector. ■■ OECD Financial Sector Mapping Advisory Group. ■■ Inclusion in RobecoSAM’s 2014 yearbook of the most sustainable ■■ National Biodiversity Business Network. companies in the world – one of only six SA companies. ■■ Network for Business Sustainability SA. 2 OVERVIEW OF OUR GROUP PROFILE OF OUR BUSINESS WHO WE ARE Nedbank Group is one of SA’s four largest banking groups by assets and deposits, with Nedbank Limited being our principal banking subsidiary. We are a JSE Top 40 company with our ordinary shares listed on the JSE since 1969 and on the Namibian Stock Exchange since 2007. Our market capitalisation was R124bn at 31 December 2014. Old Mutual plc is our majority shareholder, with a 54,0% ownership of the group. We provide a wide range of wholesale and retail banking services and a growing insurance, asset management and wealth management offering through five main business operations, namely Nedbank Capital, Nedbank Corporate, Nedbank Business Banking, Nedbank Retail and Nedbank Wealth. From 31 December 2014 we simplified these clusters into Nedbank Corporate and Investment Bank, Nedbank Retail and Business Banking, and Nedbank Wealth. Our Rest of Africa Division, which is small but growing in bottomline contribution, is housed within the Chief Operating Officer’s portfolio. Our growth-orientated strategy is underpinned by a strong wholesale business, growing retail franchise as well as our business into the rest of Africa. We are a market-leading wholesale bank and are well positioned in commercial property finance, business banking, investment banking, vehicle finance, card-acquiring, deposit-taking, and asset and wealth management. WHERE WE OPERATE Nedbank Group’s primary market remains SA, however, we are continuing to expand into the rest of Africa. Outside SA we have a presence in six countries in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and East Africa region where we own subsidiaries and banks in Namibia, Swaziland, Malawi, Mozambique, Lesotho, Zimbabwe, as well as representative offices in Angola and Kenya. In West and Central Africa we have a partnership strategy and concluded the acquisition of an approximate 20% shareholding in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI) in 2014, enabling a unique one-bank experience to our clients across the largest banking network in Africa, comprising more than 2 000 branches in 39 countries. Outside Africa we have presence in key global financial centres to provide international banking services for SA-based multinational and highnet-worth clients in the Isle of Man, Guernsey, Jersey and London, Toronto and Dubai (UAE). Nedbank representative offices Ecobank representative offices Deals concluded in Africa Ecobank footprint 3 7111 1 1851 ATMs STAFFED OUTLETS Nedbank and Ecobank footprint We have invested significantly in our franchise to strengthen our Nedbank footprint brand, offer market-leading banking services and create convenient access for all through our 1 1851 staffed outlets, 3 7111 ATMs and electronic channels across SA and the rest of Africa. 1 Include rest of Africa. 3 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS TOTAL TOTAL HEADLINE PERMANENT ASSETS EARNINGS CLIENTS STAFF R810bn R9,9bn 7,1m 30 499 OUR VISION AND VALUES We have a vision-led, values-driven philosophy to leading and managing our business, because how we achieve our vision is as important to us as what we achieve. OUR VISION OUR VALUES To be Africa’s most admired bank by Accountability – Be prepared to make commitments and be judged against our all our stakeholders – our staff, clients, commitments, to deliver on those shareholders, regulators and the commitments and to be responsible for our communities that we live in. actions. Our vision statement implies that: Integrity – Be honest, trustworthy, truthful, consistent and open in all of our conduct and ■■ We will continue to build our franchise in decisions. SA, while expanding into the rest of Africa. Our strategic focus areas provide more Respect – Recognise the inherent worth of insight into our progress and outlook. every human being and treat all people accordingly. ■■ We want to be most admired by our stakeholders. Without passionate and Pushing beyond boundaries – motivated staffmembers we won’t be able Recognise our obligation to the entire to attract and retain the clients that are key organisation to push beyond the limits of what to the delivery of sustainable profits for our is best for us individually, or as a group or unit, shareholders. As a bank we operate in a and strive to break new ground, fuelled by regulated environment and we aim to be passion and commitment. admired by our regulators. Lastly, as a bank People-centred – We invest in our people we can play a major part in our and create empowering environments through communities and as ‘the green bank’, we development, support, mentoring, coaching, are a strong advocate and influencer on valuing diversity, recognition and reward. environmental matters. More on this can be found in our stakeholder section. Our vision is supported by our Deep Green aspirations. These are: to be a great place to work; a great place to bank; a great place to invest; worldclass at managing risk; and a green and caring bank. 4 2 066 cents 1 028 cents DILUTED HEADLINE FULL-YEAR EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDEND PER SHARE UP 13,0% UP 14,9% CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 was a milestone year for the group as we positioned ourselves to continue to grow in a volatile economic environment. We announced various executive leadership changes that have introduced fresh energy into our REVIEW business. The integration of the Nedbank Corporate and Nedbank Capital Clusters into a corporate and investment bank will enable us to service our wholesale clients better and unlock future income growth opportunities. We gained traction in numerous efficiency and cost optimisation programmes ‘In 2014 we took an important step that are important in a slower-growth environment. We took a significant step forward in our Pan-African banking network strategy as we became a towards fulfilling our vision to be 20% shareholder in our alliance partner Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI), offering our shareholders increasing access to higher economicAfrica’s most admired bank by growth rates in the rest of Africa. investing R5,9bn to secure a From a financial perspective Nedbank Group produced a strong set of results in 2014 as headline earnings increased 14,0% to R9,9bn, which shareholding of approximately 20% was supported by good net-interest-income growth and a lower credit loss ratio, despite strengthening central provisioning and increasing in ETI, thereby deepening our longcoverage levels. Non-interest-revenue (NIR) growth was slower in the standing strategic alliance that first half as a result of a number of deliberate strategic actions, but grew in early double digits in the second half. Diluted headline earnings per enables our clients to access the share (DHEPS) increased 13,0%, ahead of our expectations communicated to the market at the beginning of the year, and met our largest Pan-African banking network medium-to-long-term target of consumer price index (CPI) plus gross domestic product (GDP) plus 5% – estimated at 12,5%. across 39 countries.’ 5 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS MIKE BROWN CHIEF EXECUTIVE 14 395 cents NAV PER SHARE (2013: 13 143 cents) 2014 highlights video from our CE, Mike Brown. OUR VALUE-ENHANCING STRATEGY Our focus on creating shareholder value continued as we increased net A tough macro environment asset value by 9,5% and maintained a return on equity (ROE) (excluding In line with much of the global and domestic banking industry, Nedbank goodwill) at 17,2%, well ahead of a higher cost of equity of 13,5% (2013: faces a difficult macroeconomic environment, an increasing regulatory 13,0%). As a result we delivered R2,1bn of economic profit. Given our agenda and strong competition. These are not new to us and are the sound balance sheet, we were once again able to increase our full-year cornerstones of what we refer to as the material matters that influence dividend per share by 14,9% to 1 028 cents, ahead of HEPS growth of our strategy. 12,9%, as we move towards the mid-point of our dividend cover range of between 1,75 and 2,25 times. I reflect below on these material matters and our strategic responses: The group’s common-equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio at 11,6% is just above the Globally, economic conditions remain challenging and very difficult for mid-point of our 2019 target range and is where we expected it to be anyone to forecast accurately. SA’s GDP growth in 2014 was severely following the regulatory capital impact from our investments in the rest of impacted by a five-month-long strike in the platinum belt. Early in the Africa. We increased our liquidity buffers in anticipation of the liquidity year the rand weakened and the resultant worsening of the inflation coverage ratio coming into effect on 1 January 2015 to ensure day-one outlook contributed to interest rates increasing by 75 basis points. compliance. Strengthening of our provisioning over the past few years may Infrastructure limitations, and in particular the worsening electricity have appeared to some investors to be overly conservative, but today supply, constrained growth and reduced business confidence. 2014 GDP I believe we are far better positioned to weather a difficult environment, with growth in SA was 1,5% – the lowest GDP growth rate since the financial a strong total coverage ratio of 70,0%. crisis and well below SA’s potential. 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (continued) Visibility remains limited, underpinned by global market and Transformation remains an imperative and we continue to place this economic policy uncertainties, local energy constraints, rand high on our agenda given our goal to stay at the forefront of transformation. volatility, oil price weakness and its impact on inflation, as well These material matters bring many challenges and risks that have to be as the risk of further credit ratings downgrades in SA. The managed. There are also opportunities to build on the platform we have tough economic environment places pressure on our clients, created to respond to this environment and to continue to grow our leading to lower levels of credit demand and transactional franchise and generate value for our stakeholders. banking activity. For banks this has a negative effect on earnings growth potential while increasing the risk of higher levels of bad debts. The quality of our loan origination is vital. Our wholesale clients are impacted by delays in infrastructural PROGRESS ON OUR investment, particularly electricity constraints. As a result, STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS investment appetite in SA remains muted and the domestic growth outlook appears constrained over the medium term. 2014 marked the fifth year of my Retail clients have remained highly indebted since the financial crisis of 2008. Lower oil prices which feed into lower inflation tenure as Chief Executive of the may prove beneficial to consumers in 2015 if sustained for longer. Nedbank Group and I am pleased to Economic growth in the rest of Africa is strong, albeit off a low report that we have made base, as evidenced by the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF’s) GDP growth forecast of 4,9% for 2015. In the short significant progress on our five key term we expect volatility in these frontier markets, particularly strategic focus areas of clientcentred innovation, growing our those that are over-reliant on oil revenues. Higher returns are not possible without higher risk, but we remain confident that over the longer term growth in the rest of Africa will be sustained, which has led to many SA firms expanding into and transactional banking franchise, investing in the rest of Africa. optimise to invest, strategic Competition is intensifying among banks as both established and new entrants aggressively target the same client base. portfolio tilt and the Pan-African Changing consumer behaviour, where more consumers are multibanked and are technologically skilled, has increased banking network. awareness of the various bank offerings, quality of service and pricing, and has led to higher expectations of banks. We expect this trend to continue. The global financial crisis brought the onset of increased regulation to ensure the soundness of banks and protect STRATEGIC consumers, the most prominent of which are the Basel III regulations on capital adequacy and liquidity and the increase FOCUS AREAS in market conduct legislation. Given trends in international financial markets, the risk of potential penalties and fines due to non-compliance has increased in SA, particularly in the areas of market conduct and anti-money-laundering. SA’s implementation of the Twin Peaks regulatory framework and For more detail on our progress and increased focus on consumer protection will continue to place new demands on financial services organisations to ensure outlook refer to the 2014 integrated outcomes for their clients are fair. report. I summarise my reflections The past two centuries have seen rapid global population growth but even faster economic growth, with average per on our strategic progress below: capita income increasing by a factor of more than 10. Higher living standards have also been coupled with improvements in life expectancy for billions of people. This progress has come at a significant environmental cost and there is mounting CLIENT-CENTRED INNOVATION evidence that current patterns of human consumption are remains core to everything we do and I exceeding the planet’s supply limits and is therefore believe Nedbank has made significant unsustainable. Furthermore, high levels of poverty and strides in its ability to deliver products to inequality remain in many regions, including sub-Saharan our clients that make a real difference to Africa. As a bank we can play a major role in making the their lives and enable them to achieve countries and societies we operate in a better place. Simply their goals. We have delivered more put, we have to ensure that our operations of today are not a innovation in the past two years than in cost to society in the future. the previous five combined. In 2014 we continued to introduce innovative Skills shortages in SA, attributable to the poor outcomes of the products, particularly in the digital and country’s educational system, present a serious risk to mobile space. This has made banking economic growth and stability for the country. In addition, more convenient, more affordable and banking is a large employer in the financial services sector and safer. We were pleased that our progress we require highly-skilled employees to service clients. in this area was also externally Increasing competition means we have to work even harder to acknowledged by Nedbank receiving retain our best people and to mitigate the cost of replacing the 2014 African Banker Award skilled staff. Our approach to remuneration, in support of these for Innovation. initiatives, is set out in the Remuneration Report. 7 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS OPTIMISE TO INVEST was incorporated in response to a more challenging GROWING OUR TRANSACTIONAL BANKING FRANCHISE environment for revenue growth, but also being cognisant that we need to has been a focus of the group for many years and we have invest for the future. During 2014 we made progress on numerous cost established a proven track record of delivering and, as a and efficiency optimisation initiatives, ranging from our ‘rationalise, result, growing NIR above the SA industry average over an standardise and simplify’ information technology strategy, through which extended period. In 2014 we took the strategic decision to we are decreasing our core systems from 250 to 60, to implementing our slow down our growth in personal loans and to keep our SAP enterprise resource planning (ERP) replacement system for finance, bank fees at 2013 levels, while reducing pricing in some procurement and human resources. The first two components were businesses – a deliberate investment in the future. While successfully implemented on 1 January 2015 on time and within scope this reduced our 2014 NIR growth by approximately 3,5%, and budget – with human resources to follow in September 2015. we do enter 2015 much better positioned to grow our client Additionally, we are working on a range of synergies within Old Mutual numbers. Given our lower share of main-banked clients, we Group [Old Mutual (South Africa), Nedbank and Mutual & Federal)] in believe we still have significant room for growth, and our SA and have made substantial progress towards achieving the Old Mutual medium-to-long-term NIR-to-expenses ratio target of Group R1bn pretax target for collaborative initiatives by 2017. >85% remains a focus. Investment in outlets and digital channels, new value propositions and technology is funded as far as possible through cost savings. To date 171 outlets in the ‘branch of the future’ format have been converted and we plan to convert 75% of all outlets by 2017, investing a further R2,1bn. In addition, we will continue to build our franchise in the rest of Africa for the long term, which will require investment in areas such as IT and our people. Turning to the rest of Africa, 2014 was a milestone year for us building our PANAFRICAN BANKING NETWORK. We embarked on new growth opportunities and significantly increased the level of capital deployed in the rest of Africa, where revenue growth is expected to be faster than in SA. We concluded the acquisition of an initial 36,6% shareholding (with a pathway to control in 2016) of Banco Único in Mozambique, in our Rest of Africa subsidiaries we have made good progress in implementing a standardised operating model, and our Flexcube core banking IT system is planned to be rolled out in Namibia in the first quarter of 2015. This has strengthened our franchise and client proposition in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and East Africa. In this region we plan to increase our west and central presence from six to 10 countries over time. In West and Central Africa our alliance with Ecobank continues to deliver value for the group and its clients. During October 2014 we exercised our rights to subscribe for a 20% shareholding in ETI. This follows six years of working closely together. Today we can offer our clients unmatched access to banking services across 39 countries, almost double that of our closest competitor. We continue to work closely together in our strategic and technical alliance, cross-selling products, leveraging each other’s unique strengths such as our expertise in investment banking and Ecobank’s deep STRATEGIC PORTFOLIO TILT aims to manage our incountry knowledge and relationships. portfolio of businesses and products proactively to improve our risk-and-return profile and to identify Ecobank was faced with a number of well-publicised governance challenges financial services opportunities that maximise economic late in 2013 and early in 2014. We support the steps the Ecobank board has profit growth while maintaining a strong balance sheet. taken to resolve these and strengthen governance. More recently economies This is particularly relevant in a tough economic that are heavily reliant on oil revenues, such as Nigeria and Ghana, have environment with limited forward visibility. The benefits come under pressure and this has translated into a position at 31 December from the early action we took in reducing our home loan 2014 where the market price of our 20% investment in ETI was just over and personal-loan portfolios have been evident in our 10% lower than the cost (29% lower than the cost at 19 February 2015). 2014 results. Personal loans in particular have delivered Given the long-term nature of our investment we should not be distracted by strong profits and returns in a year when African Bank short-term price movements and look forward to working with Ecobank to Limited was placed under curatorship and many generate long-term value for all shareholders. questions were asked about the health of the consumer. Growing economic-profit-generative activities such as transactional deposits, transactional banking and transactions in the rest of Africa remains high on the agenda. The benefit resulting from all our actions over the past four years has enabled the group to maintain a sound balance sheet and reduce impairments, while delivering dividend growth ahead of HEPS growth. 8 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (continued) DELIVERING VALUE TO ALL OUR In our 2013 integrated report we shared our Long-term Goals for a thriving bank in a thriving society and our response to these goals, STAKEHOLDERS namely our Fair Share 2030 strategy. Through this strategy a carefully Those of you who have been following Nedbank for a while will know that calculated flow of money is committed each year to invest in futurewe see our people as our most important asset and our culture as a key proofing our business, society and the environment. This lending is differentiator. Without motivated and empowered staff we will not be additional to all the things we already do and we expect to make a decent able to delight and innovate for the benefit of our clients. More clients financial return, while delivering a lasting impact. 2014 was a pilot year. doing more business with Nedbank leads to value creation for our During the pilot we learned that, although structuring and closing these stakeholders. As I reflect on our progress in 2014, I have to reiterate that types of business may be harder initially, it is possible to write loans that Nedbank Group has committed itself to operating on a sustainable basis are good for us and our clients and that drive positive social and and delivering value to all our stakeholders. In line with our vision to be environmental impacts. The most notable of the pilot deals was a R500m Africa’s most admired bank by staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and loan to the Netcare Group, enabling the execution of multiple projects communities, I am pleased to report as follows: that delivered intentional non-financial impacts. For staff we created new employment opportunities at a time when In conclusion, delivering value to all our stakeholders assisted in Nedbank unemployment rates in SA remain elevated. We continue to invest in once again being awarded SA Bank of the Year for 2014 by The Financial Times's, The Banker magazine, matching the achievements of 2011 and training, leadership development and supporting external bursars. Staff 2013. transformation remains important and the shift in our employment equity profile remains positive. Lastly, we continue to invest in building a worldclass corporate culture and embedding our top three cultural values of accountability, client satisfaction and brand reputation to the OUTLOOK benefit of all our other stakeholders. The SA economy is likely to improve modestly off a low base, although growth will be constrained by disruptions to power supply and weaker For clients, in line with our strategic focus area of client-centred growth in key export markets, particularly in the Eurozone and China. innovation, we are investing in exciting products – a list of these are contained in the stakeholder section of our report. We continue to make banking more accessible by adding 22 new outlets and 304 self-owned ATMs. We retained our competitive positioning on bank fees, having made some tough choices in 2014, which cost R355m of NIR, but increased our ability to grow into the future. We advanced R167bn of new loans to clients, and assets under management grew by 11% to R212bn. CASE STUDY For the sixth consecutive year Nedgroup Investments was placed third overall in the Domestic Management Company category at the annual Raging Bull Awards. All of these have resulted in group client numbers increasing 7% to 7,1m since December 2013. Nedbank’s longstanding 18-year relationship with Netcare continues as we embark on Netcare’s energy reduction For shareholders we increased the full-year dividend 14,9%, ahead of project. Nedbank provided energy efficiency and 12,9% growth in HEPS, and generated a total shareholder return (TSR) of renewable-energy funding of R647m for the project in 23,2% since December 2013. Our investments into the rest of Africa conjunction with the Agence Française de Développement offer our shareholders access to earnings growth from these higher(French Development Agency or AFD) and Nedbank economic-growth markets, while also providing the diversification Capital, of which Corporate Banking provided a seven-year benefits of having a presence across 39 countries. For our SA broadR500m facility. based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) shareholders we realised The Netcare project is an amalgamation of 52 individual R5,5bn of value since inception in 2005, and an estimated R8,2bn at energy-efficient hospital retrofit projects and 36 renewabletoday’s market prices. We retained our leadership position in transparent energy projects, with rooftop photovoltaic (PV) additions reporting and broadened our engagements with shareholders through to existing hospital buildings as well as three newly built our first governance roadshow, first non-deal roadshow into Asia and sites in SA. more than 350 investor engagements through the year. From this single financing transaction, 91 projects will For regulators we remain in compliance with Basel III phase-in provide a cumulative greenhouse gas (GHG) emission requirements, including maintaining sound capital levels with a CET1 saving of 70 000 tonnes of CO2 per annum (once ratio of 11,6%. We, along with our peer banks, acknowledge our complete) and reduce the hospital group’s annual energy shortcomings in our anti-money-laundering administration after having consumption by roughly a third. This will assist Netcare to been fined R25m in 2014, and remedial action is high on the agenda. We counter the instability of electricity generation as well as participated in the African Bank resolution and underwriting. We are achieve anticipated cumulative savings of R1bn on maintaining strong, transparent relationships with all regulators, while electricity costs over 10 years. contributing to working groups on new regulation and continuing to support responsible banking practices. Netcare is a prime example of how Nedbank, through responsible lending, is making things happen for clients, For communities and the environment we continue to make banking which highlights our ability to provide sustainable and more accessible and affordable, having advanced R54bn in new loans to innovative banking and lending solutions. retail clients and R1,2bn to affordable-housing developments. We maintained carbon neutrality for five years and were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the ninth consecutive year, being only one of six SA companies, and on transformation we maintained our level BBBEE contributor status for the sixth consecutive year. Together with Old Mutual, we pledged a combined US$1m towards the African Union– Private Sector Ebola Fund. 9 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS Growth in GDP is currently forecast at 2,5% for 2015 as the economy Chief Risk Officer with effect from 1 August 2014. Following this, Mike recovers from the effects of strike action and exports are boosted by a Davis joined the Group Executive Committee as Group Executive of weaker rand. Risk to this currently appears to be on the downside. The Balance Sheet Management with effect from 1 January 2015 to fill sharp drop in global fuel prices has improved the inflation outlook, and Trevor’s previous role. interest rates are expected to remain unchanged at current levels until Following the announcement in November 2014 that Nedbank Capital late in the year. The softer interest rate outlook and lower borrowing and Corporate will be integrated into a single client-facing, wholesale costs should support consumer credit demand and limit credit defaults in business cluster, Brian Kennedy, Managing Executive of Nedbank Capital, 2015, notwithstanding the weak job market and high consumer debt will be accountable for the combined corporate and investment bank, levels. including the implementation of the business structure and operating Retail banking conditions are therefore likely to improve modestly, but model with effect from 1 January 2015. This newly formed cluster will growth in wholesale banking may moderate from current levels as fixedoffer the full spectrum of wholesale products under one brand and one investment plans and credit demand will be limited by the severity and leadership team. Our objective is to create a wholesale business that extent of infrastructure constraints, rising production costs, soft global combines the respective strengths of Nedbank Capital and Corporate to demand and low international commodity prices. build a market-leading franchise with an even stronger client-centred focus. With substantial investment in infrastructure, an established management team and five years of consistent good performance, we Priya Naidoo joined the Group Executive Committee on 1 January 2015 are well placed to continue delivering on our strategic focus areas and to and will succeed John Bestbier, Group Executive for Strategic Planning create value for all our stakeholders. and Economics, on his scheduled retirement date of 30 June 2015. The group is a resilient and sustainable business with sound balance sheet metrics, and we are well positioned to grow despite the economic headwinds. APPRECIATION I would particularly like to pay tribute to our Chairman, Reuel Khoza, for For the year ahead, although forecast risk remains high, we currently his exemplary leadership of the board over the past nine years. It has expect growth in diluted headline earnings per share above nominal GDP been a privilege to work alongside him. growth. I would also like to thank the board of directors and my colleagues in the More detailed guidance on our financial drivers and medium-to-longOld Mutual Group for their guidance and support during the year. term targets are included in our Chief Financial Officer’s Review. I work with a talented Group Executive Committee, that always places the interests of Nedbank first. In particular I would like to thank Graham Dempster and John Bestbier for all that they have done for Nedbank over MANAGEMENT CHANGES many years, and wish them both well in retirement from June 2015. You We announced various executive appointments during the year. All the can be proud of your contributions to Nedbank’s success. appointments were internal and evidence of our well-thought-out succession planning processes and the depth of our talent pipelines. The Executive Management team and I would like to express our gratitude to all our employees for their dedication and hard work during Mfundo Nkuhlu, previously Managing Executive of Nedbank Corporate, these challenging times, and to our clients for trusting us with their succeeded Graham Dempster as Chief Operating Officer and joined the banking needs. Together we make Nedbank a great place to work, a great board as executive director with effect from 1 January 2015. In his new place to bank and a great bank to invest in. role, Mfundo has overall responsibility for the Rest of Africa Division; Balance Sheet Management; Information Technology; Human Resources; Marketing; Communications and Corporate Affairs; and Strategic Planning. Graham will continue to focus on our Rest of Africa Division until his retirement in May 2015. Philip Wessels was appointed Managing Executive of Retail and Business Mike Brown Banking, following the appointment of Ingrid Johnson as Financial Chief Executive Director of our parent, Old Mutual plc. Trevor Adams succeeded Philip as 10 R124,3bn 23,2% MARKET TOTAL SHAREHOLDER CAPITALISATION RETURN (2013: R107,2bn) (2013: 16%) CHAIRMAN’S An uncertain world Significant developments over the past year in the international and local environments will make banking more challenging but, as always, will REVIEW also present opportunities. In the developed world deflationary forces have become more dominant, hurting efforts to reduce the impact of high public and private debt levels and further reducing potential economic growth. This has prompted ever ‘In 2014 Nedbank Group again more expansionary monetary policies in Japan and Europe, while interest delivered value to shareholders, with rates have been maintained at historically low levels in the US. The US Federal Reserve has ended its quantitative easing programme and a total shareholder return of 23,2%. indicated that it wants to start moving short-term interest rates to more normal levels given that economy’s stronger performance and concerns Our share price increased 18,6% and over unintended consequences for asset prices. However, one consequence of the diverging economic fortunes and monetary policy we declared a total dividend of 1 028 tendencies has been a strengthening US dollar, which – if it continues – could mute demand for US exports and reduce the US central bank’s cents, up 14,9% and ahead of room for manoeuvre. headline earnings per share growth Deflationary forces are also affecting the developing world. The promise of the so-called commodity supercycle has faded, with many commodity of 12,9%. Despite a volatile and prices collapsing further during 2014. This was partly due to an overenthusiastic supply response to sharply rising prices in the 2006– uncertain environment, the group 2008 period, but is also due to perceptions of slower and different continues to offer qualities that we growth patterns in China. With the world’s second largest economy becoming more consumer-oriented and increasing fears over the effects believe are attractive to investors.’ of overinvestment in the past, its appetite for commodities will change over time. 11 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS DR REUEL KHOZA NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN Level 2  BEE RATING SIXTH YEAR IN A ROW 2014 governance highlights video from our Chairman, Dr Reuel Khoza. VALUE THROUGH GOOD GOVERNANCE Most spectacular was the 48% fall in the dollar oil price during 2014. In the final analysis SA’s entire citizenry, and particularly the leadership This will mostly be growth-supportive, as consumers everywhere will of the public and private sectors, should serve the national interest, and benefit, but for net oil exporters the effects could be severe if the fall is it behoves us to engage in open discourse with a bias for action. SA’s sustained. Several large economies in Africa are overwhelmingly economic challenges will not worsen for lack of intelligent, well-meaning dependent on oil revenues to meet fiscal shortfalls and balance of citizens. However, this nation could suffer immeasurably for want of payments needs. This, together with the challenges such as those leaders of courage and determination in both the public and private presented by religious fundamentalism and the sudden emergence of the sectors, who in dedicated pursuit of the cause of right and truth prioritise Ebola virus, could test the region’s attractiveness for investment in the the national interest. short term. However, Africa’s move towards better economic policies Together we have the responsibility to strictly adhere to the institutional and regional integration should remain intact and longer-term economic forms that underpin our young democracy. We have to help define and prospects are still positive. articulate our national vision based on rigorous analysis allied to a The prices of other commodities, such as iron and coal, also came under compelling sense of destiny that should serve as a national rallying point pressure. For a country such as SA the net gains to growth from the fall in for our pursuit of excellence and prosperity. We should diligently promote energy prices will be partially offset by lower prices for other primary a nation built on moral values. We are duty-bound to guide, develop and products, but there will likely be a negative impact on the fiscus. This will imbue our youth with a sound and wholesome value system. mean that the policies espoused in the National Development Plan and in Overcoming poverty is the highest challenge facing all in our nation last year’s Medium Term Budget Policy Statement will have to be adhered today and is a challenge across the globe. Youth are marginalised and the to as the threat of further sovereign downgrades remain. In particular, it unemployed are desperate. Our challenge is to ensure that we have an has become increasingly clear that the private sector will have to be a inclusive society to provide hope and better prospects for the major contributor in delivering development objectives and that this will disadvantaged, as this is important to long-term stability. We must pay have to be guided by market forces. This is clearly the case in electricity living wages, curb excess, improve the skills base of the undereducated, security, where unreliable delivery has now become a constraint on the seek new ideas and markets, serve our stakeholders honestly and rise to economy and on increased investment, and will offset the benefits to SA’s leadership challenge. growth from lower oil prices. Banks reflect the general economic circumstances they operate in, but While this will not change in the short term, the good news is that, with also act as agents for positive change in society. In 2015 we should see the right regulatory and institutional changes, the government could some bounceback from the disruptions caused by the long strikes in unlock significant investment without damaging fiscal and external 2014, but there will be many challenges due to the ongoing infrastructure sustainability. deficiencies and a still relatively highly indebted consumer. However, 12 CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW (continued) there should be some dividend from lower oil prices, and the resumption also regularly been rated as one of JSE Limited’s (the JSE’s) most of interest rate hikes now looks increasingly further away, given the transformed companies. This is also testament to our view that dramatically improved inflation outlook. transformation transcends compliance and is seen as both a moral and business imperative to ensure that we remain relevant in the societies in The SA banking system is particularly well placed in this increasingly which we operate. uncertain world, having faced many challenges and much change in the past, and also being at the forefront of adopting global regulatory The global credit crisis of 2008 had a major impact on banks throughout requirements that force best-practice risk assessment and mitigation. the world. SA banks, however, weathered the crisis well, remaining profitable with headline earnings declining less than 30%. As a result no It is in this context and in view of the material matters described in the SA bank had to be bailed out by government using taxpayers’ money 2014 integrated report that I believe that Nedbank Group’s performance during the crisis. The global regulatory response, including materially in 2014 has been outstanding. Headline earnings increased 14,0% to increasing capital holdings through the various Basel regulations, also almost R10bn and we delivered a return on equity (ROE) (excluding flowed through to SA, resulting in lower returns on equity after the crisis. goodwill) of 17,2%, well ahead of our cost of capital. Our market We also changed our approach to remuneration in response to changing capitalisation at the end of 2014 was R124bn and increased 16% during global governance in this regard. the year. This strong financial performance arose from our continuing to deliver value to all our stakeholders. Today we have highly motivated Mike Brown took over as Chief Executive in early 2010 and the focus staff, more clients doing more business with us, more exciting value broadened to client-centredness and growing the franchise by building propositions and innovations, a stronger balance sheet and exciting on the foundations laid under Tom. We repositioned our retail business growth opportunities, particularly in the rest of Africa. Our Chief and ensured sustained profitability, with Nedbank Retail moving from Executive’s and Chief Financial Officer‘s Reports cover this in more detail. making a loss in 2009 to R2,9bn headline earnings in 2014. We invested in our transactional banking franchise and increased our retail client base Nedbank Group very different from the Nedcor of from 4,2m to 6,9m and as a result non-interest revenue, excluding 10 years ago personal loans and the impact of pricing choices in 2014, grew by more In my final Nedbank Group Chairman’s Review I would like to reflect on than 9% since 2009. From a geographic perspective, and in line with our the group’s journey over the past 10 years. vision to be Africa’s most admired bank, we expanded into the rest of Africa – in West and Central Africa by embedding the strategic alliance I joined the board in 2005 and assumed chairmanship in 2006. with Ecobank and negotiating rights to a 20% shareholding, and in the In stark contrast to the group’s strong performance and positioning in Southern African Development Community (SADC) and East Africa by 2014, the Nedbank of the early 2000s was an organisation in distress expanding and improving the Nedbank presence. The lessons learnt from following poor strategic choices that impacted the financial position and the global financial crisis also guided our strategic actions – particularly reputation of the company. The group’s market capitalisation at 31 our strategic portfolio tilt strategy, designed to protect the group against December 2003 was a mere R17bn, significantly down from its then peak downside risk while growing in products and businesses that offered of R43bn in 2001. attractive economic returns. Decisive action was needed. Tom Boardman was appointed Chief It is remarkable to reflect on the fundamental transformation that Executive in October 2003, and key actions taken under his tenure Nedbank has undergone since 2005. From a niche elitist bank to a bank included the appointment of a new executive team, a strategic review of for all, providing banking and financial services to all South Africans and the business, the successful completion of the merger and recovery expanding off this base into the fastergrowing markets in the rest of programme (which included the sale of non-core assets), improved Africa. Our business model has also progressed substantially. Today we transparency and reporting, and a clear focus on client service. are more diversified and resilient. We have a much higher transactional banking revenue contribution that provides an enhanced ROE and buffer The group set itself two key financial targets – to achieve an ROE of 20% against earnings volatility from external factors and a much stronger and a cost-to-income ratio of 55% by 2007 to convince investors to balance sheet, particularly with regard to capital ratios and provisioning, invest R5bn by way of a rights issue undertaken in 2004. An ROE of while also making extensive progress in unlocking growth opportunity in 21,4% and cost-to-income ratio of 54,9% were delivered in 2007. These the rest of Africa. Externally Nedbank was once again rated as SA Bank of laid the foundations for our relentless focus on our clients, accountability, the Year in 2014 by Financial Times’s esteemed The Banker magazine, management information systems, risk management and strategic matching the achievements of 2011 and 2013. management. Nedbank also retained its leadership position in being the green and In delivering on our turnaround strategy, in addition to those items listed caring bank throughout our journey. Today we are still Africa’s only above, there was significant focus on two key long-term foundations for carbon-neutral bank, having the most 5-Star Green-star-rated buildings sustainability. in SA, and are making a difference in environmental matters. This has assisted us to become a leader in funding SA’s renewable-energy The first was culture, with a focus on building a unique and appropriate programme. culture, starting with our executive leadership team and cascading to management across the organisation. This has resulted in staff morale Through our Fair Share 2030 strategy we aim to continue making a and culture metrics today being close to worldclass levels. The key meaningful difference to society and the environment. We will do this culture elements of accountability and client-centredness have been through our lending, operations, being an advocate and, most importantly, embedded over time. Today our culture and our people are key assisting our clients to make SA a better place for all. differentiators for the group. The progress to date has been a function of the close collaboration and The second focus was on fundamentally transforming the organisation. teamwork of the Nedbank board and management teams. In 2005 we proudly landed our trail-blazing broad-based black economic Over the years I have deliberated in my various Chairman’s Reports on empowerment (BBBEE) transaction, indirectly benefiting more than 500 the importance of ethics and governance in both the private and public 000 South Africans through our partners, staff, community and client sectors. I can, with confidence, say that the achievements of Nedbank schemes. The net value created for our black economic empowerment have been underpinned by strong ethical principles and a commitment to (BEE) shareholders to date is approximately R5,5bn, which would be benchmarking ourselves to worldclass governance standards, leading worth an estimated R8,2bn at prevailing market prices. the way as we adopted codes such as King III. This is what I personally stand for, and I am pleased to leave an organisation that has fully In addition, we transformed our staff profile, management team and the embraced this. We are not perfect, but we are continuously striving for board. We voluntarily complied with the Financial Sector Charter, then the highest level of ethics and governance. Sadly, there are still private the dti Codes and more recently the Financial Sector Code (FSC). In sector companies, as well as areas in government and in the public sector 2006 Nedbank had recorded a level 5 BBBEE status, but steadily that are lacking in their aspirations in this regard. improved, and since 2009 has maintained a level 2 rating. Nedbank has 13 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS Key board deliberations in 2014 ■■ David Adomakoh (independent non-executive director), who has 25 I would like to reflect on four key areas of deliberation that stand out in years’ experience executive management and investment banking 2014. These occupied significant discussion at board and board predominantly in Africa and Europe, and has served on the boards of committee level and are material milestones and developments for the a number of SA, Nigerian and Ghanaian companies; group, which will continue to be of significant importance into the future. ■■ Brian Dames (independent non-executive director), who brings These are the management and board changes, working closely with our years of experience in energy and infrastructure; parent company Old Mutual plc, broadening the group’s presence in the ■■ Mantsika Matooane (independent non-executive director), who has rest of Africa and participating in the resolution of African Bank Limited. a strong background in financial services and IT systems in particular. In April 2014 I led the group’s first governance roadshow to our large SA ■■ Paul Hanratty (non-executive director), who is an executive director shareholders together with Malcolm Wyman, our Senior Independent and the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Old Mutual plc. Director. It was pleasing to note the continued high level of support for the group’s strategy, management, board and governance practices, including ■■ Mfundo Nkuhlu (executive director) who took up the role of COO our remuneration schemes. In the following paragraphs I will reflect on the from 1 January 2015, succeeding Graham Dempster. valuable feedback received. Vassi Naidoo will be appointed non-executive director with effect from 1 May 2015. The boards of Nedbank Group and Nedbank have resolved to Leadership and board changes elect Vassi as Chairman of the companies immediately following the During 2014 and into 2015 Nedbank Group will implement various changes conclusion of the Nedbank Group annual general meeting (AGM) to its board and management teams, all supported by well-thoughtscheduled to be held on 11 May 2015. Vassi´s expertise in banking and through succession planning and recruitment processes. financial services and experience in the rest of Africa will benefit Nedbank Group. The timing of this announcement ensures that we will have the While Mike Brown covers the various changes to the Group Executive benefit of a smooth handover in the Chairman’s Office over the next few Committee (Exco) team in his Chief Executive Review, I would like to take months. the opportunity to wish the new Group Exco members success in their new roles. In line with the recommendations of King III, Malcolm Wyman will continue as the Senior Independent Director of Nedbank Group and Mustaq Brey, Gloria Serobe and I, having reached the end of our nineNedbank as a result of the board’s view that Vassi is a non-executive, but year term as non-executive directors, will step down from the board in not independent, chairman, given that he will join the board of Old May 2015, in line with the board policy and principles of good governance. Mutual plc. I would like to convey my appreciation to these fellow boardmembers and black business partners for the value added to the group. Our board currently consists of 18 members, comprising eight independent non-executive directors, six non-executive directors and During the year we had no resignations from the board. four executive directors. Following our AGM in May 2015, taking into Graham Dempster (executive director) will reach the retirement age of account the retirements and the appointment of Vassi Naidoo, our board 60 during May and also step down from the board at the close of our will continue to have a majority of independent non-executive directors. annual general meeting on 11 May 2015. Graham had been a Nedbank Transformation remains important – currently the majority of our board stalwart over many years and made a huge difference to the group, firstly is black, at 56%, and 22% are female. in managing the group’s corporate businesses and later as Chief Operating Officer, and also in developing our alliance with Ecobank, Old Mutual relationship which has resulted in our becoming a 20% strategic shareholder in Nedbank has in recent years been a key contributor to the financial Ecobank during 2014. We wish him all the best going forward. performance of our parent company Old Mutual plc. In reported currency Nedbank Group contributed 35% of In line with these retirements and our board plans to ensure greater Old Mutual’s adjusted operating profit (posttax and non-controlling diversity, and specifically our desire to add more skills in the areas of interests) in 2014. banking, rest of Africa, information technology, innovation and resources, and infrastructure, a few new board appointments were made during Working closer together across the group has been a key focus of the 2014: various boards and management teams, and in 2013 Old Mutual plc communicated its objective to generate R1bn of pretax synergies in the ‘We live in a wonderful country with a vibrant democracy. In a participatory democracy debate and discussion on substantive issues heighten awareness of the many needs we have to address in the socioeconomic, business and political spheres, which are vital for society as a whole. I firmly believe that leadership in the public and private sectors working constructively together can make a positive contribution. Part of my life’s mission as a citizen and a business leader is to contribute, in a small way, to the upliftment of SA and help achieve a better life for all.’ Dr Reuel Khoza, April 2012 14 CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW (continued) next three years across its key African businesses, being Nedbank, Old SA banking industry as one of the most sound in the world. We wish Tom Mutual (South Africa) (OMSA) and Mutual & Federal. As a board we are Winterboer all the best in his curatorship role and actions to revitalise in full support of value that can be unlocked for shareholders while African Bank Investments Limited (Abil). ensuring it makes commercial sense for Nedbank and minority shareholder rights are protected – an issue raised pertinently during our A sound investment governance roadshow. In 2014 Nedbank Group again delivered value to shareholders, with a total shareholder return of 23,2%. Our share price increased 18,6% and We wish Ingrid Johnson the best in her new role as Financial Director of we declared a total dividend of 1 028 cents, up 14,9% and ahead of Old Mutual plc after leading the successful repositioning of Retail since headline earnings per share growth of 12,9%. Despite a volatile and 2009. uncertain environment, the group continues to offer qualities that we believe are attractive to investors. These include: Broadening our presence in the rest of Africa While expansion into the rest of Africa has been on the board agenda for ■■ Worldclass governance underpinned by an independent board the past few years, 2014 was a milestone year. striving to ensure value creation in a sustainable manner for all stakeholders. In line with our strategy of expanding our own presence in SADC and ■■ A wholesale-biased business model that positions us well in a tough East Africa, we acquired a 36,6% stake in Banco Único in Mozambique, macro environment. This is supported by a leadership position in with a pathway to legal control. This is our first expansion into lusophone corporate banking, holding the largest market share in commercial territories, adding to the existing five countries we are already operating property finance and generating good returns with an excellent risk in. profile, as well as a lower-risk investment bank with strong growth We have adopted a partnership approach in West and Central Africa prospects from government’s infrastructure plans and growth on the through the strategic alliance with the Pan-African Ecobank group since continent. The newly announced integrated corporate and 2008, and the board had extensive deliberations in 2014 regarding our investment bank will aim to take client service to a new level and subscription right to become a 20% shareholder in the holding company, unlock further revenue growth opportunities. Ecobank Transnational Incorporated, as part of a longer-term strategy. ■■ A strong, differentiated and decentralised business banking cluster. During our governance roadshow we took note of investors’ feedback and ■■ An innovative, client-centred retail banking cluster, with more clients understand the importance of addressing the well-publicised governance choosing to bank with Nedbank. and strategic issues at Ecobank, which culminated in the adoption by ■■ A well-positioned wealth, insurance and asset management Ecobank of a comprehensive governance action plan and a change in the business with a high return on equity. profile of the board and management, including the Group Chief Executive. ■■ A client-centred, risk-mitigated, capital-efficient strategy in the rest Our decision to exercise our rights to take up the shareholding follows a of Africa over the long term, with the largest Pan-African six-year period of working closely with Ecobank in the alliance and is part geographical footprint. of a long-term, risk-mitigated strategy for growing in the rest of Africa. ■■ A strong balance sheet and defensive investment characteristics given the stable banking sector in SA. Impact of the resolution of African Bank ■■ An experienced management team, a differentiated, values-based Investments Limited culture and high levels of staff morale. Turning closer to home in SA, while the African Bank collapse was sudden, the signs of distress in the personal-loan consumer segment Looking forward were clear for some time. Nedbank had taken early action commencing Nedbank Group is ably led by Chief Executive, Mike Brown, backed by an in 2012, and in 2014 was still the only bank to have reduced its advances experienced management team and staff. The outlook for the book in this market segment. This follows the group’s decision to hold environment remains volatile and uncertain. We, the board, believe that maximum individual-loan sizes and tenors set in 2009, tighten credit Nedbank is well positioned given its strong balance sheet, progress in criteria through 2012 and implement more conservative provisioning building the franchise, exciting growth strategies and a highly rated policies. It was pleasing to hear firsthand from investors that Nedbank is management team. This will continue to stand us in good stead as we now known for taking early action on key industry issues and is selective retain and attract the best talent and as more clients choose to bank with in its loan origination practices during times of uncertainty and volatility, Nedbank. and that provisioning is regarded as prudent. I believe that some fundamental challenges still remain. Creating a better As we look back at the developments in August 2014, we acknowledge life for all will require a greater focus on governance and ethics across all the swift and decisive actions of the Reserve Bank in crafting a solution to organisations – those in the private, public and government sectors. a potential systemic issue, embracing the principles of future regulation These organisations need to find ways to work closer together. Education on bank resolution to be introduced this year through the Basel Accord. remains the cornerstone of our future – we need to address the limitations The collaboration between the Reserve Bank, the major clearing banks in that prohibit so many from upskilling themselves and finding jobs, but SA and the Public Investment Corporation to support and underwrite the more importantly from becoming entrepreneurs. Transformation needs ‘good bank’ is evidence of our collective vision to retain the status of the to remain high on the agenda to enable us to build an inclusive economy. ‘Leadership can only succeed over the longer term by sharing the values and aspirations of the followers, and this means being able to distinguish between that which is expedient and populist, and that which is serviceable and honest. It takes insight, empathy and discipline to achieve resonance with followers – and these are the personal and group qualities that we seek to promote.’ Dr Reuel Khoza, March 2011 15 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS As risks increase in a volatile and uncertain macro environment, banks would have to remain vigilant and continue the focus on worldclass risk management practices. We need to continue to look after our planet and care for those that are vulnerable. Lastly, I believe that in a vibrant democracy all voices must be heard as we build a successful society. We need to become a principled nation and a principle-centred continent. Appreciation Where do I begin to thank all the wonderful colleagues and stakeholders that have been part of my journey over the past 10 years? On a personal note I would like to thank Surina Breedt, my Personal Assistant, for consistently holding the administrative fort and for her professional interface with our various stakeholders. I had the privilege of leading a diverse board of people, rich in wisdom, and I offer my sincere appreciation to the directors and management for their contributions over the years. Much reliance is placed on the support of and cooperation with our various regulators and financial authorities governing our businesses. SA benefits greatly from the professional efficiency of these institutions, and I wish to note our appreciation for this cooperation and open relationship that is mutually beneficial in understanding and addressing the major issues affecting our industry. To our clients who have chosen Nedbank as their bank of choice, we thank you for your support on our journey towards making Nedbank a great place to bank. And, finally, I thank our staff for their commitment, passion and hard work to create value for all our stakeholders. Dr Reuel J Khoza Chairman 16 OUR SUMMARISED FIVE-YEAR TRACK RECORD CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Four-year Rm CAGR1 % 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Net interest income 8,4 22 961 21 220 19 680 18 034 16 608 Impairments charge on loans and advances (7,6) (4 506) (5 565) (5 199) (5 331) (6 188) Income from lending activities 15,4 18 455 15 655 14 481 12 703 10 420 Non-interest revenue 11,3 20 312 19 361 17 324 15 412 13 215 Total operating expenses 10,3 (24 534) (22 419) (20 563) (18 919) (16 598) Indirect taxation 9,2 (635) (601) (561) (505) (447) Share of profits of associate companies and joint arrangements >100 161 27 1 1 Headline profit before direct taxation 20,2 13 759 12 023 10 682 8 691 6 591 Direct taxation 26,4 (3 487) (3 033) (2 861) (2 194) (1 366) Non-controlling interest 4,8 (392) (320) (338) (313) (325) Headline earnings 19,2 9 880 8 670 7 483 6 184 4 900 EP Rm 2 112 2 114 1 521 924 (289) Share statistics Earnings per share: – Headline 17,8 cents 2 127 1 884 1 640 1 365 1 104 – Diluted headline 17,9 cents 2 066 1 829 1 590 1 340 1 069 Dividends/Distributions: – Declared per share 21,0 cents 1 028 895 752 605 480 – Dividend cover times 2,07 2,11 2,18 2,26 2,30 1 CAGR compound annual growth rate. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Four-year Rm CAGR1 % 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Cash and securities 10,9 123 323 108 774 98 467 92 459 81 400 Loans and advances 6,5 613 021 579 372 527 166 499 023 477 226 Other assets 9,9 72 969 61 448 57 325 56 645 50 092 Total assets 7,4 809 313 749 594 682 958 648 127 608 718 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 11,0 67 024 60 617 53 601 48 946 44 101 Non-controlling interest 1,2 3 887 3 719 3 774 3 739 3 713 Amounts owed to depositors 7,3 653 450 602 952 550 878 524 130 492 393 Provisions and other liabilities 3,8 49 314 49 038 44 407 41 870 42 407 Long-term debt instruments 8,1 35 638 33 268 30 298 29 442 26 104 Total equity and liabilities 7,4 809 313 749 594 682 958 648 127 608 718 Assets: – Assets under management 19,9 Rm 212 013 190 341 150 495 112 231 102 570 – Total assets administered by the group 9,5 Rm 1 021 326 939 935 833 453 760 358 711 288 Net asset value per share 10,0 cents 14 395 13 143 11 721 10 753 9 831 Tangible net asset value per share 11,4 cents 12 553 11 346 9 989 9 044 8 160 Key ratios Return on equity (ROE) % 15,8 15,6 14,8 13,6 11,8 ROE (excluding goodwill) % 17,2 17,2 16,4 15,3 13,4 Return on total assets % 1,27 1,23 1,13 0,99 0,82 Net interest income to interest-earning banking assets % 3,52 3,57 3,53 3,48 3,36 Credit loss ratio – banking advances % 0,79 1,06 1,05 1,13 1,36 Non-interest revenue to total operating expenses % 82,8 86,4 84,2 81,5 79,6 Efficiency ratio (including associate income) % 56,5 55,2 55,6 56,6 55,7 Effective taxation rate % 25,3 25,2 26,8 25,2 20,7 1 CAGR compound annual growth rate. 17 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2,2m 30 499 R8,5bn DIGITALLY ENABLED TOTAL STAFF EMPOWERMENT CLIENTS FINANCING LOANS NON-FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Clients Total clients2 millions 7,1 6,7 6,1 5,5 5,1 Main-banked clients millions 2,49 2,331 2,41 2,24 2,08 Total digitally-enabled clients millions 2,22 1,49 1,17 0,89 0,82 Number staffed outlets 2 1 185 1 185 1 199 1 145 1 098 Number of ATMs2 3 711 3 499 3 146 2 663 2 266 Staff Total permanent staff 30 499 29 513 28 748 28 494 27 525 Staff attrition % 8,9 8,7 8,2 7,6 9,3 Lost-time injury-frequency rate (LTIFR) 0,17 0,14 0,22 0,06 0,15 Women as a percentage of total staff complement % 61,6 62,7 63,0 62,1 62,7 Women in leadership (Group Exco) % 6,7 3 12,5 12,5 11,8 15,3 Training investment Rm 491 396 352 301 244 Communities Environment Green Star-rated buildings 6 3 3 2 1 Carbon footprint per fulltime employee tCO2e 7,08 7,61 7,89 7,74 8,25 Offset through carbon emission reduction projects tCO2e 225 000 230 000 240 000 240 000 220 000 Carbon status tCO2e Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Finance assessed under the Equator Principles US$ 3194 965 938 172 25 Social Total socioeconomic spend – group Rm 112 111 116 89 80 Total socioeconomic spend – as a percentage of NPAT5 % 1,34 1,54 1,94 1,99 1,48 Client education – group (participants) 400 0006 54 000 25 000 22 000 18 000 Procurement Total procurement spend Rbn 10,6 9,6 9,4 8,3 6,7 Local procurement spend Rbn 8,5 6,9 6,9 6,4 Local procurement spend as a percentage of total spend % 80 74 74 77 1 Decrease in 2013 due to SASSA clients reducing their activity. 2 Including rest of Africa. 3 Drop due to timing of female executive appointment. 4 Declined in line with industry experience. 5 NPAT – net profit after tax. 6 Including additional initiatives for youth. 18 DRIVERS GUIDING OUR STRATEGY Nedbank acknowledges that, to remain successful in banking over the long term, the socioeconomic context in which we operate matters enormously. We understand that our future business prospects are greatly improved if society is flourishing, the conditions of which require that human needs are being served within the biophysical constraints imposed by our finite planet. Even after many decades of growth and rising per capita incomes a series of stubborn social, environmental and economic challenges remain. In sub-Saharan Africa particularly, many of these issues are growing in both urgency and consequence. Our recognition of the systematic interdependencies between economic success, societal wellbeing and environmental health led us to develop a set of eight long-term goals for SA to achieve by 2030. Together they describe a prosperous future for our country – the ‘future we want’ – and serve as a potent framework to inform our strategic decisions. We selected the Long-term Goals on the basis of materiality for SA, coupled with our ability to contribute through being a successful bank. LONG-TERM GOALS Atmospheric greenhouse gases are stabilised at a level that gives a more-than-50% probability of avoiding a 2°C temperature rise above the long-term preindustrial average. The Nedbank strategy is Water resources are not being extracted beyond informed by our vision and sustainable levels. values, the Long-term Goals that guide how we create value for all our stakeholders, The labour force is employed at percentages as well as our material comparable with those of other prosperous nations. matters. All citizens have affordable access to clean water and sanitation services. All citizens have affordable access to energy services essential for development and prosperity. TO BE AFRICA’S Levels of saving and investment are sufficient to MOST ADMIRED BANK support national economic development objectives. Good health outcomes are consistently being achieved for citizens at a cost that is comparable with that of other nations. Good educational outcomes are consistently being achieved for citizens at a cost that is comparable with that of other nations. 19 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS MATERIAL MATTERS TOUGH ECONOMIC CONDITIONS WITH LIMITED FORWARD VISIBILITY KEY INPUTS Material matters are derived from major BANKING RELEVANCE macro (external) trends, AMID CONSUMERISM AND INCREASED our unique strategic context, an analysis of COMPETITION STRATEGIC our business risks and FOCUS AREAS opportunities and, most importantly, the needs of our key stakeholders – CLIENT-CENTRED INNOVATION staff, clients, INCREASED DEMANDS shareholders, regulators ON GOVERNANCE, and the communities and REGULATION AND RISK environment in which we MANAGEMENT GROW OUR operate. TRANSACTIONAL BANKING FRANCHISE GROWTH OPTIMISE TO OPPORTUNITIES IN THE INVEST MAJOR MACRO REST OF AFRICA TRENDS STRATEGIC PORTFOLIO TILT TRANSFORMATION OF NEDBANK’S UNIQUE SOCIETY WITHIN PAN-AFRICAN STRATEGIC CONTEXT PLANETARY BANKING NETWORK AND DYNAMICS BOUNDARIES AMONG SA BANKS SCARCE SKILLS NEEDS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS On the following pages we discuss the key components that influence our strategy, followed by our strategic focus areas, the progress made up to and in 2014, and the outlook for the future. 20 MATERIAL MATTERS Our material matters, which also represent our primary risks and opportunities, have been selected from a diverse range of key factors that could have a significant impact on our ability to deliver sustainably to our key stakeholders. Identifying and determining matters that are material to the group and our stakeholders is an ongoing process, involving analysis of the progress made on previous strategic priorities, including the study of all reports submitted for board or executive discussion, key business risk factors and identified opportunities, all formal and informal stakeholder feedback and integrated sustainability imperatives. OUR APPROACH We identify all issues that have the potential to impact on our sustainability and our ability to create value for our stakeholders. The process of identifying potential material matters is a groupwide responsibility, requiring input from all business units and divisions, and taking into INVESTIGATE account input and feedback from our stakeholders. Potential areas of impact that are assessed include financial, environmental, social, strategic, competitive, legislative, reputational and regulatory (including policy matters) areas, and our stakeholders. From the universe of identified issues we prioritise those that have the greatest relevance RANK and the highest potential to impact significantly on the viability of our business and relationships with stakeholders. This is a collaborative effort, however, the ultimate responsibility for prioritising material matters rests with the executive management team and board of directors. Once the material matters have been identified and prioritised, they inform long-term INTEGRATE business strategies as well as short-to-medium-term business plans. The process of identifying and prioritising material matters is an ongoing one. This means that continuous assessment of the previously identified material matters, while theoretically the ASSESS last step in the process, is in fact the first step in the next cycle. The Nedbank Group Executive Committee assumes responsibility for approval of the material matters prior to their endorsement by the Group Transformation, Social and Ethics Committee, a subcommittee of the board, and finally the Nedbank Group Board. Through this process we prioritised six material matters in 2013 that we believe remain relevant for the foreseeable future. All of these material matters are interrelated and together they inform our five strategic focus areas and actions. All six material matters apply across the group. As a financial services organisation our impact on the economy, society and the environment through the finance we provide is material, and is included within the boundary of our reporting. 21 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS TOUGH ECONOMIC CONDITIONS WITH LIMITED FORWARD VISIBILITY Globally and in SA economic conditions remain challenging. SA’s gross domestic product (GDP) in 2014 was again impacted by a five-month strike in the platinum belt while interest rates increased by 75 basis points, contributing to SA’s lowest GDP growth rate since the financial crisis. GDP growth below our country’s potential is likely to remain for the next few years. Visibility remains limited, underpinned by global market uncertainties and local energy constraints. Rand volatility, oil price uncertainties and its impact on inflation and the risk of further credit rating downgrades. MACRO Although we expect a 25 basis point increase in SA interest rates for 2015, they may remain lower for longer. TRENDS The tough economic environment places financial pressure on our clients, leading to lower levels of credit demand and transactional banking activity – this is particularly prominent in the retail and small business segments of the market. For banks this has a negative effect on earnings growth potential, while increasing the risk of higher levels of bad debts. Developments in the personal-loan market have been evidence of this, as seen with African Bank Limited being placed under curatorship. STRATEGIC CONTEXT Our wholesale clients are impacted by delays in infrastructural investment, particularly from electricity constraints. As a result longer-term investment appetite in SA remains muted. Retail clients have remained highly indebted since the financial crisis of 2008, compounded by the recent increase in interest rates, higher inflation and administrative costs as well as high unemployment levels. Lower oil prices, feeding into lower inflation, may prove beneficial to consumers in 2015 if maintained for longer. STAKEHOLDER NEEDS Our response to the material matters is covered in greater detail in our strategic focus areas. In summary, and as a quick reference, we have responded as follows: ■■ Retained sound capital levels and liquidity. ■■ Maintained a well-diversified business portfolio and risk framework. ■■ Grew our transactional banking client base and non-interest revenue (NIR). ■■ Strengthened our provisioning. ■■ Took early action, adopted selective origination and maintained prudent credit requirements in higherrisk portfolios such as Home Loans and Personal Loans. ■■ Positioned our book for rising interest rates. ■■ Implemented a countercyclical strategy to invest for growth while containing costs and driving STRATEGIC efficiencies. RESPONSE ■■ Rationalise, standardise and simplify IT systems and streamline finance, human resources and procurement systems to unlock future cost savings. ■■ Proactively educate clients and facilitate client financial wellbeing. 22 MATERIAL MATTERS (continued) BANKING RELEVANCE AMID CONSUMERISM AND INCREASED COMPETITION Competition is intensifying among banks as both established and new entrants target the same client base. Technological advances have enabled the entry of non-traditional players as they aim to cross-sell financial services to their existing client bases. These new entrants include online banks, microloan providers and virtual-payment and mobile-telephony providers, offering an increasing range of financial products and services to the consumer 24/7. MACRO TRENDS Increased competition for transacting clients and share of wallet has meant that banks must invest more in defending their competitive advantages while providing 24/7 client service, innovating more rapidly and pricing more competitively. This has increased the risk of lower revenue growth and a higher expense burden. STRATEGIC CONTEXT Changing consumer behaviour, where consumers are often multibanked and technologically skilled, has increased awareness of the various bank offerings, quality of service and pricing, which has led to higher expectations of banks. STAKEHOLDER NEEDS Our response to the material matters is covered in greater detail in our strategic focus areas. In summary, and as a quick reference, we have responded as follows: ■■ Adopted client-centred innovation as a strategic growth driver. ■■ Fully embraced digital and mobile banking, while embedding an integrated-channel strategy. ■■ Enabled seamless transactions across numerous channels. ■■ Expanded our footprint for increased convenience and access. ■■ Optimised our branch experiences. ■■ Increased our focus on cross-selling. ■■ Initiated greater crosscluster collaboration and integration of processes and systems. STRATEGIC ■■ Committed ourselves to affordable and transparent banking – kept fees at the same levels as 2013 and RESPONSE implemented selected fee reductions in some segments. ■■ Launched various new product and service innovations to meet unmet clients needs. 23 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS INCREASED DEMANDS ON GOVERNANCE, REGULATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT The global financial crisis brought the onset of increased regulation to ensure the soundness of banks and protect consumers, the most prominent of which are the Basel III regulations on capital adequacy and liquidity and the National Credit Act. Given trends in international financial markets, the risk of potential penalties and fines due to non-compliance has also increased in SA. MACRO SA’s implementation of the Twin Peaks regulatory framework and increased focus on consumer protection will TRENDS continue to place new demands on financial services organisations. Reduced credit life pricing and limiting interchange fees on card transactions are two recent examples. Increased regulation has created greater complexity and higher compliance costs for banks. The cost of funding has increased, impacting the capacity for banks to lend to clients, while spending on staff and IT capability to implement and manage the regulatory requirements has also increased as has the time to deliver innovative and competitive products. STRATEGIC CONTEXT Our regulators are one of our five key stakeholders. We continue to support governance and regulatory frameworks that have made it possible for SA’s banking sector to be rated top 10 globally in the latest World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Survey. Our governance and compliance track record is sound and reasonable, and we fully support sustainable banking practices. STAKEHOLDER NEEDS Our response to the material matters is covered in greater detail in our strategic focus areas. In summary, and as a quick reference, we have responded as follows: ■■ Focus on our aspiration to be worldclass at managing risk. ■■ Ensured closer working relations and partnerships with regulators. ■■ Implemented the Basel III capital and liquidity requirements. ■■ Continued full support of sustainable banking practices. ■■ Guarding the independence and broadened the expertise of the board of directors. ■■ Through our strategic portfolio tilt strategy, focus not only on returns, but also on the risk and capital STRATEGIC requirements for those returns. RESPONSE ■■ Took a leadership position in cybersecurity. 24 MATERIAL MATTERS (continued) GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES IN THE REST OF AFRICA Economic growth in the rest of Africa is surpassing that of many countries including SA, as evidenced by the International Monetary Fund’s GDP growth forecast of 4,9% for sub-Saharan Africa and only 2,1% for SA for 2015. This faster economic growth on the back of a rich resource base, improvements in the political environment and governance, trade liberation and extension of trade corridors contribute to the increased need for investment in infrastructure. Banks play a key role in capital-intensive projects. In addition, this has led to SA firms expanding into MACRO and investing in the rest of Africa. In the short term we expect volatility in these frontier markets, particularly those TRENDS that are over-reliant on oil revenues. The rest of Africa presents growth opportunities for Nedbank, albeit at a higher cost of capital and cost of risk, and require upfront investment. With faster economic growth there is a pressing need for infrastructure and capitalintensive projects, with Nedbank having strong, specialised skills and being in a position to play a key role in funding and structuring. At the same time we are able to leverage our strategic partnership with Ecobank, which has an unmatched presence across the continent. STRATEGIC CONTEXT Our growing African client base and our SA clients entering the rest of Africa seek to benefit from one-stop banking solutions. Shareholders, on the other hand, seek exposure to this higher-growth region through investment in wellmanaged SA banks that follow a risk-mitigated approach. STAKEHOLDER NEEDS Our response to the material matters is covered in greater detail in our strategic focus areas. In summary, and as a quick reference, we have responded as follows: ■■ Continued to develop a Pan-African banking network. ■■ In West and Central Africa where we are following a partnership approach, we have strengthened our strategic alliance with Ecobank Transnational Incorporated, which is represented in 36 countries, through a shareholding of approximately 20%. STRATEGIC ■■ In SADC and East Africa where we own, manage and control banks we invested in our existing rest of Africa RESPONSE subsidiaries and acquired an initial 36,6% stake in Banco Único in Mozambique with a pathway to control in 2016. ■■ Concluded investment banking deals in 24 countries across Africa. 25 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS TRANSFORMATION OF SOCIETY WITHIN PLANETARY BOUNDARIES The past two centuries have seen rapid population growth, but even faster economic growth, with an increase in average per capita income by a factor of more than 10. Higher living standards have also been coupled with improvements in life expectancy for billions of people. This progress has come at a significant environmental cost and there is mounting evidence that current patterns of human consumption are exceeding the planet’s supply limits, and is therefore unsustainable. Furthermore, high levels of poverty and inequality remain in many regions, including sub-Saharan Africa. Millions of citizens lack access to formal employment opportunities, sufficient food, clean water and MACRO sanitation, safe and affordable transportation, suitable housing, modern healthcare, education and financial TRENDS services. Environmental, societal and economic sustainability are all inextricably linked. As a bank for all, Nedbank’s business success is linked to the sustainability of the environment that we operate in. We understand that our future business prospects are greatly improved if society is flourishing, the conditions of which require that human needs are being served within the biophysical constraints imposed by our finite planet. We are committed to good corporate citizenship and contributing to the building of a strong and thriving nation in SA, entrenching a culture of diversity and transformation, and leading as a green bank. STRATEGIC CONTEXT The economic effects of the unsustainable use of resources would be high and volatile commodity prices and increased risk of natural disasters. In an attempt to respond to these, stricter regulatory standards and prices on externalities could be implemented, which will lead to higher prices for things such as electricity, transport and water, among others. STAKEHOLDER NEEDS Our response to the material matters is covered in greater detail in our strategic focus areas. In summary, and as a quick reference, we have responded as follows: ■■ Since 2009 we have maintained our BBBEE level 2 rating and we are rated as one of the JSE’s most transformed companies. ■■ Developed Long-term Goals to guide our business strategy. Fair Share 2030, our strategic business response, aims to address societal needs within critical environmental thresholds. ■■ Continued contribution through our own operations and corporate social investment (CSI). ■■ Strong sustainability leadership and advocacy. ■■ Took a leading position in funding SA renewable-energy programmes, with an estimated participation in more than 54% of megawatt capacity. STRATEGIC ■■ Build on solid empowerment credentials in the interests of transformation. RESPONSE ■■ Carbon neutral for six consecutive years. ■■ Support the Financial Sector Code. ■■ On the back of the winding up of our Black Business Partner BEE schemes we have now unlocked an estimated R8,2bn of value through our SA BBBEE schemes since inception. 26 MATERIAL MATTERS (continued) SCARCE SKILLS Skills shortages in SA, attributable to the poor outcomes of the country’s educational system, are a serious risk to economic growth for the country. In the higher-education and training pillar of the 2014–2015 World Economic Forum Competitiveness Report, SA was ranked last of 144 countries in ‘Quality of math and science education’ and 140th in ‘Quality of the educational system’. These education challenges place a greater emphasis on skills retention and development in order to improve our global competitiveness. As a result, SA continues to have high levels of unemployment. MACRO The transformation imperative remains top of the agenda for all stakeholders and continued progress to a more TRENDS equitable representation of the SA workforce. Banking is a large employer in the financial services sector and we require highly-skilled employees to service our clients. We are therefore investing in attracting, retaining and developing the skills we need to grow our businesses, because the right people with the right skills are essential for the delivery of our strategy. However, increasing competition means we have to work even harder to retain our best people and to mitigate the cost of replacing skilled staff. Nedbank’s leaders are among the most highly skilled in the industry and we have succession plans in place for all key positions. STRATEGIC CONTEXT Nedbank has taken a leadership position in transformation and we continue to place this high on our agenda, given our goal to stay at the forefront of transformation. Our staff and corporate culture is a key competitive advantage and differentiator in attracting and retaining staff. We measure staff entropy to understand the level of dissonance within the group, while seeking to create a closer fit between the existing and ideal culture. STAKEHOLDER NEEDS Our response to the material matters is covered in greater detail in our strategic focus areas. In summary, and as a quick reference, we have responded as follows: ■■ Continued to emphasise our strong employee value proposition – being a great place to work. ■■ Appropriately competitive remuneration. ■■ Spent R491m on training and development. ■■ Optimise personal and team effectiveness through the Leading for Deep Green programme. ■■ Continue to transform our business to reflect the profile of society. ■■ Focus on improving educational outcomes in SA, with 50% of Nedbank Foundation’s CSI geared towards this. ■■ Launched Nedbank Academies – focused on developing scarce skills for Nedbank and SA. ■■ Developed and launched our flagship Nedbank Graduate Development Programme in 2010, with a specific aim STRATEGIC RESPONSE of providing graduates with a worldclass development experience, addressing both personal leadership and functional specialised competency requirements, thereby creating a talent pipeline for us and the industry as a whole. ■■ Focus on educational outcomes through Long-term Goals of Fair Share 2030. 27 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS Our strategy is primarily aimed at creating value for our shareholders (long-term capital providers) and is defined by our five key strategic focus areas in the context of the material matters as described in our integrated report. In delivering sustainable results for the long term, we also aim to create value for our key stakeholders. Our five strategic focus areas depicted below are discussed in more detail on the following pages. CLIENT-CENTRED GROW OUR PAN-AFRICAN INNOVATION TRANSACTIONAL BANKING NETWORK BANKING FRANCHISE TO BE AFRICA’S MOST ADMIRED BANK In improving our integrated reporting this year we have sought to be more explicit, yet concise, in our discussion on what the key strategic focus areas mean to us, how we performed against key financial and non-financial metrics in 2014, the value created for our stakeholders, the outlook going forward, and key risks and OPTIMISE TO STRATEGIC opportunities associated with each. Through our internal INVEST PORTFOLIO TILT reporting mechanisms we track progress in detail, while for integrated reporting purposes we aim to provide stakeholders with a high-level overview. In the Remuneration Report in the 2014 integrated report we illustrate how our financial performance and delivery on the strategic focus areas inform remuneration and incentives. 28 STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS (continued) RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS Innovation is driven by our people and culture (human capital) to CLIENT-CENTRED enhance our client value propositions and competitiveness in the market. We also innovate around the demands placed on us by our INNOVATION regulators and making a difference in our communities. We believe that by focusing on the major unmet needs in society, we can create value through innovation, benefiting our clients and thereby increasing shareholder value. Client-centred innovation is about developing solutions (products, services or HOW DID WE CREATE VALUE? processes) to address Since 2013 we introduced various market-leading valueadding specific client needs, create solutions such as Send-iMali™ (our cardless cash withdrawal capability), MyFinancialLife™ (a comprehensive personal financial value for our clients (by management tool that provides account aggregation, net-worth tracking, spend analysis, budgeting and retirement planning lowering their banking costs functionality), PocketPOS™ (secure acceptance of ‘CHIP and PIN’ card transactions via mobile phones), the Nedbank App Suite™ for example) or to enable a (our mobile award-winning banking app), ApproveIT™ security (making our electronic platforms more secure) and Intelligent better overall client Depositor devices (allowing for self-service-rich functionality, experience. including cash deposits). For our wholesale clients the Plug and Transact™ token has enhanced security on the NetBank Business electronic banking platform, providing greater flexibility and This strategic focus area is enhanced ease of use, while the recently launched Market Edge™ merchant analytics tool provides retailers with detailed analytics on primarily in response to the their customer base and store performance. material matter of banking These solutions are examples of innovations that have made banking more efficient, more secure and more affordable for our clients. relevance amid consumerism Innovation successes have additionally resulted in increased staff and increased competition. It morale, pride and loyalty. In 2014 we invested approximately R1,1bn in innovation and related development. is central to all of our other strategic focus areas, because innovation, whether technology-driven or not, is key to our success. HOW DOES IT Our client-centred approach has resulted in Nedbank delivering more innovations in the past two years than in the previous five years combined. SET US APART? Internally, innovation has increased the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of our structures, systems and processes, and this ultimately benefits our clients. Nedbank’s reputation as an innovative bank is evident in us receiving the 2014 African Banker Award for Innovation. RELEVANCE TO OUR BUSINESS MODEL Through client-centred innovation we develop new innovative income streams and protect existing ones, while growing and retaining clients. 29 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS WHAT IS OUR OUTLOOK? ■■ We will continue to implement our integratedchannels strategy, emphasising innovation on mobile and digital capabilities as well as digital security. By providing convenient self-service capabilities both in our physical points of presence and on mobile and digital channels, we seek to provide clients with easier access and a better overall banking HOW DID WE MEASURE UP? experience, while reducing our cost to serve. ■■ We aim to convert 75% of our outlets to the ‘branch ■■ Increased digitally-enabled clients 48% in 2014. of the future’ format by 2017. ■■ Converted 171 outlets to our ‘branch of the future’ format, ■■ Nedbank will continue to explore opportunities for which equates to 22% of the total footprint. growth in the card and payment value chain, albeit in ■■ Increased the Nedbank brand value 15% to R12,6bn in 2014, a highly competitive and regulated environment. as reported by Brand Finance SA’s Top 50 Most Valuable The effective commercialisation of selective Brands Survey. innovation opportunities leveraged off the new ■■ Continued to entrench innovation is in our culture, with staff Postilion switch and the American Express® survey feedback having shown continuous improvement for relationship as a differentiator will form the basis for statements relating to innovation and over 1 500 ideas continued success. logged by staffmembers in 2014. ■■ Continue to extract value through Fair Share 2030 ■■ Significantly enhanced internal processes and organisation to initiatives, servicing client needs using innovative support innovation from idea generation and development to financing with intentional non-financial benefits. commercialisation, with faster delivery and more effective go-to-market strategies evidenced. However, this is an area that will require ongoing focus. WHAT ARE THE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OF DELIVERING ON THIS STRATEGIC FOCUS AREA? ■■ Ongoing investment is required over the next few years in an environment where the economy remains weak, growth in transaction volumes remains low and competition is increasing. Responsiveness to client needs and delivery remain important. ■■ Our biggest opportunities lie in establishing Nedbank as a leader in true client-centred innovation, enabling clients to direct and control much of their banking requirements, unlocking new revenue streams and reducing the cost of providing banking services, while creating resource efficiencies so that we can innovate and bring to market new offerings, more quickly and cost-effectively. This should enhance Nedbank’s ability to continue growing our share of clients. ■■ Embracing Fair Share 2030 is required as a business opportunity and differentiator that simultaneously delivers on unmet client needs and human welfare imperatives within environmental considerations. 30 STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS (continued) RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS This strategic focus area is closely linked to client-centred innovation. It is therefore directly related to our clients’ needs and the capabilities of our staff or human and intellectual capital and our social and relationship capital, which ultimately benefit our shareholders. GROW OUR TRANSACTIONAL BANKING FRANCHISE HOW DID WE CREATE VALUE? Through a focus on growing our transactional banking franchise we have been able to increase NIR by a compound 11,3% between 2009 To mitigate the material and 2014. effects of the economic cycle We created value for our clients in 2014 by keeping fees at or below 2013 levels in our retail, small business and business banking in the form of interest rate segments. Along with our planned strategic slowdown of personal loans, this had a short-term impact on NIR growth in 2014, but and credit risk it is important positions Nedbank favourably for the future. to build a sustainable buffer In the past two years we have educated clients on transactional behaviour changes and moved clients to relevant lower-priced by increasing the contribution transacting bundles. from non-interest revenue (NIR) to group revenue. The main driver of NIR is gaining transactional banking clients and increasing volumes, which in turn supports growth in attractive household and commercial deposit HOW DID WE MEASURE UP? categories, both of these attractive economic profit drivers. This is particularly relevant for Nedbank as we estimate that ■■ Total clients increased 7,1% to 7,1m. our main-banked market share in retail and corporate is ■■ Main-banked retail clients increased 7,0% to 2,5m, with only about 10% and about 15% respectively, well below our cross-sell continuing to increase. share of advances and deposits, which is above 18%. ■■ Business Banking increased its primary client base by 752 and Nedbank Corporate added 20 new transactional clients. Our focus is to grow across all segments of the markets we ■■ Given our deliberate strategic decisions to keep bank fees at or serve and to increase the depth of client relationships below 2013 levels and slow down personalloan growth, our through compelling client value propositions. NIR-to-expenses ratio decreased to 82,8% (2013: 86,4%). ■■ For a more detailed analysis of the financial impact refer to the Chief Financial Officer’s Report, in the 2014 integrated report. We have a proven track record of delivering on this strategic focus area, growing NIR above the SA industry average over an extended period. While growing pleasingly and given our lower share of main-banked clients (2013: HOW DOES IT 2,3m, 2014: 2,5m), we believe we still have significant room for growth. SET US APART? Our bank fees remain competitive and innovations have been leading the market. Our historical focus of growing youth and entry-level clients will benefit us in the future as some of them enter the middle-market segment over time. Our sustained investment in new branches and ATMs has resulted in a competitive footprint, with coverage of 82% of the bankable SA population. RELEVANCE TO OUR BUSINESS MODEL By growing our transactional banking franchise we increase our return on equity (ROE), as deposits and transactional revenue consume less capital. At the same time our earnings volatility is reduced as the contribution to more stable sources of income is increased. 31 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS NUMBER OF CLIENTS (m) NON-INTEREST REVENUE (Rm) Total clients grew 7,1% to 7,1m (retail clients: 7,2% to 6,9 m). NIR increased 11,3% compound since 2009 and 4,9% in 2014. 20 312 7,1 19 361 6,7 17 324 6,1 15 412 5,5 5,1 13 215 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 WHAT IS OUR OUTLOOK? ■■ We will continue to focus on strongly growing ■■ In 2015 we will bed down our new integrated clientrevenue generated from transactional banking, centred wholesale banking structure announced in targeting an NIR-to-expenses ratio of 85% in the 2014, which should position us well for revenue medium to long term. growth over the medium to long term. ■■ We expect continued growth in client numbers, ■■ We will continue to drive transactional client growth aiming to increase our main-banked market share further through ‘simplified client onboarding’. This will over time and deepen cross-sell, while bank fees will improve processes at the moment of application, increase at levels well below inflation. resulting in a faster and simpler client experience. WHAT ARE THE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OF DELIVERING ON THIS STRATEGIC FOCUS AREA? ■■ Increased competition and regulation, particularly the impact of lower interchange fees in 2015, could mute NIR growth. ■■ Failure to innovate in areas that are critical to the client experience at a pace that is on par or ahead of competitors will over time limit our ability to gain and retain clients. Continued investments in marketing and distribution are required to keep Nedbank top of mind and accessible. ■■ Deeper client relationships can be forged through better engagement and retention. ■■ Increasing our NIR contribution will create a buffer against volatile external factors. 32 STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS (continued) RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS Our staff are key in identifying and implementing initiatives that simplify our processes, making the bank more cost-efficient. This OPTIMISE TO INVEST impacts our manufactured capital (eg physical and digital infrastructure and IT systems) as we invest for the future. Our clients or social and relationship capital benefit from enhanced client experiences due to greater access to Nedbank channels and simplified processes. Shareholders benefit to the extent that cost savings are realised for reinvestment in areas of sustainable future The strategic focus area growth. ‘Optimise to invest’ aims to fund our investment in our franchise to sustain future growth. We fundamentally believe in investing through cycles – the impact on staff HOW DID WE CREATE VALUE? morale and client service of Through significant investment in outlets (+41%) and ATMs (+104%) since 2009, we have made banking more convenient for cutting costs too aggressively our clients. Our integrated-channel strategy enabled clients to is a hard lesson Nedbank transact seamlessly across their channels of choice, while the rollout of our ‘branch of the future’ resulted in a reduction of floor space, learnt in the early 2000s. increase in sales volumes and reduced account opening times. Our managed-evolution approach to technology aims deliberately to Investment in outlets, digital channels, new value enhance our IT systems over time and deliver business benefits. In propositions and technology is funded through cost savings line with our ‘rationalise, standardise and simplify’ IT strategy, we set from optimisation, simplification and rationalisation a target in 2010 to decrease our core systems from 250 to 60, of processes – a key factor in tough times, as described in the which 74 have been decommissioned to date. This is laying the material matter ’Tough economic environment conditions foundation for future cost savings and vast efficiencies. We with limited forward visibility‘. progressed well with our SAP enterprise resource planning (ERP) replacement system for finance and procurement (implemented 1 January 2015) with the remaining human resources modules to be implemented during 2015. HOW DOES IT Nedbank, in contrast with most of its peer group, has been investing consistently in our franchise over the past five years, unlocking new growth SET US APART? opportunities. Our ability to manage our cost base through the years has been an outstanding feature and is acknowledged by the investment community. RELEVANCE TO OUR BUSINESS MODEL Through ‘Optimise to invest’ we ensure that we invest sustainably in the franchise to unlock future growth opportunities, while managing our cost base by unlocking synergies and efficiencies. 33 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS HOW DID WE ATMs1 MEASURE UP? Cost growth of 9,4% in 2014 includes 3 711 3 499 ■■ continued investment in the franchise. 3 146 2 663 2 266 CORE SYSTEMS FROM 2010 TO 2014 250 231 211 194 176 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 WHAT IS OUR OUTLOOK? ■■ Invest a further R2,1bn by 2017 in refurbishing our outlets, additional ATMs and the rollout of our ‘branch of the future’ format. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ■■ Investment in the rest of Africa. ■■ We have embarked upon a number of crosscluster initiatives to rationalise, standardise and simplify systems and processes. Our frontline clusters will continue to focus on STAFFED OUTLETS1 product simplification by rationalising the number of products in the market; simplifying credit, compliance and (EXCLUDING PERSONAL-LOANS KIOSKS) legal processes as well as leaner standard documentation, among others. 886 898 906 ■■ We have identified areas in the group’s support clusters 735 760 where significant cost savings can be realised through our cost-reduction programmes. ■■ Together with the greater Old Mutual Group in SA, identifying and collectively unlocking R1bn of synergies, on a pretax basis, across Nedbank, Old Mutual (South Africa) and Mutual & Federal by 2017. Just under 30% of the synergies are estimated to accrue to Nedbank. ■■ In an environment of low interest rates, reaching our medium-to-long-term cost-to-income ratio target of 50% to 53% is challenging, but remains a focus. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1 Including rest of Africa. WHAT ARE THE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OF DELIVERING ON THIS STRATEGIC FOCUS AREA? ■■ The risks of not achieving our optimisation and investment targets are cost overruns or delays in project implementation and not extracting the expected benefits. ■■ The optimisation and cost savings we realise will create the opportunity to invest in other areas of strategic priority. ■■ Cost optimisation initiatives will enable investment in our people and the retention of scarce skills as well as support transformation at Nedbank. 34 STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS (continued) RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS Our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and the relevant capitals – human and intellectual, manufactured and financial, natural, and social, and relationship capital – are all impacted by strategic portfolio tilt. Staff are educated to understand and adapt to the change in the riskand-return profile of products or even redeployed to business areas STRATEGIC PORTFOLIO TILT that we seek to grow more rapidly. Staff roles and processes change according to increased regulatory reporting and risk management requirements. The change in the risk-and-return profile of various products has resulted in Nedbank adopting selective deposit and advances growth as well as risk-adjusted pricing strategies, which impact our clients. Strategic portfolio tilt aims to The bank’s social and relationship capital in relation to regulators is manage our portfolio of more important than ever, as systemic risk remains high on the agenda. businesses and products Shareholder returns are impacted by the increase in capital required. proactively to improve our This results in lower ROE performance for the banking industry as well as the increased cost of funding, which reduce net interest risk-and-return profile and to margins. More importantly, shareholders are increasingly valuing identify financial services investments that show lower propensity for downside risk. The building or depleting of social and natural capitals is fundamental opportunities that maximise to our decisionmaking processes. economic profit (EP) growth while maintaining a fortress balance sheet. This is HOW DID WE CREATE VALUE? particularly relevant in a We continue to benefit from the early action taken in reducing our home loan and personal-loan portfolios, while strengthening our tough economic environment focus on growing EP-generative activities such as transactional deposits and transactional banking, and in the rest of Africa. with limited forward visibility. The benefit resulting from our actions over the past four years has enabled the group to maintain a sound balance sheet, improve This focus area seeks to respond to the material matters of coverage ratios and reduce impairments, while delivering dividendincreased demands on governance, regulation and risk per-share growth ahead of headline earnings per share (HEPS) management as well as transforming within planetary growth. boundaries. The Basel III regulatory requirements for capital, funding and liquidity resulted in lower returns and EP from secured-lending products such as home loans, given the higher levels of capital and funding required and increase in associated costs. While client deposits become attractive, the competition among banks increases. RELEVANCE TO OUR BUSINESS MODEL HOW DOES IT SET US APART? Through strategic portfolio tilt we aim to Nedbank is widely acknowledged for taking early action in anticipating leverage our strong wholesale banking industry issues – this was evident particularly in home loans and personal position, while reducing downside risk in loans. higher-risk products or businesses. We The group’s business model bias towards the wholesale market segments (60% of advances) positions us well in the current economic environment. aim to maintain a strong balance sheet in tough and uncertain times to provide Our ability to generate economic profit has been beneficial to our shareholders, as is evident in our strong share price performance over one, protection against unforeseen events. three and five years. Nedbank’s Long-term Goals serve to It sees us taking a longer-term view on opportunities as opposed to being too reactive in the short term, while preparing and building the markets of guide strategic portfolio tilt in terms of the future. direction and speed, ensuring the inclusion of non-financial considerations. 35 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS HOW DID WE MEASURE UP? ■■ Economic profit at R2,1bn. ■■ CET1 capital ratio at 11,6%, above mid-point of our medium-to-long-term target of 10,5% to 12,5%. ■■ Total specific coverage ratio at 43% and total coverage ratio at 70%. ■■ In 2014 Nedbank concluded a proof-of-concept phase of Fair Share 2030, a small-scale pilot through which we generated important insights that served to inform our business planning process and will prove invaluable as we scale up through 2015 and beyond. CET1 RATIO (%) COVERAGE RATIOS (%) 70,0 64,2 12,5 11,6 11,6 56,4 11,0 49,5 10,1 41,9 33,9 37,7 38,6 42,3 43,1 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total ECONOMIC PROFIT (Rm) Specific 2 114 2 112 1 521 924 WHAT IS OUR OUTLOOK? ■■ We continue to be cautious in higher-risk (289) portfolios, but are likely selectively to grow home loans and rightsize personal loans in the medium term. We expect continued strong advances growth across 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 most of our wholesale portfolios, credit cards and vehicle finance. ■■ Deepening Fair Share 2030 through a vertical, crosscluster centre of excellence to help identify and realise new business opportunities that intentionally provide WHAT ARE THE RISKS AND additional financial and non-financial benefits to stakeholders. OPPORTUNITIES OF DELIVERING ON THIS Through Fair Share 2030 we have set STRATEGIC FOCUS AREA? ■■ ourselves a challenge to seek qualifying ■■ Unemployment and an increase in consumer indebtedness could increase lending of no less than R6bn during 2015 the risk of lending to the retail market and impact returns. Home loans (to be reviewed in future years). Fair remain the product that shows the biggest potential for downside risk in an Share 2030 also provides for a screening environment of rising interest rates and higher unemployment – to this end mechanism that will serve to reshape the Nedbank has been very conservative in its lending practices over time. carbon and water intensity of Nedbank’s ■■ The key considerations impacting delivery of Fair Share 2030 is the limited lending book over time. risk appetite for new, untested business opportunities that may require a comparatively greater time investment. ■■ Sustained lower oil prices could relieve the pressure on consumers through lower inflation, while interest rates could stay lower for longer. ■■ Broadening the bank’s risk management perspective and diversification of credit risk of the lending book, while enhancing client-centredness and unlocking innovative solutions remain a focus. ■■ Fair Share 2030 encourages collaboration between Nedbank’s businesses and builds a differentiated market position. 36 STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS (continued) RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS By increasing our footprint in Africa and creating a Pan‑African banking network we are able to provide our clients with a broad range of banking solutions and banking services in the growing economies of Africa. In addition, expanding into the rest of Africa PAN-AFRICAN allows our shareholders the opportunity to benefit in the growthearning potential of the African economies. Our Pan-African network BANKING NETWORK also enables our staff to gain Pan-African exposure and share skills, knowledge and experience across the different regions. Our Pan-African banking network strategy represents a HOW DID WE CREATE VALUE? Within SADC and East Africa, we have increased the client-focused, risk-mitigated, ■■ momentum in positioning the business for growth by: capital-efficient growth lever Investing in expanding our distribution channels Laying the foundation for implementing a single integrated for the medium to long term and cost efficient IT platform to enable innovation, optimisation of operations and better risk management. and primarily addresses the Leveraging off our South African skills and capabilities in material matter of growth retail and business banking, corporate, capital and wealth. Our acquisition of shareholding in Banco Único in opportunities in the rest of Mozambique has strengthened the Nedbank franchise and client proposition in the SADC. Africa. ■■ In West and Central Africa, our investment in a 20% shareholding in Ecobank in early October has generated an Together with Ecobank, a key player in West and Central estimated R146m of associate income, but more importantly Africa in which we acquired a shareholding of approximately provides our shareholders and clients access to the higher 20% in 2014, we provide our clients with access to the growth markets outside of SA. The strategic and technical largest Pan-African banking network of 39 countries. alliance with Ecobank continues to deliver value for our clients Investing in Ecobank – the number one bank in Ghana, a and Nedbank. Approximately 70 Nedbank wholesale banking systemically important bank in Nigeria and ranked a topclients now bank with our alliance partner through collaboration three bank by assets in 14 countries in Africa – ensures efforts. diversification of country-specific risk while giving our ■■ We continue to identify investment opportunities for our clients shareholders access to the faster gross domestic product expanding their operations into the rest of the continent through growth rates in the rest of Africa. our wholesale banking franchise. In the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and East Africa we have increased our presence with an initial acquisition of 36,6% in Banco Único, Mozambique, which was concluded in 2014. Our network presence in SADC and East Africa now comprises six countries, namely Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia, Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. In addition, we have representative offices in Kenya and Angola. HOW DOES IT Our strategy for the rest of Africa is anchored by Nedbank’s vision to build Africa’s most admired bank through strong organic growth, prudent SET US APART? acquisitions and an alliance underpinned by a one-bank operating model across the continent. Our clients benefit from a bank with the largest banking network in SADC, East Africa and West Africa, which is intended to provide our clients with a seamless banking experience. RELEVANCE TO OUR BUSINESS In addition, our clients are able to leverage off Ecobank’s deep incountry knowledge. We have approached our expansion in a risk-mitigated manner MODEL as evidenced in the portfolio effect of spreading risk across various countries and following our rights after carefully assessing the investment case over a The strategic focus area of the Panthree-year period. We are cognisant of creating shareholder value and as African banking network aims to drive such we see our strategy as capital-efficient and evidenced by acquiring our greater earnings contribution from faster shareholding in Ecobank. growth in the economies of the rest of Africa, while also providing geographic diversification benefit. 37 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REST OF AFRICA DIVISION HOW DID WE MEASURE UP? CAPITAL DEPLOYED1 (Rm) ■■ Expanded our own presence in SADC and East Africa from five to six countries. 7 0522 ■■ Laid the foundation to implement a standardised onebank business operating model across our subsidiaries. ■■ Invested R6,3bn to become a strategic shareholder in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI) with a shareholding of about 20%, and in Banco Único, with a shareholding of 36,6%. 3 549 1 850 1 998 1 087 WHAT IS OUR OUTLOOK? 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 ■■ In SADC and East Africa: 1 Year-to-date averages. We aim to capture a growing share of the market in 2 Year-end capital deployed into the Rest of Africa Division and to deals the rest of Africa where we have existing presence. written on the continent by Nedbank Capital and Nedbank Corporate. We will continue to invest in distribution channels, enhancing and adding new products. REST OF AFRICA DIVISION We will continue to identify acquisition opportunities HEADLINE EARNINGS (Rm) in SADC and East Africa to increase our presence from six to 10 countries over time. ■■ In West and Central Africa: 357 We will continue to strengthen our relationship with Ecobank, building on the strategic alliance we created in 2008 and benefiting from deepening our relationship as a shareholder and strategic and technical partner. 176 173 Across our franchise we will continue to align governance structures in the different regions with best international 125 practice. 2011 2012 2013 2014 WHAT ARE THE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OF DELIVERING ON THIS STRATEGIC FOCUS AREA? ■■ The associated risks of investing in the rest of Africa are higher and evolving, given less political, social and economic stability as well as regulation and governance regime when compared with developed markets and SA. In particular, this has a bearing on capital, investment and operational risk. The market value of ETI is less than the carrying value of the investment at 31 December 2014. ■■ A lower oil price could negatively impact the prospects of oil-exporting countries such as Nigeria, Angola and Ghana. Here Ecobank’s diversified business model across 36 countries provides some buffer against excessive downside risk, compared with peers operating primarily in one of these countries. ■■ Skills shortages in the rest of Africa, similar to SA, could add to the risk of our strategy not being delivered on, targets missed, fraud and IT, systems and other risk-related operational activities. ■■ Overpaying for new acquisitions as we pursue inorganic growth opportunities is a risk. ■■ There is an opportunity to collaborate with our majority shareholder, Old Mutual plc, in respect of both the organic and acquisition scenarios. 38 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our stakeholders are those individuals, groups of individuals or organisations that affect and/or could be affected by our organisation’s activities, products or services and performance. Our primary stakeholders, as outlined in our vision, are our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and communities, and include ‘silent’ stakeholders such as future generations and the environment (human and environmental capitals). VALUE-ADDED STATEMENT NET INTEREST IMPAIRMENT LOSSES OTHER BANKING VALUE INCOME ON LOANS AND INCOME ADDED ADVANCES R22 961m (R4 506m) R20 370m R38 825m  RETENTIONS FOR GROWTH STAFF EXPENSES (Rm) (Rm) 3 979 4 980 5 670 6 334 6 818 8 794 10 243 11 425 12 629 13 838 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 SOCIOECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SPEND4 17,6% OTHER EXPENDITURE1 35,6% (Rm) (Rm) Value allocated 23,0% R38 825m  6 594 7 200 7 574 8 171 8 927 79 78 95 101 104 13,0% 10,6% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 DIVIDENDS PAID TO SHAREHOLDERS2 GOVERNMENT (TAXES)3 (cents) (Rm) 2 367 2 921 3 586 4 141 5 035 1 811 2 679 3 426 3 617 4 103 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1 Includes expenses relating to computer processing, communication and travel, occupation and accommodation, marketing and public relations as well as fees and insurance. 2 Value is allocated to shareholders in respect of cash dividends (but does not include the underlying value of capitalisation shares awarded). 3 Includes direct and indirect taxation. 4 Financial Services Code qualifying spend. 39 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS DELIVERING CONSISTENTLY TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS ‘Time to shift the emphasis to costs, we were heartened to hear, though, that Nedbank will not abandon or slow its drive to gain greater scale in retail banking INVESTING IN in the interest of short-term earnings growth.’ – Rated financial analyst OUR STAFF ‘We see management as a strength and the depth at Nedbank as a positive’ – Shareholder ‘Nedbank is a caring bank and great for personal ‘Ecobank is emerging a potential differentiator for Nedbank. development and career Looks like they have dealt with their governance issues.’ – Investor growth.’ – Nedbank staffmember ‘The stable outlook on Nedbank Limited reflects that of South Africa and our expectation that the bank’s asset quality, profitability, and capitalisation will ‘Nedbank is an equalremain broadly stable over the next two years.’ – S&P credit ratings opportunity bank, regardless of race, gender or religion.’ – Nedbank staffmember ‘My bank voted Most PARTNERING Innovative Bank in Africa!!! Nedbank is going places. WITH OUR Proud to be a Nedbanker.’ REGULATORS – Nedbank staffmember Our relationships with regulators remain ongoing, proactive and transparent. Over the last year the demands from regulators to comply fully with all legislative and regulatory requirements have increased. We view the professional relationship between Nedbank and our regulators as mutually beneficial. LEADING IN THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE ‘Thanks to Nedbank I was given a wonderful opportunity to train in the hospitality industry at the Ray Mhlaba Skills Training Centre, as I could not afford to study after school.’ Nokulunga Tatayi, INNOVATING FOR OUR CLIENTS a beneficiary of the training programme, who is now ‘It makes us feel so secure and a little less stressed to know our permanently employed at the bank is there and behind us farmers all the way! Thank you for Paxton Hotel in Port Elizabeth all that you do to help us farmers keep the wheels turning and thank you Nedbank for all the support!’ Client ‘The partnership between Nedbank and WIPHOLD was ‘Love MyFinancialLife™. It’s a great tool. Please consider pioneering in so many ways. an Android version.’ Client When the deal was announced, it was the first transaction to include women as primary ‘Nedbank have stepped up their game, which should beneficiaries, signalling major keep FNB on their toes.’ Client progress towards increased involvement of women in the ‘Card collection done within 10 mins tops! Including queuing! economy. The relationship has Happy SAVVY customer! Thank you Nedbank Menlyn.’ Client matured and has been rich with challenge, debate and shared values.’ Gloria Serobe, founder of WIPHOLD and CEO of Wipcapital ‘Africa’s first 100% renewableenergy-powered bank branch.’ 2014 Nedbank GreenAfrica, Director highlights video. 40 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) ‘At Nedbank, we not only aspire to be an employer of choice; we are absolutely committed to investing in all our people to ensure that they have the skills required to perform at their peak, thereby delivering tangible benefits for themselves and their futures, while contributing to the growth and success of the business and the achievement of its vision.’ INVESTING IN OUR STAFF WHAT ARE THEIR NEEDS AND WHO ARE OUR STAFF? EXPECTATIONS OF US? ■■ 61,2% female staffmembers, 37,3% male A central component of the achievement of our vision to be Africa’s most admired staffmembers. bank is delivery on our own sustainability objectives and commitments. Our staff ■■ 9,9% of our staff are younger than 26 years and play a key role in this, so we strive to create and maintain a positive and productive 4,3% over 55 years. working environment that embraces and respects diversity and enables the ■■ 25,3% of our staff have a tenure of more than 10 personal and professional goals of all our employees. years. In achieving this, we engage constantly with our workforce to establish their ■■ 3,8% of our staff have disabilities. priorities, needs and expectations. In 2014 the following were identified as our ■■ 59,7% of our staff are employed in Gauteng. employees’ most significant needs and expectations: ■■ 4,8% of our staff are employed in the rest of Africa. ■■ Career development opportunities. ■■ High level of engagement among Nedbank staff at ■■ Effective performance management and recognition. 72%. ■■ A collaborative, innovative and client-centred culture. ■■ High level of staff morale, with staff satisfaction at ■■ Promoting and enabling diversity and inclusion. 76,4%. ■■ Effective employee relations. ■■ Low levels of staff attrition at 8,9% ■■ Employee wellbeing. ■■ A healthy and safe work environment. 41 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS TOTAL PERMANENT SPENT ON STAFF WITH STAFF STAFF TRAINING DISABILITIES ATTRITION 30 499 R491m 3,8% 8,9% HOW DID WE DELIVER VALUE TO OUR STAFF IN 2014? ■■ Career development opportunities – During 2014 we embarked on The Nedbank Staff Survey (NSS) results stayed constant at a project to reprofile all jobs across our organisation according to 76%. Positive shifts were found in Change and Transformation, defined Job Family Frameworks. These included clear career Ethics, Organisational Culture and Values, Rewards, Recognition streams that ensure alignment of all jobs to our strategic objectives, and Performance Management, and Training and Development. while fully articulating job responsibilities and requirements. These This reveals wide agreement among our employees on the revised job profiles will help to improve career mobility for Nedbank practices and policies that govern Nedbank and the consistent employees across clusters and will result in clear career paths made strength of our organisational climate – a good foundation for available per job family. growth of the organisation. ■■ People development – We comply with all training and skills The Hewitt Engagement Survey forms part of the NSS and assists development legislation, but go beyond this in our efforts to drive us in understanding what proportion of our employees are saying high-quality education as a means of transforming our bank, positive things about working for Nedbank Group. The overall industry and country. In 2014 we recorded an average of 51 hours of Nedbank engagement score remained at 72%, showing that training per employee, with an average of 57,8 hours for females. Nedbank remains in the high-performance range of employers This is higher than the industry average of 31 hours per employee, (66% to 100%). as stated in the 2012 State of the Industry Report. Our total ■■ Promoting and enabling diversity and inclusion – We recognise the investment in training in 2014 amounted to R491m. importance of creating an environment that promotes diversity and ■■ Managing for performance – Performance management is a key inclusion among our employees. To drive this we have operated, instrument used to establish and reinforce employee outputs and since 2008, a comprehensive diversity programme called Botho behaviours, through which our strategic business objectives and Pele. During 2014 a total of 3 396 employees attended the results can be achieved. A focus on constant performance workshops (5 027 in 2013), which have a particular focus on improvement facilitates our business transformation and motivates engaging employees and encouraging them to embrace diversity our employees to focus on both business and personal objectives, fully. deliver and sustain outstanding performance and consistently ■■ Advancing women and people with disabilities (PWD) – The behave in accordance with our values. Our remuneration policy advancement of disadvantaged groups such as women and PWD supports our performance-driven culture and our total remains a key focus. In recent years we have maintained a female remuneration is commercially competitive in the relevant markets representation of over 62%, while our PWD representation has within which we operate. increased steadily, reaching 3,8% at the end of 2014. This is higher ■■ Recognising excellence – Employees who demonstrate consistent than the 1,6% average among SA government entities and ahead of performance, and exhibit our behaviours and values, are recognised the private sector average of 2%. We continue to create awareness through the Nedbank Achiever Recognition process, which through declaration campaigns, sensitisation workshops for line comprises formal and ongoing recognition. During 2014 over 700 managers and HR managers and other communication channels. top performers were formally recognised as Nedbank Achievers. ■■ Employment equity (EE) – By the end of 2014 we had met and ■■ Enhancing our employee value proposition (EVP) – We have exceeded our numerical targets at junior management level, with the evolved our EVP to align better with our changing business context. exception of targets for white males and females. Due to the low Our approach to the EVP is that it is both a promise (what we offer employee turnover at middle and senior management level and no employees) and an agreement (what employees contribute). The growth in headcount at the senior management level, the targets for EVP was formally launched to employees at the staff roadshow in some of the designated groups at these levels were not met. At August 2014, and is currently being socialised through internal middle management level, although there has been a slight growth communications platforms. It is made up of five dimensions, in headcount, we have been challenged in finding staff for these namely: forefront of leadership and transformation; people-centred specialised positions. We continue to engage with our staff to gain a culture; excellence in execution; leader in sustainability; and clientbetter understanding of the barriers and challenges involved in centred collaboration. attaining all these targets. ■■ Enabling a collaborative, innovative and client-centred culture ■■ Enabling our staff to be highly involved in communities – We – In 2014 we continued to focus on building a collaborative and believe that social upliftment is everyone’s responsibility. We innovative culture and adopted an ‘inside-out’ approach to client therefore do everything we can to enable our employees and clients service, which matches our employees’ expectations with their to be highly involved in giving back to communities. Volunteerism is actual experiences. This means making sure that whatever we promoted as a channel to support our corporate social investment promise externally (in public) we also deliver internally (in the (CSI) agenda and our efforts at facilitating and growing volunteerism business). The results of our employee surveys are analysed and are logical extensions of our vision-led, values-driven ethos, as well used to inform our efforts. This year’s results were: as our Deep Green aspiration of being highly involved in the Barrett Survey: Entropy levels of dysfunction in the system: community. Over the past 12 years we have invested more than 12% (2013:11%). This result is slightly higher than the level R30m into our individual and team volunteerism programmes displayed in worldclass organisations and therefore needs to be (2014: R5,5m), with approximately 28% of our workforce monitored. Pleasingly, however, the level of values alignment participating in programmes each year. This is far above the national increased from five value matches to six. 42 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) HOW DID WE DELIVER VALUE TO OUR STAFF IN 2014? (continued) average of 3,5%. These volunteerism programmes include the following: WHAT ARE THE GREATEST RISKS AND Local Hero Programme – Staffmembers who do volunteer work OPPORTUNITIES? can apply to receive a R15 000 donation towards their cause. In 2014 the main risks and opportunities in terms of our ability to deliver Team Challenge – In 2014 we invested R500 000 through Team value to our employees, and equip and enable them to realise their full Challenge, which saw 256 staffmembers assisting 45 community potential, were identified as follows: and environment projects across SA. ■■ The ability to manage organisational change – To manage the Saturday School – A team of Nedbank volunteers provides maths rapid rate of change in our industry and country we sought to evolve lessons for Zenzeleni Primary School learners in our offices. our strategic change capability with a view to supporting planned Payroll Giving – Offers employees a means of contributing changes while developing long-term change management agility. A monthly to several established charities from their monthly Change Capability Workshop was designed and implemented with salaries. The Nedbank Foundation then matches all the funds the purpose of instilling a core level of consistency in the way change donated by staffmembers up to R1,5m. projects are approached across Nedbank. Mandela Day – Our theme for this year’s event was ‘67 to the ■■ Potential disruption and employee insecurity caused by power of 10’ and it encouraged staffmembers to get involved in organisational restructuring – The restructuring of Nedbank Retail 67 projects with a minimum of 10 volunteers per project. and Business Banking, as well as our Corporate and Capital business, ■■ Effective employee relations – Our approach to employee relations has impacted on staff at a change management level. However, we ensures that we recognise our employees’ rights to fair and do not anticipate large numbers of retrenchments as internal equitable employment practices and to freedom of association. The redeployment remains the first course of action. All restructuring South African Society of Banking Officials (SASBO) and the initiatives are undertaken with a focus on transparency, employee Insurance and Banking Staff Association (IBSA) are the recognised engagement and ongoing change management. collective bargaining agents at Nedbank, with a combined ■■ The acquisition and retention of staff in a skills-constrained representation of 54,8% of employees in the bargaining unit. The environment – We have recently optimised our talent attraction and bargaining unit comprises 18 308 employees. As in previous years, sourcing strategies by including social media as one of our Nedbank did not experience any industrial action. recruitment platforms. This has given us access to top candidates ■■ Employee wellbeing – The Nedbank Employee Wellbeing who are both passive and active in the job market, across different Programme (EWP) provides our staffmembers with professional regions, skills levels and career disciplines. Social media also offers support and resources in their professional and personal lives. Our the benefits of lower cost, quicker turnaround times and higher wellness strategy aims to create a ‘culture of health’, premised on accuracy when matching candidates to available jobs. the belief that healthy employees tend to be happier and more productive. EWP support covers a range of issues, including emotional and personal difficulties, family and relationship concerns, alcohol or drug abuse, stress and change management, financial matters, legal concerns, HIV/Aids, violence, bereavement and loss. Services are provided by the Independent Counselling and Advisory Services (ICAS). ■■ A healthy and safe work environment – The occupational health and safety of our employees, clients and contractors is a top priority as health and safety is ingrained in our corporate culture. All our SA businesses comply fully with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993 (including all regulations), as well as the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, 130 of 1993. Our subsidiaries have to comply with all relevant occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which they are located, as well as with the Occupational Health and Safety Policy of Nedbank Group. RELATED MATERIAL MATTERS TOUGH ECONOMIC SCARCE SKILLS CONDITIONS WITH LIMITED FORWARD VISIBILITY 43 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS ■■ The possible impact of lifestyle diseases, including HIV/Aids on our staff and our productivity levels – Our holistic ACCOLADES IN 2014 and inclusive wellness strategy covers chronic lifestyle diseases, ■■ The Nedbank People Development Technology team was voted the including HIV/Aids. In the past year we deliberately moved away best showcase of the use of Questionmark in SA. from focusing exclusively on HIV education and testing, and instead ■■ Duke University invited the Nedbank HR Executive: Organisational adopted a holistic lifestyle disease management approach. We Effectiveness to be part of the Global Chief Learning Officer Round believe this will go a long way towards destigmatising HIV. In 2014 a Table. total of 3 176 employees underwent testing on selected wellness ■■ Receive the 2014 South African Reward Association (SARA) days. Of these, 1 366 elected to include HIV testing. Remuneration Report of the Year award. ■■ Ongoing skills shortages in the financial services industry – Skills shortages continue to present a significant risk to our bank, and our entire industry. In line with our belief that it is required of all financial services stakeholders to contribute to a solution to these shortages, we remain committed to developing and upskilling our own employees to ensure they have the capacity to make a sustainable contribution to the growth of the industry in which they work. Learnerships – We use learnerships as vehicles to address scarce skills in accordance with our Workplace Skills Plan. We have designed the programmes to allow participating employees to 2015 achieve South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA)accredited qualifications. In 2014 eight learnerships were added to our portfolio, bringing the total number offered to 24, including our Advanced Certificate in Banking (NQF level 6) and the Eyethu Trust learnerships (NQF level 4). FOCUS AREAS The Nedbank Corporate University – This is progressing well, with eight active academies now in operation, covering leadership, human resources, risk, compliance, retail banking, business banking, marketing and property finance. ■■ Review and enhancement of culture initiatives to enable ‘Winning in 2020’, including the piloting of a culture of inclusion. ■■ Review of performance management practices and supporting processes. ■■ Review of organisation design, grading and job evaluation principles, practices and processes. ■■ Review of talent and career management and succession processes to identify, develop and retain top talent. ■■ Full implementation of SAP human capital management (HCM) and technology and operations management (TOM) initiatives, and supporting HR practice changes. ■■ Targets for 2015: EE – senior management black 38%, black females 15,4%; middle management black 58,5%, black female 30,4%, junior management black 85,3%, black female 56,7% To support the changes that will continue to take place in the organisation, 1 000 change facilitators will be trained. Entropy of 11%. Six value matches. NSS score ≥75%. 44 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) ‘Nedbank remains committed to offering relevant, quality and competitively priced banking solutions to all our clients across the continent, delivered seamlessly through a wide range of innovative digital and physical channels.’ INNOVATING FOR OUR CLIENTS WHAT ARE THEIR NEEDS AND WHO ARE OUR CLIENTS? EXPECTATIONS OF US? ■■ The full spectrum of individual demographics in SA – from ■■ Providing sound financial advice and financial education. children to seniors and from entry-level to high-net-worth ■■ Offering worldclass innovative solutions and services. individuals. ■■ Various legal entities from trusts, non-governmental ■■ Growing and protecting client investments and wealth. organisations and associations, to small business up to the ■■ Financing the aspirations of clients, while protecting against largest corporates and the public sector. overindebtedness. ■■ Those who are fully banked or engage with us on single product classes, such as insurance, asset management, ■■ Providing convenient access to banking, less complexity and investment or finance solutions. improved flexibility (channel of choice). ■■ Clients in SA, across the rest of Africa and selected international markets. ■■ Protecting clients and their assets through secure IT systems and infrastructure. ■■ Providing value banking that is competitive and transparent in pricing. 45 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS SMALL-AND-MEDIUMTOTAL CLIENTS ENTERPRISE (SME) BUSINESS BANKING (MAIN-BANKED: 2,5m) CLIENTS CLIENT GROUPS 7,1m 224 000 25 100 HOW DID WE DELIVER VALUE TO OUR CLIENTS IN 2014? ■■ Providing sound financial advice and financial education referrals to the FAIS Ombudsman, of which there were 51P Wholesale and small-business clients benefit from Nedbank cases in 2014, and to the National Credit Regulator of which Business Banking’s specialisation in, among other things, the there were 200P, have been closed and corrective measures franchising, medical and agriculture sectors, and that of Nedbank applied where required. Corporate and Nedbank Capital in the mining, infrastructure and ■■ Growing and protecting client investments and wealth: renewable-energy industries. Nedbank Wealth’s Best of Breed (BoB™) funds continue to show Specific educational initiatives include entrepreneurial days at stellar performance for our clients across our broad offering, and 150 schools, sponsorship of television programmes and movies we were ranked third for the sixth consecutive year at the annual (eg Heartline’s production of Nothing for Mahala and the 702 Raging Bull Awards. Business Accelerator programme), various financial-fitness Retail savings bond increased to R11,85bn. workshops and seminars attended by over 1 400 seniors, 1 600 ■■ Financing the aspirations and dreams of clients, while protecting entry-level banking clients, 10 000 learners at school, 3 800 against overindebtedness university students and 500 small-business owners. Altogether 17 000 new (first) home loans and 186 000 cars Nedbank fully embraces the Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) were financed and we supported many of our business clients in principles and is making necessary changes across the group. their endeavours to start and grow sustainable business. Detailed product brochures that comply with all relevant Where income levels cannot support the desired level of debt, legislation, such as the National Credit Act, are available for the consumers are protected against overindebtedness as group’s clients. Relationship managers are also responsible for demonstrated in our proactive risk management in Personal explaining the characteristics, benefits and implications of Loans. products to clients in accordance with the Financial Advisory and ■■ Providing convenient access to banking, less complexity and Intermediary Services (FAIS) Act. Product policies and improved flexibility (channel of choice) procedures and product review committees are in place. Nedbank continued to invest in its physical distribution, ■■ Offering worldclass innovative solutions and services expanding its footprint and ATM network from 3 4991 to 3 7111. New products were launched in 2014, including: A total of 65 branches and 54 inretailer outlets have also been —— For retail clients – Send-iMali, prepaid airtime and electricity, converted to the new ‘branch of the future’ design in 2014, many MyFinancialLifeTM retirement calculator and Greenbacks of these featuring state-of-the art queuing systems, videoSHOP Card. banking facilities, cash deposit devices, bulk tellers as well as free —— For wholesale clients – Plug and Transact™ token, integrated internet banking and Wi-Fi access. Retail is on track to convert DocuSafe solution, Payroll Lite, dynamic notifications, Market 75% of its branches to the new format by 2017. Edge™ (merchant analytics). Investments and partnerships across Africa are enabling us to —— While we are fully committed to meeting our clients’ needs, offer our clients a uniquely ‘one bank’ experience across the they are able to approach the Ombudsman for Banking continent in 39 countries. Services, the FAIS Ombudsman or the National Credit Ongoing enhancements to our existing processes, products and Regulator in cases where we are unable to resolve an issue to channels included fewer, simpler products, a rapid online their satisfaction. The number of cases referred to the application process for personal loans, and investment industry ombud, the Ombudsman for Banking Services, functionality on mobile channels. during the period remained relatively stable (2014: 635P; Delivery of service excellence with good progress was recorded 2013: 688), with an average of 74% of all cases referred to on all metrics: the Ombudsman for Banking Services found in Nedbank’s —— HelloPeter metrics tracking was the lowest among the big favour. An amount of R13,8mP (2013: R10,9m) was claimed four banks. from Nedbank in 2014, with R2,2mP awarded (2013: R2,3m). —— Complaints, response and resolution times were well This result demonstrates that our internal processes are robust and address clients’ needs. The majority of the maintained within or below our benchmarks. 1 Including rest of Africa. 46 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) HOW DID WE DELIVER VALUE TO OUR CLIENTS IN 2014? (continued) —— Net Promoter Score (NPS) – Nedbank Private Wealth, assets in the form of computers and cellphones were lost or RetailP, Corporate and Business BankingP experienced a stolen, most were encrypted and there were no breaches of client marked increase in their NPS scores, with Retail, Corporate privacy that we have been alerted to. We are proactively working and Business Banking reaching historic high scores. Property on our processes to track and identify losses of such data to finance saw a slight year-on-year decline in NPS, but off a ensure more detailed reporting in this regard. record high base in 2013. ■■ Providing competitive and transparent pricing and giving —— Corporate Startrack rated Nedbank Corporate Banking value back to clients number one in client service and superior banking systems Our choice to maintain bank fees at 2013 levels for all clients, as that integrate well with clients. well as reducing and simplifying certain fee items for business —— A client-centred cultural change programme with our staff clients, has ensured that we remain competitive and transparent has commenced and we are continuing with its rollout. in our pricing approach. —— We established a bankwide Service Resolution Board for the Bundled offerings at fixed monthly fees are available for sustainable addressing of root causes of service disruptions. individual client segments, and are currently under development ■■ Protecting our clients and their assets, through secure IT for small-business clients. Nedbank is positioned as one of the systems and infrastructure most affordable in the industry. Our internet banking platform and Nedbank App SuiteTM Our Greenbacks Rewards Programme continues to deliver a high remain highly secure, with approximately 960 unsuccessful earn rate, and has been enhanced with the introduction of the attempts at online banking fraud. SHOP Card, allowing hassle-free redemption of points at As regards systems availability, the blended uptime score for American Express merchants and ATMs. both infrastructure and applications was 99,95%P (2013: 99,89%) against a target of 99,83%. It is important to note that this was achieved against a high number of complex changes deployed in the IT environment. Data protection and privacy Nedbank Group subscribes to the Code of Banking Practice of The Banking Association SA and complies with the Consumer Protection Act and the Protection of Information Act, which require that all personal client information be treated as private and confidential. During 2014 we did not receive any substantiated complaints regarding breaches of client privacy from any outside parties or from our regulators. Although various RELATED MATERIAL MATTERS TOUGH ECONOMIC BANKING INCREASED GROWTH CONDITIONS WITH RELEVANCE AMID DEMANDS ON OPPORTUNITIES IN LIMITED FORWARD CONSUMERISM AND GOVERNANCE, THE REST OF AFRICA VISIBILITY INCREASED REGULATION COMPETITION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 47 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS WHAT ARE THE GREATEST RISKS AND ACCOLADES IN 2014 OPPORTUNITIES? ■■ Best Improved Retail Bank in Africa – The Asian Banker ■■ Best Customer Relationship Management and Brand Building Risks Initiative – The Asian Banker ■■ Increasing consumer indebtedness – mitigated by discerning ■■ Award for Innovation in Banking – African Banker magazine origination strategies, especially in Personal Loans, applying ■■ Nedbank Savvy campaign voted by consumers third and affordability criteria to protect our clients against overindebtedness. seventh overall in SA – Millward Brown best-liked ad survey ■■ Greater competition from new and existing players. for 2013 ■■ Spiralling input costs for businesses, low local growth and continued ■■ Retail Customer Management capabilities ranked among top shortages of electricity, weaker European Union and Chinese five, and Business Banking ranked first globally – SCHEMA™ prospects as well as outflows due to rising interest rates in advanced ■■ South Africa 2014 Bank of the Year – Financial Times’s The markets, could jeopardise any possible recovery and pose greater Banker magazine credit risk for the wholesale portfolio, with a lag impact in Property Finance. Opportunities ■■ Extracting benefits for our clients from the integration of Nedbank Corporate and Nedbank Capital. ■■ Leverage advantage through greater Old Mutual Group 2015 collaboration. ■■ Clients seeking convenience and increasing importance of digital channels: Ongoing innovation and investment in digital channels. Digital enablement as part of the onboarding process for all FOCUS AREAS clients. Client education at branches and through other channels to guide usage of self-service channels. ■■ Further opportunities exist for simplification and internal alignment The notion of ‘more clients doing more with us’ is at the heart to improve our client experience and business efficiency. of Nedbank’s strategy, and we continue to evolve the organisation to become more client-centred and integrated. ■■ Fair Share 2030 aims to develop products that respond to unmet Providing distinctive and relevant banking experiences for all client needs. in SA remains the core focus, which is underpinned by: ■■ A R2,1bn investment in physical distribution to rollout the ‘branch of the future’ format of branches and expand footprint by 7% to expose 75% of our clients to the new format by 2017. ■■ A client-centred innovation across process, product and channels to deliver seamlessly integrated digital solutions, effortless sales and service, and convenient 24/7 access. ■■ Competitive pricing – transparent, simplified and providing value for money, supported by below-inflation increases and moving clients proactively to lower priced products that suit their needs. ■■ Marketing that engages and resonates with all in SA, leveraging social media and digital communication channels. ■■ Leveraging scarce skills and the cost base through group collaboration. ■■ Continued pursuance of opportunities within Africa by working closely with and leveraging the Ecobank and Bank of China strategic alliances. ■■ We will drive transactional client growth further through ‘simplified client on-boarding’. This will improve processes at the moment of application resulting in a faster and simpler client experience. TRANSFORMATION OF SOCIETY WITHIN PLANETARY BOUNDARIES 48 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) DELIVERING CONSISTENTLY TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS ‘We strive to be a great place to invest – providing attractive and sustainable financial returns, protecting against downside risks and unlocking growth opportunities. At the same time we will remain fully transparent in our communication and disclosure with the investment community.’ WHO ARE OUR SHAREHOLDERS AND WHAT ARE THEIR NEEDS RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS? AND EXPECTATIONS OF US? Stakeholders referred to in this section include not The core needs of our shareholders are as follows: only our shareholders, but also the local and ■■ Relevant timeous information on our strategy, prospects and financial and international investment community and comprise: non-financial performance so that the Nedbank Group can be fairly valued ■■ 21 362 shareholders (86% domestic, 14% and appropriate credit ratings assigned. foreign); ■■ Consistent financial performance, delivering attractive returns (increasing ■■ investment funds and retail investors; ROEs) and solid dividend income, underpinned by a sound balance sheet. ■■ 18 sell-side analysts: ■■ Good and experienced management. ■■ three contracted credit ratings agencies, namely ■■ An attractive and sustainable growth strategy. Fitch, Moody’s and Standard & Poors; and See our investment case as part of the Chairman’s Review in the 2014 integrated ■■ financial media. report for more information on the attractiveness of Nedbank as an investment. RELATED MATERIAL MATTERS TOUGH ECONOMIC BANKING INCREASED GROWTH CONDITIONS WITH RELEVANCE AMID DEMANDS ON OPPORTUNITIES IN LIMITED FORWARD CONSUMERISM AND GOVERNANCE, THE REST OF AFRICA VISIBILITY INCREASED REGULATION COMPETITION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 49 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS TOTAL SHAREHOLDER INCREASE IN RETURN ON EQUITY RETURN FULL-YEAR DIVIDEND (ROE) (EXCLUDING GOODWILL) 23,2% 14,9% 17,2% HOW DID WE DELIVER VALUE TO WHAT ARE THE GREATEST RISKS AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS IN 2014? OPPORTUNITIES? ■■ Achieved economic profit of R2,1bn despite cost of equity increasing Risks from 13,0% to 13,5% and the impact of a challenging environment. ■■ Impact of a tougher macro environment, particularly low GDP ■■ Total shareholder return stood at 23,2%. growth. ■■ Paid a full-year dividend of 1 028 cents, up 14,9%. ■■ Dealing with the complexity and challenges of increased regulation. ■■ Acquired an initial 36,6% stake (with pathway to control in 2016) of ■■ Greater competition from new and existing players in financial Banco Único in Mozambique and a shareholding of approximately services. 20% in ETI, providing Nedbank investors with access to markets ■■ Volatility and uncertainty in the rest of Africa. with higher economic growth rates. ■■ Maintained worldclass transparent reporting and increased our Opportunities disclosure around rest of Africa. ■■ Capital-efficient, risk-mitigated expansion into the rest of Africa. ■■ Increased engagement with shareholders through our first ■■ Nedbank gaining share of main-banked clients and transactional governance roadshow, while sourcing feedback through our first revenues. investor perception survey and our 360 investor meetings. ■■ Impairments staying lower for longer. ■■ Experienced smooth leadership transitions, with one of the most experienced management teams in the SA banking industry. ■■ On the back of the winding up of our Black Business Partner BEE schemes we have now unlocked an estimated R8,2bn of value through our SA BBBEE schemes since inception. ACCOLADES IN 2014 ■■ Voted 2014 SA Bank of the Year by Financial Times’s The Banker magazine. 2015 FOCUS AREAS ■■ Deliver on our strategic focus areas and make progress towards our medium-to-long-term financial targets shown in the CFO’s Review in the 2014 integrated report. ■■ Ongoing improvement in quality investor TRANSFORMATION engagements and financial reporting disclosure. SCARCE SKILLS OF SOCIETY WITHIN ■■ Launch new Nedbank website. PLANETARY BOUNDARIES 50 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) ‘Compliance and regulatory risk has become increasingly significant given the more stringent regulatory environment in which Nedbank operates. PARTNERING WITH OUR REGULATORS The group sought to achieve compliance with applicable local and international laws, regulations and supervisory requirements, guided by an established comprehensive set of boardapproved policies, procedures and governance structures.’ WHO ARE OUR REGULATORS? The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) is responsible for bank regulation Outside SA: and supervision in SA. The purpose is to achieve a sound, efficient ■■ Central banks of countries in which we have representation/ banking system in the interest of the depositors of banks and the operations economy as a whole. This function is performed by issuing banking licences to banking institutions, and monitoring their activities in terms of ■■ Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA) in London the Banks Act and the regulations. ■■ Jersey Financial Services Commission (JFSC) ■■ Isle of Man Financial Supervision Commission (IOMFSC) Other primary regulators include: ■■ Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ■■ Financial Services Board (FSB) ■■ National Credit Regulator (NCR) ■■ JSE Limited (the JSE) ■■ Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC) ■■ South African Revenue Services (SARS) ■■ National Treasury ■■ Department of Labour RELATED MATERIAL MATTERS TOUGH ECONOMIC BANKING INCREASED GROWTH CONDITIONS WITH RELEVANCE AMID DEMANDS ON OPPORTUNITIES IN LIMITED FORWARD CONSUMERISM AND GOVERNANCE, THE REST OF AFRICA VISIBILITY INCREASED REGULATION COMPETITION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 51 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS IMPLEMENTED FRAUD CASES CREDIT LOSS RATIO 1 JULY 2014 (2013: 6 026) (2013: 1,06%) FATCA 4 890 0,79% HOW DID WE DELIVER VALUE TO OUR REGULATORS IN 2014? WHAT ARE THEIR NEEDS AND ■■ In line with international and local trends, Nedbank observed an increase in regulatory scrutiny and inspections. All regulatory EXPECTATIONS OF US? reviews were attended to with significant attention to detail, professionalism and prompt reaction to matters raised. Due to the reliance of local (and global) economies on the banking ■■ We maintained the alignment of our Enterprisewide Risk industry, regulatory bodies have been established. They ensure that these Management Framework (ERMF) with regulatory developments. institutions comply with certain standardised practices to control ■■ Sound implementation and ongoing enhancement of the Advance systemic risk, especially in terms of the ‘too big to fail’ notion, which Measurement Approach (AMA) for operational risk management holds that many financial institutions hold too much control over the were maintained and similarly the Internal Model Approach (IMA) economy to fail without enormous consequences. for market risk continued to meet the regulators’ requirements. Our regulators also ensure that we’re cognisant of and take suitable ■■ Nedbank’s economic capital and Internal Capital Adequacy measures to control our direct and indirect impact on our stakeholders Assessment Process (ICAAP) methodology is constantly reviewed and on the environment. and updated, taking cognisance of regulatory developments such as Basel III from 1 January 2013 and Solvency 2/SAM in 2016. It is therefore crucial for us to: Nedgroup Insurance remains well capitalised and is on track to meet Solvency 2 parallel-run requirements during 2015. ■■ maintain good, regular and transparent relationships with all regulators; and ■■ With regard to new legislative developments, Nedbank has been involved in engaging with regulators through various industry ■■ ensure compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements. associations. ■■ We implemented manual solutions for the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) (US legislation) on 1 July 2014 and are well placed to comply with FATCA requirements. TRANSFORMATION SCARCE SKILLS OF SOCIETY WITHIN PLANETARY BOUNDARIES 52 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) HOW DID WE DELIVER VALUE TO OUR REGULATORS IN 2014? (continued) ■■ Nedbank maintains an up-to-date and relevant Recovery Plan (RP): ■■ National Credit Regulator – We invested time in managing our We maintain resilient business continuity management clients and any potential reputational risk associated with the R699 processes. scheme. We have dynamic liquidity and capital management processes, ■■ We participated in the scenario testing of the Financial Services including advanced stress testing. Authority’s Financial Stability Unit; We maintain robust contingency processes and plans that are ■■ We contributed to industry responses on the Fundamental Review of regularly tested, facilitating an appropriate response to the Trading Book proposals and other Bank for International significant stress events. Settlement papers. ■■ Increased focus on consumer protection: ■■ We continued to implement our policy of responsible lending and We are well on track with our preparation for the new regulatory reduced our market share proactively. regime of Twin Peaks, and the Protection of Personal Information ■■ In order to continue to strengthen confidence and trust in the Act. banking system banks are urged to place a greater emphasis on the We had an onsite meeting with SARB to discuss market conduct comprehensive public disclosure of their risk and capital position risk. and risk management processes in relation to key business activities. The FSB established the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) to We had meetings with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) develop principles for enhanced disclosures by institutions. Nedbank and National Treasury regarding prudential and market has implemented the EDTF recommendations, where appropriate, in regulation. our quest continuously to enhance and drive improvement in the ■■ With regard to industry requirements by the regulators, we quality, clarity, consistency and comparability of risk disclosures, benchmark our risk management performance against that of other thereby allowing stakeholders to draw increased value, banks and against feedback from SARB. No issues were raised on understanding and insight from the reports. The refinement of our our ICAAP by SARB. Pillar 3 Report is an ongoing process to keep up with changing ■■ We have invested significantly in IT, processes, procedures and regulation and leading practice. resourcing in ongoing efforts to remedy administrative deficiencies noted by SARB during their anti-money-laundering and sanction regulatory reviews conducted on SA’s big banks. VALUE CREATED THROUGH REGULATORY COMPLIANCE ■■ Following industry concerns of regulators about SA banks’ exposure more effective strategy. As part of Nedbank’s recruitment process, to unsecured lending, our credit loss ratio for the year ended 31 integrity checks are conducted on all potential staffmembers. Fraud December 2014 was 0,79%, which is below the target range of awareness material for clients has been translated into five of the 0,8% to 1,2% and an improvement on the 1,06% achieved in 2013. official languages, making the material accessible to a larger client Defaulted advances decreased by 11,2% (9,4% 2013). base. ■■ Regulatory compliance ensured strong capital adequacy levels ■■ Given the high levels of corruption currently experienced in SA, we supported by internal stress-testing results. added our anti-corruption interventions as a key performance ■■ Close cooperation with the SA Police Service and other law indicator that is externally assured. This was done to give an extra enforcement agencies continues. We have experienced a decrease level of assurance to our stakeholders that our actions in this regard in the number of fraud cases (4 890 in 2014, down from 6 026 in are robust and that we do not contribute to this negative cycle. In 2013), as well as a decrease in the overall value of these cases. The 2014 all (100%) of our operations underwent corruption screening number of internal fraud cases has also decreased, evidence that without any material concerns/issues being raised. preventing fraud rather than dealing with the consequences is a 53 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2015 FOCUS AREAS ■■ Although Basel III went live on 1 January 2013, the transitional capital and liquidity requirements/ratios will WHAT ARE THE GREATEST RISKS AND still be significant for Nedbank up to 2019 and 2022, and these receive management focus. OPPORTUNITIES? ■■ Focus will be given to the Twin Peaks system of regulation, which places emphasis on a more harmonised system of Risks licensing, supervision, enforcement, client complaints (including ombuds), appeal mechanisms (tribunal), ■■ International and local regulatory reform (in particular Basel III and consumer advice and education, as well as ensuring that Twin Peaks) has materially increased capital levels and liquidity clients are treated fairly. costs, and is changing business models internationally. Regulatory ■■ Regulatory non-compliance relating to anti-moneyrisk remains high, but there is now less uncertainty because Basel III laundering continues to receive focus with a view to is substantially finalised by the Bank for International Settlements addressing the weaknesses identified. and SARB. ■■ Much attention will be given to the Retail Distribution ■■ Litigation activity in the US and Europe and fines on major banking paper in terms of how financial products are distributed to institutions are likely to increase cautious lending practices and consumers in SA. encourage shadow banking activity even further. Indications in SA ■■ We are currently aligning to International Financial are that regulators will take their lead from offshore regulators, and Reporting Standard 9 as the standard becomes mandatory the risk of large fines for non-compliance, particularly in the conduct from 1 January 2018. space, has escalated considerably. ■■ Nedbank will also be embracing a forward-looking Opportunities approach to conducting risk and embracing clientcentredness. The group has embarked on a programme to ■■ A continued integrated approach to governance, compliance, risk ensure that industry guidelines and best practice are management, capital management, liquidity and financial control. embedded within its business and have already achieved ■■ Possible incease of Fair Share 2030 lending oppertunities arising certain milestones. from continued publication of extensive new requirements dealing ■■ There will be continued commitment to the development with waste, water, air, dangerous substances and land rehabilitation. of legislation through regulatory advocacy and interaction with regulators and industry stakeholders to ensure a sound regulatory framework that adds economic and sustainable value to our clients, shareholders and stakeholders. ■■ We will invest further in IT, processes, procedures and resourcing to complete the Nedbank remedial plan agreed with SARB and to ensure efficient and effective compliance with the anti-money-laundering and sanction requirements. ■■ We will continue to meet the stringent requirements of all regulators in full. 54 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) ‘Our commitment to ongoing stakeholder engagement affords us insights into the needs and expectations of the communities in which we operate. Through this engagement we are able to position our business to respond appropriately.’ LEADING IN THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE WHAT ARE THE NEEDS AND EXPECTATIONS OF THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE? WHO ARE THE ■■ Access to financial products and services Advice and guidance on how to achieve desired outcomes for themselves, their families and their businesses COMMUNITIES ■■ ■■ Socioeconomic development that delivers community growth and empowerment WE SERVE? ■■ Two-way discourse that results in mutual benefits ■■ Collaboration that furthers social, environmental and other common agendas for the greater good ■■ Society at large, including the environment. In 2014 our engagement with communities resulted in the identification of a number of key needs, requirements and pressing issues, including the following: Strengthening the social fabric of our country – We promote a culture of active citizenship. In 2014 28% of staffmembers participated in our volunteerism programmes, delivering immediate positive impacts to communities across the country. Trust in the financial sector – Our ongoing research indicates that trust in the financial sector is gradually being rebuilt. During 2014 we paid special attention to driving ethical behaviour of staff, appropriate financial advice for clients, excellent client service and stringently protecting client information. In 2014 97% of staffmembers acknowledged our Code of Ethics policy and our Code of Conduct policy. Playing a meaningful role in society – We advanced R54bn to retail clients, lent R1,5bn into affordable-housing projects and R113m to enterprise development. From an operational perspective we ensured that 80% of our procurement spend was spent locally and helped to meet our transformation targets. We also continued our commitment to managing our operational impact and maintained our carbon-neutral status, as well as attracting shareholder funds by remaining on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index – one of only six SA companies. Access to CSI funding – We continue to make a sizeable contribution towards many issues facing SA. In 2014 our total CSI spend across our entire group amounted to R151m (2013: R117,9m). Despite this increase in our CSI commitment, we are not able to support all the applications we receive. The Nedbank Foundation therefore follows a stringent funding process to ensure the prudent and equitable allocation of our CSI investment across all our community support focus areas. Non-traditional finance solutions (for projects that drive significant long-term societal impact and are currently excluded by traditional funding models) – Through our Fair Share 2030 strategy we have adopted a R6bn lending target in 2015, to enable new businesses and innovations that deliver intentional non-financial results. Combating the Ebola outbreak – Together with Old Mutual, we donated US$1m towards the African Union’s newly launched Ebola emergency response fund. 55 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS TOTAL CSI SPEND BBBEE PROCUREMENT EMPOWERMENT VALUE FINANCING LOANS R151m R9,8bn R8,5bn (2013: R117,9M) HOW DID WE DELIVER VALUE TO COMMUNITIES IN 2014? In line with our integrated sustainability strategy and approach, we strive 2014 we invested R113m that directly impacted 694 small and to deliver value, across our business, through a three-pronged medium enterprises in SA. sustainability approach, comprising: ■■ Financial inclusion: 1 Enabling sustainability through our products and Infrastructure: We continue to grow our national presence both through traditional branch and ATM rollouts, as well as through services various innovative banking offerings. The Imbizo Programme We see responsible banking as offering products and services that aims to ignite rural economic activity and build sustainable enable our clients to achieve their desired outcomes and objectives, communities by facilitating the startup of job-creating while respecting environmental limits and broader societal needs. microenterprises. The number of Imbizo branches has been Nedbank has, over the years, expanded its range of products and services steadily growing since inception and, at the end of 2014, stood that reduces environmental footprint and/or grows the green economy. at six. Over and above these products we set a lending target of R6bn per annum in 2014 for new products and offerings that intentionally focus on Education: The Nedbank Consumer Education Programme was the socioeconomic and environmental problems addressed by our longlaunched in 2004, and in the past 10 years it has provided term goals. This is our Fair Share 2030 strategy. invaluable information and insights to hundreds of thousands of South Africans, helping them to make informed decisions that ■■ Fair Share 2030 – This initiative gets money working for the future. contribute to their financial wellbeing. In 2014 we invested a It provides an annual flow of funding – starting with a target of R6bn further R10,9m (2013: R8,1m) into the programme, directly in 2015 – to be channelled through new products, services, and benefiting 120 000 consumers across all nine SA provinces. projects that promise to deliver intentional non-financial impact Product offering: Driven by a number of innovative product towards meeting the Long‑term Goals. solutions such as our Savvy Banking offering and our Nedbank Ke ■■ The Nedbank Green Savings Bond – This is SA’s first and only Yona suite, we are realising our strategic objective of making green bond offered to retail clients. It allows regular members of banking a reality for all South Africans. In 2014, through these society to contribute to environmental sustainability simply by products and services, we brought the benefits of transacting, investing, because the funds invested are earmarked for the support saving, borrowing and insuring to many more individuals across of renewable-energy projects in SA. Since its inception, R7,8bn has SA, many of whom had previously not been banking consumers. been invested in the Nedbank Green Savings Bond, of which R4,2bn flowed in during 2014 (2013: R2,7bn). 2 Delivering value through collaboration and ■■ The Nedbank Affinity Accounts – In the 24 years since its partnership inception, the Nedbank Affinities programme has contributed more We recognise that the value of any person’s or organisation’s contribution than R260m in support of more than 1 000 projects, ranging from to the community in which they exist or operate can be massively arts and culture and sports development, to helping needy children compounded if they are willing to partner with others who share their and environmental conservation. For the 2014 financial year, the vision and commitment. As such, we proactively seek to unlock maximum total donations grew by 17% to R32,9m (2013: R28,1 m) as the use sustainability value through effective partnerships that deliver long-term of affinitised products grew well. mutual benefits. ■■ Empowerment financing – Comprising the two main components Education support – Approximately 50% of our socioeconomic of targeted investments and black economic empowerment (BEE) investment goes into various education initiatives. In addition, we financing, we have invested R44,5bn into empowerment financing embrace our role as a strategic partner with government and education since 2009 (2014: R8,5bn). bodies in helping to address the challenges of education and skills ■■ Enterprise development – We strive to create a balance between development in SA. We deliver on this responsibility by various means, the provision of funding and access to support in the form of including our Nedbank Graduate Development Programme, Enactus SA, training, capacity building, mentorship and specialist support. In The Nedbank External Bursary Fund (144 bursaries granted and R13,8m 56 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) HOW DID WE DELIVER VALUE TO COMMUNITIES IN 2014? (continued) invested in 2014), Investing in Accounting Excellence initiative (R7m ■■ Caring for Communities – The Nedbank Caring for Communities invested since 2008), and numerous other programmes and initiatives. Programme was established in 2010 and has grown steadily over the past four years. Using interactive workshops, the initiative Partnering with NGOs – Since 1990 we have partnered with the World successfully demystifies sustainability for these communities and Wide Fund for Nature SA (WWF-SA). Over the past three years, this guides them on how to put sustainable behaviours and practices to partnership has prioritised food and water security programmes, work to improve their own lives. Hundreds of Nedbank including: staffmembers are actively involved in educating learners, teachers ■■ The WWF Nedbank Green Trust – Now celebrating 25 years of and communities on all aspects of sustainable living. existence, the WWF Nedbank Green Trust has proven that a strong ■■ Community support through volunteerism – We believe that social people focus is imperative to achieve environmental sustainability responsibility is everyone’s responsibility, so we therefore do and the protection of the planet’s natural heritage. Since inception, everything we can to enable our employees and clients to be highly we have donated more than R175m in support of over 200 involved in giving back to communities. Over the past 12 years we environmental projects throughout SA. have invested more than R30m into our individual and team ■■ The WWF Water Balance Programme – Aimed at clearing alien volunteerism programmes (2014: R5,5m), with approximately 28% vegetation at key water catchment areas around the country, it helps of our workforce participating in volunteerism programmes each to promote maximum water catchment and delivers job creation. year. Our investment is taking place over a five-year period and, since ■■ Effective sustainability education – We believe that leadership in inception in 2011, has resulted in 283 ha (2014: 90 ha) of alien sustainability requires a willingness to collaborate and share vegetation being cleared, thereby releasing over 587 000 kl of water opportunities in order to compound the positive impact we are able into the country’s ecosystem. This water released helps to replace to have on communities. In 2014 this philosophy continued to the water consumed through our operations. The labour-intensive deliver a number of valuable outcomes, most notably: process has also delivered more than 15 000 (2014: 7 258) The Nedbank Green Living Guide – Produced in collaboration workdays for members of communities in and around the targeted with the Sustainability Institute and endorsed by the Green areas. Building Council South Africa, it encourages and equips all South ■■ WWF-SA Sustainable Agriculture Programme – Promotes Africans to adopt a more sustainable lifestyle. It was downloaded innovative solutions to the resource challenges facing agriculture, more than 20 000 times in 2014 and approximately 2 500 hard while at the same time minimising the impact of agriculture on a copies were distributed. finite resource base and within our landscapes. The programme focuses on the five key commodity sectors of fruit, wine, dairy, beef and sugar. We have committed ourselves to investing R8,3m in support of the programme over a three-year period. Partnering with communities Our partnerships with communities are aimed primarily at enabling them to derive maximum benefit from a greater understanding of sustainability principles and their application as a means of improving their lives and futures. Some of the community partnership programmes include: RELATED MATERIAL MATTERS TOUGH ECONOMIC TRANSFORMATION SCARCE SKILLS CONDITIONS WITH OF SOCIETY WITHIN LIMITED FORWARD PLANETARY VISIBILITY BOUNDARIES 57 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS Carbon Footprinting Guide – Africa’s first carbon calculation 3 Managing and optimising our own impact guide, it focuses on demystifying carbon footprinting with the A central component of the achievement of our vision to be Africa’s most aim of assisting small, medium and large enterprises to calculate admired bank is delivery on our own sustainability objectives and their greenhouse gas impact. Since its launch in February 2014, commitments. This extends across all aspects of sustainability the free guide has been downloaded more than 54 000 times. leadership, from effectively limiting the impacts of our operations – Partnering with our suppliers for a sustainable supply chain – Our primarily through effective carbon emissions management, to maximising procurement philosophy sees our suppliers as far more than providers of our positive impact by creating a great place to work and enabling our goods and services, but rather as enablers of our own business strategies employees to participate in our integrated sustainability efforts. and we see procurement as a key means of enabling transformation. Creating a healthy, effective work environment – We aspire to be an employee of choice, and see our employees as one of the most important communities to which we have a sustainability responsibility. We are, Details of our investment into SA’s enterprise development through therefore, committed to investing in our people to ensure that they are procurement in 2014 are as follows: empowered to perform optimally, to further their own development, and equipped to contribute to the long-term sustainability of our bank. Details of the impact of this can be found in the 2014 integrated report, as well as in our online 2014 Sustainability Review. 6 022 Our commitment to responsible finance ■■ Overseen by our sustainability governance process, our Social and NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS Environmental Management System (SEMS) assessment tool SUPPORTED provides an independent review of risk and compliance, thereby enabling sustainable lending decisions while helping clients refine their plans or projects to meet higher sustainability standards. ■■ Without compromising the ability of our qualifying clients to access R10,6bn the credit they need, our retail credit policies and scorecards allow for a fair, comprehensive and robust credit assessment in compliance with the standards set by both SARB and the National TOTAL Credit Regulator (NCR). PROCUREMENT SPEND In all our lending transactions, we take a highly integrated and R8,55bn ■■ proactive approach to ensuring compliance. Key to this is compliance with the Equator Principles (EP), which ensures (80,35% of total spend) consistency in our environmental and social risk assessment and LOCAL PROCUREMENT SPEND management within our project finance business. In 2014 a total of 22 new EP-relevant deals were screened, of which six reached financial close and fourP drew down. R9,8bn ■■ We are committed to the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) and the Code of Responsible BBBEE Investing in South Africa (CRISA). In 2014 our efforts in this area PROCUREMENT VALUE focused on integrating environment, social and governance (ESG) factors into investment and ownership practices across all investment-oriented areas of our business, as well as meeting various ESG compliance requirements. In addition to investing into businesses across the country through procurement, we engage with our suppliers to guide them in terms of their incorporation of governance, environmental, social and economic sustainability considerations into their operations to drive their own sustainability journeys. 58 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) HOW DID WE DELIVER VALUE TO COMMUNITIES IN 2014? (continued) Carbon measurement and management Our achievement of carbon neutrality in 2010 not only evidenced our commitment to being an African sustainability leader, but also impressed on us the responsibility we have to leverage our position as Africa’s first carbon-neutral bank. In the years since then, we have made it a strategic priority to harness our carbon-neutral position to contribute to the development of SA’s green economy, unlock and leverage synergies, partnerships and collaborations with like-minded organisations, and enhance our client value proposition. We have also continued to extend the scope and positive impact of our carbon-neutral position through our established approach of reducing Our carbon footprint our own impact as much as possible by employing internal initiatives and Our 2014 carbon footprint decreased by 3,72% from 2013 to 2014 behavioural change, before offsetting any remaining emissions through (2014: 213 133 tCO2eP; 2013: 221 379 tCO2e). In addition, the emission carbon credits. Targets are in place for carbon emissions, electricity, rate per fulltime employee (FTE) decreased by 7,06% year on year and travel, paper and water. was calculated as 7,08 tCO2e per FTE (2013: 7,61 tCO2e per FTE). Based In line with our understanding of the need for strong social and on floor space, the GHG intensity rate also decreased by 9,75% to environmental sustainability interconnectedness, we continue to acquire 0,30 tCO2e/m2 (2013: 0,33 tCO2e/m2). the carbon credits we need from projects that benefit the natural heritage This overall emissions decrease can primarily be attributed to various and social structure of Africa. initiatives that led to a decrease in electricity used in our operations. NEDBANK GROUP 2014 CARBON FOOTPRINT1 SCOPE 3: BUSINESS TRAVEL 6,27% SCOPE 1: EMISSIONS SCOPE 3: 0,18% COMMUTING 19,45% SCOPE 2: ELECTRICITY SCOPE 3: OFFICE PAPER 72,96% 1,14% 1 Resources consumption not reflected includes water consumption of 294 873 kℓ (2013: 299 694 kℓ), 324 tonnes (2013: 355 tonnes) of waste sent to landfill and 574 tonnes (2013: 565 tonnes) of waste recycled. 59 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS WHAT ARE THE GREATEST RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES? We recognise that we have a responsibility to limit our impact on our communities, while at the same time maximising our positive ACCOLADES IN 2014 sustainability contribution. This means that, in many cases, what might ■■ 2014 African Banker Awards – Socially Responsible Bank of the Year initially be perceived as a sustainability risk can, and should, be award. transformed into an opportunity. ■■ 2014 African Banker Awards – Innovation in Banking award. ■■ 2014 ABSIP Company with Most Developmental Impact. ■■ Compliance with social and environmental sustainability factors ■■ 2014 Highest score in the IRAS Sustainability Data Transparency – Our application of EP III continues to ensure greater consistency in Index in Banking and Financial Services Sector. the environmental and social risk management within our project finance and related advisory business. Our SEMS is one of the key ■■ 2014 Inclusion in Robeco SAM’s Yearbook of the most sustainable processes we use to achieve sustainability collaboration with our companies in the world – one of only six SA companies. clients and other stakeholders. During 2014 all credit risk reviews and new applications included the screening of high-risk clients and EP-relevant deals through the SEMS. Application of this was externally assured in 2014 for the first time. ■■ Energy security in SA – Energy constraints in SA not only have the potential to negatively influence the country’s overall economic development but they can also impact negatively on our ability to deliver value to our clients over time. While we are absolutely committed to investing in SA’s sustainable energy, the need to grow sustainable electricity supply while decarbonising the economy means we are sometimes unable to meet the immediate demands of some of our stakeholders. That said, we fully support 2015 government’s Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Programme (REIPPPP) and our investment bank, Nedbank Capital, has enabled the delivery of 54% of the total renewable-energy capacity awarded by the Department of Energy thus far. ■■ Financing of fossil fuels – SA’s reliance on fossil fuels cannot be FOCUS AREAS reduced overnight. Our approach to fossil fuel funding is therefore informed by our Long-term Goals for 2030. Going forward we will be adopting a Natural Resource Utilisation Screen that will guide the tilt of our lending book in line with the trajectory of the country’s ■■ Embed strong sustainability into all aspects of the group’s commitments to climate change mitigation and adaptation. operations and approach to business: ■■ Scarce skills – We have comprehensive training and development Continue the integration of strong sustainability programmes to increase the employability and skills of our considerations into business activities and initiatives. staffmembers. We also invest in graduate and bursary programmes Continue with carbon measurement and reduction as well as learnerships – all with the purpose of developing a talent through the pursuit of electricity, paper, waste and pipeline for our own business as well as contributing to the overall business travel reduction targets and ongoing recycling African talent, leadership and skills pool. initiatives. Continue to maintain carbon neutral status while exploring off-grid opportunities for our operations. ■■ Identify and develop new markets and opportunities as well as key risks by applying the Long-term Goals as the guiding strategic lens: Fair Share 2030 scaleup: R6bn lending target for 2015. ■■ Catalyse broader socioeconomic transformation by working with critical internal and external stakeholders: Continue to deliver on transformation as a vital component of realising one of our aspirations, which is to be a bank for all South Africans. Continue with staff engagement, training and leadership interventions. ■■ Enhance external stakeholder engagement, management and reporting. 60 OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE G4 INDEX For the 2014 year we have used the new Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 forms part of our third line of defence, enhancing the credibility of our guidelines for the first time. Our report is in accordance with the core information. Financial information included in the integrated report has requirements of GRI G4 and meets some of the requirements of the been extracted from the consolidated financial statements, over which comprehensive level where we believe that this matter is material to Nedbank. the auditors expressed an unmodified opinion. Specific key performance We will continue to improve our reporting against the G4 guidelines as our indicators were included as part of the sustainability assurance business matures on its integrated sustainability journey. engagement, details of which are included in the assurance opinion. External assurance is the responsibility of a combined financial and nonfinancial team from Deloitte & Touche and KPMG Inc. Internal audit also UNGC G4 Indicator Description principles Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the Core Chief Executive’s Review 1–10 Chairman's Review equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation's strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks Material matters 1–10 Strategic focus areas Engaging with our stakeholders 1–10 Sustainability governance structures and guiding principles 1-2,7–9 Managing social and environmental risk Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation Core Nedbank Group Limited G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services Core Overview of our group 7–9 Value-creating business model Delivering value through our business Enabling sustainability through products and services G4-5 Location of organisation's headquarters Core Nedbank 135 Rivonia Campus, 135 Rivonia Road, Sandown, Sandton, Gauteng, SA G4-6 Number of countries of operation and most significant Core Overview of our group 7–9 operations Company structure Chief Financial O Review G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Core Overview of our group Company structure G4-8 Markets served (including geographical breakdown, Core Overview of our group sectors served, and types of customers and Value-creating business model beneficiaries) Delivering value through our business G4-9 Scale of the organisation Core Overview of our group 3–6 Value-creating business model Delivering value through our business Chief Financial O Review Our summarised five-year track record Enabling sustainability through our products and services Employee profile G4-10 (a) T otal number of employees by employment Core Employee profile 1-2,3–6 contract and gender Points (e) and (f) not applicable (b) T otal number of permanent employees by employment type and gender (c) T otal workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender (d) Total workforce by region and gender (e) Report whether a substantial portion of the organisation's work is performed by workers who are legally recognised as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors (f) Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) 61 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION UNGC G4 Indicator Description principles G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collectiveCore Employee relations management 3-6 bargaining agreements G4-12 Nedbank Group's supply chain Core Adding value through a sustainable supply chain Governance and Ethics Review 1-10 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Core No significant changes during the reporting period regarding Nedbank's size, structure, ownership or supply chain G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle Core Social and environmental risk management 7–9 Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 1-6,10 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and Core Sustainability credentials and indices 7–9 social charters, principles or other initiatives, which Governance and Ethics Review Nedbank subscribes to or endorses 1-6,10 G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry Core Sustainability credentials and indices associations) and national or international Governance and Ethics Review 1-10 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 ■ Entities included in the organisation's consolidated Core Committed to transparent reporting 7–9 financial statements or equivalent documents Company structure ■ Entities included in the organisation's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents not covered by the report G4-18 ■ Process for defining the report content and the Core Committed to transparent reporting aspect boundaries G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process Core Economic performance, compliance (environmental, for defining report content social, product responsibility), employment, training and education, diversity and equal opportunity, communities, anti-corruption, product and service labelling, client privacy, product portfolio and active ownership. G4-20 -21 For each material aspect report the aspect boundary Core Aspect boundaries are as per the financial boundaries within and outside the organisation defined in the 2014 Nedbank Group Integrated Report. Committed to transparent reporting material matters. G4-22 Restatements of information Core No reclassifications and restatements were made to the group's statement of financial position and the statement of comprehensive income. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting Core None Stakeholder engagement G4-24-27 List stakeholder groups engaged, the basis for Core Engaging with our stakeholders 1-10 selection of stakeholders with whom to engage, Stakeholder engagement Nedbank's approach to stakeholder engagement and Governance and Ethics Review 1-10 key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, as well as Nedbank's response Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Core Committed to transparent reporting G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Core Committed to transparent reporting G4-30 Reporting cycle Core Committed to transparent reporting G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Core Contacts contents G4-32 GRI content index Core Our report is in accordance with the core requirements External assurance of G4. Committed to transparent reporting G4-33 Assurance Report Core Committed to transparent reporting 1-10 Validating our sustainability journey Report from our independent auditors 62 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE G4 INDEX (continued) UNGC G4 Indicator Description principles Governance G4-34 Nedbank's governance structure including committees Core Chairman’s Review 1, 2,7-10 responsible for decisionmaking on economic, Report from Group Transformation, Social and Ethics 1, 2,7-10 environmental and social impacts Committee Chairman Sustainability governance structures and Governance and Ethics Review 1-10 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, Sustainability governance environmental and social topics Governance and Ethics Review G4-36 Executive-level position responsible for economic, Sustainability governance 1-10 environmental and social topics Governance and Ethics Review G4-37 Consultation between stakeholders, board and Chairman’s Review 1-10 relevant governance committees on economic, Report from Group Transformation, Social and Ethics environmental and social topics Committee Chairman Sustainability governance structures and guiding principles Governance and Ethics Review G4-38 Composition of the board and its committees Board of directors 1-10 Governance and Ethics Review Governance and Ethics Review 1-10 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the board and Sustainability Review 1, 2,7-10 its committees Governance and Ethics Review 1-10 G4-41 Processes for the Nedbank board to ensure conflicts of Governance and Ethics Review 10 interest are avoided and managed G4-42 The board's role in setting strategy, values, policies Governance and Ethics Review 1-10 and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-43 Measures to develop and enhance the board's Report from Group Transformation, Social and Ethics collective knowledge of economic, environmental and Committee Chairman social topics Governance and Ethics Review 1-10 G4-44-47 Process for evaluating the board's performance with Governance and Ethics Review 1-10 respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics and actions taken in response to G4-45-47 The board's role in: Chairman’s Review ■ identifying and managing economic, environmental Report from Group Transformation, Social and Ethics 7–9 and social impacts, risks and opportunities Committee Chairman 7–9 ■ using stakeholder consultation to support the Material matters 1,2 identification and management of economic, Sustainability governance structures and guiding 3–6 environmental and social impacts, risks and principles opportunities Stakeholder engagement 1–10 ■ Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report management processes for economic, Governance and Ethics Review environmental and social topics ■ review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities G4-48 Committee that reviews and approves Nedbank’s Group Transformation, Social and Ethics Committee integrated report and supplementary sustainability information and ensures that all material aspects are covered G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 board G4-50 Nature and number of critical concerns that were Pace of transformation; culture, employee wellbeing; 1–10 communicated to the board and the mechanism(s) food security; learnerships; preferential procurement; used to address and resolve them ethics; environmental compliance; tax; audit: fees and findings; funding and liquidity; risk appetite; new products; regulatory change. Number of issues not disclosed G4-51 ■ Remuneration policies for the board and senior Reporting back on remuneration 1,2,3–6 executives 3–6 ■ Performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body's and senior executives' economic, environmental and 63 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION UNGC G4 Indicator Description principles G4-52 ■ Process for determining remuneration Reporting back on remuneration 3,6 ■ Report any other relationships which the We use consultants to advise our Group 3,6 remuneration consultants have with the R ee organisation 3,6 G4-53 Stakeholders' views on remuneration, including the Reporting back on remuneration 3–61 results of votes on remuneration policies and Statement from the Chairman of the Group proposals Remuneration Committee Notice of annual general meeting Form of proxy G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the Tracked and monitored internally, but not 3,6 organisation's highest-paid individual to the median annual total compensation for all employees Reporting back on remuneration G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total Tracked and monitored internally, but not 3,6 compensation for the organisation's highest-paid individual to the median percentage increase in annual Reporting back on remuneration total compensation for all employees Ethics and integrity G4-56 Nedbank's values, principles, standards and norms of Core Our vision and values 3–6,1-10 behaviour, such as codes of conduct and codes of Governance and Ethics Review 1,2,1-10 ethics G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Governance and Ethics Review 1,2,10 concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report matters related to Nedbank's integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Value-creating business model Chief Financial O s Review Our summarised five-year review Delivering sustained value to all of our stakeholders Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Material matters opportunities for the organisation's activities due to Nedbank’s strategic approach to climate change climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined-benefit-plan Reporting back on remuneration obligations G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government No financial assistance received from government G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Enabling sustainability through our products and and services supported services 2014 Transformation Report G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts 2014 Transformation Report Sustainability Review Investing in our people G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on locally based suppliers Local procurement Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN5 Energy intensity Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Carbon footprint measurement Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Carbon footprint measurement 64 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE G4 INDEX (continued) UNGC G4 Indicator Description principles Compliance (environmental) G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of None for the period non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social Core Sustainability governance structures and guiding 3-9 components applied to business lines principles Our commitment to responsible finance Managing social and environmental risk Approach to lending in our retail Bank Governance and Ethics Review 1-10 G4-FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental Core Sustainability governance structures and guiding 3-9 and social risks in business lines principles Our commitment to responsible finance 3-9 Managing social and environmental risk Approach to lending in our retail Bank 7-9 Governance and Ethics Review 1-6,10 G4-FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of, Core Sustainability governance structures and guiding 3-9 and compliance with, environmental and social principles requirements included in agreements or transactions Our commitment to responsible finance 7-9 Managing social and environmental risk 3-9 Approach to lending in our retail Bank G4-FS4 Proc Core Entr 3-9 implement the environmental and social policies and Our environmental footprint procedures as applied to business lines Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report Governance and Ethics Review 1,2,10 G4-FS5 Interactions with clients/investors/business partners Core Building enduring relationships regarding environmental and social risks Stakeholder engagement Carbon reduction and management Towards more sustainable thinking among learners and communities G4-FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess Core Assurance statement in the 2014 Nedbank Group implementation of environmental and social policies Integrated Report and risk assessment procedures G4-FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial Core Innovating for our clients products and services Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report Employment G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover Emplo 1,2,3-6 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not Emplo 1,2,3-6 provided to temporary or parttime employees Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by Investing in our people 1,2,3-6 gender and by employee category G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Investing in our people 1,6 that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Investment in training 1,6 performance and career development review 65 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION UNGC G4 Indicator Description principles Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Board of directors 1,2,3-6 employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and Governance and Ethics Review other indicators of diversity Human rights investment G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements and contracts that Applying Equator Principles 1,2,3-6 include human rights clauses or that underwent Governance and Ethics Review human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights Governance and Ethics Review 1,2,3-6 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Governance and Ethics Review 1,2,3-6 corrective actions taken Local communities G4-SO1 Operations with implemented local community Applying Equator Principles 7-9 engagement, impact assessments and Leading through collaboration and partnership Stakeholder engagement 2014 Transformation Report G4-FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically Financial inclusion 7-9 disadvantaged areas by type Enterprise development 2014 Transformation Report G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for Products aimed at socioeconomic transformation 1,2,3,6 disadvantaged people Consumer education for economic sustainability 2014 Transformation Report Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report 10 for risks related to corruption and the significant risks Governance and Ethics Review identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report 10 policies and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report 10 None for the period Compliance (society) G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws R35m was paid in fines/penalties and settlements for and regulations non-compliance, largely due to anti-money-laundering transgressions and tax penalties. Product, service and labelling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by Innovating for our clients the organisation's procedures for product and service information and labelling, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Approximately 61 incidents of non-compliance, the regulations and voluntary codes concerning product majority of which relate to anti-money-laundering and service information and labelling, by type G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Innovating for our clients 66 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE G4 INDEX (continued) UNGC G4 Indicator Description principles Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding We did not receive any substantiated complaints breaches of customer privacy and losses of regarding breaches of client privacy from any outside party or from our regulators. Various assets in the form of computers and cellphones were lost or stolen; however, the majority were encrypted and there were no breaches of client privacy that we have been alerted to. We are proactively working on our processes to track and identify losses of such data to ensure more detailed reporting in this regard Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report Compliance (product and service) G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance No significant amounts paid for the period with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Product portfolio G4-FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by Overview of our group specific region, size (eg micro/SME/large) and Value-creating business model Delivering value through our business Our summarised five-year track record G4-FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to Applying Equator Principles deliver a specific social benefit for each business line, Enabling sustainability through our products broken down by purpose 2014 Transformation Report G4-FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to Applying Equator Principles deliver a specific environmental benefit for each Enabling sustainability through our products business line, broken down by purpose Active ownership G4-FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the During 2014 all credit risk reviews and new institution's portfolio with which the reporting applications included the screening of high-risk clients organisation has interacted on environmental and and Equator Principles-relevant deals through the social issues Social Environmental Management System (SEMS). This equated to more than 450 clients and/or deals in the period under review. G4-FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental or social Nedgroup Investments voting policy – http://www. issues for shares over which the reporting organisation nedgroupinvestments.co.za/Content/Files/ holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting Documents/Nedgroup%20Investments%20 Proxy%20Voting%20Guidelines.pdf G4-FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative Implementing principles for responsible investment environmental or social screening Our summarised five-year track record 67 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT NEDBANK GROUP COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS OUR CONTACT DETAILS Driekie Havenga Nedbank Ethics Officer Enterprise Governance and Compliance 011 295 6944 driekieh@nedbank.co.za Kerri Savin Stakeholder Engagement Manager Enterprise Governance and Compliance 011 295 5672 kerris@nedbank.co.za 68
