st March 1 , 2015 V&F Transformer: 2014 Communication on Progress Published: 3/28/15 Time Period Covered: December 2013-December 2014 Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer To our Stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that V&F Transformer Corporation reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In the annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Best Regards, Dean Foderaro Sr. CEO Human Rights: Assessment, Policy, and Goals  V&F Transformer has an Employee Handbook, which describes a framework for the relationship between ownership and the employees of V&F Transformer to ensure protection of rights and the creation of a safe work place. The handbook is reviewed and up-dated yearly as required.  In 2014, V&F adopted a Human Rights policy that supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Implementation:  In 2014, V&F implemented a Human Rights Policy amongst its domestic and international facilities that ensure adequate protection of these rights and a safe work environment.  rd In 2014, V&F’s Asia facility underwent a 3 Environmental, Health and Safety evaluation. This included an inspection of living and eating facilities as well as a review of the manufacturing operations. Measurement of Outcomes:  V&F Transformer monitors and tracks its performance in the implementation of human rights protection in the following manner: o Tracking of reported incidents, V&F has had 0 incidents in the current reporting period. o Periodic review of results by Senior Management. Labour Assessment, policy, and goals:  In 2008, V&F implemented its Employee Handbook which details a set of policies and procedures for the support of principles 3 thru 6 in regard to labor. This includes written policies for equal opportunity employment and the prevention of employee discrimination as well as the handling of compensation and benefits. Implementation:  In 2014, V&F hired legal representation to review and up-date its employment contracts for its operations within China to ensure the rights and labor principles of its employees within the country were given adequate protection.  In 2014, V&F worked with the Chinese government to properly up-date its social welfare commitments and comply with newly released housing support programs to ensure better standards of living for our employees within China.  In 2014, V&F partnered with Stratex Partners to update its insurance and benefit packages to comply with new State and Federal Requirements (minimum wage, health insurance, etc). Measurement of Outcomes:  V&F Transformer’s management team is widely diversified in age, gender, ethnicity, and education. This diversity allows V&F to effectively manage its international work force and wide spread sales team.  V&F monitors and evaluates its performance in regard to Global Compact rd Principles 3-6 through the implementation of internal and 3 party audits. The results are reviewed by Senior Management on a periodic basis. o V&F has had 0 violations of the Global Compact Principles 3-6 in the past 5 years. Environment Assessment, policy, and goals  In 2014 V&F combined its Environmental and Quality Policies into one document that is regularly communicated throughout all V&F Transformer Facilities.  V&F’s goal is to continuously reduce environmental impacts and maintain an ISO rd 14001 3 Party Registered System. Implementation:  rd In 2014, V&F Transformer obtained ISO 14001 3 Party Registration.  In 2014, V&F Transformer reduced its environmental impacts by limiting all potentially hazardous chemicals used within the processes.  In 2014, V&F complied with all State and Federal environmental reporting requirements.  In 2014, V&F received Environmental Approval regarding its operations in Zhuhai, China. In 2015, the government will monitor the performance of our facility and provide a formal report for Senior Management to review. Measurement of Outcomes:  V&F Transformer has a series of environmental key performance indicators that are reviewed on a monthly basis by Sr. Management. Results of these KPIs are also reviewed at semi-annual management reviews and communicated to the entire organization.  rd V&F Transformer commissions annual 3 party environmental assessments of its domestic operating entities. The results of these audits are reviewed by Senior Management and any corrective/preventative actions are tracked through V&F’s Business Management System.  V&F has maintained its “Emission Monitoring Exempt” status by maintaining negligible emissions through the use of environmentally friendly components in its manufacturing processes. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy, and goals  In 2008, V&F Transformer introduced its Employee Handbook which introduced V&F’s stand against corruption.  In 2014, V&F research and developed an anti-corruption policy supporting the th Global Compact’s 10 principle.  In 2015, V&F will introduce and train its global employees on its stance against th corruption in support of the Global Compact’s 10 principle. Implementation  V&F provides formalized training on its employee manual for new hires, and refresher training for existing employees. The training introduces V&F’s stance against corruption.  In 2014, V&F contracted with Crowe Horwath to review V&F’s financials (domestic and international) as well as reviewing the internal controls in place to prevent corruption. The results of these reviews are reviewed by Senior Management.  In 2014, V&F Transformer created a formal “Controller” position in Hong Kong whose primary responsibility was to ensure the validity of financial data and ensure V&F Transformer’s international holdings are in compliance with all China, Hong Kong, and US defined anti-corruption laws. Measurement of Outcomes  V&F Transformer monitors and evaluates its performance in regard to AntiCorruption. o V&F has had 0 issues of corruption in the last 5 years.
