E nv i ro n m e n t a l a n d S o c i a l Re p o r t 2015 2015 Environmental and Social Report (Previous issue: June 2014) Issued June 2015 (Next issue: scheduled for June 2016) Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 6-1, Ohtemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/ For further information regarding this report, please contact the Public Relations Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. Phone: +81-3-3246-5091 Fax: +81-3-3246-5096 e-mail: sec-pr@shinetsu.jp Your opinions, inquiries, and requests regarding this report are welcomed at our website: URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/inquiry/kankyo_enq.php Table of contents Editorial Policy Corporate The Group strictly complies with all laws and regulations, conducts fair business practices and The Environmental and Social Report provides information on environmental, safety and quality control programs and CSR Mission contributes to people’s daily lives as well as to the advancement of industry and society by initiatives carried out by the Shin-Etsu Group. The Report also Statement providing key materials and technologies. serves as a report of our Responsible Care programs 1. The Report has been compiled in accordance with the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 and Environmental Reporting Guidelines FY2012 released by the Ministry of the Environment, The Shin-Etsu Group: Japan, and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 1 Corporate Mission Statement/Basic CSR Policy Basic CSR 2 Editorial Policy/Table of Contents Period Covered by the Report 1 Policy (indicated where otherwise) 3 Message from Management Will do our best to increase the Group’s corporate value through sustained growth and Japan: April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 make multifaceted contributions to society. Overseas: January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 5 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group Organizations Covered by the Report 2 7 TOPICS : The Shin-Etsu Group is actively engaged in solving social issues The report covers the 146 companies of the Shin-Etsu Group. The range of entities from which data were collected is in principle Will carry out all of our company activities by making safety always our utmost priority. as stated below. Where otherwise, this is indicated in a separate Management Structures note. 3 Will constantly pursue energy-saving, resources-saving and the reduction of the (1) Environmental Activity Report 9 CSR Promotion Structure The report includes data from the 124 companies of environmental impact, and seek to help create a sustainable future world in which we the Shin-Etsu Group. Compared with the coverage of the 2014 10 Corporate Governance all live in harmony with the Earth. report, there is thus an expansion in scope and a difference in 14 Compliance with Laws and Regulations content. 4 67 manufacturing bases in Japan (increase of 4) 15 Information Asset Management Will endeavor to contribute to the prevention of global warming and the conservation of 122 non-manufacturing bases in Japan (increase of 8) 16 Risk Management biodiversity by means of our cutting-edge technologies and products. 47 overseas manufacturing bases (increase of 1) 57 overseas non-manufacturing bases 5 (2) Environmental Accounting Environment and Safety Initiatives Will strive to respect human dignity, assure equality in employment opportunities and Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. support the self-fulfillment of our employees. (3) Management Structures, Relations with Society Environmental Management Shin-Etsu Group, except for the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group2 6 17 Environmental Management Promotion: 1 Responsible Care program Reducing the Environmental Impact by Business Activities Will appropriately disclose information in a timely manner. A campaign encouraging enterprises that handle chemical substances to voluntarily ensure protection of the 18 Environmental Accounting 7 environment, safety and health in all processes, from the 19 Environmental Initiatives Will carry out trustworthy corporate activities that are based on the integrity of development of chemical substances through manufacture, the Group’s ethical values. distribution and utilization to final consumption, disposal 24 Resource Recycling Initiatives or recycling, to publish the results of their activity, and to engage in dialog and communication with society. 25 Initiatives for Biodiversity Preservation and Pollutant Countermeasures Environment and Safety 2 For a report on the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group, see “Shin-Etsu Polymer Sustainability Report 2015” (to be published at end 27 Targets and Results of September 2015). Upholding the Global Compact Ten Principles Safety The Shin-Etsu Group joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in November 2010. The Group upholds the ten principles 29 Safety, Health, Process Safety and Prevention Plan Initiatives advanced by the UNGC in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Relations with Society The Global Compact asks that businesses should: Principle 6: U  phold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Principle 1: S upport and respect the protection of internationally employment and occupation 31 Shareholders and Investors proclaimed human rights Principle 7: S upport a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 32 Customers Principle 2: M  ake sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 8: U  ndertake initiatives to promote greater 34 Business Partners Principle 3: U  phold the freedom of association and the effective environmental responsibility 35 Local Communities recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 9: E ncourage the development and 37 Employees Principle 4: U  phold the elimination of all forms of forced and diffusion of environmentally friendly compulsory labour technologies Principle 5: Uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its 41 History of Activities forms, including extortion and 42 Responsible Care Audit of the Report bribery * CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) The idea that enterprise, rather than concentrating solely on profit, need to value their relationships with a wide range of stakeholders in the conduct of their business. For information on our Corporate Mission Statement, Basic CSR Policy and UNGC participation, please refer to GRI Guidelines Comparison Table WEB WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#policy http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#houkoku 1 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 2 Message from Management We will continue to sincerely strive to further build up relationships of trust with our stakeholders around the world and work to contribute to the development of society through our key materials and technologies Together with society Approaches to protecting the environment, Strengthening our business continuity Helping solve social issues and contributing conserving resources foundation to local communities The Shin-Etsu Group aims to contribute to society’s development by providing products and technologies • Promoting environmental conservation and The stable supply of our products to our customers is The Shin-Etsu Group hopes to contribute through that support people’s lives and the advancement of reducing the environmental impact an important mission of the Shin-Etsu Group as we its products and technologies to the solution of industry. To realize these management objectives, As we develop and improve the Shin-Etsu Group’s manufacture and deliver to customers many products various important issues that the world is facing. our basic policy is to place utmost priority on safety production technologies, we carefully take into that possess very large shares in the global market, The companies of the Shin-Etsu Group and their and strictly comply with all laws and regulations, and consideration environmental per formance. The such as PVC and semiconductor silicon wafers. We are employees are carrying out many different kinds of proactively address important global social issues that Technology Committee conducts studies and takes a working to prepare in advance for such unforeseeable social contribution activities in their local communities society faces such as environmental conservation. We leading role in guiding these efforts in the Shin-Etsu contingencies as natural disasters. In this context, we around the world. One example of such activities is are making concerted efforts to meet the challenge of Group. In addition, not only do we endeavor to reduce are continuing to move forward with our strategy of the case of Shintech in the U.S., which is making a continuing at all times to grow our business together the environmental impact in the manufacturing process, geographically dispersing our production bases and great contribution to the U.S. economy. Many Shintech with society. but we also make consideration for reducing it right diversifying our sources of raw materials procurement. employees are actively participating in the activities up to the stage where products are used and disposed of a number of non-profit charitable organizations, of. Specifically, we perform quantitative analysis of our and are deepening relationships of trust with the local Safety is our top priority Group’s emissions from the receiving of raw materials, Supporting the Responsible Care® initiative communities in which it operates. through the manufacturing process and further to the and United Nations Global Charter In recent years as societies become more complex T he is sue that is the utmos t priorit y at our disposal of final products, so that we comprehensively and diversified, the responsibilities of business manufacturing sites is assuring safety-first in all work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Declaring its strong support, the Shin-Etsu Group corporations to society are becoming greater. In the operations. When we newly design facilities or carry signed and put into practice the Responsible Care future as well, the Shin-Etsu Group will sincerely and out facility renovation projects, we incorporate methods • Conserving resources and protecting biodiversity Global Charter of the International Council of Chemical proactively respond to requests from society and will for making safety assessments. In the manufacturing The ShinEtsu Group constantly continues our Associations (ICCA) in 2006. Furthermore, in 2014 we continually make vigorous efforts to steadily carry process, we set up operation work procedures to efforts to carefully use the Earth’s limited resources. signed the revised Responsible Care Global Charter. In out its corporate social responsibilities as a good assure safety, and we make sure to thoroughly conduct To realize this objective, we are focusing on making 2010, the Shin-Etsu Group became a participant in the corporate citizen. all work in complete accordance with these safety more effective use of resources and energy saving United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and has been Going forward, we will continue to sincerely strive procedures. In addition, we continuously work to when improving both our production technologies and voluntarily supporting and practicing in its business to further build up relationships of trust with our improve our production technologies and upgrade our products. In addition, in all our business activities we operations and strategies the UNGC’s Ten Principles shareholders, investors, customers, business partners facilities, and at the same time, by moving ahead with take into consideration what we can do to promote with regard to human rights, labor standards, the and people in local communities around the world. the improvement of work procedures and the revision the conservation of the global environment and environment and the prevention of corruption. These We would like to ask for your continued support in the of work manuals, we strive to achieve a safe work biodiversity. principles are all in line with the Shin-Etsu Group’s coming years. environment. As one example of these safety efforts, corporate mission and basic CSR (corporate social we regularly collect information about experiences responsibility) policies. Going forward, the Shin-Etsu June 2015 in which employees have felt the risk of a possible Practicing fair and highly transparent management Group will continue to uphold this initiative and charter accidents occurring in the workplace. We disseminate and will endeavor to build even stronger relationships to all Board Members and employees information In order to realize management that is fair and highly of trust with people around the world. about these reported “close-call incidents” and the transparent, we are continuously strengthening our improvement measures that the company is putting internal control and audit system. In addition, we in place to prevent any future accidents. Furthermore, continue to make strong efforts to appropriately we also make this same information available to the disclose important management information to the general public on Shin-Etsu’s website. We are focusing public in a timely fashion and are conducting strict our all-out efforts on preventing accidents through operation of our system of internal controls. To further these activities. We constantly endeavor to identify assure a steadfast internal control system, we have potential risks in the workplace and address them early Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory on by swiftly acting to implement steps to rectify the Board Members who have deep insight and a wealth of situation. business experience and knowledge, and provide advice and supervision of management from an objective and independent standpoint. Moreover, our Auditing Department, an independent organization directly reporting to the President, has the authority to enforce a strict and fair auditing system. Chihiro Kanagawa Shunzo Mori Chairman President 3 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 4 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group Contributing to the development of society through the products, sales force, production technology, and development capability As of March 31, 2015, the Shin-Etsu Group comprises Silicon Business; Electronics and Functional Materials Corporate Overview Shin-Etsu Chemical and 145 Group companies, which Business; and Diversified Business. In each of these share responsibility for sales, manufacturing and other fields, we have products with strong market share, operations and cooperate to develop their respective with the world’s top share in polyvinyl chloride (PVC), Overview of Operations Number of employees (Persons) business activities. semiconductor silicones, photomask substrates for Trading name Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. ■Consolidated ■Non-consolidated 20,000 These business activities are divided into six LCDs, and the top domestic share for silicones. Location 6-1, Ohtemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan 17,712 17,892 18,276 Established September 16, 1926 16,302 16,167 segment s: P VC / Chlor-Alkali Business; Silicones Shin-Etsu products are a familiar part of our 15,000 Capital 119,419 million yen Business; Specialty Chemicals Business; Semiconductor everyday lives and they play an essential role in society. Representative Shunzo Mori, President Number of employees 18,276 (consolidated) 2,757 (non-consolidated) 10,000 Business activities Production and sales of polyvinyl chloride, semiconductor Technology, Materials, Products Chart silicon, silicones, rare earth magnets, synthetic quartz, 5,000 cellulose derivatives and other products 2,656 2,695 2,692 2,737 2,757 Outstanding materials come from outstanding technology. The Shin-Etsu Group evolve into a variety of sophisticated 0 technologies developed in the process of creating products that meet ever advancing and diversifying needs. Principal Shin-Etsu Group Companies 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 ● Japan Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Polymer Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Engineering Co., Ltd., Nagano Electronics Industrial Co., Ltd., Naoetsu Electronics Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Astech Co., Ltd., and others Optical Products Cellulose ● Overseas isolators derivatives Synthetic Shintech Inc., Shin-Etsu Handotai America Inc., S.E.H. Malaysia SDN. BHD., Shin-Etsu PVC B.V., SE Tylose GmbH & Co. KG, Oxide single crystals pheromones, Shin-Etsu Handotai Europe Ltd., Shin-Etsu Handotai Taiwan Co., Ltd., and others (Lithium Aroma Tantalate) Materials chemicals Rating: Aa3 long-term Indices for Socially Pulp Compound Rare Semiconductor debt rating received from Responsible earths encapsulatings semiconductors elements, Acetylene materials Moody’s Investors Services Investment Others Gallium Epoxy Technology Semiconductor Silane & Poly Single-crystal growing Organic synthesis Silicon Silanes Financial Highlights silicon Silicon technology technology metal Net Sales (Billion yen) Operating Income (Billion yen) Net Income (Billion yen) Phenol ■Consolidated ■Consolidated ■Consolidated derivatives ■Non-consolidated ■Non-consolidated ■Non-consolidated 1,500 250 200 Rare earths, Powdering/ Electrolysis 1,255.5 Rare earth Rare sintering Photoresists 1,165.8 earths technology technology 1,200 1,058.3 200 185.3 magnets 1,047.7 1,025.4 173.8 150 157.0 128.6 149.2 149.6 900 150 113.6 100.1 100.6 105.7 Industrial Silica 640.3 100 salt 602.8 579.0 559.5 594.7 600 100 91.7 76.8 80.1 77.3 78.5 66.7 Silicon Chorides, 56.7 57.3 CVD1&PVD2 Polymerization 44.5 49.0 metal Caustic soda 50 technology 300 50 Plastic & Film Boron Fluorine processing 0 0 0 compound technology 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 Pyrolytic Silane Liquid boron Silane fluoroelastomers Net Sales by Segment (Fiscal year ended March 2015) Net Sales by Region (Fiscal year ended March 2015) nitride Molybdenum Chlorine & (PBN) Silicon Fluorine Ethylene Diversified business polymers 99.5（8％） PVC/Chlor-alkali Synthetic Silicones Japan Electronics and 452.6 （36％） 351.2 （28％） Asia/Oceania quartz functional materials Consolidated Consolidated 366.3（29％） Photomask Polyvinyl 183.5 （15％） net sales net sales Overseas blanks Pellicles chloride 1,255.5 1,255.5 (PVC) Semiconductor silicon billion yen billion yen United States 230.0 （18％） 271.7（22％） Other Silicones 118.7 （9％） Europe 1 Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD) Specialty chemicals 177.4 （14％） 147.5（12％） A method for depositing thin films onto a substrate, involving gas energized by thermal, optical, or electromagnetic radiation to cause excitation or decomposition, 112.3 （9％） and involving steps such as attraction, reaction, and dissociation. 2 Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD) Full details of Shin-Etsu Group companies Financial and IR information WEB WEB A method for depositing thin material films onto a substrate, using originally solid substances vaporized by thermal or plasma energy. http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/profile.html http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/ir/ 5 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 6 TOPICS The Shin-Etsu Group is actively engaged in solving social issues Things that Japan should do to realize a sustainable society The Shin-Etsu Group demonstrates our corporate mission “to contribute to people’s daily lives Today, the world’s advanced industrial societies should be aiming to create societies that can coexist in harmony as well as to the advancement of industry and society by providing key materials and with the Earth’s environment. In order to achieve this goal, we must first address the pressing issue of global warming. The most effective way to do this is to simultaneously reduce energy consumption by greatly improving technologies” through meeting the challenge to solve important social issues. energy efficiency and increasing the use of renewable energy. With the amount of energy consumed in daily living by society currently accounting for approximately 60% of total energy consumption, the need for the greater use of such things as energy-saving home appliances and eco-friendly cars and for improving the thermal insulation of housing and buildings are key future challenges for society. In addition to environmental issues, advanced industrial countries also have other issues that need addressing such as the aging of their societies and their aging urban infrastructures. Japan is one of the world’s developed Hiroshi Komiyama countries that have been experiencing the impact of these issues from early on, and, going forward, I believe that Outside Director, Shin-Etsu Polyvinyl chloride resins (PVC) these issues can be resolved through the application of Japanese technological know-how. Furthermore, these Chemical Co., Ltd. In comparison to aluminum solutions can be expanded to be applied around the world. The Shin-Etsu Group has outstanding products and (Former President of The University of Tokyo, Chairman; currently, window frames, PVC window technology that can contribute to these solutions. From here onwards, I have great expectations for the continued Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc.) to growth of the Shin-Etsu Group. frames can reduce the amount of heat loss from windows by 71 %* (Photo) LIXIL Corporation Cellulose derivatives for Rare earth magnets industrial use To minimize the separation of Efficiency enhancement of electric concrete in water, it is possible to motors and power generators Energy savings Smart grid pour concrete without Essential for enhancing the IoT 1 HV/EV contaminating the water performance of next-generation automobiles* Prevention of Addressing Conservation of marine pollution Silicones climate change ecosystems and Silicones Very safe silicones are used for By utilizing silicone products in and its impacts biodiversity loss coating ship bottom and fishing Europe, North America and Japan, nets to prevent marine organisms it is possible to reduce greenhouse prevention attaching to them gas emissions by 54 million tons of CO2e per year* Synthetic pheromones Building Ensuring healthy Reducing agrichemical usage By disputing the communication between male and female Silicones infrastructures lives and Smart grid Preventing IoT1 agricultural pests, it is possible to By utilizing silicone for sealing solar batteries, the batteries can be used Renewable energy and fostering promoting HV/EV disruption of obstruct their mating behavior and selectively eliminate the agricultural ecosystems for 30 years or more innovations well-being pests only Pharmaceutical-use cellulose Maximizing the derivatives Polyvinyl chloride resins (PVC) Modulating position control, Water supply and sewerage pipes Long-life Smart grid performance of IoT1 dosage, and time that pills dissolve do not need replacing for 50 years infrastructures HV/EV pharmaceutical inside the body or more products Removing the bitter taste and odor of pills Basic Rare earth magnets infrastructures Silicones Smart grid to support an Responding to Semiconductor silicon Semiconductor silicon IoT1 advanced an aging society Used in joint motors, cushion HV/EV information materials, and electronic device society control in nursing care robots 1 I oT Abbreviation for ‘Internet of Things.’ Everything is interconnected through networks * P lease refer to pages 7 to 8 in the Environmental and Social Report 2014 for more information. http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr_bn.html 7 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 8 Management Structures CSR Promotion Structure Corporate Governance Shin-Etsu Group implements various activities to Corporate governance is one of our most fulfill its corporate social responsibility important management tasks Shin-Etsu Chemical aims to meet the expectations of monthly basis as a general rule. The Board of Directors CSR Promotion Initiatives shareholders by continually enhancing corporate value. sets out the Company principle and deliberates and To this end, we have instituted an efficient structural makes decisions regarding key aspects of Company The mission of the Shin-Etsu Group is “strictly to To achieve this, we formulated our Basic CSR Policy framework and systems designed to enable a more operations in accordance with the Companies Act, the comply with all laws and regulations, to conduct fair and internal regulations, and are implementing various prompt response to changes in the business Shin-Etsu articles of incorporation, etc. Meanwhile, the business practices and to contribute to people’s daily CSR activities. In order to promote the Basic CSR Policy environment. Moreover, Shin-Etsu Chemical accurately Managing Directors’ Meeting makes deliberations and lives as well as to the advance of society and industry by in an ef fec tive and appropriate manner at a discloses information to shareholders and investors as a decisions on a variety of other operational issues. providing key materials and technologies”. We believe companywide level in all aspects of corporate activity, means of improving management transparency and The Audit & Supervisory Board consists of five we have a social responsibility to contribute to our we have set up a CSR Promotion Committee comprising strengthening audit systems. members including three Outside Audit & Supervisory many stakeholders, including all of our shareholders managers from the relevant divisions and departments, Board Members. As well as attending the Board of and investors, customers, business partners, local and have appointed an officer responsible for CSR. Directors meetings, Managing Directors’ Meetings, and communities and employees, by realizing this vision. Board of Directors, Managing Directors’ other important internal meetings, the Audit & Meeting and Audit & Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Members review documents and carry out other tasks in order to audit the execution of Diagram of the Shin-Etsu Group’s various relationships Shin-Etsu Chemical has adopted an Audit & Supervisory operations by the directors. Furthermore the Audit & Board Member system. The Board of Directors consists Super visor y Board Members also hold monthly Shareholders and investors of 23 members, of whom five are Outside Directors meetings with the Auditing Department where they with extensive management experience and a high level receive progress reports on activities, internal auditing of expertise. results, and other matters. They also provide advice on Two organizations to discuss and decide on the topics including these activities and the selection of key execution of operations: the Board of Directors and the auditing topics, and request investigations if necessary. Customers IR activities Managing Directors’ Meeting, which are each held on a General Shareholders' Meeting Dividend Business partners Corporate Governance System at Shin-Etsu Chemical Product sales Material procurement Product safety Quality control General Shareholders’ Meeting Election/Dismissal Reporting Election/Dismissal Reporting Election/Dismissal Environmental management Human rights and Committee Report Audit & Supervisory Board Local communities Local contribution employment Employees Officers’ Remuneration Committee Auditing Five Audit & Supervisory Board Process Safety and Education and training Chairman: Outside Director Board of Directors Members of whom three are Outside Prevention Plan Welfare Election/Dismissal 23 directors, including 5 Outside Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members Safety and health Judgment of Advice and Requirements Accounting Audit Supervision, Election/Dismissal Adequacy Outline of the Corporate Mission Statement, Basic CSR Policy, and the Shin-Etsu Group’s activities Auditing Representative Directors Accounting Auditor The Shin-Etsu Group’s Corporate Mission Statement Reporting Basic CSR Policy Reporting Managing Directors’ Meeting Instruction Deliberation on operational issues, etc. Auditing Department Reporting Compliance with Laws and Regulations Reporting Information Asset Management Human Rights and Employment Auditing Environmental Management Instruction/Supervision Committees for each main management task Corporate Governance Material Procurement Contribution to society Investigation/Guidance Risk Management Safety and Health Product Safety Marketing, Manufacturing, Research & Development and Management Departments As of June 26, 2015 9 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 10 Management Structures Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Directors’ Remuneration Management of Group Companies Supervisory Board Members The Officers’ Remuneration Committee, chaired by In the spirit of respect for the autonomy of Group For the purpose of the fulfilled advisory and supervisory and are not former employees of our parent company, an Outside Director Frank Peter Popoff together companies, Shin-Etsu Chemical works for growth and functions on management independently, Shin-Etsu subsidiaries, major shareholders or major business with three directors as committee members, meets development so as to promote mutual benefit in the Chemical engages the Outside Directors and Outside partners. regularly twice a year and conducts conference calls as interest of the business development of the Group as a Audit & Supervisory Board Members listed below. Support services for the Outside Directors and necessary to review and assess directors’ remuneration whole. Since their appointment, the Outside Directors Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members are and make recommendations to the Board of Directors Group companies are managed on the basis of have not only provided adequate supervision from an provided by staff from the relevant divisions. When a in accordance with the Regulations of the Officers’ the Shin-Etsu Chemical Group Company Operational independent perspective, but have also provided advice meeting of the Board of Directors or other important Remuneration Committee. Regulations. Companies with strong ties to Shin-Etsu across the full range of management operations from internal meeting is to be held, Outside Directors are Chemical in terms of capital, personnel, or materials the points of their broad view. The Outside Audit & informed in advance of the agenda and provided with undertake prior consultation and submit reports to the Supervisory Board Members bring to the audits high an explanation of its content as necessary, in response Internal Control System and Operational Audit parent company with respect to items such as capital levels of specialist knowledge and broad experience, to which they express opinions as appropriate. increase or decrease, merger, liquidation, amendment which contributes to maintain our company’s legal Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Shin-Etsu Chemical has formulated a Basic Policy on of articles of incorporation, proposal of budgets and compliance system. Board Members who have been unable to attend a Internal Controls to help put in place “structures to draft of financial results, planning of new businesses or Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory meeting of the Board of Directors receive a report of ensure that the execution of duties by the directors facility investment, and business conditions. Board Members have a high degree of independence the meeting in the form of the minutes. is fully compliant with relevant legislation and the F u r t h e r m o r e, b y h o l d i n g m e e t i n g s w h i c h articles of incorporation and that other duties of the are attended by the presidents of our main Group company and subsidiaries are performed appropriately”, companies three times each year, we actively promote List of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members as stipulated in Article 362, Paragraph 4, Item 6 of the sharing and exchange of information among Group Companies Act. companies. Position Name Significant other positions held Internal controls are an important management responsibility at Shin-Etsu Chemical. Accordingly, the internal control system is structured and implemented Outside Directors Frank Peter Popoff Former CEO, The Dow Chemical Company (US) in accordance with the above policy. It is subjected to constant review to make the system more appropriate Former Director and Chairman of the Executive Board, former Nikko Masashi Kaneko Cordial Corporation and efficient. Director and Chairman of the Board, Ikyu Corporation Internal operation audits and assessment of internal controls over financial reporting are handled by the Former Representative Director and President, Former Representative Director and Tsuyoshi Miyazaki Auditing Department. The results of these audits and Chairman and current Advisor, Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation assessments are reported to board members including Former Governor, Bank of Japan Outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Toshihiko Fukui Outside Director, Kikkoman Corporation Members to strengthen coordination between internal President, The Canon Institute for Global Studies audit departments and Outside Directors and Audit & Former President, The University of Tokyo Supervisory Board Members. Chairman, Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. Hiroshi Komiyama In addition, with respect to the Internal Control Outside Director, JX Holdings, Inc. Outside Director, FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Report System for Financial Reporting applicable Lawyer under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the Outside Audit & Supervisory Company’s Internal Control Promotion Team takes a Taku Fukui Managing Partner, Kashiwagi Sogo Law Offices Board Members Professor, Keio University Law School leading role in implementing the internal control system Certified Public Accountant, Certified Public Tax Accountant in order to ensure the reliability and transparency of the Yoshihito Kosaka Partner, Grant Thornton Taiyo LLC Company’s financial reporting. Representative Partner, HIYU Certified Tax Accountants' Corporation Former Representative Director, Chairman and President, former JASDAQ Securities Exchange, Inc. Kiyoshi Nagano Outside Director, SBI Holdings, Inc. Outside Director LEC, INC. As of June 26, 2015 11 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 12 Management Structures Compliance with Laws and Regulations The Shin-Etsu Group strictly complies with laws and regulations Internal System for Timely Disclosure of Ensuring Full Compliance Awareness Initiatives Aimed at Preventing Corruption Corporate Information In order to comply with laws and regulations, The Shin-Etsu Group has created the Anti-Bribery In accordance with the regulations regarding Regulations on Timely Disclosure of Corporate compliance is incorporated into the Shin-Etsu Group's Regulations and prohibits actions that involve unfair information disclosure set by the stock exchange and Information and the Rules on Regulation of Insider Corporate Mission Statement and its periodical transfer of profit from or to parties such as government the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, ShinEtsu Trading, which are communicated to all Shin-Etsu management objectives as a means of working to officials and business partners. Moreover, by having Chemical has formulated internal regulations regarding Chemical departments and Group companies to ensure compliance. a Compliance Pledge, we assuredly prevent unfair collection, management, and timely disclosure of promote smooth operations. In the event of promulgation of or amendments benefits or unfair demands in respect to our customers corporate information. These regulations include the to legislation pertaining to corporate activities, the and business partners. In addition, regular internal Legal Department serves in a central role in issuing audits for corruption, embezzlement and bribery are internal bulletins and disseminating knowledge of these carried out, and the status of compliance with ethical State of the internal system for timely disclosure changes. In addition, to raise awareness of compliance standards is one item included in personnel evaluations. with laws and regulations, internal bulletins are issued Collection and management of corporate information Timely disclosure of corporate information to draw attention to violations of laws or regulations. Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members Cutting Ties with Anti-social Forces Directors, Audit & Supervisory and employees make a Compliance Pledge to the Board Members or Board of Directors Company which represents their commitment as The Shin-Etsu Group declares in its Basic Policy on Each Department Reporting Approval individuals to practice compliance in their daily work. Internal Controls that the Group shall adopt a Shin-Etsu Chemical Reporting Contact Contact Finance & Timely For the eventuality of inappropriate action occurring, consistently resolute attitude towards anti-social forces Office of Public Relations the President Department Accounting Department disclosure disciplinary measures are available. and shall take measures necessary to cut itself off Person in charge of We have set up a Compliance Consultation Office, from any and all associations with antisocial forces. Consultation which is available whenever required to provide In accordance with this policy, we will endeavor to handling information Group companies consultations or accept notifications regarding develop internal systems under the leadership of Relevant Decisions of the necessity departments and timing of timely disclosures compliance. In accordance with the Compliance the department in charge of managing these issues. Consultation and Notification Regulations, the Working closely with external organizations addressing Compliance Consultation Office maintains strict these issues, we will strongly push forward initiatives confidentiality to ensure that no employee consulting aimed at eradicating anti-social forces through the the office suffers disadvantage. The office then carries signing of letters of confirmation and memorandums out investigations in response to the information with business partners. received and takes corrective action where necessary. No employee suffers any form of disadvantage on the grounds of having made a consultation or notification. Export Control From the viewpoint of maintaining world peace and security, Shin-Etsu Chemical complies with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other export related legislation. To that end, the Internal Control Program on Security Export Control has been established to classify categories of goods and implement screening procedures for customers and transactions. The Company also conducts internal audits and provides training and guidance for officers and employees as well as instruction to Group companies. 13 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 14 Management Structures Information Asset Management Risk Management We appropriately manage and protect We make preparations to counter the risks information assets surrounding the Company high market share not only in Japan but also globally, Initiatives for Information Asset Management Protection of Personal Information Risk Management Regulations and our products are often used for highly specialized applications in cutting-edge industries. An interruption The Information Asset Management Regulations In order to properly protect personal information in Shin Et su Chemic al has e s t ablishe d the Risk of the supply of these products would therefore have a have been formulated under the Basic Policy on accordance with the Act on the Protection of Personal Management Regulations, precisely defined the major social impact. Information Asset Management established to maintain Information, we have established our Privacy Policy, potential risks to the Company and the Group, created T h e Co m p a n y w i d e B u s i n e s s Co n t i n u i t y the confidentiality1, integrity2, and availability3 of which is available on our website. management systems related to preventing those risks Management Regulations have been established so information possessed by the Shin-Etsu Group. These Moreover, the Group is making exhaustive efforts in and other matters, and set out how to respond to risks the Company can fulfill its responsibility to supply regulations stipulate how to protect, utilize, manage the appropriate handling and protection of the personal after they occur. important products even in the event of a large-scale and apply information assets. information of customers, business partners, and other earthquake, explosion, fire, or other serious disaster. Details concerning issues such as the handling, contacts through measures such conducting education The Company establishes a business continuity plan management, retention periods, and deletion of all on laws and regulations and holding lectures regarding Risk Management Committee and sets out matters such as operations management. information regarding customers and business partners personal information protection during stratified Moreover, division specific and plant-specific business are set out in the Information Asset Management training sessions. According to the Risk Management Regulations, the continuity plans have been formulated that take these Standards and the Trade Secrets Management Risk Management Committee has been created and matters into consideration. Standards. In order to prevent unintentional leaks of is chaired by a director in charge. It constructs risk technologies due to business development into regions Initiatives Concerning Intellectual Property management structures, establishes regulations, and with weak protections for intellectual property rights, works to identify and prevent potential risks arising in Systems in the Event of an Emergency we have formulated the Standards for Preventing In order to accomplish strategic business management connection with the operations of the Company. Technology Leaks. centered on intellectual property, the Shin-Etsu Group The Risk Management Committee also promotes In the event of an emergency, a Company-Wide We also carry out training and implementation has established the Basic Regulations for Intellectual broad-based activities in risk management areas Headquar ters for Countermeasures headed by related to the Information A sset Management Proper t y, which set out regulations regarding such as business continuity planning, education, and the Company president will be set up in line with Department, regularly conduct checks of the status of acquisition, management, and application of intellectual information provision. The Committee reports directly the Regulations of Dis as ter Countermeasures compliance with the Information Asset Management property. In addition to protecting the Group’s to the Board of Directors, the Audit & Supervisory Headquar ters. Below this will be set up Head Regulations and other regulations, and perform internal intellectual property from violation by third parties, Board, and the Managing Directors’ Meeting on major Office Supervisory Departments attached to the audits. these regulations also require respect for the rights issues. Company-Wide Headquarters for Countermeasures, regarding all intellectual property of third parties. Division Headquarters for Countermeasures headed 1 Confidentiality Moreover, information in forms such as an annual by the relevant divisional general manager, and the Information is to be protected from unauthorized users. 2 Integrity report is disclosed to allow all persons involved with the Business Continuity Plans Headquarters for Countermeasures of the relevant plant Information is to be protected from falsification, deletion, destruction and loss. 3 Availability Group to have a precise collection of the status of the headed by the relevant plant manager. Ensure authorized users have access to information when needed. Group’s intellectual property assets. The Shin-Etsu Group considers the supply of high U n d e r t h i s s y s t e m, e a c h co u nt e r m e a s u r e quality materials based on superior technologies to headquarters and organization is responsible for be an important contribution to society, and regards implementing emergenc y ac tion procedures in ensuring continuity of supply as a major corporate accordance with predefined operational criteria and for responsibility. Many of the Group’s products have taking measures to ensure continuity of business. Risks Defined in Risk Management Regulations 1. Risk factors related to business activities Establishment of information security web seminars (1) Business risks (6) Finance and accounting risks (11) Fraud risks Ryota Kaseda, Hisao Nishijo (2) Research and development risks (7) Personnel and labor risks (12) Country risks Skyward Information System Co., Ltd. (3) Production and quality management risks (8) Environment and safety risks (13) Legal risks Skyward Information System is constructing various systems that will be utilized by the (4) Sales risks (9) Information management risks (14) Other Shin-Etsu Group. (5) Purchasing risks (10) Intellectual property, contract, and litigation risks From 2011, in cooperation with the Shin-Etsu Chemical Information Asset Management Department, we have established information security webinars through 2. Risk factors not related to business activities our e-Learning system. This course of lectures is designed to promote familiarization of the Information Asset Management Regulations and enhancement of knowledge (1) Risks caused by economic factors (3) Risks caused by governmental factors (5) R isks caused by natural environmental regarding information assets. Students of the course receive 60-minute lectures after factors and/or disasters which they are tested. Our Information Asset Management Department also follows (2) Risks caused by social factors (4) Risks caused by scientific and/or technical factors (6) Other up on course students who have a lower level of understanding. 15 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 16 Environment and Safety Initiatives Environmental Management Promotion: Environmental Management Reducing the Environmental Impact by Business Activities Environmental Management Environmental Accounting We are working to reduce the environmental We quantitatively measure environmental impact of society as a whole by developing conservation costs and economic benefits advanced technologies targets several times every year to examine their validity Environmental Management Promotion Structure and confirm the progress of attainment of these targets Environmental Accounting to increase the level of our activities. In addition, we The Shin-Etsu Group incorporates environmental implement regular Environmental Control and Safety In fiscal 2014, ShinEtsu Chemical applied the water pollution, environmental release of chemical considerations into all aspects of its corporate activities, Audits and verify the details and degree of attainment Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 prepared substances, etc.; energy-saving measures to conserve with the aim of helping to prevent global warming and of each of our activities. by the Ministr y of the Environment, Japan, to the global environment; and waste reduction and working towards the establishment of a sustainable calculate the investments and expenditures involved in recycling to improve reuse of resources. society. We are striving to reduce greenhouse gases reduction of the environmental impact of air pollution, and other environmental impacts associated with Promoting the Reduction of Environmental Impact production processes by setting ambitious targets and working towards clean production processes. The Shin-Etsu Group is not only committed to reducing Environmental Conservation Costs in Fiscal 2014 (Million yen) Ever y year, we create the ShinEt su Group environmental impact at the product manufacturing Environmental Control and Safety Management Policy stage, but also developing products by our trinity of Category Details Investment Expenditure and disseminate this policy to all Shin-Etsu Chemical Research, Manufacturing and Sales divisions by placing Plant area costs 1,586 8,580 production plants and domestic and overseas Group emphasis on the level of contribution to reducing the companies at Group Environmental Safety Meetings. environmental impact at the product-use stage as well (1) Pollution prevention costs Prevention measures for air, water, noise and other types of pollution 438 3,778 All Shin-Etsu Chemical production plants and Group as saving energy and resources. These products are (2) Global environmental conservation costs Energy saving and global warming mitigation measures 450 2,972 companies are committed to activities for setting used in a broad spectrum of fields, including industry, annual improvement targets based on this management daily life, and renewable energy. (3) Resource recycling costs Waste reduction, recycling and other measures 698 1,831 policy. We conduct internal auditing for these individual Upstream and downstream costs Green purchasing and container and packaging measures 0 58 Environmental management, environmental impact monitoring and Administration costs 4 377 environmental education measures Reducing the Environmental Impact by Business Activities Research and development costs Research and development of environmentally conscious products and 0 2,252 processes INPUT OUTPUT Social engagement costs Donations and contributions to environmental saving 0 24 Energy Air Discharge s of Water discharge Environmental remediation costs Assessment, handling and other costs related to environmental pollution 0 35 2,491 million liters Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Total Discharges of water: Total 1,591 11,326 (crude oil equivalent) 4,577. thousand.tons of CO2e 191.million m3 Soot: ,041.tons COD: 4,835.tons NOx: 1,042.tons BOD: 567.tons Manufacture Water SOx: ,156.tons SS: 795.tons Economic Benefits of Environmental Cost of Environmental Conservation (million yen) 199 million m3 Accounting in Fiscal 2014 ■Pollution prevention Waste Chemical substance 250 76 ■Global environmental 312 Economic benefit conservation Amount of Waste Generated: PRTR controlled substances 1 Details of benefits (million Yen) 336 Raw materials 110.thousand tons ■Resource recycling 7 Amount released: 187.tons Amount of Waste Recycled: Energy savings 663 ■Upstream and Fiscal 2002 Amount transferred: 929.tons downstream 5,186 73.thousand tons ■Administration 2,544 Waste Recycling Ratio: 66.0% Improved production efficiency 1,309 ■Research and 1,272 Products Amount of Waste for Landfill: development ■Social engagement 389 2.thousand tons Production process 1,151 ■Environmental 24 35 Final Disposal Ratio: 1.8% remediation Secondary materials costs 158 2,252 3,778 1 PRTR controlled substances Reduction in waste treatment costs −118 426 substances designated as Class I designated chemical substances from the “Pollutant Release and Transfer Register in the Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific 377 Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management.” Profit from sale of valuable resources 121 * In order to clearly define the reduction efforts, the average power CO2 conversion factor from 2000-2009 is used. * A s industrial waste standards and PRTR controlled substances vary from country to country, the figures shown represent the aggregated data from the Shin-Etsu Group’s Japanese Fiscal 2014 domestic operations only. * Waste recycling ratio indicates the ratio of an amount recycled to total waste generated. * Final disposal ratio indicates the ratio of an amount of landfill waste to total waste generated. Total 1,975 58 11,326 1,831 Environmental Data 2,972 WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#houkoku 17 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 18 Environment and Safety Initiatives Environmental Management Environmental Initiatives The Shin-Etsu Group is addressing all issues that are relevant to realizing energy saving and mitigating global warming, including reducing environmental impact, protecting the environment and recycling resources Countering Climate Change Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Shin-Etsu Group’s Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions1 for fiscal 2014 were 4,423 thousand tons of CO2e, amounting for 49% in the supply chain2. Due an increase of business activities, emissions increased by 18.1% from fiscal 2013. Mid-term target Shin-Etsu Chemical reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity to 50% of 1990 level by 2015 1 Scope 3 released amounts Amount of emissions upstream and downstream from a company. Fiscal 2014 target: Achieve 1% average yearly reduction in energy consumption intensity 2 Supply chain Refers to all stages of a product from raw material production until it reaches the final customer Fiscal 2014 results: S hin-Etsu Chemical: reduction to 55.0% of 1990 level (3.5% reduction from fiscal 2013), Shin-Etsu Group: reduction to 57.9% of 1990 level (no change from fiscal 2013) Fiscal 2014 evaluation: S hin-Etsu Chemical plant’s energy-saving efforts are also contributing, producing Scope 3 Emissions of the Shin-Etsu Group by Category positive results Fiscal 2015 target: Achieve 1% average yearly reduction in energy consumption intensity Category 5 Waste Generated in Operations 88 Category 10 Processing of Sold Products As a result of the productivity, heat recovery and yield improvements of the entire Shin-Etsu Group, Group-wide Category 4 Category 9 Downstream Transportation production volume of the reference product increased by 3.0% compared with fiscal 2013, but energy consumption was Upstream Transportation and Distribution 775 and Distribution suppressed to an increase of 2.4%. Category 1 Purchased Goods and Services Category 11 2,813 Use of Sold Products Scope 1 1,553 Category 2 Scope 2 3,024 Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) Changes in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Capital Goods Category 12 300 End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products Relative to Fiscal 1990 Levels Consumption Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared with Fiscal 2008 (%) Emissions intensity index relative to 1990 (Shin-Etsu Chemical) Emissions intensity index relative to 1990 (Shin-Etsu Group) Category 3 (Million liters) (% index of GHG emissions intensity) 4,000 100 Fueland Energy-Related Activities Category 8 100 Not Included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 Upstream Leased Assets Category 6 Category 7 162 415 Business Travel Employee Commuting 149 143 3,000 141 85 11 22 Unit: Thousand tons of CO2e 130 136 2,426 2,433 ■Supply Chain Upstream 2,282 71.2 100 2,007 ■Supply Chain Downstream 2,000 1,884 2,491 67.1 66.0 70 64.2 63.0 68.8 57.9 57.9 1,750 66.1 61.6 Environmental Data 1,000 55 60.6 59.6 WEB 58.5 55.0 http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#houkoku 50 2015 target 0 40 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1990 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Elected to CDLI by CDP Japan 500 Greenhouse Gas Emission Volume Trends Detailed Chart of Energy Consumption Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared with Fiscal 2008 (%) (converted to heat quantity) In fiscal 2014, our company was elected to the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) (Thousand tons of CO2e) Unit: peta joule for the first time by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Japan 500. 6,000 155 139 145 The CDP is an international NGO that promotes the realization of sustainable economies 136 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 128 130 by disclosing high-quality information on climate change for investors and global 4,500 Natural Gas 15.5 18.3 20.3 24.1 24.2 21.1 25.1 economies. As a result of disclosing information regarding our commitment to climate 100 4,470 4,447 4,577 4,269 Heavy Oil A + Heavy Oil C 1.1 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.5 0.3 0.3 change through the CDP’s information disclosure system, we were surveyed among 500 3,794 3,000 3,581 SCOPE 1 Japanese companies and assessed to be a company that excels in climate change LPG + LNG 1.4 1.9 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.6 1.3 information disclosure and ranked in the top 10% of companies that disclose information. 3,372 Through this information disclosure system, an addition to our Group-wide coordinated 1,500 Other 1.0 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.7 0.8 0.8 commitment to comprehensively reducing greenhouse gas emissions, our company was able Purchased Electric Power 42.3 45.2 48.3 55.6 61.3 64.7 63.4 to report a feasible reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and also through the use of our SCOPE 2 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Purchased Steam 6.3 6.0 6.1 5.8 5.6 5.6 5.4 company’s polyvinyl chloride (PVC), rare earth magnets, LED package material products and others. This evaluation is considered to be the result of the combined constant efforts of our Total 67.6 72.8 77.6 88.2 93.8 94.1 96.3 company's research, manufacturing and sales trinity. 19 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 20 Environment and Safety Initiatives Protection of Water Resources and Reduction of Water Pollutants Water Resource Conservation Efforts by the Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex The Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex manufactures highly functional materials centered on silicone. Fiscal 2014 target: Achieve reduction of water withdrawals in intensity by 1% at an average annual rate Located inland in the south-west region of Gunma prefecture, the Complex draws its water required for Fiscal 2014 results: S hin-Etsu Chemical achieved reduction of 10.7% in intensity by comparison to fiscal 2013, manufacturing almost from nearby rivers and purifies the discharges of water from the Complex before return and Shin-Etsu Group achieved reduction of 3.3% in intensity to the rivers. Fiscal 2014 evaluation: A  s a result of efficiently utilizing the circulating water in our cooling towers, we were The Gunma Complex is situated in a rich natural environment. Downstream from the nearby rivers sits able to reduce our cooling tower water withdrawals the Tokyo metropolitan area where these rivers sustain the daily lives of its residents as well as industry and Fiscal 2015 target: Achieve reduction of water withdrawals in intensity by 1% at an average annual rate agriculture. Although the manufacturing of chemical products requires large quantities of water, the Complex strives to conserve valuable water resources by keeping its water withdrawals from these rivers to a minimum. For this reason, the Complex reuses as much water as possible in its manufacturing and water cooling processes by The Shin-Etsu Group main manufacturing bases are located in comparatively water-rich Japan. However, due to the recycling and circulating water and ensuring there is no water leakage outside of the Complex. scarcity of water in many regions of the world, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) has forecast that Besides purifying the water before return to the rivers, rigorous water quality management is also water scarcity in some regions will become serious by the year 2025. To enable our Group to continue to operate in those applied. The Complex strives to maintain optimum conditions by continually monitoring the operating status regions where there is a risk of water scarcity, we are actively engaged in conserving water resources by reducing our of water treatment facilities and conducts regular water quality analysis of discharges of water to verify that daily water withdrawals and recycling and utilizing water. In addition, we comply with regulatory values for water pollutants for discharge of good quality water and we verify it is in strict compliance with high water standards. Furthermore, they separate rainwater to prevent inflow of our compliance status by water quality analysis. rainwater during heavy downpours as a measure to protect their treatment facilities from being damaged by natural disaster. In addition, since 2014 they have been carrying out seismic strengthening works assuming large-scale earthquakes. By effectively utilizing limited water resources, the Gunma Complex will continue to fulfill its responsibility as an upstream located production base. Water Withdrawals Trends BOD Discharge Volume Trends Water Withdrawals Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared with Fiscal 2008 (%) Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared with Fiscal 2008 (%) Water Flow at the Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex (million m3) (tons) 400 1,000 164 161 136 132 135 To the air 112 119 132 0.634 million m3 300 110 750 121 100 116 642 (0.4) 100 106 573 567 200 200 200 199 200 174 180 171 500 434 River water Municipal water Groundwater 409 362 383 2.803 million m3 0.75 million m3 0.008 million m3 (1.8) (0.5) (0.005) 100 250 Discharge to rivers 0 0 3.820 million m3 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (2.4) Water Recycled Trends COD Discharge Volume Trends Amount of Water Recycled Recycling Water Ratio (%) Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared with Fiscal 2008 (%) (million m3) (tons) 4,000 8,000 129 91.0 90.9 90.9 91.0 91.1 126 122 Water storage tanks 90.6 90.2 113 107 100 101 3,000 6,000 Regenerating equipment Recycling water 5,039 4,835 1,989 1,991 2,033 2,027 4,585 4,525 4,580 4,772 4,774 of recycling water (cooling/purifying) 158.482 Manufacturing facilities 2,000 1,590 1,743 1,741 4,000 million m3 (100) 1,000 2,000 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 21 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 22 Environment and Safety Initiatives Environmental Management Resource Recycling Initiatives We are engaged in creating a recycling-oriented society using cutting-edge technologies Many products are thrown away after use, But the Rare Earth Magnet Resource Recycling Process Waste Reduction Shin-Etsu Group strives to use limited resources ef ficiently and engage in rec ycling, achieving sustainable resource circulation. Fiscal 2014 target: Achieve zero waste emissions (landfill waste 1% or less of all waste generated) Our Group collaborates with customers and related Rare earth Fiscal 2014 results: S hin-Etsu Chemical achieved a landfill waste ratio of 1.88% (0.18% increase from fiscal industry groups, using cutting-edge technologies to raw materials Scrap recover products, extract resources, and reuse them collection Rare earth separation and refinement plant 2013), and Shin-Etsu Group companies in Japan achieved 1.77% (0.03% increase from in our products. Not only do these initiatives make it fiscal 2013) possible to reduce the waste output of our customers Fiscal 2014 evaluation: T he rate of increase in the amount of waste recycled by Shin-Etsu Chemical exceeded and the Group itself, but they also contribute to the rate of increase in the amount generated resource and environmental conservation. Fiscal 2015 target: Achieve zero waste emissions Rare Earth Magnet Resource Recycling Rare earth magnet material processing Rare earth magnet processing In fiscal 2014, due to an increase in production volume, recycling volume increased to 14.2% and the amount of final disposal waste increased to 12.5%. Since most of the waste is processed by outside contractors, we also periodically The Shin-Etsu Group manufactures rare earth magnets check their sites to ensure proper handling of waste. by our integrated production process using separation We will continue and expand our exploration of ways to re-use and recycle waste, with the aim of achieving the goal and refinement techniques to extract rare earths from of zero waste emissions. rare earth raw materials. Reserves of rare earth are limited and mines are concentrated in specific areas, therefore procurement Rare earth Rare earth risk is created. In addition, some rare earth raw magnets materials mining methods also may damage the Waste Handling Process Amount of Waste Recycled environment in the area surrounding the mine. In Amount of Waste Recycled Waste Recycling Ratio (%) order to respond to these risks, since 2007, the Group (thousand tons) 200 has been recycling scraps generated by our rare earth Internal Waste generated magnet manufacturing processes. Furthermore, from 110,100 tons 70.6 March 2013, we have been developing techniques Final product 150 68.2 66.0 64.4 65.8 65.0 63.8 for recovering rare earth magnets used in disposed of collection Incinerated 24,600 tons power-saving air conditioners and hybrid cars. The rare 100 85.7 80.0 85.1 earths are extracted and recycled into the main raw Rare earth separation and refinement plant 72.8 72.7 59.0 63.6 materials for use in rare earth magnets. Amount of waste recycled 350 tons 50 These initiatives have made it possible to protect the value resource of rare earth, as well as the surrounding 0 environment. As recyclable products, rare earth Recycling of PVC Products Amount of internal 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 landfill disposal magnets create significant economic and social value. 750 tons Initiatives for the recycling of products containing PVC are making progress. There are various methods for recycling PVC, the most common of which is material Amount of Waste for Landfill recycling. External Amount of waste processed by outside contractors 84,400 tons Amount of Waste for Landfill Final Disposal Ratio (%) Material recycling uses PVC products as raw (thousand tons) 8 materials to create new PVC products. PVC pipes, Waste reduction 3.39 flooring materials, and other PVC products have low (incineration, dehydrating, etc.) levels of foreign substance contamination, making 10,900 tons 6 2.76 2.45 them especially suited for material recycling, of which 4.51 2.14 there are various types. In particular, 60% of PVC pipes Amount of external 2.01 landfill disposal 4 1.74 1.77 and joints are recycled for use in new PVC pipes and 3.33 1,200 tons 2.98 2.15 joints, and 70% of agricultural film is recycled for use in 1.94 1.73 1.95 2 flooring material. Amount of waste recycled 72,300 tons 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * Because standards applicable to waste differ by country, only data for group companies in Japan are given. 23 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 24 Environment and Safety Initiatives Initiatives for Biodiversity Preservation and Pollutant Environmental Management Countermeasures We are engaged in biodiversity preservation initiatives as part of our responsibility as a chemical company Conservation of Biodiversity Prevention of Air Pollution The Shin-Etsu Group aims for environmentally considerate product design starting already from the product development The Shin-Etsu Group is working to reduce emissions of air pollutants by setting emission reduction targets at each our stage. At the same time, we are also meeting our responsibility as a chemical company by working actively to ensure Group companies. Target values in this area are set by each group company. strict control of chemical substances, mitigate global warming, reduce energy consumption, reduce the amount of waste Soot emissions increased in fiscal 2014 as production increases. However, by converting to low sulfur fuels, we generated, prevent water pollution, and make other environmental contributions. We are also engaged in activities such reduced sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions by 21%. as scenic improvement and tree-planting in areas neighboring our plants. Furthermore, we request that our business partners implement environmental conservation initiatives concerning forest conservation and similar activities. Soot Emissions Trends SOx Emissions Trends Soot Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared with Fiscal 2008 (%) SOx Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared with Fiscal 2008 (%) Control of Chemical Substances (tons) (tons) 80 2,000 124 100 Although the rate of PRTR controlled substance chloromethane emissions was 296 ppm, we achieved an improvement 111 60 100 105 1,500 of 12.7% in intensity in comparison to fiscal 2013. This was due to establishing the proper operating conditions of our 98 100 79 91 manufacturing and pollutant treatment facilities. 43 67 39 40 41 58 40 1,000 33 31 33 42 43 31 20 500 476 286 281 239 PRTR Controlled Substance Total Release Trends PRTR Controlled Substance Total Amount Transferred Trends 172 197 156 Released amount Transferred amount 0 0 (tons) (tons) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 300 1,500 191 187 929 200 175 167 157 181 177 1,000 890 776 813 829 Prevention of Soil Pollution 661 518 100 500 Groundwater and soil monitoring at each plant is being carried out in accordance with the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act as necessary. No soil pollution has occurred at any Shin-Etsu Group company. 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 PRTR Controlled Substance: Chloromethane Release Trends PRTR Controlled Substance: Chloroethylene Release Trends Released amount Released amount (tons) (tons) 150 15 109 10.8 11.2 100 10 9.6 88 87 8.9 83 83 75 73 7.7 7.6 Cleanup of River amount Plant 4.8 50 5 Shin-Etsu Group production plants actively engage in regional environmental beautification activities. 0 0 The Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd.’s Takefu Plant and neighboring Group companies 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 engage in cleaning up the Oshozu River, which flows along the west side of the * The figures shown represent the aggregated data from the Shin-Etsu Group’s Japanese domestic operations only, based on the Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Plant, in June each year. In 2014, 35 participants removed algae and weeds from the Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof and the PRTR embankments and cleared up refuse and empty cans, etc. Although the weather was bad on the actual day during the rainy season, all participants restored the River to its original glory through they carried out the task in a workmanlike manner. They helped to beautify the area surrounding the Plant. 25 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 26 Environment and Safety Initiatives Environment and Safety Targets and Results We are engaged in various activities in accordance with responsible care codes Every year the Shin-Etsu Group creates environmental and safety management plans based on Responsible Care codes. Safety The entire Group works as one on key initiatives such as “environmental preservation,” “prevention of major disasters Item Priority Issues (Target) Implementation Status for Fiscal 2014 Evaluation Planned Implementation Items for Fiscal 2015 such as explosions or fires,” and “prevention of work accidents.” 1) Zero serious accident •Achieved target of zero serious accident ◎ •Zero serious accident •Implemented assessment of process risks Process Safety and Prevention Plan •Review non-routine work and operational safety 2) Risk assessment of facilities and measures •Maintained operation manuals processes, and implementation ○ •Application of Security Evaluation System by the Shin-Etsu Group Major Fiscal 2014 Target, Implementation Status, Evaluation, and Fiscal 2015 Planned of preventive measures •Received on-site auditor evaluation by the Japan Japan Safety Competency Center Safety Competency Center Implementation Items •Investigated causes of facility troubles and •Investigate causes of facilities issues and prevent 3) Improvement of facilities and formulated measures to prevent recurrence ○ recurrence maintenance management Environment •Implemented planned facilities maintenance •Improve facilities maintenance Item Priority Issues (Target) Implementation Status for Fiscal 2014 Evaluation Planned Implementation Items for Fiscal 2015 •Implement worst-case scenario measures for •Implemented worst-case scenario measures for serious disasters and earthquakes 1) Zero environmental accidents • Achieved target of zero environmental accidents ◎ •Zero environmental accidents serious disasters and earthquakes 4) Reliable emergency response ○ •Maintenance of emergency-response criteria and •Maintained emergency-response criteria and manuals 2) Thorough environmental •Continued Continued appropriate compliance with •Appropriate compliance with environmental laws manuals ◎ •Implemented business continuity planning training management environmental laws and regulations and regulations •Enhance business continuity planning training 3) Promotion of energy savings •Shin-Etsu Chemical reduced by 6.1% in intensity •Shin-Etsu Chemical: one person 1) Zero accident requiring an (Reduction of energy use in compared with fiscal 2013 •Reduction of energy use in intensity by 1% at an × •Zero accident requiring an absence a day or more △ absence a day or more •Group-wide: two persons intensity1 by 1% at an average •Shin-Etsu Group reduced by 0.6% in intensity average annual rate annual rate) compared with fiscal 2013 2) Rate of incidents not •Shin-Etsu Chemical achieved its target rate of 0.37 •Rate of incidents not accompanied by an absence accompanied by an absence a ◎ a day or more: 0.5 or less Environmental conservation 4) Reducing greenhouse gas day or more: 0.5 or less •Group-wide also achieved its target rate of 0.44 •Shin-Etsu Chemical reduction to 55.0%, Shin-Etsu •Reduction to 50% of 1990 level in intensity by emissions (Intensity reduction to △ Group reduction to 57.9% of 1990 level fiscal 2015 •Implement “zero accident” activities (practice 50% of 1990 level by fiscal 2015) •Implemented “zero accident” activities (practiced Hazard prediction activities, pointing and calling, 5) Reduce waste (Promote zero waste •Landfill waste to total waste ratio of 1.77% •Promote zero waste emission (waste to landfill Hazard prediction activities, pointing and calling, and and 5S activities) emission (waste to landfill ratio to × ratio to 1% or less) 5S activities4) •Setting of reduction targets by output intensity was •Implement improvement and promotion of 1% or less)) not achieved •Set reduction targets by output intensity •Implemented improvement and promotion of 3) Improve work safety ○ close-call incident proposals and improvement close-call incident proposals and improvement •Implement measures for setting fiscal 2015 proposals (setting of promotion targets) proposals targets (based on FY2010 standards) •Implement assured horizontal expansion of •While overall production volume increased, BOD, •Implemented assured horizontal expansion of 6) Reduced emissions of NOx, and SOx emissions were reduced •Regular review and strict compliance with specific accident examples of the Group and other accident examples of the Group and other companies substances causing water ○ facility using hazardous substances pertaining to companies pollution or air pollution •Setting of fiscal 2015 targets (based on FY2010 the Water Quality Pollution Control Act and 4) Review and reorganize standards) was not achieved •Strengthened hazardous work management and •Reflect “Review non-routine work and installation standards for designated storage operation manuals and ensure ◎ facilities maintained manuals operational safety measures” into manuals strict compliance Occupational Safety •Achieve reduction of water withdrawals in •Extract risk, enhanced and upgrade details of •Shin-Etsu Group reduced water withdrawals by 0.4% intensity by 1% at an average annual rate measures 7) Reduction in water withdrawals ◎ and in intensity by 3.3% compared with fiscal 2013 •Plan and implement measures for improving •List predicted risks at time of non-routine work recycling water ratio 5) Work risk assessment and •Implemented work risk assessment based on plans ○ and overhaul safety measures preventive measures •Thorough management of permitted production •Thorough management of permitted production •Identify hazardous work risks due to difficulty to Chemical substance management 1) Thorough new chemical volumes (confirmed) and production results volumes (confirmed) and production results improve facilities and strengthen monitoring ◎ substance management •Communicated reporting of harmful substance •Communicate reporting of harmful substance frameworks of relevant works information, etc., at the time of acquisition information, etc., at the time of acquisition •Clarify work instructions and procedures and •Clarified work instructions and procedures and •Responded to revisions and strict compliance with •Respond to revisions and strict compliance with implement hazard prediction activities implemented hazard prediction activities 2) Compliance with legal and other Chemical Substances Control Law , Industrial Safety Chemical Substances Control Law, Industrial 2 6) Construction and non-routine •Apply thorough construction rules •Applied thorough construction rules ○ requirements for chemical and Health Act, PRTR Law3, Poisonous and ◎ Safety and Health Act, PRTR Law, Poisonous and work safety measures •Create and made thorough of confirmation substance control Deleterious Substances Control Act Deleterious Substances Control Act •Created and made thorough of confirmation method method of pre-operation, work completion and •Strict compliance with overseas laws and regulations •Compliance with overseas laws and regulations of pre-operation, work completion and recovery recovery 3) Information disclosure on •More information disclosure and awareness •Implemented education and training based on plans •Information disclosure and awareness raising of harmfulness of chemical ○ raising of substances handled to contractors and •Plan promotion of education and training substances handled to contractors and subcontractors •Promoted acquisition of qualifications substances subcontractors 7) Training and drill promotion ○ •Implemented rule and principle education to ensure •Promote acquisition of qualifications 1 Intensity process safety A measure calculated from the production volume of a reference product. 2 Chemical Substances Control Law •Implemented review of safety cooperative structure •Review of safety cooperative structure with Short for “Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc.” A law intended to prevent environmental pollution by chemical substances that can with subcontractors subcontractors be harmful to human health or to ecosystems. 8) Ensuring subcontracting safety •Implemented review and provided safety operation ○ •Review and provide safety operation procedures 3 PRTR Law procedures manuals, harmful and hazardous manuals, harmful and hazardous information Short for “Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof.” A law information (SDS) (SDS) intended to promote improved self-directed control of chemical substances by business operators, in order to prevent the risk of damage to the environment. 4 5S activities •Promote working environment measurements and Seiri (sort), seiton (straighten), seiso (shine), seiketsu (sanitize), and shitsuke (sustain). The name “5S” comes from the fact that the first letters of each word begin with “s.” •Implemented working environment measurements and creation of appropriate working environments * Responsible Care Codes: codes setting basic conditions for the implementation of Responsible Care in six areas: environmental preservation, process safety and prevention plan, promoted creation of appropriate working environments •Thorough Implementation of chemical substance occupational safety and health, chemical and product safety, distribution safety, and social dialog (with the public). Alongside conditions in these areas, a Management System Code to 1) Create and maintain handling education and strict wearing of personal •Thorough Implementation of chemical substance operate all the above is required. comfortable workplace ◎ protective equipment Occupational health handling education and strict wearing of personal environment protective equipment •Correspond to revisions to Industrial Safety and •Promoted workplace communication Health Act •Promote workplace communication •Implemented follow-up and utilizing medical •Follow-up and utilizing medical examination results examination results •Compliance with additional inspection criteria 2) Promote physical and mental •Compliance with additional inspection criteria due to regulatory amendments ○ due to regulatory amendments health wellbeing •Promote health promotion program •Promoted health promotion program •Promote mental health well-being programs •Promoted mental health well-being programs 27 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 28 Environment and Safety Initiatives Safety Safety, Health, Process Safety and Prevention Plan Initiatives Formulate thoroughgoing safety measures and strive daily education and training The Shin-Etsu Group is creating the Shin-Etsu Group work manual creation and usage, and the like, safety and Environment Management Policy, which and per forming regular working environment Education and Training Accident and Disaster Reporting reflects our ‘Safety and Environment First’ management measurements with the aim of improving the working protocol. In addition, all Plants and Group companies environment. To continue maintaining the stable and safe operation In fiscal 2014 there were two lost time incidents in shall, under this basic policy that has been created of our plants, it is important to improve the technical Group companies. A cause analysis was performed in response to the Group key principles, endeavor to skills, knowledge and awareness of our individual in e a ch c a s e. Co unte r m e a sure s fo cusing o n maintain and enhance occupational safety and health Process Safety and Prevention Plan employees. For this reason, we are putting our efforts reviewing the risks of substance handling eliminating by creating, executing, evaluating, and reviewing our into systematically implementing all types of education hazardous operations and providing safeguards were safety and health action plans. The Shin-Etsu Group gives top priority to preventing and training, such as chemical substance handling implemented, work manuals were prepared, and serious accidents before they happen. With this aim in and hands-on risk education to ensure the complete reoccurrence prevention measures were implemented. mind, we continually engage in various process safety succession of our manufacturing facilities operational Furthermore, we will continue to make sure that Safety and Health and prevention plan activities, to ensure process safety know-how. these decisions are closely observed, and to prevent the and the reliability of facilities. In addition, we are also working to foster our safety occurrence of work-related accidents. In order to prevent workplace accidents before they From fiscal 2013 we have worked to enhance culture through creating a compliance-oriented working occur, the Shin-Etsu Group performs risk assessment voluntary safety management by performing risk environment. activities aimed at identifying various latent workplace evaluations, particularly of envisaged plant abnormal risk s, improving work safet y by reducing and conditions, and by implementing effective safety Number of Lost Time Incidents and changes in eliminating risks. measures. Environmental Control and Safety Audits frequency rates (Group companies in Japan) We review and maint ain our information, Since fiscal 2012, we have been a supporting Number of Lost Time Incidents Frequency of Lost Time Incidents (Number) technology and management practices pertaining to member of the Japan Safety Competency Center of To check that activities directed at environmental 20 occupational safety and ensure that all relevant working the Japan Society for Safety Engineering’s authorized conservation, occupational health and safety, and 0.50 personnel have a thorough and detailed understanding. NPO. From fiscal 2013, we have been using the Safety process safety and prevention plan are implemented 15 In addition, we have also begun training successors and Evaluation System designed by the Center for use in to best effect at each Shin-Etsu Group plants, 0.39 12 constructing systems to pass these practices on to the evaluating plant safety systems and technologies, safety comprehensive environmental safety audits, and special 10 0.28 0.26 next generation. organizations, safety culture, and we have also been audits on selected themes are carried out annually. 8 We implement countermeasures for unsafe locations evaluating the safety of each Plant. In fiscal 2014, we In the fiscal 2014 audit, we confirmed the 0.09 6 6 0.18 by utilizing close-calls incidents corrected regularly by evaluated the safety of Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd.’s implementation status of the internal circulars: 5 4 0.09 workers. At the same time we share these informations Gunma Complex. From here onwards also, this system Thorough Management of Plant Safety and Non2 2 both on a company internal basis and with outside will also be used to perform evaluations of other Plants. routine Work Safety Measures, reporting incidents 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 parties by disclosure. We are taking steps to further improve process safety taken from other companies. We are also focused on implementing safety and prevention capabilities by systematically improving all measures, such as pre -work hazard predic tion plant safety issues, defined as all items which needed to activities and pointing-and-calling safety procedures, be addressed, as well as those with low evaluation scores. Awarded an encouragement prize of the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as excellent factory at health and safety Implementation of Public Emergency Drills Akihiko Sugama Hiroo Kawaguchi Qiao Jun Yang Plant Manager of Koriyama Plant General Manager of Plant General Manager’s Office, Koriyama Plant General Manager of Environmental and Safety Department, Shin-Etsu (Jiangsu) Optical Preform Co., Ltd. Shin-Etsu Quartz Products Co., Ltd. Shin-Etsu Quartz Products Co., Ltd. In April 2014, public emergency drill was conducted in Jiangyin Harbor Economic In June 2014, Shin-Etsu Quartz Products Co., Ltd., Koriyama Plant was awarded an Development District of Jiangsu Province in China on the assumption of a significant encouragement prize of the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as excellent plant hydrogen leak. In China, the explosion accident occurred caused by a crude oil at health and safety. This Plant was appraised for its planned education through its leak from a damaged pipeline in 2013. In reaction to this, the Jiangyin government efforts in training and skills enhancement and, as a result of active development of its nominated us to conduct this drill as a company that has a hydrogen gas pipeline. occupational safety and health management system, no incidents accompanied by lost Although the preparation was hard work such as creating scenarios, tabletop exercises, work time have occurred for a number years. and on-site rehearsals, etc., it confirmed our role at the time of an emergency and In 2013 also, the Plant received the Fukushima Labour Bureau Director's Award and proved to be a valuable and rewarding experience. We will continue to put safety first subsequently received the award also on this occasion. From here onwards also, all in our operations and conduct regular ongoing training. employees shall, without letting down their guard, carry on with their duties by being mindful of their Plant's Occupational Safety and Health. Close-Call (Hiyari-Hatto) Incidents WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#security 29 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 30 Relation with Society Shareholders and Investors Customers We have numerous dialogues with shareholders The Shin-Etsu Group is entrusted with the safety and investors use of our products from our customers In regards to complaints, each division Information Disclosure Communication Quality Control independently responds to the customers’ complaints through the investigation and determination of the The ShinEt su Group believes the appropriate General Shareholders’ Meeting Quality control system causes and the preventive action for recurrence. and timely disclosure of corporate information to Shin-Etsu Chemical holds a General Shareholders’ Each Shin-Etsu Chemical’s division and /or Group In particular, the recall and product liability problem shareholders and investors is a way to encourage Meeting once per year according to its articles of company with a sense of strong responsibility supplies that have a social impact is defined as a critical quality understanding of the Company, and also leads to incorporation. To ensure that shareholders can fully products and services that can be used by our claim and given special priority to be distinguished reasonable evaluations by the market. We therefore consider the agenda items, we send notices on the customers in peace of mind over a prolonged period from other claims. When a serious claim occurs, it is implement fair and transparent disclosure by posting convention of these meetings at an early stage. and give a sense of satisfaction when they are used. So immediately reported to the top management so that a information on the Company's website and announcing The convention notices, as well as English-language that we can supply reliable products and services that company-wide response can be implemented. it to stock exchanges and news media. We also publish translations, are also posted to the Company’s website generate high degree of customer satisfaction, each the Annual Report and other reports for shareholders. for the greater convenience of shareholders. of our plants has its own quality control policy. At the Quality audits and support At the General Shareholders’ Meetings we report on same time, by implementing the Plan-Do-Check-Act To achieve the zero quality problem, the claim and financial results, vote on agenda items, and respond to (PDCA) cycle, we work to raise the effectiveness of the complaint information from the customers are closely Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 役 員（2014年9月30日現在） 代表取締役会長 代表取締役社長 代表取締役副社長  金川 森 秋谷 斉藤 千尋 俊三 文男 恭彦 取締役     フランク・ピーター・ポポフ 金子 昌資＊1 宮﨑 毅＊1 福井 俊彦＊1 小宮山 宏＊1 ＊1    池上 健司  塩原 常勤監査役 岡田 監査役 渡瀬 利夫 昌彦 理 138期 上半期報告書 various questions from shareholders. quality control system, enhance product quality, and examined. Furthermore, quality audits are carried improve service. out periodically for the improvement of quality and 専務取締役 石原 俊信  福井 琢＊2 2014年4月1日〜2014年9月30日  宮島 正紀  小坂 義人＊2 常務取締役 幅田 紀一  笠原 俊幸  永野 紀吉＊2 信越化学工業株式会社  髙杉 晃司  小根澤 英徳 Annual Report 2014 ＊1社外取締役 ）  轟 正彦  中村 健 ＊2社外監査役  秋本 俊哉  岡本 博明 jp/  荒井 文男  上野 進 Other types of communication Requests and suggestions from customers are customer service. Quality audits evaluate the quality  松井 幸博  丸山 和政 株 株価の推移 We hold quarterly conference calls and meetings on reported immediately by points of contact such as activity of each section from the customers’ viewpoint 株 （円） 当社株価（左軸） －日経平均 株価（終値） （右軸） （円） 3,305株が含まれております。 9,000 17,000 し ん え つ 名 8,000 15,000 （千株未満は切捨表示）  Highlight シンエツハイライト financial results for analysts and institutional investors. the sales departments that are in direct contact with and the viewpoint of quality cost in order to reinforce 持株数 出資比率 （千株） （％） 7,000 13,000 ） 38,873 9.1 売上高 経常利益 6,037億円 976億円 1,011億円 675億円 託口） 28,257 6.6 22,702 5.3 6,000 11,000 11,790 2.8 +5.5 +5.8% www.shinetsu.co.jp % +3.9% +5.9% In addition, we also accommodate one-on-one meeting customers to the R&D Department, Quality Assurance the weak point of the qualit y control system. 口4） 11,428 2.7 10,687 2.5 前上半期比316 億円増 前上半期比54 億円増 前上半期比38億円増 前上半期比37億円増 5,000 9,000 5,357 1.3 1,738 1,806 1,136 リ ポ ー ト 11,658 （億円） （億円） （億円） （億円） 0 5,191 1.2 ティー 5,116 1.2 4,000 7,000 05225 5,046 1.2 976 973 1,011 638 675 6,037 922 5,721 requests from domestic and international analysts and Department, and Manufacturing Department. This The system for the recurrence prevention of claim りますが、上記の大株主からは 控除して計算しております。 3,000 5,000 2012 2013 2014 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 2013 2014 年度 2013 2014 年度 2013 2014 年度 2013 2014 年度 上半期 通期 上半期 通期 上半期 通期 上半期 通期 株式に関するお手続きについて 31日 お手続き、ご照会の内容 証券会社等の口座に記録された株式 お問い合わせ先 海外売上高比率 1兆 8,460億円 純資産 80.9% 中間配当金 50円 Advancing Our Value institutional investors as occasion calls. The Company’s information is incorporated into new product research complaints is established by focusing on evaluating 郵送物などの発送と返戻に関するご照会 払渡し期間経過後の配当金に関するご照会 三菱 UFJ 信託銀行証券代行部 電話 0120-232-711 70.7% ANNUAL REPORT 2014 総資産2兆2,215億円 ご参考： 1株当たり年間100円を予定 １３８期 上半期報告書 ２０ １４年４月 １日 〜 ２ ０ １４年９月 日 社ホームページに掲載いたします。 株式事務に関する一般的なお問い合わせ （通話料無料） 自己資本1兆7,975億円 management proactively attends conferences organized and development and is used to improve existing the past claims and investigating the root cause of the inetsu.co.jp/）  口座を開設されている証券会社等に やむを得ない事由によって電子 上記以外のお手続き、ご照会など For the year ended March 31, 2014 お問い合わせください きない場合は、日本経済新聞に 特別口座に記録された株式 特別口座から一般口座への振替請求 しん えつニュースクリップ Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 単元未満株式の買取・買増請求 シンテック社がアメリカ合衆国から輸出貢献で表彰 by securities companies and take part in Q&A sessions products. In this way, we have created a system to quality issue. 住所、氏名などのご変更 株式会社 三菱 UFJ 信託銀行証券代行部 特別口座の残高照会 世界最大の塩ビメーカーである米国子会社のシンテック社は、1974年10月17日に操業 電話 0120-232-711 都江東区東砂七丁目10番11号 配当金の受領方法の指定 （通話料無料） を開始し40周年を迎えました。この記念すべき年に、アメリカ合衆国より同国の輸出拡大 株式会社 証券代行部 郵送物などの発送と返戻に関するご照会 に大きな貢献をした企業や団体に贈られる「大統領“E”賞」 を授与されました。 267.87kg is the same quantity of 11（通話料無料） 払渡し期間経過後の配当金に関するご照会 CO which 19.22 cedars of 50 Shin-Etsu Chemical printed this Annual Report by reusing 26.29kg of aluminium plates in the printing process, thus reducing CO2 emissions by 267.87kg. 2 years old (h.=22m/d.=26cm) 株式事務に関する一般的なお問い合わせ シンテック社は、2012年と2013年のテキサス州のヒュース トン港におけるコンテナ貨物 absorb for one year. (Source: Forestry report 1997, Forestry Agency of Japan) の出荷企業の中で最大の出荷量を記録しました。2013年には、塩ビとか性ソーダの輸出 with participants. In these and other ways, we promote reinforce our relationships of trust with our customers. The PDCA cycle is applied to problems pointed out 額が13億ドル以上に達し、 そのめざましい輸出実績がアメリカ合衆国から評価されました。 30 証券コード：4063 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 0.22 Shin-Etsu Report Annual Report to deepen their understanding of the Shin-Etsu Group Almost all Shin-Etsu Group manufacturing plants, on quality audit for improvement and follow-up. The Six through direct dialogues. both domestic and overseas, have obtained certification Sigma program1 is also deployed on company-wide as of the quality control systems such as ISO 9001 and activity for the improvement in a quality control. Profit-sharing Policy ISO/TS 16949. 1 Six Sigma program The Shin-Etsu Group works to expand business profit Response to complaints Quality improvement method developed by Motorola in and enhance our corporate quality from a long-term Shin-Etsu makes it an absolute rule to make an initial the 1980s. Focused on processes where quality variation viewpoint. We distribute dividends based on our response to all quality complaints from customers appears, it is designed to minimize variation within the standard of sharing the fruits of these management within 48 hours of receipt. processes and thereby reduce the incidence of quality defects. This approach has been adopted across the Shinendeavors to shareholders in a suitable manner. In Etsu Group. addition, financial reserves are appropriated for capital investments, research and development, and other types of investment. We proactively use these reserves to strengthen our global competitiveness and for future business developments, with the goal of further 15th accomplishment briefiing session of Shin-Etsu Six Sigma Program improving our corporate value. Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd., Takefu plant tour for institutional investors and analysts Our annual dividends in fiscal 2014 (April 2014 to (June 2014). Since 2000, the Shin-Etsu Group has been developing our Six Sigma Program focusing March 2015) were ¥100 per share. on each of our production bases. In February 2015, we held the 15th accomplishment briefing session of Shin-Etsu Six Sigma Program with attendance of our directors in charge of technical and environmental and safety. At this session, reports on activities pertaining to quality improvement, productivity improvement and reducing logistics costs were presented. Shin-Etsu Six Sigma Program is also linked to enhancing our customers’ degree of satisfaction. We will be promoting these activities and using them at our manufacturing sites. Financial & IR Information List of Shin-Etsu Group companies with ISO 9001 certification WEB WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/ir/ http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/quality.html 31 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 32 Relation with Society Business Partners The Shin-Etsu Group is committed to equitable procurement practices and to incorporating environmental considerations into the supply chain Product Safety Promotion Basic Procurement Policy Procurement Audit FMEA1 and other analyses are carried out at every 1 FMEA (Failure Mode and Effects Analysis) Systematic method to identify and prevent problems before they occur in regards to A Basic Procurement Policy has been formulated for Before and after transactions, the business partner is process from product development to product products and processes. the purchasing of supplies needed for production asked to complete a procurement audit checklist, the commercialization to identify potential issues for system 2 SDS (Safety Data Sheet) activities, including raw materials, sub materials results of which are used for evaluation. Additionally, performance and /or product safety. Quantitative SDS stands for Safety Data Sheet, which lists the physical and chemical properties including transportation packaging, and machinery we visit business partners in Japan and overseas of the chemical substance together with harmfulness and emergency response analysis is undertaken to evaluate issues identified in procedures. Designed to promote safer use of chemical substances and prevent and equipment. This policy is ensured in the Group and whenever necessary to carry out audits. order to improve product design and manufacturing accidents and incidents, SDS are supplied by manufacturers, importers and distributors to customers at the point of sales or shipment. posted on the website. Business partners are expected processes. to understand the Basic Procurement Policy and asked We provide SDS2 for each product to customers. 3 Yellow Cards to incorporate the content of the Policy into their supply Business Continuity Initiatives The yellow cards on which all relevant information on treatment required in case of Customers are encouraged to take appropriate safety an accident during transportation of chemical substances is described. The cards contracts. are handed to the transport contractor to be brought by tanker lorry or other precautions for understanding hazardous and harmful means at the time of transportation. The Shin-Etsu Group has formulated a Business characteristics of the product, undertaking all required Continuity Plan and is prepared for contingencies. We legal procedures whenever necessary, installing safety 4 Container Yellow Cards The standard yellow card system is not suitable for use with mixed cargoes and Compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment would like business partners to understand the systems and /or pollutant treatment facilities, and small-lot deliveries. Instead, each container carries a label displaying safety of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors effectiveness and practicality of the Group’s Business information such as UN number of chemical name and emergency response wearing protective gear. procedure number. Continuity Plan and draw up a business continuity plan As a safety measure during transportation, we issue 5 GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classificationand Labeling of Chemicals) For all business partners subject to the provisions of the of their own. a Yellow Card3 and/or Container Yellow Cards 4 that Internationally standardized system of classification and labeling of chemicals. Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, are affixed to containers. Moreover, we post warnings 6 REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals) Etc. to Subcontractors, the Shin-Etsu Group makes about potential hazards and harm according to the EU regulation on the registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of periodical checks in combination with reporting of new Control of Chemical Substances Used as Raw Materials chemicals. GHS5 method. transactions to ensure full compliance. In addition, 7 RoHS (Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances) Directive Within Japan, the Shin-Etsu Group implements EU directive on restricting the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and staffs in charge of purchasing and procurement The Shin-Etsu Group checks the ISO 14001 status of appropriate management in the research and electronic equipment. frequently attend external seminars and internal business partners and considers preferential business development stage by confirming the safety of new training sessions to discuss specific examples of transactions with business partners that have ISO chemical substances and submitting manufacturing conduct. In this way, the Company works to boost certification so as to purchase materials of lower p e r m i t a p p li c a t i o ns in a cco r d a n ce w i t h t h e awareness of compliance with the Subcontractors Act. environmental impact. requirements of the Act on the Evaluation of Chemical In addition, the Company requests that business When contracting specifications on supply of raw Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc. partners who supply raw materials comply thoroughly materials, we investigate the business partner’s use of and other applicable legislation such as the Industrial with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract chemical substances with environmental impact in Safety and Health Act. The Shin-Etsu Group conforms Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors. produc t s and packaging, their environment al to the REACH6 and is working to comply strictly with management systems, their handling of prohibited the appropriate transmission of information along substances as stipulated in the RoHS Directive, and their the supply chain and other aspects of the regulation. Initiatives Aimed at Eliminating the Use of Conflict Minerals Green Partner certification status. The ShinEtsu Group is also committed to developing In addition, we also comply with REACH regulation new manufacturing technologies designed to totally In our Basic Procurement Policy, we have declared our registration. eliminate the use of specified toxic substances in dedication to eliminating conflict minerals1 from all conformance with the RoHS Directive7. product procurement. We ask that all business partners adhere to this policy, and we regularly perform studies of pertinent minerals, tracking their production all the way back to the smeltery level. 1 Conflict minerals Minerals used to fund conflicts between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighbor countries. These conflict minerals are tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten, and their derivatives. Basic Procurement Policy WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/procurement.html 33 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 34 Relation with Society Local Communities We maintain communication with local communities A sia Silicones Monomer Co., Ltd. and ShinRegional Responsible Care program Etsu Silicones (Thailand) Limited renovated aging agencies and projects multipurpose building belonging to local schools for about a month. This renovated building is earmarked Hosting of the 4th Great East Japan Winners of the “Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Portugal to be put to use not only for the children of these Earthquake Disaster Relief Marché Commendation” for promoting blood donation In 2014, CIRES participated in the PACOPAR1, which schools, but also for a wide spectrum of local uses donated € 45,000 in grants to 12 local organizations in such as holding meetings, elections, and wedding Japan Japan the city of Estarreja. ceremonies, etc. In March 2015, the 4th Great East Japan Earthquake Each company within the Shin-Etsu Group regularly These grants have been put to good use in Disaster Relief Marché was held at Asahi Seimei donates blood as a part of making a contribution developing social welfare infrastructures and have Ohtemachi Building where the Shin-Etsu Chemical to society. For many years, Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., contributed to the social support of Estarreja city and Donating our products to the Republic of Malawi Head Office is. In cooperation with Shin-Etsu Chemical Ltd., Shirakawa Plant has been appraised for its active protecting the safety of its citizens. and Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd., special regional cooperation in promoting blood donation to the Malawi produce and Sake from Fukushima, Iwate, and Miyagi Fukushima Prefecture Red Cross Blood Center. In July Through Millennium Promise Japan (MPJ), a non-profit prefectures were sold in support of disaster relief as the 2014, the Shirakawa Plant received the Ministry of organization, Shin-Etsu Chemical has donated eco-bags opportunity presented itself in Tokyo. Health, Labour and Welfare’s Commendation at the made of our PVC and “Shupua” glasses made of our 50th National Blood Drive Convention. silicone to the people of Malawi. Shin-Etsu Chemical is also supporting the activities of MPJ in its commitment to reduce poverty, improve education, promote gender equality, and support self-reliance in Africa. 1 PACOPAR (Painel Consultivo Comunitário do Programa Atua ção Responsável) Regional Advisory Panel of Estarreja city’s Responsible Care Program. Contributions to local communities on the 10th anniversary of the start up of operation Germany and Thailand In 2014, three overseas Group companies celebrated Holding of Cultural Lecture Meeting their 10th anniversary of operation by conducting Cooperating with NPO Science various regional contribution activities as a part of their Japan Communication’s experience classrooms business anniversary. In October 2014, the public benefit trust Shin-Etsu At Germany’s SE Tylose GmbH & Co. KG, employees Chemical Regional Culture Promotion Fund, which Japan donated the money collected from selling reusable Fundraising for U.N. World Refugee Day was set up on the 60th anniversary of Shin-Etsu Shin-Etsu Chemical Silicone Division cooperated in empty containers and scrap metal to a nearby school Chemical's establishment, hosted its annual cultural experience classrooms sponsored by NPO Science and charitable organizations who donate meals to Japan lecture meeting by inviting the entertainer and rakugo Communication. In these classrooms, participating people in need. Through this donation, the school was In 2014 also, we conducted fundraising activities in storyteller Mr. Yonesuke. Mr. Yonesuke spoke boldly elementar y school children and their parent s able to build a long-awaited library. In addition, those in conjunction with World Refugee Day as designated about the importance of passing on Japanese culture experienced molding their own fingers out of using need are now able to receive food distributions several by the U.N. on June 20th. The fund raised by the including eating and drew a lot of laughter with his light RTV silicone rubber for moldmaking. Not only did the timers per month. Shin-Etsu Chemical Head Office, Plants and the Group and wit narrative skills as only a rakugo storyteller can. participants gain an interest in silicones, but we were companies is entrusted to the Japan for UNHCR where also able to convey a familiarization of science. it is put to use in supporting refugees around the world who continue to increase in number each year. In addition, on this occasion, our Company matched the contributions donated. Communication with local communities WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/society.html 35 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 36 Relation with Society Employees We support the self-fulfillment of our employees The Shin-Etsu Group respects human rights and system. Meanwhile, the shorter working hours system Employment Rate of Persons with Disabilities To operate the personnel system in a fair and implement s a variet y of approaches to create allows employees with children up to grade three of …… Legally mandated employment rate Shin-Etsu Chemical employment rate appropriate manner, evaluation training is provided for (Employment rate: %) workplaces that are conducive to work, and where each elementary school to shorten their working hours by up 2.50 all managers who conduct performance review so that employee is healthy, fulfills his or her potential, and can to two hours a day. they can carry out personnel evaluations in a fair way. build a career. As for nursing care leave, under certain conditions, To further increase transparency, evaluation standards employees can take up to one year of leave per eligible 2.16 2.12 are made available and the results are also disclosed. 2.05 family member. Three employees working within the Furthermore, a system of interviews between the both Respect for Human Rights consolidated companies in Japan took advantage of the 2.00 1.95 2.00 parties has been established to ensure that the two system in fiscal 2014. Furthermore, from fiscal 2014 we parties can communicate successfully. Human Rights Enlightenment Promotion Committee began providing our 'Healthcare and Day Care Support' 1.80 During interviews, each staff member and his/ her The Shin-Etsu Group, from its position as a corporation, service for supporting the care of our employees. immediate superior use Communication Sheets to organized the Human Rights Enlightenment Promotion 1.50 ensure mutual awareness of the superior’s expectations 2012 2013 2014 2015 Committee with the aim of tackling various human Number of Employees Who have Taken Childcare regarding what he/she would like the subordinate to rights issues and creating cheerful workplaces where Leave (Fiscal 2014) accomplish, as well as what challenges the subordinate people are inspired to work. This committee holds would like to take on. The interviews are also an regular human rights enlightenment training for Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 10 (Male: 2; Female 8) Overseas Group company wins award for opportunity to set targets for the next six months and Consolidated companies in Japan 47 (Male: 3; Female 44) providing employment to people with disabilities directors and employees. Furthermore, the Committee to provide feedback on progress, and serve in this way Consolidated companies total1 142 (Male: 56; Female 86) promote to raising human rights awareness by to promote further development of abilities. 1 The length of childcare leave differs from country to country, as the program is serialization of human rights Q&A in our internal based on local law. Shin-Etsu Handotai America, Inc. was awarded as large publications and by inviting human rights awareness private-sector employer of persons the year for employing slogans in conjunction with the Human Rights Week in people with disabilities by the Greater Vancouver Chamber Health Considerations December. of Commerce and the Clark County Developmental In addition, Shin-Etsu belongs to both the Industrial Disabilities Advisory Board. The company’s ongoing annual Employee health programs employment of approximately 23 supported employees Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo, and the Industrial To decrease staff sickness, we are working to offer a over a period of twenty-five years has led to the receiving Federation for AntiDiscrimination, Osaka. Our fulfilling regular health consultation service, provide of this award. employees participate proactively in events held by both health guidance for lifestyle-related diseases, take In addition, Tim Lee (center in the photo), who works federations, as well as training sessions put on by other in the company warehouse, was awarded Supported measures to ensure mental health, and focus on organizations. Employee of the Year for his excellent job performance. activities that promote fitness and develop physical strength. Efforts to abolish child labor and forced labor We have also established Health Committees at The ShinEtsu group conforms to international our head office and branch offices, as well as Safety guidelines, and does not approve of child labor or and Health Committees at each plant district. These forced labor of any type. We conduct a survey of Group Voluntarily Mother’s Lunch Meetings in our Head Office committees undertake activities while receiving companies, including overseas companies, each year. information and guidance—including about measures Through this survey, we confirm that our employment Promoting active roles by diverse human resources to improve the work environment and prevent damage conditions are based on the international labor As a group engaged in business operations around the to health—from industrial physicians. standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) world, the Shin-Etsu Group carries out employment at In addition, our Fitness and Physical Strength and that no child or forced labor is taking place. overseas Group companies and also promote to employ Development Promotion Committees work together foreign nationals in Japan. with Medical Treatment Rooms to organize physical The entire Group is also working to proactively strength monitoring, and to hold seminars and events Respect for Diversity employ disabled persons and create environments for physical strength improvement. To provide health where it is easy for them to work. Our level of support to include employees’ families, the corporate Childcare and nursing care systems employment of disabled persons exceeds legally Performance-based Personnel Evaluation health insurance society cooperates with expert The Shin-Etsu Group offers a full range of systems to mandated levels. Systems and Equal Opportunities organizations to provide the 24-hour Family Health support employees who give birth to and are raising We have created the Internal Re-Employment Consultation Desk. children. Our childcare leave system can be used by Program for employees who have reached the We have introduced a personnel system that places employees until their children have reached the age retirement age of 60 years, which allows them to be importance on employee ability and work performance. of three, and many employees take advantage of the re-employed until age 65. This system proves useful for increasing employees’ m oti vation, as their treatm ent refl e c t s their performance, attitude, and evaluations of how they meet their challenges to achieve higher goals. 37 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 38 Relation with Society personnel who are reassigned to headquarters from Education/Training and Personal Welfare and Benefits plants and other business sites in Gunma and Fukushima Labor-management Relations Development prefectures to transfer jobs without changing their Accumulated holidays lifestyles. As of March 2015, 73 employees were taking Shin-Etsu Chemical engages in various dialogs with the Auditing student system A certain number of annual paid holidays are granted in advantage of this Company offer. Shin-Etsu Chemical Labor Union to promote mutual In 1962, we established an auditing student system accordance with labor regulations. If those annual paid understanding between labor and management. with the goal of improving workplace cohesion. Under holidays are not taken, a certain number can be treated Other systems Meetings of the Central Staff Council are held once a the system, up to about ten employees each year are as accumulated holidays, which are then carried over to The BAKER-K ANAGAWA JapanU.S. scholarship month at the head office and are attended by senior chosen from plant manufacturing sites and sent to the next year and may be utilized as family-care leave program was established for children of Shin-Etsu management themselves, who engage in discussions study at universities for one year. In the 52 years since days or as days off for injury or illness. Employees may Group employees by Mr. Robert Baker, founder and the with staff regarding subjects such as management the system was introduced, a total of 516 employees also use these holidays to volunteer in disaster areas or first president of Dow Chemical Japan Ltd. and a former policy, outline information about individual businesses, have completed the program and are now functioning serve as donors for organ or bone marrow transplants. chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in and the personnel system. Furthermore, each business in various workplaces. Japan, and Mr. Chihiro Kanagawa, chairman of Shinsite holds a monthly Local Labor Meeting with the local Employee Hotline Etsu Chemical. branch of the Shin-Etsu Chemical Labor Union. Training for international adaptation As a counseling service for trouble with work or other In recent years, the Dr. Kanagawa Japanese Repeated dialogs and discussions between labor The ShinEtsu Group is expanding its business issues, we have set up Dial Shin-Etsu, which is staffed Friendship Scholarship has been established for a oneand management deepen mutual understanding and activities throughout the world. Competency to by experienced and qualified specialist counselors from year study program at Clark College in Washington, trust and facilitate business operations in which staff communicate in foreign languages is therefore an outside of the Company. Consultations are received USA. This has been created from a friendly relationship and management can come together to present speedy essential skill for smooth operations. To this end, the anonymously and treated with strict confidentiality, but between the College and Mr. Kanagawa that has been responses to the changing business environment. Group provides English language training to teach if requested the counselor will contact the Personnel built over many years. meeting and presentation skill s and offer s intercultural Department to discuss possible solutions. In addition, we have established asset-building communication training to promote understanding of schemes, a shareholding system, and a mutual aid cultural differences commonly encountered overseas. Shinkansen commuting benefits society to provide support for weddings, childbirth, and Clark College Overseas Study Experiences Chinese conversation classes are also held. Since 1989, Shin-Etsu has allowed commuting by sudden hospitalization of family members. Shinkansen at company expense. This option has Jun Kikuchi (son of Shigeko Kikuchi, Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd., Shirakawa Plant) allowed more employees to own houses and enables From September 2013, for about one year, through taking advantage of the Dr. Kanagawa Japanese 1 QC Friendship Scholarship, I studied abroad at Clark College Quality Control. Or, activities in manufacturing industry that encourage employees to make proactive contributions to workplace management and improvement, in America. Throughout my homestay and student life, Training system leading to improvements in quality. with each passing day, my understanding of English language and culture, and the differences in lifestyle Environment and habits deepened as my interest in fresh different Training for different staff grades Specialized education General education Special education Quality control education Six Sigma education safety education cultures grew stronger. In addition, it was also a valuable experience in terms of being able to meet people of different nationalities in America. General Advanced S/M job family manager level management training training Studying abroad and being able to actually see, touch and Black belt training • Patent training hear was a great learning experience more so than I initially • Training for thought it would be. In today's trend of globalization, I am adaptation to internationconfident that this experience will be an irreplaceable asset alization Course for management Specialized education in my future life. Section Middle management training development trainning in environmental QC1 master course manager level English language Green belt training (external training) control and safety training, meeting skills Mental health seminars Job family change training course I/II Human rights English language awareness training Line management Staff management training, presentation skills Junior manager training training course I/II Supervisor education QC intermediate level course Leader training Chinese conversation classes Auditing student Safety education system (1 year) Special education Intercultural Junior leader training Basic education communication training Regular employees New employee second-phase training QC basic course The fourth person from New employee induction training New recruit education the right at the back is Jun Kikuchi 39 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 40 History of Activities Responsible Care Audit of the Report Awards in the Fields of Safety, Measures taken by the Shin-Etsu Group the Environment and Industrial Health 1926 F ounded as Shin-Etsu Nitrogen Fertilizer Co., Ltd. (name changed to Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. in 1940) 1926 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Promotion Committee established 2005 E  xcellent Prize of Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as excellent plant 2005 Installation of cellulose wastewater recovery system at health and safety (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2005 2006 E xcellent Prize of Director of Niigata Prefecture Labour Standards Bureau as excellent plant at health (Naoetsu Precision) 2005 Environmental Charter revised 2006 5th Class Lost Time Incident-free Certificate (Shin-Etsu Film: disaster-free 2005 C  o-generation system further expanded record maintained to date) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2007 E xcellent Prize of Director General of Nagano Labour Bureau (Nagano Electronics) 2006 Hydrochloric acid recovery system installed on silica production line 2007 Encouragement Prize of Director General of Nagano Labor Bureau (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) (Shinano Polymer) 2006 Signed the Responsible Care Global Charter 2007 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory 2006 Fuel for boiler system switched (Nagano Electronics/Chikuma) Award (Asia Silicones Monomer) 2008 E xcellent Prize of Director General Prize of Fukui Prefecture Labour Bureau 2007 Installation of system to reduce steam usage by improvement of distillation as excellent plant at industrial health and safety (Fukui Shin-Etsu Quartz) process (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2008 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory 2008 Installation of natural gas fuel conversion system Award (Asia Silicones Monomer) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2009 Special award from Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare for one million consecutive hours of Lost-Time Incident-free operation 2008 A  ugmentation of wastewater biological treatment system (Shin-Etsu Silicones Thailand) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2009 Minister Prize of Economic, Trade and Industry as excellent f plant at 2008 Installation of thermal recovery system for distillation column high-pressure gas safety (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Takefu) (Japan Vam & Poval) 2009 Minister Prize of Economic, Trade and Industry as excellent plant at 2008 Installation of gas turbines (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) high-pressure gas production (Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer) 2009 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory 2008 Fuel conversion of boiler (Tatsuno Chemical Industries) Award (Asia Silicones Monomer) 2008 Installation of LNG-fueled through-flow boiler 2010 Encouragement Prize of Director General of Saitama Labor Bureau (Nissin Chemical Industry) (Urawa Polymer) 2010 Chairperson Prize of Committee for Promotion of Electricity Utilization in 2008 T hermal recovery system installed on silica production line Seven Tohoku Prefectures (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Koriyama) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2010 E xcellent Prize of Niigata Prefecture as excellent plant at environmental 2009 Installation of high-efficiency turbo refrigerator (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Isobe) preservation (Naoetsu Precision) 2009 Installation of air conditioning system using process based on free cooling 2010 Director General Prize of Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency as excellent (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Takefu) plant at high-pressure gas safety (Nissin Chemical Industry) 2010 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory Award 2010 Fuel conversion of boiler system (Nagano Electronics) (Asia Silicones Monomer) 2010 Installation of inverter turbo refrigerator (Nagano Electronics) 2010 500,000 Lost Time Incident-free Hours Award, State of Ohio (Shin-Etsu Silicones of America) 2010 Participation to UN Global Compact 2010 Occupational Excellence Achievement Award, National Safety Council (US) 2010 Installation of oil clarification system (Shin-Etsu Silicone Taiwan) (Shintech) 2011 Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators Award (Shin-Etsu Chemical) 2011 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory Award (Asia Silicones Monomer) 2011 G  old Medal at the Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s National 2012 Forty-Year Lost Time Incident-free Special Achievement Award, Japan Soda Quality Management Convention (Shin-Etsu Silicone Korea) Industry Association (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2011 Installation of electricity demand monitoring system 2012 Achieved 8.1 million Lost Time Incident-free hours, a 2nd class Lost Time (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) Incident-free record (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2012 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory Award 2012 T homson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators Award won for second (Asia Silicones Monomer) consecutive year (Shin-Etsu Chemical) 2013 Achieved 5.4 million Lost Time Incident-free hours, a 1st class Lost Time 2012 G  old Medal at the Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s National Incident-free record (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) Quality Management Convention (second consecutive year) 2013 E xcellent Prize of Director General of Fukushima Prefecture Labor Bureau (Shin-Etsu Silicone Korea) as excellent plant at safety measures (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Koriyama) 2012 Installation of multistage biological wastewater treatment equipment 2013 Encouragement Prize of Director General of Niigata Prefecture Labor (Shin-Etsu Silicone/ (Nantong)) Bureau as excellent plant at health management (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Saigata) 2013 T homson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators Award won for third 2013 Governor Prize of Fukui Prefecture as recognition for promotion of traffic consecutive year (Shin-Etsu Chemical) safety (Fukui Shin-Etsu Quartz) 2013 J apan Investor Relations Association Best IR Award 2013 2013 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory Award (Shin-Etsu Chemical) (Asia Silicones Monomer) 2013 Special award from Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare for 300,000 2013 G  old Medal at the Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s National to 1 million consecutive hours of lost-time and incident-free operation Quality Management Convention (third consecutive year) (Shin-Etsu Silicones Thailand) (Shin-Etsu Silicone Korea) 2013 Awarding of Excellent Energy Conservation Factory & Building from 2014 T homson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators Award won for fourth Tohoku Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry (Naoetsu Electronics) consecutive year (Shin-Etsu Chemical) 2013 12th Green Logistics Partnership Meeting 2014 S igned the revised edition of the Responsible Care Global Charter Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Deputy ViceMinister for Logistics Award (Shin-Etsu Chemical) 2014 E ncouragement prize of Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as excellence plant at health and safety (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Koriyama) 2014 Director General Prize of Kanto Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry as excellent plant at energy conservation (Naoetsu Electronics) Membership Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) Plastic Waste Management Institute Global Compact Japan Network Japan Chemical Industry Association The International Friendship Exchange Council Millennium Promise Japan etc. Vinyl Environmental Council The Japan Committee for UNICEF As of March 31, 2015 List of Shin-Etsu Group companies with ISO 14001 certification WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#environment 41 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2015 42
