Sustainability in action From epic challenges to integrated solutions Progress Report FY2015 February 2014–January 2015 Table of contents Letter from our CEO 3 Strategy for designing a better world 4 Products and services 8 Environment 14 Ethics and compliance 18 Suppliers and business partners 20 Employees 21 Impact philanthropy 25 Performance summary 27 About this report 30 United Nations Global Compact index 31 Global Reporting Initiative index 32 2 Letter from our CEO The world is changing rapidly. By 2050, our planet ways to improve our carbon footprint. I am excited will be home to 10 billion people. About 95 to announce that we are committing to power our percent of us will live within a day’s drive of a city, business with 100 percent renewable energy. adding stress to already aging infrastructures. To succeed and thrive, we need unprecedented As the middle class grows to 5 billion, increased innovation and participation. In 2014, we prosperity will contribute to explosive consumer expanded our Cleantech Partner Program into growth and manufacturing. This intense China—a key market that is making bold population growth and the resulting demographic commitments to tackle climate change. We shifts will push our planetary resources, including launched the Autodesk® Foundation—the first energy and water, to their limit. foundation to invest in people who are using The process of designing and making things is design to tackle social and environmental changing just as rapidly. The combination of challenges—and continued to grow our digital design and digital manufacturing is Technology Impact program, which provides redefining the future of making things— impact designers worldwide with access to our revolutionizing businesses and even entire software. And we are exploring ways to engage industries. This transformation offers our more than 225 million consumer users in unprecedented potential not only to rethink sustainable thinking. design but also to create new manufacturing Our employees are leading these changes within models that advance sustainability. To achieve Autodesk and developing solutions with our this, our customers need integrated environments customers and business partners. They bring that enable them to move seamlessly and quickly tremendous energy for sustainability, and our from design through to production. They need to new Employee Impact program supports their collaborate widely, and require access to data enthusiasm, drive, and commitment. I also share management and simulation capabilities to our employees’ passion for continuing to advance understand and optimize the impact of whatever diversity and inclusion at Autodesk and across the they are making. In response, we are delivering industry. A diverse workforce reflects the markets cloud-based collaboration platforms, such as we serve, enriches our culture, broadens our Autodesk® Fusion 360™ software, that are perspectives, and ultimately improves decision accessible and affordable to everyone. making and strengthens our company. Of all the social and environmental challenges This report describes our efforts and progress we face, none is more pressing than climate in sustainability during the past year—and it change. This promises to be a breakthrough year reiterates my commitment, and that of Autodesk at the global, national, local, and company level. leadership and employees, to imagine, design, We support an international agreement to curb and create a better world. climate change and we look forward to advancing the policy conversation during the coming year. Please join us. An improved policy framework will accelerate the Sincerely, incredible gains that designers are already making in this area. To drive this progress, we’re continuing to expand the solutions we offer, helping customers secure a competitive advantage by designing high-performance buildings, developing resilient Carl Bass cities and infrastructure, and creating more Chief Executive Officer efficient products. We’re also always looking for Autodesk 3 Strategy for designing a better world We believe in the power of design. Provide the best sustainability solutions Expand access to technology for As the global population moves toward 10 Autodesk’s biggest opportunity to make a impact designers billion—a level experts anticipate we’ll hit by positive impact in sustainability is by delivering Solving complex challenges requires bringing 2050—designers worldwide are using their skills products and services that make sustainable more people, more ideas, and the best thinking and talents to imagine, design, and create a design easy, insightful, and cost-effective. Our to the table. We invest in and support impact better world where everyone can live well and customers use our products and services to designers who are creating solutions for live within the limits of our planet. improve decisions that have substantial and positive environmental and social impact—a long-term environmental impacts—from planning commitment solidified with the establishment Population growth and demographic shifts will cities and designing buildings to capturing of the Autodesk Foundation in 2014. lead to more people moving into urban centers rainwater and prototyping efficient vehicles. (putting more stress on aging infrastructures) and Through the Autodesk Foundation, the explosive consumer growth (leading to an increase Across our portfolio of more than 100 products Autodesk® Technology Impact Program, and in manufacturing). Our planetary resources will be and consulting services for the building, the Autodesk® Cleantech Partner Program, pushed to their limit. Billions of people already feel infrastructure, and manufacturing sectors, we we’re helping nonprofits and entrepreneurs the effects of inadequate access to water and continue to integrate analytical capabilities, design high-impact solutions to social and healthcare, rising energy demands, and climate robust data sets, and design principles to help environmental challenges by providing them change. We have an unprecedented opportunity our users achieve higher-quality, and more with funding, training, and easy access to our to develop solutions that will improve the lives of sustainable, project outcomes. Our customers professional software suites at either no charge every person on the planet. use these solutions to capitalize on the increasing or for a small license fee. To promote number of opportunities presented by the sustainable design even further, we provide Design has the potential to disrupt the status growing market transformation toward more knowledge-sharing platforms and discounted quo and provide more for people while sustainable design. or no-fee software for early adopters, students, demanding less from the planet. We’re seeing Deliver learning and training customers in emerging economies, and this vision of the future take shape in building makers and other consumers. designs that dramatically reduce energy needs, opportunities creative solutions from individual makers Skilled practitioners of sustainable design and Lead by example worldwide, and new approaches to product engineering are in short supply, yet we’ve never Our employees are our greatest asset for driving development and manufacturing that deliver needed them more. Through education, we can positive impact. We support their passion, drive, higher-quality, more customized goods that are empower makers, students, educators, and and talent with programs and opportunities that created locally and reduce materials waste. professionals to better understand the help them create a better world at work, at Autodesk develops technology used by millions challenges we face and how to design lasting home, and in the community. They drive our of architects, engineers, students, and makers— and scalable solutions. culture of impact whether they are lending their empowering them with tools to optimize the Through the Autodesk® Sustainability Workshop, skills to a foundation grantee, volunteering with environmental and social impact of their designs. the Building Performance Analysis Certificate coworkers, or developing our latest design tools. Through our commercial products and (BPAC) Program, and our stand-alone sustainable We continually improve our business by investments in clean technology and impact design courses, students and professionals are implementing and promoting best practices design, we enable the design-led revolution. learning how to use design technology and in sustainable operations. Using our own Our sustainability strategy focuses our efforts analysis tools to make better, more sustainable sustainability solutions and those of our where we can have the greatest impact: providing decisions during every step of the design process. customers, we treat our business operations as a the best sustainability solutions; delivering Autodesk also provides support for younger living lab for experimentation and improvement. learning and training opportunities; supporting students exploring a future in design-related fields We measure and report our performance in order impact designers through expanded access to through a variety of programs. For example, the to continually improve and to inspire progress technology; and leading by example with our Digital STEAM Workshop enables high school across the industry. business practices and Employee Impact program. students to download Autodesk® software at no charge and then create and share their designs. 4 Materiality assessment • Support best practices, and spur new practices, across the design industry with our technology and public In 2013, we worked with consulting firm BSR to engage policy efforts Autodesk executives and content experts from across the company’s business groups, functions, and regions • Advance sustainable design education to evaluate the social and environmental issues that • Ensure the privacy and security of the data have the largest impact on our success as a company Autodesk collects and the most relevance to global sustainable • Ensure diversity and equal opportunity within development. We also assessed the level of influence our workforce that Autodesk has in each area and how each factor might evolve between now and 2050. Through this • Mitigate the impact of piracy and theft of Autodesk We support the work of the Sustainability Accounting process, we looked for gaps or blind spots in our intellectual property Standards Board (SASB), which aims to develop strategy and worked to identify emerging issues. • Invest in Autodesk employee training and development sustainability accounting standards that public The assessment confirmed the areas where we have • Enable energy efficiency and GHG emissions reductions corporations can use to disclose relevant information historically focused our sustainability efforts. It also in our own business operations to investors. Although SASB standards apply to financial complemented other analyses that are relevant to some reporting, we have considered the organization’s insights These findings inform our strategy and provide a platform related to materiality as a part of our reporting process of these issues, such as those related to Autodesk’s for further engagement with external stakeholders, as and will continue to do so in the future. product strategies and market sizing. well as executives and employees companywide. The following issues rated highest in importance See pages 8–10 of our Sustainability Progress Report to Autodesk’s business success as well as FY2013 for additional details, as well as key themes sustainable development: from the analysis and expected trends for some of • Enable energy efficiency and greenhouse gas (GHG) these issues in the coming decades. emissions reductions for Autodesk customers 5 Sustainability governance and management Our sustainability governance model facilitates strong collaboration and clear accountability across the company. Our CEO Carl Bass and his executive team have ultimate accountability for sustainability at Autodesk, and for integrating sustainability into Autodesk’s overall strategic planning process. The following teams are responsible for implementing Autodesk’s sustainability strategy within their areas of expertise. Team Focus area Responsibilities Reporting structure Sustainability Solutions New products and Work across the company to develop solutions that address Reports to the senior vice president of information Team services the energy-, water-, and materials-related business challenges modeling and platform products of our customers in the building, infrastructure, and manufacturing industries. Building Performance Building performance Develop solutions to analyze building performance and enable Reports to the senior vice president of information Analysis Team analysis products designers to maximize energy efficiency before construction modeling and platform products begins. Work closely with other product teams to ensure analysis is well integrated into Autodesk solutions. Corporate Real Estate, Real estate, facilities, Set strategies to improve our facilities’ environmental Reports to the vice president of corporate Facilities, Travel, Safety, travel, safety, and performance and the sustainability of employee travel. Establish real estate, facilities, travel, safety, and security and Security Team security and enforce policies and track trends related to environmental health, safety, and compliance. Environmental Core Operational performance Act as an executive advisory board, establishing priorities and Reports to the CEO’s staff Team goals and creating plans to improve environmental performance. Promote and report these efforts throughout the company. Corporate Sustainability Cross-company Work across the company to deliver learning and training Reports to the chief marketing officer Team sustainability programs resources; support makers, impact entrepreneurs, and cleantech; provide access to software; engage employees to create impact; optimize Autodesk’s sustainable business performance; and manage sustainability reporting for the company. Autodesk Foundation Impact design Invest in and support the most impactful individuals and The Foundation CEO and president is accountable organizations using design to create a better world. The to the Foundation’s board of directors foundation is a 501(c)(3) organization funded by Autodesk. Other aspects of sustainability—such as promoting ethical conduct and human rights, protecting employee and customer privacy, and providing employees an inclusive and engaging place to work—are managed by different groups across the company. 6 Stakeholder engagement Public policy Autodesk does not have a political action committee and thus does not contribute to U.S. federal elections. The The scale of the challenges we face requires massive At Autodesk, we participate in public policy debate to company did not contribute to state or local candidate collaboration across a broad range of perspectives and advance innovation, sustainability, and economic growth. committees in fiscal year 2015. However, we did expertise. Engaging and partnering with stakeholders Our Government Affairs Team and other key company contribute to a San Francisco ballot initiative related to and industry players is core to our efforts to design a representatives engaged with government officials, transportation and transit in the city (“The Committee for better world. Here are a few examples: nonprofit organizations, think tanks, and other entities Reliable Transportation, and Better, Safer Streets”). See • We meet with customers and prospective customers during fiscal year 2015 to advance sustainability historical data on page 29. regularly to help shape our strategy and product road principles. We focused on issues related to clean map and to test Autodesk® Sustainability Solutions. technology, climate change, and building and infrastructure development. • We engage with government officials and policy makers on public policy issues related to sustainability During fiscal year 2015, representatives from Autodesk: and sustainable design. • Were appointed to the Technical Advisory Committee • We partner with educators and institutions to train and for the Mind the Science, Mind the Gap initiative prepare students for careers in architecture, (sponsored by the World Resources Institute, CDP, engineering, and other related fields. WWF, and the Global Reporting Initiative), which is focused on advancing and standardizing the use of • We listen to, engage, and inspire thousands of science-based target setting to reduce GHG emissions employees to participate directly in our sustainability and Autodesk Foundation efforts. • Sat on the Advisory Board of SASB—an independent nonprofit, which aims to develop sustainability accounting standards for public corporations Autodesk stakeholder groups • Joined the San Francisco Planning and Urban Research think tank, which helps shape regional and • Customers and prospective customers municipal policy • Employees and prospective employees • Participated in the Business Council on Climate Change in San Francisco, California, to increase dialog between • Students and educators local businesses and city government and align on • Government/policy makers shared objectives • Investors • Worked with the Singapore Sustainable Business • Suppliers Federation to promote and recognize green technology solutions in that country • Resellers and channel partners • Advocated for and promoted the clean technology • Software developers industry in China and Australia (see page 13 • Industry associations for more details) • Nongovernmental organizations These efforts supported our commitment through the • Local communities global Caring for Climate initiative to engage with national governments, intergovernmental organizations, • Nonprofits and civil society to create ways for businesses to help • Press and analysts build a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy. 7 Products and services Through its products and services, Autodesk strives Professional customers Since we formed the Autodesk® Consumer Group to make sustainability easy, insightful, and in 2010, we have grown our user base to more cost-effective. Our customer base has a sizeable and consumers than 225 million individuals across web, mobile, reach with great potential to create positive Millions of professionals worldwide use our and desktop platforms. We offer a broad portfolio environmental change. We continually improve solutions to plan cities, design buildings and of free or low-cost mobile and web-based tools, Autodesk Sustainability Solutions and then apply products, supply people with energy and water, as well as online communities, for artists, makers, them in our own facilities, using our buildings as develop manufacturing processes, and more. gamers, home enthusiasts, and students. We also living labs to showcase how our products can They represent a wide range of disciplines, strive to advance economic opportunities for improve environmental performance. In addition, including architecture, engineering, construction, these customers by providing a space for them to we work to increase access to our technology, natural resources, infrastructure, manufacturing, sell their creations—such as graphics, fonts, and educate students and professionals in the and media and entertainment. themes—through Creative Market. These principles of sustainable design, and make An increasing number of customers use our consumer tools and communities provide an strategic investments to advance new ideas in Sustainability Solutions to design new assets or opportunity to engage more people in sustainable sustainable design. For information about how we improve existing ones. We continue to improve thinking. One way we do this is through our protect the privacy and data security of customers our products and services to help customers Instructables® community (see page 12). who use our products and services, see page 19. increase their ability to deliver sustainable projects. • Support for startups: Through our • Investment in Lucid Design: Autodesk Startups-in-Residence program, we provide began piloting Lucid Design’s Building OS selected entrepreneurs in the Boston area platform in several facilities in 2013. The with office space and access to Autodesk technology creates a connective hub for products and Autodesk employees. This systems and devices and provides building helps to build connections between management tools to help customers designers working on solutions to today’s make better decisions and improve challenges and enables our team to building performance. Autodesk invested connect to entrepreneurs at different stages in Lucid Design in fiscal year 2015 to of innovation. The program began in April support further innovation. 2014, and we had supported five startup • Collaboration with Impact companies by the end of fiscal year 2015. Incubating sustainable Infrastructure: In fiscal year 2015, • Collaboration with Panoramic Power: In Autodesk partnered with Impact design fiscal year 2015, Panoramic Power announced Infrastructure to bring AutoCASE—a new At Autodesk, we create software that helps our investment and a plan to begin technical triple bottom line analysis tool—to market. designers tackle some of the world’s most collaboration that will use Autodesk® AutoCASE gives customers the ability to pressing social and environmental challenges. Building Information Modeling (BIM) evaluate the financial returns as well as the We further support those designers by solutions and Panoramic Power’s solution social and environmental impacts of their providing them with opportunities to connect for device-level energy management. This projects and easily update their analysis with others who have similar passions and by collaboration will help optimize building when new information becomes available. making strategic investments in their performance and enable customers to For more about AutoCASE, see page 10 businesses that help nurture new ideas and improve efficiency, reduce energy and or visit our website. advance innovations in sustainable design. operational costs, and identify equipment that requires maintenance before it fails. 8 Sustainability Solutions enhance profitability, decrease risk, and win new We combine software workflows with consulting services business. At the same time, we’re seeing intensifying to deliver modeling, simulation, analysis, and process The biggest opportunity for Autodesk to advance regulatory standards from local and national management solutions that streamline and democratize sustainability is through our products and services. governments worldwide. For example, North America, sustainable design. These solutions enable informed Today’s designers, architects, and engineers are faced the European Union, and China are enacting a variety decisions throughout an asset’s lifecycle, empower more with significant business constraints: Energy demand is of regulations that will curb emissions, green their people and organizations to incorporate environmental expected to double by 2030 and, at the same time, an 85 buildings, and protect water resources over the next considerations without expensive subject matter experts, percent reduction in GHG emissions is needed to stabilize five to ten years. and optimize materials choices and the energy and water the climate by 2050. These two realities are on a collision For these reasons, sustainable design strategies footprint of products, assets, and processes. course. Meanwhile, at current usage, global demand for have become a standard market expectation, alongside Autodesk Sustainability Solutions help customers uncover water will outstrip supply by 40 percent in 2030. traditional considerations such as cost and durability. recurring benefits from energy, water, and materials Incorporating environmental sustainability into products, At Autodesk, we strive to make sustainability easy, stewardship across the asset lifecycle. We focus on the processes, and assets is not only a differentiator, it’s a insightful, and cost-effective in high-impact industries. major economic sectors with the largest environmental business imperative—with significant opportunities to impact: buildings, infrastructure, and manufacturing. Buildings are among the biggest consumers of energy on the planet—accounting for more than 40 percent of U.S. energy use. The opportunity for sustainable design Globally, buildings represent an estimated 38 percent of the total GHG emissions reductions needed to stabilize the climate by 2050.* Aging infrastructure worldwide is already straining to keep up with population growth, and the UN predicts that urban populations could grow by 2.5 billion people by 2050, with close to 90 percent of the increase concentrated in Asia and Africa.** From product materials selection to industrial operations, the manufacturing sector offers many opportunities to minimize environmental impact. *WBCSD (2009) “Energy Efficiency in Buildings: Transforming the Market” with data from Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratories. **2014 Revision of the World Urbanization Prospects. 9 Autodesk Sustainability Solutions for building, infrastructure, and manufacturing Rapid energy modeling High-performance Triple bottom line for existing buildings building design analysis (AutoCASE) This streamlined process for New analysis tools make it AutoCASE is a new plug-in energy analysis allows possible to simulate and for Autodesk® design users to screen a single analyze performance in software that automates building or a group of high-impact areas (such as analysis of economic, social, buildings to identify the best lighting, energy, and airflow) and environmental costs candidates for retrofits quickly and remotely, prior to through all stages of the design process using tools and benefits from within the virtual design costly site visits. Learn more. such as Revit 2015 and Autodesk® FormIT® free mobile environment. Teams can assess impacts immediately app. Learn more. as design changes occur and use this information to Materials Life Cycle increase their chances to win financing and buy-in Assessment (Tally) Data center from the community. Learn more. Tally®, a new plug-in energy efficiency for Autodesk® Revit® Autodesk® Simulation CFD Factory energy software, enables better software empowers design management decision making using teams to improve efficiency, With Autodesk® Factory thinkstep’s GaBi maximize “free-cooling” to energy management environmental dataset of construction materials. reduce power usage, and solutions, factory owners Designers can quantify the embodied impacts of accurately determine if an existing space can be can design and communicate building materials, components, and assemblies and reconfigured to avoid a costly expansion. Learn more. efficient layouts by creating gain quick insight into the environmental trade-offs a digital model of a new or existing factory. of different design scenarios. Learn more and Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations can watch a demo. then generate a clear analysis of energy consumption and help owners better understand airflow and cost-effective ways to optimize HVAC system performance. Learn more. Hear from Autodesk customers and see our Sustainability Solutions in action Glumac, a leading firm in sustainable design, uses Learn more about the AutoCASE tool for triple bottom Learn how the URS Corporation—a leading provider of Autodesk® Green Building Studio® energy analysis line valuation of infrastructure projects, watch it in engineering, construction, and technical services—uses software and Simulation CFD in a Revit-based design action, and hear what customers have to say. Autodesk’s rapid energy modeling solution to offer process—accessing cloud-based services to conduct sustainability services to their clients. analysis quickly. Learn more. Visit our Sustainability Solutions website for more information about our solutions for the building, infrastructure, and manufacturing industries, plus links to case studies, demos, and customer testimonials. 10 • The Digital STEAM Workshop invites high school students to download Autodesk software at no Autodesk as a living lab charge and then create and share their designs. It We often use our Sustainability Solutions in our includes design-based projects with extensive content, own operations. This helps us test and refine the lesson plans, data sets, and videos that guide users functionality of our solutions, improve our own through the development of designs that demonstrate environmental performance, and showcase how their mastery of core topics in STEAM and designcustomers can use our solutions to meet their based disciplines. own sustainability objectives. Partners and sponsorship We support the passions of students and professionals outside the classroom as well by creating and sponsoring sustainable design competitions, such as the Cradle to Cradle Product Design Challenge. This competition challenges participants to “eliminate the concept of ‘waste’ by designing products with Learning and training • Autodesk’s Building Performance Analysis Certificate materials that may be perpetually cycled to retain their (BPAC) Program is the first of its kind. This free, online value.” The initiative is a partnership between Autodesk Sustainable design and engineering are becoming course teaches building science fundamentals and and the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. increasingly important to the architecture and product Autodesk building performance analysis tools. Since development fields. At the same time, significant Autodesk also works closely with industry-leading the course launched in 2013, more than 12,000 people education and skill gaps exist in this area. For students to organizations such as the American Institute of have registered, 75,000 course hours have been meet the growing demand in their fields, they must be Architecture Students, the U.S. Green Building Council, completed, and about 275 educators worldwide are better prepared. In addition, there is a movement of and Architecture 2030. Through these relationships, using it to supplement coursework. makers and artists who increasingly use design software we fuel creativity and help students and professionals to shape their creations and make them more • In 2014, we launched individual course offerings for understand how to integrate sustainable design sustainable. Autodesk offers educational tools and professionals seeking continuing education credits strategies into their work (both now and in the future). resources to help makers, students, educators, and and students and educators who are looking for professionals understand sustainable design and its more flexibility in their course selections. Thirteen application across many industries. individual courses are available in high-performance building design, simulation CFD for building design Online learning and architecture, engineering, and construction We offer free, flexible, self-paced online learning (AEC) applications. opportunities to teach sustainable design concepts to • The online Autodesk® BIM Curriculum for AEC was those already practicing or considering a career in created to prepare learners for professional practice in architecture, engineering, design, and other related fields. AEC management. The Autodesk BIM Curriculum site, • Autodesk Sustainability Workshop is a free online which has received more than 1.4 million views, has knowledge base that teaches the principles and extensive learning materials, videos, exercises, practice of sustainability in engineering, architecture, assessments, and more to teach BIM and sustainable and design. Short, engaging videos and articles that design practices, along with integrated project delivery teach the fundamentals of sustainable design are (IPD) concepts. paired with case studies and tutorials that illustrate • The Autodesk® Simulation Workshop helps increase how to put complex concepts into practice with students’ and practicing engineers’ fundamental Autodesk tools. Since launching in 2010, the understanding of how computer-aided engineering Sustainability Workshop has received nearly software tools work. Using Autodesk simulation and 2 million visits, and hundreds of educators and analysis tools, the workshop connects theory, numerical academic institutions worldwide have integrated methods, and application to provide students with a the materials into their classes. real-world understanding of their learning. 11 Access to technology »»Through Autodesk® Academic Resource Center (ARC), these versions is usually a percentage off the list price schools gain access to Autodesk software for their of the latest release. We also have a policy of adjusting We provide software solutions to people around the classrooms and labs at no charge. our list pricing in a number of countries to account for world—from design and engineering professionals and lower purchasing power in those locations relative to students to clean technology innovators and nonprofit The value of the software we donated through these programs was in the billions of dollars for more mature markets. organizations. By increasing access to our technology, we expand the number of people who can use our fiscal year 2015. • Employees: Since late 2012, Autodesk has granted solutions to create a better world. • Educational organizations: We provide access to its employees access to most Autodesk products at Autodesk technology to education-focused no charge. Discounted and no-fee software organizations, such as The Chronicle of Higher Information sharing We offer discounted and no-fee versions of Autodesk Education, President Obama’s ConnectED Initiative, software to a variety of individuals and organizations, We also facilitate knowledge sharing and expand access Discovery Education, EDUCAUSE, FIRST® Robotics, F1 to information. Here are a few examples: including the following:1 in Schools™, ISTE, Intel® Computer Clubhouse, NESTA, • Nonprofit and community organizations: In fiscal NMC, PACE, Project Lead the Way, SkillsUSA, U.S. • Instructables is an online community where creative year 2015, we donated software worth US$6.8 million Department of Energy Solar Decathlon, VEX® Robotics, people share innovative projects and ideas, including through the Autodesk Technology Impact Program, and WorldSkills. projects related to sustainability issues such as solar which supports nonprofit organizations using design energy, greywater, and upcycling. Instructables also • Consumers: We make our technology accessible to runs a variety of sustainability-focused contests such to solve epic challenges. Learn more about the program everyone from artists and makers to gamers and home later in this section. as green design and e-waste reduction challenges. enthusiasts. More than 225 million individuals have • Clean technology entrepreneurs: Through our accessed the consumer products and communities we • The Autodesk® Knowledge Network is an online hub Cleantech Partner Program, we support those who offer at low cost or no charge. for user support, learning, and community resources are designing clean technology solutions to solve that makes it easier for users to access and exchange • Customers in emerging economies: At the time of information relating to the use of Autodesk solutions. environmental challenges. Learn more about the publishing this report, Autodesk also makes older program later in this section. versions of Autodesk® AutoCAD® and Autodesk® • Autodesk Sustainability Workshop is an online resource • Early adopters: Autodesk® Labs offers the public AutoCAD LT® software available for purchase in some that teaches the principles and practice of sustainability early access to prototypes, technology previews, and countries with emerging economies. The list price of in engineering, architecture, and design with no fee. experimental web services at no charge. People can Learn more on page 11. access this professional-grade software in preview mode, trying out new features and workflows while providing constructive feedback to Autodesk. • Students: Autodesk Education has provided access to Autodesk software to more than 200 million students, educators, and institutions with no fee. In 2014, we completed our multiyear education business model transformation by providing access to our desktop software to any student, teacher, or school in the world at no charge. »»Through the Autodesk Education Community, students and educators can access more than 65 titles of Autodesk professional-grade software at no charge. Since the Community’s inception in 2006, more than 12 million students and educators have registered, including nearly 3 million in 2014. 1. Products are subject to the terms and conditions of the end-user license and services agreement that accompanies the software. Software for students and educational organizations are for educational purposes only and are not intended for commercial use. 12 Partnering for clean technology Cleaner Production Association to accelerate clean Action, and the ShadowView Foundation, helping The Autodesk Cleantech Partner Program supports technology development in that country them pursue breakthrough ideas in the areas of entrepreneurs who are designing clean technology • Europe: We collaborate with Cleantech Scandinavia education, access to clean water, humanitarian solutions to solve environmental challenges. We provide through the Nordic Cleantech Open competition protection, and environmental conservation. Through participants with up to US$150,000 worth of software at this program, we also provide Autodesk Foundation • North America: We work closely with incubators no charge, which they can use to design, visualize, and grantees with our technology. such as MaRS Discovery District, Greentown Labs, simulate their groundbreaking ideas through the creation of digital models and prototypes.1 Through this program, and Los Angeles Cleantech Incubator to accelerate cleantech startups Accessibility we have supported thousands of companies across 30 Autodesk recognizes the importance of Section 508 • Worldwide: We partner with Cleantech® Group countries, including China, where we launched the program of the Rehabilitation Act, which requires that U.S. to provide exposure for cleantech innovators and help in fiscal year 2015. The launch in China attracted the federal agencies’ electronic and information them engage with investors and sustainability interest of more than 35 media outlets and aligns well with thought leaders technology be accessible to people with motor, the Chinese Central Government’s push for a greener China. vision, or other impairments. See links to Voluntary Technology Impact Program Product Accessibility Templates (VPATs) for all major We also work with leading cleantech incubators, Established in 2013, the Autodesk Technology Impact Autodesk products. These detail the accessibility governments, and others to identify entrepreneurs who Program provides software donations to nonprofit features of Autodesk products and help government can benefit from the use of Autodesk tools and to organizations and individuals that are using design to customers determine their own compliance. advocate for and promote the industry. help solve social and environmental challenges and • Australia: We partner with the Australian Department create a better world. Qualifying applicants can receive of Industry and are the principal sponsor of the initial grants of two professional Autodesk software Australian Technologies Competition suites—valued at up to US$15,000—for US$99 per license. In fiscal year 2015, 375 organizations • China: We signed a memorandum of understanding participated. Through this program, we support with the China Industrial Energy Conservation and nonprofits such as The Citizens Foundation, Evidence 1. Value is based on up to five commercial licenses of each application unless otherwise noted. Autodesk® 360 services for up to five single user authorizations for one year. 13 Environment GHG emissions by activity (Thousand metric tons CO2e) 100 Data centers As we empower our customers to create a more 80 sustainable world, we also hold ourselves to high 60 standards. We implement best practices—with a focus on reducing energy use and GHG 40 emissions, since those represent the most 20 significant environmental impacts from our operations. This demonstrates our commitment 0 through the global Caring for Climate initiative FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 to reduce our own carbon footprint while helping Hover over items in the legend to see related values. our customers improve their environmental performance. We also strive to use water, materials, and other resources efficiently, in chain and emissions for cloud services providers • View Autodesk’s CDP submissions for our own facilities and across our value chain. are combined with other data center emissions. additional information about our approach Carbon footprint We calculate our inventory using primary and and calculation methodologies, as well as our assessment of climate-related risks and Autodesk increased revenue by 11 percent in secondary data whenever possible. For these new emission areas, we applied Carnegie Mellon opportunities for our company. fiscal year 2015 compared with fiscal year 2014, while increasing absolute GHG emissions by University’s economic input-output model, using 2002 data to calculate emissions. While we Reduction target for 12 percent during that same period, to 67,700 consider this approach to be rigorous, it GHG emissions metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). Our footprint is 27 percent smaller in absolute introduces uncertainty to these categories due to Autodesk’s Corporate-Finance Approach to terms than in 2009, our baseline year. During the age of the data and because it is not specific to Climate-Stabilizing Targets (C-FACT) methodology fiscal year 2015, Autodesk’s CO2e emissions Autodesk. In the coming years, we plan to calls for companies to reduce GHG emissions in decreased by 6 percent per employee and supplement this approach with primary and line with global scientific and policy climate increased 1 percent per dollar of revenue, secondary data from our suppliers through stabilization targets, and in proportion to their compared with the prior year. See the chart participation in CDP Supply Chain. relative contribution to the economy. This above and our performance summary on page As in fiscal year 2014, Bureau Veritas will verify approach is compatible with the Mind the 27 for detail. The following pages also offer Autodesk’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions Science, Mind the Gap initiative, which is more information about the progress we have inventory for fiscal year 2015. They will also focused on standardizing science-based targets made to reduce our emissions. provide methodological assurance for the and is sponsored by the World Resources complete inventory. Institute, CDP, WWF, and the Global Reporting Initiative. In early 2014, we introduced a 27% Reduction in Autodesk carbon footprint since our baseline year Additional information about GHG emissions related to our operations and products can be found in the following places: modified version of C-FACT for cities. We are committed to following this approach (fiscal year 2009) through 2020. This year, we met our 27 percent • See page 27 for data related to energy and GHG absolute reduction target, established using our emissions by Scope 1, 2, and 3, and GHG emissions C-FACT methodology, compared with our Autodesk follows the Greenhouse Gas Protocol normalized per Autodesk’s relative contribution to restated fiscal year 2009 baseline. Our fiscal year Corporate Standard for carbon measurement and world GDP, per US$ revenue, per employee, and 2016 target is a 32 percent absolute reduction, reporting. This year, we added Scope 3 emissions per active square foot of real estate. also compared with fiscal year 2009. Learn more for capital goods and our cloud services providers • See page 9 for information about how we help about C-FACT. to the inventory and restated our historical our customers and their customers decrease emissions for those categories. Newly reported GHG emissions through the use of our products. emissions for capital goods are included in supply 14 Employee travel and meetings • Decreased the environmental impact of our conservation, waste management, green procurement, meetings: Through our strategic meetings and indoor air quality management, and then create Autodesk is a global company, so employee travel is management program, we train meeting planners customized sustainability improvement plans. This year, vital to our business. In fiscal year 2015, nonconference about best practices and core sustainability concerns, we increased the proportion of assessed facilities to 81 business travel resulted in 24,800 metric tons of CO2e incorporate sustainability questions into the Autodesk percent of our total square footage. The scores of those emissions, 37 percent of the total Autodesk carbon green rating system for hotels, and include sustainability facilities continue to be 10 percent higher than the footprint, and 21 percent more than the prior year.1 See expectations in standard meeting contract language. industry average.3 Sites representing 60 percent of our page 27 for detailed energy and GHG emissions data. The program (which includes, but is not limited to, total space, up from 24 percent last year, have fully In fiscal year 2015, Autodesk: sustainability issues) saved Autodesk more than implemented the recommendations they received. In US$1 million in fiscal year 2015. our Montreal office, one of the top projects identified • Avoided travel through use of virtual collaboration through this process is forecasted to save more than tools: Employees used our high-definition TelePresence Progress in US$48,000 and 162 metric tons of CO2e emissions in systems for a total of over 15,000 call hours2 during the Targets FY2015 the first year post-implementation. year. This was an increase of about 8 percent compared with the previous year. The number of desktop audio • Increased LEED certifications: and video sharing sessions increased by 32 percent. Select high-fuel-efficiency Achieved In fiscal year 2015, we were awarded five additional vehicles for at least 85 percent of 25 percent LEED certifications. This increased our total LEED • Selected efficient cars: Our use of hybrid and other hired cars by fiscal year 2019 certifications to 19 (12 Platinum, four Gold, and three fuel-efficient rental cars increased 8 percent this year. Reduce overall GHG emissions Achieved Certified), which represents 32 percent of our total Twenty-five percent of all rentals were hybrids and 82 from rental cars by 30 percent by 12 percent square footage.4 See a list of certifications in percent of all rentals were rated for more than 28 miles fiscal year 2019 (baseline fiscal year footnote 3 on page 29. per gallon. 2013) • Increased renewable energy use: Use of renewable energy in our real estate portfolio Facilities represented 40 percent of our global electricity consumption, up from 33 percent the prior year. In fiscal year 2015, energy use in our facilities resulted This includes onsite generation at our Pier 9 facility in 7,120 metric tons of CO2e emissions, 11 percent of in San Francisco, California, and at our offices in the total Autodesk carbon footprint, and 25 percent Manchester, New Hampshire. less than the prior year. See page 27 for detailed energy and GHG emissions data, including purchases of carbon-neutral energy and renewable energy Targets Progress in FY2015 certificates and offsets. We use a variety of approaches to reduce GHG Implement customized Implemented emissions and associated costs related to our facilities, sustainability improvement plans plans in sites including the use of our own products. In addition to for all benchmarked Autodesk representing enhancing our performance, this can serve as a sites by fiscal year 2017 60 percent of showcase for customers and potential customers. For total square footage example, in fiscal year 2015, Autodesk® Building Design Suite was used to design our new Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED®)–certified San Direct emissions of NOx, SOx, and volatile organic compounds Francisco Spear Tower office space. (VOCs) from our facilities are too insignificant to report. In fiscal year 2015, Autodesk: • Continued to expand our sustainable facility strategy: We assess our facilities’ environmental operating practices in areas such as energy and water 1. Autodesk reports emissions from event-related travel separately from regular business travel in the GHG emissions by activity graph (previous page), although these activities are combined in the business travel line on page 27. 2. This value consists of actual data plus estimated usage for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015. The need for estimation is a result of a vendor and team transition. 3. Compared with the average score in the leased building industry of other building portfolios that use this rating system. 15 4. As of January 1, 2015. Major events further understand and mitigate the GHG emissions In fiscal year 2015, Autodesk: related to delivering these capabilities to our customers. • Increased customer use of electronic downloads: In fiscal year 2015, our two biggest events—Autodesk University and One Team Conference—together resulted • Invested in server virtualization: Server virtualization In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015, the number in 11,300 metric tons of CO2e emissions, 17 percent of optimizes the use of equipment and decreases the of Autodesk software downloads exceeded the number the total Autodesk carbon footprint and 63 percent need to run and cool physical servers. Autodesk has of boxes we shipped for the first time. During the year, more than the prior year. This increase is due to a virtualized more than 90 percent of its servers, electronic downloads replaced shipments of more than refinement in calculation methodology as well as an including those that support its internal operations as 624,000 boxes, reducing the associated GHG emissions increase in conference attendance. well as its customers. by more than 760 metric tons CO2e. In fiscal year 2015, Autodesk: • Used rating systems to improve efficiency: In coming years, we intend to report on our efforts to We continued to use ENERGY STAR to select mitigate GHG emissions from a broader set of suppliers. • Made exhibit halls more sustainable: We focused hardware for our data centers and the Electronic on making the exhibit hall at Autodesk University as See page 20 to learn about our Partner Code of Conduct Products Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) to and our green procurement guidelines. sustainable as possible. Based on partnership with our select desktop hardware. We are also expanding our suppliers, exhibitors, and the venue, the event sent 65 presence in LEED–certified and U.S. EPA ENERGY percent less waste to landfill compared with fiscal year STAR–certified data centers. For new data centers in 2014. We accomplished this through reducing food Europe, we are committed to expanding best practices waste, reusing and donating carpet and booth for hardware and site selection and selecting vendors materials, and by gaining commitments from exhibitors that are ISO 50001 Energy Management standard– to reduce giveaways and printed materials. We also and ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems implemented many of these waste reduction practices standard–certified. at our One Team Conference. Our documented sustainability best practices for event planning help our staff evaluate alternatives and reduce environmental Targets Progress in impacts. FY2015 • Reused and recycled graphics: The number of Source 100-percent renewable New goal exhibitors that committed to reuse and recycle graphics energy in new data centers in elements increased by 25 percent over fiscal year 2014. Europe by the end of fiscal year 2017 In the coming year, we will partner with our vendors to further reduce waste and GHG emissions from events. Implement virtualization and load New goal shifting to save energy in at least Data centers and IT operations 40 percent of our customer-facing Data center energy use has the largest environmental data centers by the end of fiscal impact of Autodesk IT operations. During fiscal year year 2016 2015, it resulted in 4,860 metric tons of CO2e emissions, about 7 percent of Autodesk’s carbon footprint and 6 percent more than the prior year. IT-related emissions Supply chain from Autodesk facilities are reflected in the Facilities In the past, we have focused our supply chain GHG section on the previous page. emissions reporting on manufacturing, assembling, and delivering physical software media; and on In fiscal year 2015, Autodesk: packaging and powering electronic software • Analyzed the impact of our supplier-hosted downloads. This year, we have expanded coverage cloud services: Some of Autodesk’s cloud services and updated historical data to include the category of are managed in third-party data centers. We used an Capital Goods. During fiscal year 2015, supply chain input-output analysis to estimate that the emissions activities resulted in 7,600 metric tons of CO2e from these services in fiscal year 2015 equaled 3,110 emissions, about 11 percent of Autodesk’s carbon metric tons of CO2e. We have started to explore footprint and 9 percent more than the prior year. collaborations with our cloud service providers to 16 Waste in operations of these processes. All Autodesk locations are covered Autodesk environmental management structure by the company’s environmental management system. Autodesk collects and reports waste data for our CEO Staff headquarters campus in San Rafael, California, as well Our Environmental Core Team (see graphic), which as select other sites. See data on page 28. includes senior leaders from across the business, institutes Environmental Core Team Corporate sustainability best practices throughout our operations. Sustainability To divert waste from landfill, in many of our offices we offer Together with the Corporate Sustainability Team, these Travel Facilities Events IT Supply Team compostable utensils and cups and arrange for compost executives are responsible for: understanding the Project Project Project Project Chain collection in facilities where such municipal services are Team Team Team Team Project environmental impacts of our business; establishing Team available. At our Waltham, Massachusetts, facility, we priorities, goals, and plans for reducing those impacts; collaborate with our landlord to send 100 percent of and promoting and reporting efforts across the company. nonrecyclable waste to a waste-to-energy facility. Project teams in turn support these responsibilities and execute our strategy in the company’s largest Environmental compliance We also estimate the GHG emissions impact of waste from Autodesk events and the end-of-life phase of Autodesk environmental impact areas. These groups are co-led by Autodesk meets or exceeds all applicable environmental products. In fiscal year 2015, these represented 631 metric the Corporate Sustainability Team and an Autodesk laws and regulations related to our business operations. tons of CO2e emissions, about 1 percent of Autodesk’s carbon employee from each activity area. In fiscal year 2015, we were not cited or fined for footprint, which is significantly more than the prior year due noncompliance of any environmental laws or regulations. to a new calculation methodology. In fiscal year 2015, Autodesk: • Expanded waste management and materialsefficiency efforts: We continued to improve materials reduction, green printing practices, and waste diversion practices through recycling, composting, and waste-toenergy, where available. • Diverted waste at conferences: At Autodesk University, we sent 65 percent less waste to landfill in fiscal year 2015 compared with fiscal year 2014. • Decreased product-related waste: See information about reducing packaging and increasing customer use of electronic downloads on page 16. Water use in operations Water is not a material issue for our operations. However, we recognize that water scarcity is an increasing risk globally. We take steps to reduce water use in many of our offices through efficient fixtures and toilets, right-sized cooling equipment, and conservation. Corporate environmental management Autodesk’s Environmental Policy outlines our high-level sustainability commitments. We have a management structure for obtaining environmental data, making investment decisions, implementing measures to reduce our impact, and reporting performance. We continue to improve the reliability, comprehensiveness, and automation 17 Ethics and compliance At Autodesk, we’re driven to conduct our and responsible business practices, including Reporting concerns business with the highest degree of honesty, environmental protection, human rights, Our COBC includes instructions for reporting integrity, and ethical behavior. We promote and philanthropy. possible violations of Autodesk policies or human rights wherever we do business, and take All Autodesk employees worldwide are required practices. The company’s Business Ethics and steps to safeguard the privacy and data security to complete COBC training annually and to certify Compliance Hotline enables employees and third of our customers and employees. that they have reviewed, understand, and agree parties to report suspected violations for investigation and resolution. The COBC prohibits Corporate governance to follow the COBC. In fiscal year 2015, 100 percent of Autodesk active employees completed reprisal or retaliation of any sort against anyone As of April 2015, the Autodesk board of directors the training. Our subsidiaries and contractors, who makes a report in good faith. has 10 directors, including Autodesk CEO Carl suppliers, and service providers are also required The Hotline, run by an independent company, is Bass. All current directors, other than Bass, are to abide by our COBC. available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The independent, according to the criteria for In addition, Autodesk’s Code of Ethics for toll-free numbers, included in our COBC, are independence established by the NASDAQ Rules. Senior Executive and Financial Officers covers available to Autodesk employees and third parties This includes our chairman, Crawford W. issues such as conflicts of interest, filings with worldwide. All calls to the Hotline may be made Beveridge. Also, all members of board the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, anonymously except where prohibited by law. In committees are independent. Three of our and disclosures to the public, as well as addition to the Hotline, a web-based reporting tool directors are women. compliance with all applicable laws and is also available in multiple languages. Autodesk Additional information about the Autodesk regulations. It is signed by all executives who investigates all reports made in good faith. board of directors, including standing committees, report directly to the CEO, and by certain committee composition, committee charters, members of our finance organization. director biographies, and the company’s Governance Guidelines is available on our Anticorruption Investors website. That website also includes We are committed to complying with all information about stock trades by members of applicable anticorruption laws and regulations, our board of directors and by Autodesk executive such as those requiring accurate bookkeeping officers. The Proxy Statement within our Annual and documentation of records and those Report Fiscal Year 2015 provides information prohibiting offering, promising, or giving about and analysis of board of director and anything of value to a public or government executive compensation. official. This includes the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act, and Business ethics any similar local regulations in the areas where We are committed to maintaining ethical we operate. We expect our partners to abide by business practices at Autodesk. Our Code of these same standards while conducting business Business Conduct (COBC), adopted in 1997 and with or on behalf of Autodesk. most recently amended in 2015, conveys our To ensure understanding of our expectations, we values and expectations. The COBC details our provide in-person trainings on compliance issues, policies and procedures, and outlines the ethical including anticorruption, for various employees considerations that guide our daily work. It and partners around the world. We also plan to covers areas such as equal opportunity, launch an online anticorruption training module confidentiality, political contributions, to a broader base of employees later in 2015. anticorruption, free and fair competition, 18 Human rights Privacy Data security Our Privacy Statement explains how we handle personal To help provide security for customer information in the Autodesk promotes and protects human rights wherever information, as well as how customers and website cloud, Autodesk maintains teams focused on data center it does business. The Autodesk Human Rights Policy visitors can access and update their personal information location, business operations, facility characteristics, describes our commitments in this area, as well as how and choices. It also explains how we protect personal software controls, and risk mitigation. We have an we promote human rights among our employees, information when interacting with third parties, such as incident response team and escalation procedure in place suppliers, business partners, and customers. Several service providers or channel partners. All of our to manage and handle suspected data security incidents. issues with relevance to human rights, such as employees, contractors, and subsidiaries are required to Customers can find out more about the security of our anticorruption, privacy (see below), nondiscrimination, abide by our Privacy Statement. They also must adhere to cloud services at the Autodesk Trust Center. employee health and safety, and access to technology, more detailed internal policies regarding Autodesk’s Our global, interactive security awareness program are covered in this report. overall data protection requirements and Privacy includes live training events, web-based training, and We expect our suppliers and other business partners to Principles (see box). hands-on technical activities to demonstrate how comply with all applicable laws and regulations, Autodesk uses a “Privacy by Design” approach in the Autodesk employees should respond in the event of a including those related to human rights. Our resellers design of our software and online services, including data security incident. To further guide our employees, and distributors are also obligated to comply with our cloud-based offerings. We follow the company’s Privacy we documented an enterprisewide information security Partner Code of Conduct (see page 20 for more details). Principles and perform privacy impact assessments policy and related standards in 2014, which we are Consistent with our culture of ethical behavior, integrity, related to situations where personal or behavioral adopting throughout the company. This policy is in line and respect, we will continue to work with our suppliers information is collected or used. Data collection or usage with our Security by Design and Privacy by Design and refine our own requirements and processes to must include an appropriate level of transparency, as well policies, as well as our Data Protection Policy. reinforce our commitment to human rights. as a mechanism to track end-user consent and enable Autodesk maintains a cross-functional Information Privacy and data security end users to manage their choices, such as modifying or Security Steering Committee composed of senior withdrawing consent. executives and an Information Security Working Group, Autodesk and its subsidiaries worldwide respect the rights of our customers, partners, and employees and We provide companywide privacy training for all consisting of stakeholders from each business unit. This take our responsibilities with regard to privacy and data employees and contingent workers, as well as roleand working group promotes engagement across the security seriously. We protect information in a manner issue-specific trainings in targeted areas. company on information security issues. that addresses both legal compliance and strategic business concerns by reviewing and assessing our Autodesk Privacy Principles practices related to confidentiality, privacy, and security. Autodesk is proud to be self-certified to the U.S.–EU • Be transparent about our actions and intent and U.S.–Swiss Safe Harbor Frameworks, for both customer and human resources data. The Safe Harbor • Present individuals with clear and actionable certification program provides a streamlined mechanism choices for U.S.–headquartered companies to comply with • Practice purposeful collection, use, and certain EU and Swiss data protection requirements retention of data regarding the collection, use, and retention of personal information. Certification demonstrates that Autodesk • Use data for the purposes for which it adheres to the Safe Harbor Privacy Principles of notice, was collected choice, onward transfer, security, data integrity, access, • Only share data with Third Parties in limited and and enforcement, and that we provide an adequate approved ways level of privacy protection as defined by the EU Privacy • Be accountable for enforcement of these Directive. To maintain a current Safe Harbor Privacy Principles certification, a company must certify each year that it complies with Safe Harbor Privacy Principles. This certification demonstrates that Autodesk respects privacy and values the confidence and trust placed in us by our employees, customers, and partners. It serves as an essential foundation for our future business success—especially for our cloud-based offerings. 19 Suppliers and business partners We use our purchasing power and influence Conflict minerals management system that is ISO 14001– to promote socially and environmentally certified. We review suppliers’ environmental Autodesk is committed to promoting human initiatives and consider this information responsible business practices across our value rights across our value chain, and we are chain. Our Partner Code of Conduct and green during selection, and we are working with concerned about the issue of conflict minerals. our procurement department to prioritize procurement guidelines set high standards and Although this issue does not have a major support the market for more sustainable environmental criteria alongside cost in impact on us since we are primarily a software vendor negotiations. For information about products and services. company, we do produce a few hardware the number of our suppliers with green Social and labor standards products. We are working to identify and certifications and the percentage of our eliminate conflict minerals in our supply chain, supply chain spending that represents, Autodesk’s Partner Code of Conduct outlines the and we are committed to compliance in this standards and practices that we expect our see page 28. area. View our 2014 Conflict Minerals Report resellers and distributors to follow while for details. Supplier GHG emissions conducting business with or on behalf of our company. It covers areas including anticorruption, Green purchasing analysis antitrust and competition, business courtesies Autodesk’s green procurement guidelines outline In fiscal year 2014, we conducted a survey (such as gifts), financial integrity and accounting, environmental considerations to factor into the of our 20 largest suppliers regarding their conflict of interest, export compliance, selection of vendors and products and influence GHG emissions and climate change risks and interactions with government customers, insider decisions related to travel and meeting services, opportunities. We followed that during trading, and data protection and confidentiality. events, and some marketing-related purchases, fiscal year 2015 with a GHG emissions Our Partner Code of Conduct also specifies that such as collateral development and printing. analysis of our capital goods suppliers and business partners must support internationally These guidelines include the following: cloud service providers using Carnegie recognized human rights and comply with all Mellon University’s economic input-output • Gather and assess supplier environmental model with 2002 data. We look forward to applicable laws and regulations regarding health performance data to inform choices and select and safety in the workplace, the eradication of expanding this analysis to understand the options with lower environmental impact climate impact of more of our supplier human trafficking and slavery, and the elimination of child labor. Additionally, we expect our partners • Review the environmentally preferable offerings spending in the future. to support fair labor practices, including the of existing suppliers freedom to associate, and a work environment • Seek out products with third-party certification that is free from harassment and discrimination. and positive environmental attributes, including A violation of the Partner Code of Conduct products that support water conservation constitutes a breach of agreement with Autodesk and are energy-efficient, durable, recyclable, and may result in action, up to and including locally produced, and made with rapidly termination of status as an Autodesk partner. renewable resources Our internal policy guidelines, which inform In some situations—particularly for suppliers contract language, state our expectation that such as travel vendors with substantial GHG suppliers respect these rights. Many of our emissions—Autodesk includes sustainability suppliers have well-established policies and language in requests for proposal and vendor programs in this area. contracts. In some instances, we request suppliers to provide environmental information, including whether they have an environmental 20 Employees Our 8,800 employees1 worldwide make everything we do possible. Fifty-three percent of our employees are based in the Americas, 28 percent are in Asia Pacific, and 19 percent are in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa.2 Working together, our employees fuel Autodesk’s sustainability efforts around the globe and propel positive change. We believe it is fundamental to provide employees with a diverse, inclusive, and safe workplace, and to offer opportunities for ongoing professional growth. To further inform, inspire, and engage employees, we launched our Employee Impact program in fiscal year 2015. Through this initiative, we create a culture of impact and encourage employees to use their creativity, expertise, and passion to create a better world at work, at home, and in their communities. The program also helps us attract and retain the talent we need to be successful. In fact, in our 2014 employee survey, 84 percent of employees indicated that Autodesk’s sustainability efforts are important to them (see Employee feedback on page 23). Employee Impact Through their donations of time and money to Employee volunteers in Neuchatel, Switzerland building prosthetic hands. Image courtesy of Claudio Ombrella, Autodesk Impact Champion nonprofits, engagement in employee networks, and pro bono efforts, our employees are making an impact at work and in their communities. • Matches employee cash contributions to Each year, the Autodesk Foundation provides We also help employees make an impact at home nonprofit organizations dollar for dollar up to US$3,000 per employee to match their by offering sustainability-related benefits (see • Doubles the match when employees donate financial donations and volunteer hours. Employee benefits on page 22). to organizations where they serve as a During fiscal year 2015, 1,500 employees board member supported 2,000 nonprofits through gifts of time Community involvement • Provides employees with 48 hours per year and money. Employees participated in activities Autodesk matches employee contributions of mentoring youth, working with Habitat for time and money, increasing the positive impact of company time to volunteer in the nonprofit sector Humanity, making food for homeless people, and employees make when they contribute taking part in walks, runs, local cleanups, and to the causes and organizations they care about • Donates US$100 to an employee’s nonprofit other events to benefit communities worldwide. most. To support those efforts, Autodesk: of choice for every 10 hours they volunteer 1. As of January 31, 2015. 2. Employee breakdown by region does not include employees who were part of the Delcam acquisition, completed in February 2014. 21 Employee contributions of money and time (and Employee giving and volunteering Autodesk’s matching contributions) increased significantly in fiscal year 2015 compared with fiscal year Participating employees 1,500 2014. We attribute this to several factors: • Heightened communications during the launch of the Nonprofits supported 2,000 Autodesk Foundation • An increase in the company match for employee Employee financial US$929,000 donations from US$500 per year to US$3,000 per year contributions to nonprofits • The addition of a company match for volunteer hours • A fundraising campaign to respond to the Ebola crisis Employee volunteer hours 17,500 • A giving campaign in December • A new internal website that helps employees find Autodesk matching US$901,000 resources and toolkits for donation and volunteer contributions • US$819,000 to opportunities match financial donations Impact Champions and employee groups Image courtesy of REAL School Gardens • US$82,000 to match Autodesk has always had employees who want to create volunteer hours impact and work together on ambitious projects. Pro bono volunteering Beginning in fiscal year 2015, we formalized our Impact When we match skilled employees with outside Through our Disaster Response program, in fiscal year Champions program—a network of 150 employees who organizations that are making a difference, everybody 2015 employees combatted the Ebola virus outbreak by rally their co-workers around important causes by benefits. Our partners receive pro bono help with donating US$24,000 to Partners in Health, Doctors without organizing volunteer events and fundraisers. To support high-impact projects, and our employees witness Borders, and International Rescue Committee. Autodesk them, we facilitate networking and sharing of best firsthand how they can help create a better world. increased the support by donating two dollars for every practices, and we provide a series of toolkits to help them In fiscal year 2015 we piloted a pro bono volunteering dollar employees contributed up to applicable limits. In succeed. Ninety-nine percent of champions surveyed want program. Through this program, Autodesk employees total, we contributed US$68,500 to relief agencies. to continue participating in their role and 80 percent rate use their professional skills, such as technical design and the experience an 8 or above on a scale of 1–10. marketing communications, to benefit nonprofit In addition, Autodesk staff responded to a devastating mudslide in Washington state during the spring of 2014. Impact Champions led employees to participate in organizations focused on challenges ranging from health Our employees worked with Field Innovation Team, using activities such as The Great Canadian Shoreline Cleanup— and poverty to climate change and marine conservation. Autodesk software to create a 3D model of the area, which one of the largest shoreline cleanups in the world, during We match employees with Autodesk Foundation helped determine where structures might have moved and which the Toronto-based team of 13 employees collected grantees, Cleantech partners, and other companies we become buried during the slide. We also produced a 3D more than 90 kilograms of trash. In Switzerland, Impact partner with for impact design. print of the mudslide area to use as a reference point (in Champions led more than 100 employees (half of our During the pilot, employees created a digital marketing additon to flat photos and maps), which helped to reduce Neuchatel office) in raising US$4,200 to support families strategy for the product launch of a first-of-its-kind miscommunication and speed relief efforts. of children with heart disease. wheelchair scale, designed by an Autodesk Cleantech Our Impact Champions have also been instrumental in partner. We plan to expand the program in coming years. “One of the best things about working leading employee groups at Autodesk, such as womenfor Autodesk is their passion to create a in-leadership; green teams; diversity and inclusion; and Employee benefits better world, and their encouragement Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgendered, Questioning, Autodesk offers a range of benefits (which vary by and Allied (LGBTQA). Our employee-led Employee Relief location) to meet the needs of our employees, remain to all of us to do so. The employee Foundation provides grants to U.S.-based employees competitive with regional practices, and comply with match and volunteer program is an and their families suffering from traumatic or long-term local statutory requirements. Depending on the country, amazing opportunity for all staff to illnesses or injuries. It is funded by donations from benefits may include supplemental health insurance plans, Autodesk, employees, and the general public. This fund survivor and income protection plans, retirement savings make a bigger difference.” helps supplement medical costs for recipients and gives programs, and equity plans, such as the Employee Stock all employees an opportunity to support coworkers who Purchase Plan and restricted stock unit grants. —A North Ryde Impact Champion need assistance. 22 We also promote a healthy work-life balance and strive to provide the support employees need to integrate work seamlessly into their lives. To that end, we provide flexible working arrangements, parental leave, benefits for domestic partners (in some countries), and support for personal needs. Employees in some locations can take advantage of telecommuting options, adoption assistance, and programs that help offset the costs of wellness activities. We also offer a range of paid time off (PTO) programs, including sabbatical, vacation, volunteer time, and holidays. Employees can also participate in several sustainabilityrelated benefit programs, including: • Commuting benefits: Employees can purchase hybrid and electric vehicles from some manufacturers at a discount, use electric vehicle charging stations at our headquarters, pay for public transit fees pretax, and receive US$20 per month if they cycle to work be a company priority for 2015. DiversityWorking.com, which is the largest diversity job • Home solar benefits: We offer employees discounts We continue to pay attention to all areas of the survey. board. We also partner with the Society of Women worth up to US$1,500 for home solar systems through Each group is responsible for developing and managing Engineers to engage female engineering talent, and one of our customers an action plan based on feedback they receive. View collaborate with Girls Who Code, a national nonprofit • Green professional benefits: Employees can expand historical employee engagement data on page 28. organization working to close the gender gap in the their professional credentials with free memberships to technology and engineering sectors. In early 2015, we the U.S. Green Building Council and the Design Diversity and inclusion hosted a Girl Geek Dinner, during which several female Management Institute Autodesk employees had an opportunity to speak to Autodesk employees represent a wide variety of women working in technology-focused fields or pursuing Commuting and solar benefits are available to employees backgrounds and contribute many different perspectives. careers in technology. in the United States, and green professional benefits, Such diversity reflects the varied customer base we serve including courses and workshops, are available globally. and leads to new ideas and creativity, contributing to the View global gender diversity and U.S. ethnic diversity We look forward to identifying more international growth and value of the company. There is strong data on page 28. momentum at Autodesk to ensure we have the right offerings. During fiscal year 2015, nearly 900 of our 3,510 U.S. employees registered for at least one of our programs and approach to supporting diversity. Our Training and development sustainability-related benefits. employees see the value of diversity as well, taking the Training and development opportunities are fundamental initiative to establish and facilitate a number of diversityto our employees’ continued professional development Employee feedback focused employee groups that provide networking and and to Autodesk’s ongoing success. Every year, we conduct an employee survey to gather mentoring opportunities (see page 22). Career development is a shared responsibility among feedback in a range of areas related to employee Our commitment to diversity is reinforced in our Code of employees, their managers, and the company. Employees satisfaction. In 2014, 94 percent of our employees Business Conduct, which states that discrimination or must clarify and communicate their aspirations, develop worldwide completed the survey. harassment based on a person’s race, color, creed, relevant skills, and seek out opportunities. Managers, in In 2014, our overall employee engagement score was religion, national origin, citizenship, age, gender, sexual turn, help set appropriate expectations, direct employees 80 percent, compared with 76 percent in 2013. Any orientation, marital status, mental or physical disability, to useful resources and tools, and champion their staff score above 65 percent is considered strong by our or any other classification protected by law will not be for relevant opportunities. Autodesk prioritizes employee external survey partner. Engagement scores were at tolerated. This protection applies to all Autodesk growth, publicizes current and future opportunities, and record highs in all business units. In addition, the scores employees and contingent workers worldwide. We helps managers support employee development and for all major dimensions of the survey, including manager require all managers with U.S. employees to complete holds them accountable for doing so. effectiveness, communication, growth and development, harassment training every two years. Autodesk offers extensive professional and technical work-life balance, and innovation, were the highest we We ensure that our hiring practices are fair and nondevelopment opportunities to managers, individuals, and have recorded. Improving our overall score continues to discriminatory. In addition, we post all job openings on teams. We also provide teams with consulting services to 23 identify coaching needs. To inform our training, we do Health and safety users, require the use of appropriate personal protective extensive analysis throughout the business to identify equipment, and limit health and environmental impacts skills gaps. This is linked to a competency framework for We strive to provide all our employees with a healthy by selecting less-harmful chemicals. managers and employees, which defines what we expect and safe work environment. Our employees have the option to participate in our of individuals at certain levels throughout the organization. Health and wellness Workstation Safety Plus Program to address one of the We assess training using online evaluations after each We provide fitness training programs and access to leading causes of occupational injuries at Autodesk. session, as well as in our annual employee survey. In 2014, onsite gyms and showers in some locations. Employees This voluntary, online self-assessment and training 81 percent of employees responded positively to the in the United States can take advantage of a US$300 program tracks personal ergonomic risks identified by statement “I am provided with opportunities for learning financial benefit to offset the cost of health and fitness employees, and suggests alternative work habits to help and development,” up from 75 percent the prior year. activities. In addition, we invite employees to participate address those risks. More than 200 employees globally Outside the classroom, Autodesk employees can use in a wellness campaign each year. completed the program in 2014, for a total of more numerous tools to enhance their learning, such as online For our 2014 global wellness campaign, Autodesk than 1,340 since the initiative began in 2011. Based on educational and professional development materials; participated in the Global Corporate Challenge. Almost employee self-assessments, the number of participants recommended lists of books, articles, and other materials 3,000 Autodesk employees (about 40 percent of our with medium or high ergonomic risk has decreased by for specific areas of focus; audio webcasts and recordings employees at that time) from 36 countries got involved. nearly 25 percent as a result of the program. of training sessions; video podcasts of executives and The centerpiece of the 100-day challenge was a virtual Emergency preparedness, response, external experts discussing key leadership messages; and race around the world that encouraged physical activity, and recovery a global tuition reimbursement program. As part of our team building, and employee engagement. Using To help ensure we’re prepared for emergencies, each of Employee Impact program, employees can also take accelerometers to track daily steps, participants logged our locations has a site-specific response plan for events advantage of discounted memberships and courses to their steps online and viewed their team’s progress in such as fire, security threats, or power failure. A seniorfurther their sustainability knowledge and credentials (see comparison with other teams from Autodesk and other level crisis management team directs and supports local the Employee benefits section on page 22 for details). participating companies. The program also featured mini emergency response teams during incidents. Employees For fiscal year 2015, Autodesk budgeted approximately challenges and coaching throughout the year, which focused can call our Global Security Operations Center at any US$1,000 per employee for training. This includes on nutrition, sleep quality, and weight loss. Autodesk time with questions. internal as well as external education programs. The placed fifth in the Global IT/Tech Industry category. Occupational injury and illness performance per-employee budget is a guideline rather than a cap. Employee safety Managers decide how to best use training funds based In 2014, we began tracking occupational injuries and Our Injury and Illness Prevention Program covers illnesses at Autodesk sites worldwide. Previous reports on employees’ professional development needs and management commitment and assignment of aspirations as well as the needs of their team as a whole. included data related to injuries and illnesses occurring responsibilities, safety awareness, anonymous hazard within the United States only. In 2014, 10 recordable As a part of the development process, all Autodesk notification, assurance of employee compliance, employees receive a formal annual performance review. injuries occurred involving Autodesk employees or our inspection and evaluation, accident investigations, and temporary contingent workers, equaling a recordable This includes feedback from managers and coworkers correction of unsafe or unhealthy conditions. Beginning and focuses on assessment and feedback against injury rate of 0.09.1 The main causes of injuries in 2014, each Autodesk site in North America with more (representing 90 percent of the total) were slips and falls, individual goal achievement as well as demonstrated than 50 employees (or fewer where required by law) has competency and proficiency. repetitive stress or ergonomics, and cuts. Although our a quarterly safety committee meeting and safety recordable injury rate is less than half of the average rate inspection. This gives employees an opportunity to Freedom of association identify and implement safety improvements for their of 0.2 for the software publishers industry in the United States,2 we are still working hard to improve safety and None of our employees in the United States are location. We are working to roll out this program to our reduce injuries in our workplaces. represented by a labor union. Employees in several international sites in 2015. European countries, equaling about 3 percent of our During the year, Autodesk had 0 injuries resulting in In addition, we have a program in place for our restricted work days or lost time and 0 fatalities. See total workforce, are represented by work councils or workshops (such as our fabrication facility at Pier 9 on the page 29 for historical data. collective bargaining agreements. We have never San Francisco Bay) to incorporate safety into the design of experienced any work stoppages because of labor the machine areas, provide comprehensive training for all issues and believe our employee relations are good. 1. Rates refer to number of injuries per 100 employees working a full year. For consistency, we use U.S. Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) definitions to record injury data worldwide. 2. Based on U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 2013 injury and illness data for NAICS code 5112 “Software publishers.” National data from 2014 is not yet available for comparison. 24 Impact philanthropy In addition to supporting nonprofit designers, During fiscal year 2015, the Autodesk we are also helping to grow the impact design Foundation and Autodesk, Inc. together community. We do this primarily through the provided US$2,580,000 in cash contributions, Impact Design Hub, an online resource for US$901,000 in employee match donations, anyone committed to designing a better world. and US$6,800,000 in product donations. The Autodesk Foundation also supports For historical data, see page 29. employees worldwide by matching their charitable donations of time and money to the causes and organizations they care about most. In fiscal year 2015, we also matched employee donations for disaster response. For more details, see page 21. In addition to the above, Autodesk, Inc., business units provide direct funding for design and engineering programs and projects in their respective industries. Image courtesy of D-Rev/Jacqueline del Castillo In March 2014, we launched the Autodesk Foundation, which invests in those using design to create a better world. The Foundation is the first of its kind to focus exclusively on design for social and environmental impact—what we refer to as “impact design.” The Foundation supports people and organizations tackling global challenges, such as climate change, access to clean water, and inadequate healthcare. We provide designfocused nonprofits with direct support, including funding, software (through Autodesk, Inc.), and training. By aligning our philanthropic efforts more closely with our core business and expertise in design, we further amplify our positive impacts in the world. Impact design is a growing focus for many organizations as they recognize the central role that design can have in addressing social and environmental challenges. Our long-term goal is for impact design to become the industry standard worldwide. Image courtesy of KickStart International 25 Impact design in action Boosting income in rural Myanmar Much of rural Myanmar’s population is composed of small-plot farmers living in extreme poverty, without electricity or modern technology. Proximity Designs works with these farmers to develop accessible, affordable products and services that decrease labor intensity and reduce environmental impacts while increasing average crop yields and related income. Proximity Designs takes a user-centered design approach, soliciting customer input to ensure that products are relevant, useful, and appropriate for their daily use. It employs an iterative design process of rapid prototyping to create new products as quickly as possible. The organization’s design, manufacturing, and distribution network now reaches about 80 percent of Myanmar’s rural population. Its products and services include irrigation equipment, crop advisory services, solar lighting for off-grid households, and rural financial services. In late 2014, we began providing funding, software, and technical training to support the nonprofit. In one decade, Proximity Designs has helped 2.5 million people generate approximately US$54 million in additional income. In the next two years, Proximity Designs intends to expand services to 4,000 additional villages and help its customers generate US$122 million in additional income. Image courtesy of Proximity Designs Build Change improves D-Rev designs, develops, and Design that Matters (DtM) is a construction practices and distributes products to improve nonprofit that uses design to saves lives in emerging the health and income of people solve problems for and with the countries by designing living on less than US$4 a day. poor in developing countries. disaster-resistant houses and From a durable, affordable DtM designs new projects and schools and then training local prosthetic knee for amputees to services and finds the best homeowners, engineers, high-powered, low-maintenance channels to deliver those builders, and government phototherapy lamps to help treat solutions by working with social officials to build them. babies with jaundice, D-Rev’s enterprises, project partners, Image courtesy of Build Change Image courtesy of D-Rev projects are designed to scale for Image courtesy of Design technology students, and maximum global impact. that Matters professional volunteers in 20 countries. 26 Performance summary1 Key metrics FY2015 Economy FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Revenue [million US$] $1,952 $2,216 $2,312 $2,274 $2,512 $593 $637 $618 $665 GAAP gross profit [million US$] $1,755 $1,987 $2,074 $2,000 $2,170 $514 $549 $532 $575 GAAP net income [million US$] $212 $285 $248 $229 $82 $28 $31 $11 $12 GAAP diluted earnings per share [US$] $0.90 $1.22 $1.07 $1.00 $0.35 $0.12 $0.13 $0.05 $0.05 Relative contribution to world GDP [million US$ contribution/trillion US$ world GDP] 27.8 28.4 29.1 27.0 28.1 26.6 28.4 27.5 29.8 Environment Climate change2 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions [metric tons CO2e] 65,400 67,800 62,600 60,400 5376,700 18,200 15,900 18,400 24,100 C-FACT carbon intensity ratio [metric tons CO2e/relative contribution to world GDP] 2.35 2.39 2.37 2.50 1.96 2.73 0.685 0.559 0.669 0.811 GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/million US$ revenue] 33.5 27.8 24.4 23.4 27.0 27.0 21.4 26.2 33.0 GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/employee] 9.19 8.21 7.95 7.17 7.67 1.81 1.55 1.83 2.48 GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/1,000 active square feet] 36.8 35.7 32.9 31.2 39.1 9.45 8.03 9.27 12.2 Scope 1: Direct emissions from owned/controlled operations [metric tons CO2e] 4,320 3,140 2,160 2,480 2,280 640 470 500 680 Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the use of purchased electricity, steam, heating, 5,780 3,710 3,390 1,970 1,680 363 426 499 387 and cooling [metric tons CO2e] Scope 3: Upstream 54,700 60,300 59,300 58,700 63,400 14,900 12,700 15,100 20,800 Purchased goods and services [metric tons CO2e] 8,930 2,230 4,260 5,270 7,450 1,460 1,280 1,160 3,550 Capital goods [metric tons CO2e] 2,440 5,440 4,870 5,540 6,520 1,540 1,650 1,600 1,730 Fueland energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 995 824 1,000 929 871 206 229 226 209 [metric tons CO2e] Transportation and distribution [metric tons CO2e] 768 778 141 130 110 32.2 34.7 23.3 19.4 Waste generated in operations [metric tons CO2e] 872 895 56.2 47.7 631 154 155 159 163 Business travel [metric tons CO2e] 26,500 29,600 25,700 27,500 33,400 8,260 5,550 8,150 11,500 Employee commuting [metric tons CO2e] 10,400 11,500 12,700 9,380 10,400 2,360 2,590 2,730 2,750 Leased assets [metric tons CO2e] 10,800 8,920 7,660 6,740 4,010 882 1,180 1,050 900 Scope 3: Downstream 642 675 542 393 308 94.0 99.0 63.3 51.6 Transportation and distribution [metric tons CO2e] 577 606 488 354 277 84.6 89.2 57.0 46.4 End-of-life treatment of sold products [metric tons CO2e] 65.0 69.0 54.6 39.3 30.6 9.34 9.84 6.29 5.13 Energy use [MWh] 45,400 35,800 46,600 42,000 37,800 9,570 9,270 9,210 9,740 Direct energy use [MWh] 7,620 2,710 3,170 3,220 3,230 1,220 290 300 1,400 Indirect energy use [MWh] 37,800 33,100 43,500 38,100 34,600 8,340 8,980 8,900 8,330 Electricity purchased by Autodesk [MWh] 16,600 15,300 23,100 22,100 20,800 5,020 5,280 5,420 5,030 Electricity purchased by landlord [MWh] 21,200 16,900 17,200 17,100 13,800 3,320 3,700 3,480 3,300 38,100 22,100 17,100 27 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Renewable energy [MWh] 4,890 6,140 11,900 12,400 14,200 Renewable energy purchased [MWh] 1,280 2,160 7,670 7,190 7,020 Renewable energy certificates [MWh] 2,820 3,980 4,270 5,240 7,190 Renewable energy [as a percent of total indirect energy use] 12.9% 18.5% 29.6% 32.5% 39.9% Carbon offset from renewable energy [metric tons CO2e] 1,700 2,350 6,290 7,110 8,960 Carbon offsets [as a percent of total GHG emissions] 2.72% 3.81% 11.1% 13.4% 11.7% LEED certifications3 5 8 10 15 13.4%19 Buildings with LEED certification [as a percent of total active square footage] 10% 19% 23% 28% 32% 28% Waste Waste generation4 [metric tons] 271 250 281 126 12631 Recycling [metric tons] 166 162 164 33.2 35 Compost [metric tons] --31.2 38.0 18 Energy recovery [metric tons] 30.2 22.6 22.6 22.6 0 Landfill [metric tons] 74.8 65.4 63.2 32.2 88 Landfill diversion rate [percent] 72% 74% 78% 74% 38% Coverage of data [as a percent of total active square footage] 16% 16% 22% 20% 7% Suppliers Number of suppliers with green certifications5 [approximate] 400 300 300 200 200200 Percentage of supply chain spending with suppliers that have green certifications [approximate] 5% 3% 10% 9% 10% Environmental compliance Environmental violations 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental fines [US$] $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 Society Employees6 Number of employees7 6,800 7,500 7,100 7,400 8,800 Employee engagement8 [percent] 69% 73% 71% 76% 80% Global gender diversity9 [percent female] Board of directors 22% 22% 20% 20% 30% Company officers, executives, and senior management 21% 22% 19% 20% 20% Managers and supervisors 24% 26% 23% 23% 23% All employees 30% 29% 29% 29% 29% 28 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 U.S. ethnic diversity10 [percent of employees] White 75% 74% 72% 73% 73% All nonwhite 25% 26% 28% 27% 27% Black/African American 1% 1% 1% 2% 1% Hispanic 4% 4% 4% 5% 5% Asian 18% 19% 21% 18% 19% Training budgeted per employee globally, approximate [US$] $1,000 $900 $900 $1,000 $1,000 Injury rates11 Recordable injury rate --0.09 0.31 0.09 Lost time injury rate --0.03 0.21 0.00 Fatalities --0 0 0 Financial and in-kind support Company and Foundation cash contributions12 [US$] $1,038,000 $1,955,000 $2,024,000 $1,664,000 $3,481,000 Company product donations13 [US$] $1,500,000 $1,095,000 $2,600,000 $3,200,000 $6,800,000 Employee giving [US$] $222,000 $255,000 $282,000 $307,000 $929,000 Foundation match of employee giving [US$] (also included in the “company and Foundation cash contributions” line above) $222,000 $225,000 $256,000 $223,000 $901,000 Employee volunteer hours 8,500 7,900 6,000 8,200 17,500 Public policy Company political contributions14 [US$] $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 1. In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding. Dashes represent that data for that year 9. Percentages are as of the end of the calendar year, except for the board of directors, which are as of the was not available. annual meeting date (typically a few months following the end of the calendar year). In these rows fiscal 2. Data for GHG emissions, C-FACT carbon intensity ratio, GHG emissions intensity, Scope 3: Upstream, and year 2015 corresponds to calendar year 2014, and so forth. Purchased goods and services have been restated compared to data reported in past years based on 10. Percentages are as of the end of the calendar year noted. In these rows fiscal year 2015 corresponds expanded reporting in the category Purchased goods and services and addition of the category Capital goods. to calendar year 2014, and so forth. Segments for “All nonwhite” do not add up to the subtotal due to See page 14 for more details. nonwhite employees in nonspecified categories (such as American Indian, Native Hawaiian, and others). 3. LEED certifications as of January 31, 2015, include facilities in Beijing, China (Interior Design and Construction: 11. Rates refer to number of injuries per 100 employees working a full year. Contingent workers are not Commercial Interiors [CI] Platinum), Shanghai, China (CI Gold), Mumbai, India (CI Platinum), Tel Aviv, Israel (CI included in injury rates prior to 2013. Beginning in 2014, data reflects injuries and illnesses at all sites Platinum), Milan, Italy (CI Gold), Singapore (CI Platinum), Farnborough, United Kingdom (CI Gold), and the worldwide. Previous reports included data related to injuries and illnesses occurring within the United following in the United States: San Francisco, California (CI Platinum [4]); San Rafael, California (CI Certified States only. For consistency, we use U.S. Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) definitions [2], CI Platinum [3]); Waltham, Massachusetts (CI Platinum, Building Operations and Maintenance: Existing to record injury data worldwide. This data is reported on a calendar-year basis. Fiscal year 2015 Buildings Gold); Lake Oswego, Oregon (CI Certified). corresponds to calendar year 2014, and so forth. 4. In fiscal year 2014, Autodesk updated waste measurement processes at its headquarters to improve accuracy. 12. Data from fiscal year 2011 through fiscal year 2014 reflects cash contributions from Autodesk, Inc., only. This significantly decreased reported waste volumes compared to past years. Beginning in fiscal year 2015, we report a combined cash giving figure for Autodesk, Inc., and the 5. According to data provided by Dun & Bradstreet. Autodesk Foundation. 6. The number of employees in fiscal year 2015 includes employees who were part of the Delcam acquisition, 13. Autodesk calculates its product donations at commercial value. This data does not include the value of completed in February 2014. The remaining data in the Employees section does not include Delcam employees. products granted to students and educators at no cost through the Autodesk Education Community and 7. As of the end of the fiscal year noted. Autodesk Academic Resource Center. See page 12 for more details about those programs. 8. Represents the percentage of employees who responded favorably to questions that measure different aspects 14. This data does not include occasional contributions to local ballot initiatives. of employee engagement. These data are reported on a calendar-year basis. Fiscal year 2015 corresponds to calendar year 2014, and so forth. 29 About this report Autodesk is committed to sharing information about our social and environmental performance as well as how our Codes, policies, and standards products and services advance sustainability. This information enables customers, investors, employees, nongovernmental Autodesk codes, policies, and standards related organizations, and others to assess our progress and gain to sustainability include the following: insights from our sustainable business practices that can be applied to other companies and organizations. • Code of Business Conduct We published our first sustainability report in 2008, and • Code of Ethics for Senior Executive and we have released six more since then. Performance data Financial Officers included in this document is based on the Autodesk fiscal • Environmental Policy year when noted, and the calendar year otherwise. The • Green Procurement Guidelines Autodesk 2015 fiscal year ran from February 1, 2014, through January 31, 2015. Performance data covers the • Human Rights Policy company’s global operations, unless otherwise stated. • Partner Code of Conduct For more information about our vision for sustainable design and the role of design in addressing the epic challenges our world faces, visit our sustainable design website. 30 United Nations United Nations Global Compact principle Human rights Location in report Global Compact Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human rights Suppliers and business partners index Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights Suppliers and business partners Labor In 2011, Autodesk endorsed the United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary initiative that outlines 10 principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Human rights in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Employees anticorruption. These principles are reflected in our Suppliers and business partners culture of integrity and respect, and endorsing the Global Compact underscores our mission to help people Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Human rights imagine, design, and create a better world. labor; Suppliers and business partners This report serves as our Communication on Progress Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights for fiscal year 2015, describing how we are integrating Suppliers and business partners these principles into our business. The following table Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Human rights indicates which sections of the report address each of and occupation. Employees the 10 principles. Suppliers and business partners In 2015, Autodesk also endorsed Caring for Climate— an initiative led by the UN Global Compact, the UN Environment Environment Programme, and the secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change—aimed at Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Products and services advancing the role of business in addressing climate environmental challenges; Environment change. Information about Autodesk’s progress against Suppliers and business partners the Caring for Climate commitments is included in the Public policy, Sustainability Solutions, and Carbon Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Products and services footprint sections of this report. We provide more responsibility; and Environment detail in the company’s recent CDP submission. Suppliers and business partners Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Products and services “Businesses have an essential role to environmentally friendly technologies. Environment play to help solve the epic challenges Suppliers and business partners we face as a global community. Reflecting our commitment to address Anticorruption social and environmental issues across Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Ethics and compliance our business, we continue to endorse forms, including extortion and bribery. Suppliers and business partners the United Nations Global Compact.” —Carl Bass Chief Executive Officer, Autodesk 31 Global Reporting Initiative index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines provide principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. Autodesk considered this framework while developing the contents of this report. The following index provides the locations of related content. Item Description Detail Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker in the organization about the relevance of sustainability to Letter from our CEO the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Strategy for designing a better world Company profile 2.1 Name of the organization Autodesk, Inc. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Products 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Products by industry and joint ventures Annual reports 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters San Rafael, California 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries that have major operations Corporate environmental management or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Employees 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Autodesk, Inc., is incorporated under the laws of Delaware, United States. Its shares are publicly traded on the NASDAQ stock exchange under the symbol ADSK. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Products by industry Professional customers and consumers 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Performance summary Annual reports 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership Annual reports 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Awards and honors Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided About this report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) April 2014 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About this report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Sustainability@autodesk.com 3.5 Process for defining report content Strategy for designing a better world Corporate environmental management 32 Item Description Detail 3.6 Boundary of the report About this report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Noted in relevant sections 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other Corporate environmental management entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations About this report 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques Environment underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report Performance summary 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons Performance summary for such restatement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Performance summary applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report Global Reporting Initiative index 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Bureau Veritas will verify Autodesk’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions inventory and will provide methodological assurance for the complete inventory for fiscal year 2015. Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body Corporate governance responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their Corporate governance function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest Corporate governance governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest In Autodesk’s proxy statement, we direct correspondence to the governance body board of directors through our headquarters address. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Corporate environmental management economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Business ethics Human rights Privacy and data security Suppliers and business partners 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Human rights the organization subscribes or endorses UN Global Compact index 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy Public policy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Autodesk has a wide range of stakeholders. To determine the most appropriate organizations to engage with, we consider their relevance to our business and the investment of time and resources required. When relevant, we also take into account their influence and expertise in sustainability. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and Stakeholder engagement by stakeholder group 33 Item Description Detail Economic EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations Impact philanthropy and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments (Core) Performance summary Annual reports EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change (Core) Environment Autodesk reports this information annually through CDP. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations (Core) Annual reports EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts (Additional) Products and services Environmental EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (Core) Performance summary EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source (Core) Performance summary EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements (Additional) Environment EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy–based products and services, and reductions in energy Incubating sustainable design requirements as a result of these initiatives (Additional) Sustainability Solutions Supply chain EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved (Additional) Environment EN8 Total water withdrawal by source (Core) Water use in operations EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (Core) Environment Performance summary EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (Core) Environment Performance summary EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved (Additional) Environment EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight (Core) Facilities EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (Core) Waste in operations Performance summary EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation (Core) Data centers and IT operations Supply chain EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with Environmental compliance environmental laws and regulations (Core) Performance summary EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Employee travel and meetings organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce (Additional) Supply chain Performance summary 34 Item Description Detail Labor practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region (Core) Employees Performance summary LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region (Core) Autodesk did not implement any formal restructuring activities in fiscal year 2015. Total turnover was 10.5 percent; voluntary turnover was 6.5 percent. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees by major Employee benefits operations (Additional) LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (Core) Freedom of association LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region (Core) Health and safety Performance summary LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category (Core) Training and development Performance summary LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Training and development assist them in managing career endings (Additional) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews (Additional) Training and development LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, Diversity and inclusion minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity (Core) Performance summary Society SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying (Core) Public policy SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions Public policy by country (Additional) Autodesk, the Autodesk logo, AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, Fusion 360, and Revit are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product and services offerings, and specifications and pricing at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document. © 2014 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved. www.autodesk.com 35
