THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Contents Page 3 Message the CEO Page 4 AVHUSET A/S Company Profile Page 5 UN Global Compact Principles Page 5 Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 Page 5 Human Rights Page 5 Labor Standards Page 6 Environment Page 10 Anti-corruption Electronic Billboard installation at the Ministry of Health in Monrovia Liberia as part of the Ebola Response for the United Nations Development Program, UNDP, Liberia. 2 Message from the CEO In an industry that over time has been marked by change and turbulence, we are very proud that AV-Huset A / S has August 1 this year celebrated its 25th anniversary. Ever since we first started out in business in 1990, we have been working based on a philosophy of delivering user-friendly, quality solutions that take aesthetics and design into account. In fact, we always strive to provide great experiences. What matters most is not the technology in itself, but the value we can bring to you or to your customers through our solutions. Our objective is simply to deliver the industry’s best value for money. We are very happy to have joined the UN Global Compact initiative this year. As a new member, we see a lot of opportunities to continue to deliver and install our solutions worldwide and with our focus on especially the African continent, where we have worked for the last 10 years. Since 1995, AV-Huset A/S has demonstrated a sense social responsibility and has been an active participant of several social and aid organizations amongst others, the Red Cross, Cancer Society and WWF. Membership of the UN Global Compact is compatible with our attitude toward morality and responsibility in doing business. We are happy to be part of this global initiative and look forward to deliver our solutions over the next 25 years in the spirit of UN Global Compact. Jens Ole Ravn Managing Director AV-HUSET A/S 3 AV-HUSET A/S in brief AV-HUSET A/S joined the UN Global compact initiative on the 6 thof March 2015.We are pleased to present our first annual report. At AV-Huset, we see this as an opportunity to reassess and underpin our values. This is also an opportunity to sum up our annual progress on Corporate Social Responsibility. AV-Huset specializes in consultancy, development and installation of specialized solutions combining audio and video together. We create interesting opportunities and unique experiences by incorporating technology into new contexts. We have many years’ experience of everything from installing video conferencing systems to tailor-made communications concepts for museums, sporting events and other cultural contexts. Ever since we first started out in business in 1990, we have been working based on a philosophy of delivering user-friendly, quality solutions that take aesthetics and design into account. In fact, we always strive to provide great experiences. What matters most is not the technology in itself, but the value we can bring to you or to your customers through our solutions. Our objective is simply to deliver the industry’s best value for money. We supply an exceptional portfolio of innovative and award-winning products from a number of excellent manufacturers, who are constantly working with us to provide fully integrated systems. AV-Huset is a selected partner and distributor of leading Audio Visual Brands such as Bosch DCN conferenceand interpretation equipment, Panasonic pro panels and projectors, TVOne, Crestron & Extron matrix, scales and operating equipment, OneLan & KeyWest Digital information software. AV-Huset has its own production of custom designed pedestals, cabinets and audio visual furniture. AV-Huset’s reference list contains more than 600 customers and the company has conducted more than 800 customised installations both in Denmark and abroad. Comprehensive meeting room solution including simultaneous interpretation and video conferencing solution at the African Development Bank, AFDB, Abidjan. 4 AV-HUSET A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2015 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. AV-Huset Supports and respects the internationally proclaimed human rights. The company expects its business partners and suppliers not to be complicit in human rights abuses as a prerequisite to doing business. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining AV–Huset recognizes the fundamental right of all associates to form trade unions and to join these trade unions of their own free will. Associates will neither receive undue advantage nor suffer any disadvantage because of their membership in trade unions. Within the framework of respective legal regulations, in so far as these are in harmony with the ILO Convention no. 98, we respect the right to collective bargaining for the settlement of disputes pertaining to working conditions, and endeavor together with our partners to work together in collective negotiations and in a constructive manner marked by mutual confidence and respect. 5 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Our remuneration and social benefits conform at the very least to national and/or local statutory standards, provisions, or respective agreements. We observe the provisions of ILO Convention no. 100 with respect to the principle of .equal remuneration for work of equal value. We comply with national provisions regarding working hours and vacation. Any employee may complain to their respective line manager or the company’s leadership if they believe they have been subject to unfair treatment or have suffered disadvantages with respect to working conditions. Employees will not suffer any disadvantage because of lodging such complaints. Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labor Av-Huset condemns child labor and respects rights of children. All enterprises in AV-Huset adhere to the stipulations of ILO Convention no. 138 and no. 182. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We uphold and affirm that there is and must be equal opportunity among our associates, regardless of the color of their skin, race, gender, age, nationality, social origin, handicap, or sexual preference. We respect the political and religious convictions of our employees and collaborates as long as they are based on democratic principles and tolerate those of different persuasions. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Our basic principles of environmental protection reflect our duty toward the environment and the basis for many initiatives that are implemented throughout the company. 6 As a member of the WWF, AV-Huset supports WWF’s mission is to stop the degradation of the planet’s natural environment and to build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature. AV-Huset has the principle that our actions must accord with the interests of society. We place our products and services in the interests of the safety of people, the economic use of resources and environmental sustainability Energy Saving at the Head Office At AV-HUSET headquarters, the company has, in the last couple of years started to systematically change the lighting system to the more energy efficient LED technology. It is our expectation to continue on this trend as it has a positive effect on the environment as well as saving energy costs. 7 Performance KWH 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Indicator Power Achieved 46524 48396 39477 41507 26135* Consumption *Note that 2015 is from January – August. An expansion in the form of a 35-m2 annex was has been added to the existing head office buildings. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies AV-HUSET A/S observes all requirements in relation to current legislation about disposal of electronic waste. AV-HUSET A/S has continually focused on the environment and works continuously to prevent dangerous products that constitute a threat to health and to the environment.We use, wherever possible, products made by environmentally conscious suppliers. AV-HUSET A/S complies with environmental stipulation as described in the WEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipmen) Directive 2012/19/EU. AV-Huset has an environmental friendly packaging policy integrated in daily business routines. Consignments are packed responsibly to reduce weight and unnecessary volume. We recycle all the packaging we receive from suppliers and partners. Zero Waste Packaging Policy AV-Huset has an environmental friendly packaging policy integrated in daily business routines. Consignments are packed responsibly to reduce weight and unnecessary volume. We recycle all the packaging we receive from suppliers and partners. All packaging that is sent from our warehouse is done by utilizing recycled cardboard boxes and pallets. We see these measures as a helpful in reducing our use of resources as well as having a positive impact on our operational costs. 8 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery AV-Huset understands the importance of anti-bribery laws. We ensure that our employees and business partners understand and comply with all relevant anti-bribery laws. There is a zero tolerance policy against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Commitment for the next COP 2016 In the light of AV-Huset’s focus on international growth and expected increased interaction between different cultures and norms, we plan to place more focus on equipping our staff with more insight on new trends in Anti-corruption. The employees will receive information so that they can refresh and get insight in how to be more vigilant against corruption. AVHuset commits to implement this initiative during the 1st quarter of 2016. 9 AV-HUSET A/S JERNBUEN 1 4700 NAESTVED DENMARK WWW.AV-HUSET.COM Contact: Jens Ole Ravn, CEO Phone: + 45 5577 4030 UN Global Compact Membership date: 26 March 2015 Number of employees: 30 Sector: Audio Visual Integrator Distribution: WWW.AV-HUSET.COM UN Global Compact AV-Huset Board of Directors AV-Huset Offices 10
