UBS Group AG / UBS AG – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 1. Introduction Detailed information relating to all Global Compact principles can be found in the Corporate responsibility and Our employees sections of the UBS Annual Report 2014 (Section 5: Corporate governance, responsibility and compensation, pages 315 – 337 see www.ubs.com/annualreport). This information together with additional detail pertaining to the Global Compact principles can be accessed on the UBS Corporate Responsibility website (www.ubs.com/responsibility). 2. UBS Sustainability Disclosure For its 2014 reporting year, UBS commissioned Ernst & Young Ltd. (EY) to conduct an independent limited assurance of its GRI-based Sustainability Disclosure. Content of the sections “Corporate responsibility” and “Our employees” was reviewed by EY against the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This content has been prepared in accordance with the comprehensive option of GRI G4 as evidenced in the EY assurance report. The assurance by EY also covered other relevant text and data, which is referenced in the GRI Content Index (www.ubs.com/gri). The contents of the index relate directly to the principles of the Global Compact (as set out in Using the GRI G4 Guidelines to Communicate Progress on the UN Global Compact Principles ). 3. Statements on UBS's commitment to the Global Compact and its principles 3.1. Continued support for the Global Compact In our 2014 corporate responsibility reporting we demonstrate our commitment to the UN Global Compact in the context of our Chairman's Interview on Corporate Responsibility (text below appears on http://www.ubs.com/global/en/about_ubs/corporate_responsibility/commitment_strategy/chairman_s tatement.html) 2015 marks 15 years of UBS's participation in the UN Global Compact. Where do you see UBS today as regards the core areas of the Compact such as protecting the environment and respecting human rights? UBS was among the first companies to sign the Compact in 2000, which today is the world's largest corporate responsibility initiative. And we are doing an excellent job in living up to our commitments. Let me give you some examples. As regards the environmental area of the Compact, in 2014, we were recognized as industry leaders in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices which is an important external recognition of our strong performance. Furthermore we are the only Swiss bank on the list of best performers of the CDP for our efforts in reducing carbon emissions and mitigating the business risks of climate change. We are also an active member of the Thun Group of Banks. The Group's discussion paper on banking and human rights has set a benchmark helping to guide banks as they map and analyze their potential adverse impacts in relation to human rights. And key elements of the paper are already reflected in our policies and guidelines, notably our Environmental & Human Rights Policy and our Environmental & Social Risk Framework. And the Wolfsberg Group, which, like the Thun Group we were a founding member of, continues its work in the important area of combating financial crime. 3.2. Labor Standards Our employees’ drive, skill, insight and experience are key to meeting our clients’ needs and growing our businesses. In light of this, we continually invest in our employees and work to further build our reputation as a leading employer. Our performance and development-oriented culture is based on integrity, collaborating across the firm and challenging the status quo to develop better solutions for our clients and colleagues. Our principles of client focus, excellence and sustainable performance are the basis for all our endeavors, helping us focus on key opportunities to create value for our stakeholders. Over the past two years, we have defined and communicated the specific behaviors we expect of our employees and have integrated them into our business and human resource practices. Integrity, collaboration and challenge are concepts that define what we stand for individually and characterize our daily interactions with clients and colleagues. During 2014, we embedded these behaviors into our business and human resources practices, from leadership skills building and business process simplification to our recruiting and performance management practices. We do, however, recognize that workplace issues may sometimes arise. Therefore, we have processes in place in each region to deal with work-related grievances or complaints. We are committed to trying to resolve any employee grievance issues that arise in a timely and effective manner. In many cases, such concerns can be resolved on an informal basis, although more formal procedures are available if needed. The process for raising a concern is outlined in our employee handbooks or other appropriate local documentation. 3.3. Environment and human rights Our industry is playing an increasingly active role in addressing global issues such as the protection of human rights and the environment. Growing environmental and human rights concerns have resulted in a fast-changing regulatory and competitive landscape that affects our firm, our suppliers and our clients. In response to these emerging risks and opportunities, we are shaping appropriate commitments and solutions. In 2014, we published a comprehensive document on our environmental and social (including human rights) risk policy framework to ensure that our stakeholders have a good understanding of our approach to environmental and social risk. We apply the environmental and social risk policy framework to all our activities. This helps us identify and manage potential adverse impacts on the environment and human rights, as well as the associated risks affecting our clients and our firm. We have set standards in product development, investments, financing and for supply chain management decisions. As part of our due diligence process, we engage with clients and suppliers to better understand their processes and policies and to explore how any environmental and social risks may be mitigated. We avoid transactions, products, services, activities or suppliers if there are material environmental and social risks that cannot be properly assessed. We will not do business with a counterparty or an issuer who we judge is not addressing environmental or social issues in an appropriate and responsible manner. The foundation of UBS’s environmental and social risk policy framework is established in the Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS and the UBS Environmental and Human Rights Policy. Our long-standing involvement in the UNEP Finance Initiative reflects our commitment to managing our environmental footprint. UBS’s Environmental Program was introduced in the 1970s, and since 1999, we have managed the program through an Environmental Management System in accordance with ISO 14001. At the time, we were the first bank to obtain ISO 14001 certification for our Group-wide environmental management system. In addition, our greenhouse gas emissions data is externally verified according to ISO 14064 standards. In 2014, we reduced our greenhouse gas footprint again, achieving a 51% reduction from baseline year 2004. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. It will impact ecosystems, societies, and economies worldwide. Population growth, energy security, loss of biodiversity and access to drinking water and food, are all closely intertwined with climate change. This makes the transition to a lowcarbon economy vital. As a leading global financial services firm, we are well positioned to help our clients as they prepare for this transition. Our climate change strategy focuses on investments, financing, research and risk management, as well as our own operations. As regards human rights, we co-launched the Thun Group of Banks’ discussion paper on banking and human rights in October 2013. The paper aims to support banks in mapping and analyzing their potentially adverse impacts on human rights, and also looks at related risks, including reputational, legal, operational and financial risks. The paper was very positively received and the Thun Group has continued its discussions since, notably in a meeting with a large group of diverse stakeholders (including supranational organizations, governments and civil society) in June 2014 at the UBS Conference Center in Thun, Switzerland. Last, but not least, our performance and success in the area of sustainability is reflected in the key external ratings and rankings we have achieved. Among other such ratings and rankings (including DJSI and FTSE4Good), we were also included in “The A List: The CDP Climate Performance Leadership Index 2014” for our actions toward reducing carbon emissions and mitigating the business risks of climate change. 3.4. Anti-Corruption / Combating financial crime We take a rigorous risk-based approach in our commitment to combating money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing. Our policies and procedures are designed to detect and mitigate financial crime-related risks. We adhere to strict know-your-client rules and use advanced technology to help identify suspicious transaction patterns. If suspicious activities are discovered, they are promptly escalated to independent control units and external authorities, as required by law. We assess annually the money laundering, corruption and sanctions risks associated with our business against our control framework, and take actions to further mitigate that risk. UBS is a founding member of the Wolfsberg Group, an association of global banks that aims to develop financial services industry standards for policies on preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, and on know-your-client principles. The Wolfsberg Group also works closely with the Financial Action Task Force, an inter-governmental body that helps develop national and international policies on preventing money laundering and terrorist financing through consultation with the private sector. The Wolfsberg Group continued to influence AML in 2014 through its annual forum and regional reach-out meetings with banks globally. It continues to work on guidance papers in key areas of AML and, in 2014, it issued such a guidance paper on mobile and internet payment services. 4. Concluding comment In 2014, we launched UBS and Society – a cross-divisional umbrella initiative that covers all our activities and capabilities in sustainable investing and philanthropy, as well as our firm’s community interaction. The purpose of this initiative is to support the development of our dedicated, industry-leading platform that delivers comprehensive research, advisory and product capabilities in sustainable investments and philanthropy. We want to do this holistically, channeling a growing portion of investable client assets through innovative financial mechanisms to address societal challenges and make societal performance part of every client conversation. See www.ubs.com/sustainability for more information
