GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PEM Consult A/S 22 April 2015 PEMconsult A/S Wilders Plads 9A, 2nd floor, DK-1403 Copenhagen K 1 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PEM Consult A/S 22 April 2015 OUTLINE I. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer II. Introduction III. Human Rights IV. Labour V. Environment VI. Anti-Corruption 2 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PEM Consult A/S 22 April 2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that PEM reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Søren-Erik Svendsen Director I. Introduction PEM Consult is an international consultancy company working for bilateral and multilateral clients in the sectors of environment, water/sanitation, governance, labour market and social development. We aim to work cross-sectoral and our acronym: People – Environment – Management suggests to illustrate this approach of linking expertise in people-centred ways. Our outreach is global and we work in large consultancy-, partnerand framework based networks. These changing environments inform the clientoriented approach of our company and the trust on which we build future partnerships. II. Human rights Assessment, policy and goals • We undertake human rights, good governance and social development assignments across the full project cycle and in Africa, Asia and Latin America for our bilateral and multilateral clients. We also do assessments and studies, including business & human rights focused analysis for development projects and programmes. Within the year we have e.g. done large-scale evaluations of the Danish Institute for Human Rights and formulations and studies for the multi-funded Democratic Governance Facility in Uganda. We have recently won a framework contract with Danida, as lead partner of an international consortium. We expect that our market share of assignments within human rights (one of four main Danida components) will increase and thus our outreach. We have recently joined Transparency International as a member. 3 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PEM Consult A/S 22 April 2015 Implementation • We ensure that our approach is state of the art and that our partners and consultants learn from each other in this area. We engage with highly knowledgeable experts and professionals in the area of good governance and human rights, including centers of excellence on Business & Human Rights, e.g. with The Danish Institute for Human Rights. We have completed the Global Compact self-assessment tool (last done 26 May 2011) Measurement of outcomes • We monitor through our quarterly board meetings and reporting on the UN Global Compact. Furthermore, the quality of the work that we do is reflected by the assignments of this type entrusted to us. III. Labour Assessment, policy and goals • We comply with all labour regulations in Denmark and abroad. Similar to human rights, labour rights and Decent Work Agenda are increasingly components or cross-cutting issues that are addressed in the assignments undertaken for clients. During the year we have done such assignments in Bangladesh, Bolivia and Ghana for Danida and Ukraine for Sida. We have recently entered a framework agreement with the EU for assignments related to technical and vocation training, culture and social sectors which is expected to increase our market share. Measurement of outcomes • We have completed the global compact self-assessment tool (last done 26 May 2011) IV. Environment Assessment, policy and goals • We comply with all Danish regulations on environment. We provide environmental consultancy services and ensure that our competence in this field is updated. We are highly specialized in the sectors of water/sanitation, climate change adaptation and strategic environment assessment (SEA) and sector-wide approach (SWAp). Illustrative assignments over the year include Mozambique on Cities and Climate Change for the Nordic Development Fund and similar assignments for Danida in Bangladesh and Mexico. We have renewed our framework contract with the EU on Environment and have done both global evaluations and SEA assignments, recently in Rwanda. Besides this we work with local governments and partners across Africa (Sierra Leone, Ghana and Lesotho) on World Bank funded water sector assignments. 4 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PEM Consult A/S 22 April 2015 Measurement of outcomes • We have completed the Global Compact self-assessment tool (last done 26 May 2011) V. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals • PEM Consult has developed a Code of Ethics and a Business Integrity Management System to ensure ethical and anti-corruptive measures are properly addressed in all of our project and ventures. The Board of Directors oversee these matters and appoints a Business Integrity Manager. We have recently joined Transparency International as a member. Measurement of outcomes • We report and monitor through our quarterly board meetings. We completed the Global Compact self-assessment tool (last done 26 May 2011)
