ChangeAgent for Arab Development and Education Reform (CADER) Communication On Progress (COP) Implementing UN Global Compact Principles in ChangeAgent for Arab Development and Education Reform (CADER) April 2015 Contents Statement of support by the General Manager .............................................................................. 3 Company profile .............................................................................................................................. 4 Human Rights Principles .................................................................................................................. 5 Labour Principles ............................................................................................................................. 7 Environmental Principles................................................................................................................. 9 Anti-Corruption Principle .............................................................................................................. 10 2 Statement of support by the General Manager With great pride I am pleased to confirm that ChangeAgent for Arab Development and Education Reform (CADER) reaffirms its support of the Ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our services, policies, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours Sincerely Dr. Muhyieddeen Touq General Manager 3 Company profile Registered in Jordan since 2004, ChangeAgent® for Arab Development and Education Reform (CADER) is the leading Arab professional development company in the region. It is the coronation effort of a joint Arab-European study of the requirements for education reform and development in the Arab World. CADER is a distinguished model of public private partnership between academia and business that forms a consortium of two diverse regional and local institutions, each of which is an expert in its own field. This consortium is comprised of FAL Holdings Arabia Company Ltd, a leading company in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Yarmouk University, a prominent public University in Jordan. CADER’s core business is human capacity building in the Arab World through the provision of professional development services. CADER provides advanced localized training and professional development consulting services on a global scale that serve both the domestic and regional educational sectors. It brings a fresh and innovative approach to professional development services, acting as a liaison between schools and the world of entrepreneurship. Our goal is to empower a highly-skilled education workforce equipped with 21st century skills that enable educators to prepare a generation able to compete in the global economy. Through its training programs and consultations, CADER plays the role of a ChangeAgent® that aims at creating new professional standards. Our challenge is to build sustainable solutions and foster a deep and long lasting impact by offering flexible, tailor-made, practical professional development programs, and greater value, thus optimizing trainees’ personal and professional growth and improving their competences. Over the last years, CADER established itself in the field of professional development and mastered a model that contributes to its strength and to developing a wider outreach in other sectors since the model it follows forms the base for all capacity building measures. CADER’s competence-based model is a locally-developed model that draws on international proven experiences in the field of education reform and professional development. What distinguishes CADER’s model most is its reliance on building knowledge rather than consuming it, providing solutions based on the needs of the workplace and its staff rather than ready-made ones, and promoting life-long learning skills. CADER’s associates are distinguished by their functional and technical expertise combined with their hands-on experience, thereby ensuring that our clients receive the most effective and professional service. Please visit us on: www.cader.jo 4 Human Rights Principles Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, Assessment, Policy and Goals. Policy/Commitment CADER ensures that human rights are respected and integrated into daily operations and an overall approach from top down. CADER believes that employees are entitled to:  Freedom of speech  Freedom from fear  Freedom from discrimination  Freedom from slavery  Freedom of opinion and expression  Right to recognition and equality before the law  Right for self-development  Right to equal pay for equal work CADER has the concern to respect and promote the principle of nondiscrimination on all the levels of its employees, with special emphasis on: recruitment, career development and training, and appraisal. Implementation  CADER is fully adhered to Jordan’s Labor law as well as all rules related to labor/Human rights introduced by law.  CADER has set up a Code of Honor which is published on the website to make our commitment to human rights clear to our employees and partners.  CADER’s recruitment policy is not based on religion, sex, age or color…etc., CADER has an equal opportunity of recruitment based on qualifications and experience.  CADER evaluates employees based on their performance.  CADER provides open, clear, written recruitment policies and procedures to ensure fairness to all candidates. 5 Measurement of Outcomes  CADER has developed appraisal forms based on clear key performance indicators that ensure the absence of any act of bias or unfair or subjective judgment, and these indicators are shared and agreed on by all employees.  CADER has provided each employee with clear written procedures and internal policies that ensure fairness to all employees.  CADER invests in its employees by providing intensive six months training for newlyrecruited employees, this training includes technical training, soft skills, time management and ethics at work …etc., and beside that CADER designs training and professional development activities on continuous basis during its periodic meeting on Sundays.  CADER believes that each employee has the right for self-development, therefore CADER allows its employees to pursue their academic study and provides each one with paid study leave for six hours a week, and the number of employees who are pursuing their studies is 10, equaling more than 10% of its staff.  CADER celebrated on Feb 2015 its 10th anniversary by a huge ceremony, and during the ceremony the General Manager honored some employees for their dedicated work in the last 10 years, the ceremony included team building activities and the employees shared dinner together. 6 Labour Principles Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policy/Commitment CADER is committed to adhere to the labour rights as applicable in Jordan, and is against the illegal use of child labour, and all other unacceptable forms in the treatment of workers physical punishment, female abuse, compulsory extra working hours, and forced labour and other forms of abuse. CADER will continue to refine its employment policy as needed and incorporate the Global Compact Principles. Implementation  CADER’s employees and their families are all entitled to medical insurance.  CADER’s employees are covered by social security benefits as stipulated by the law.  CADER has a voluntary saving fund for the employees to which the company contributes the same percentage as that of the members in the fund.  CADER covers the insurance of the cars of the staff working in projects that require to do so.  CADER believes in open door approach and therefore holds weekly meetings where each employee has the opportunity to discuss any issue related to work.  Each employee in CADER has easy and direct access to top management where he/she can suggest ideas, express himself, and perform any other inquiry.  Each employee in CADER has a contract of employment clearly stating the terms and conditions of service.  CADER’s employment policy depends on clear job requirements and only judged based on their achievement and clear key performance indicators not based on their background, religion, sex… etc.  CADER has clear Human Resource system that ensures transparency, equality, and fairness among all employees. 7  CADER’s employees are not asked to work extra hours that extend their assigned working hours. Measurement of Outcomes  CADER has never been charged with, indicted for or in any other way whatsoever involved with the use of slave labour.  There is no forced or compulsory labour in CADER.  There is no child labour in CADER, the minimum age of the employees is 28 years.  There is no discrimination in case of employment; our employees belong to various religious including Muslims, Christian, and the employees range between different age groups.  CADER has an equitable gender distribution where females constitute more than 25% of the staff; additionally 3 out of 5 in the top management are females.  Each employee in CADER is ensured to have at least 1 and a half day weekly rest.  CADER employees are satisfied with the environment and policy and this is clear by the numbers below:  5.6% staff serving since last 10 years  26% staff serving since last 6-9 years  Average rotation rate in the company ranges between 5% 10% 8 Environmental Principles Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Policy/Commitment CADER supports the concepts of a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, promotion of greater environmental responsibility and development of environmentally friendly policies. CADER is also committed to protect the environment and prevent pollution while doing the daily work. Implementation  CADER procures materials like paper, ink from environmentally responsible companies and suppliers.  CADER utilizes cost effective solutions for lighting such as Halogen pulps.  CADER’s HR department depends on electronic system where the employee can apply his/her vacation, leaves and reports and this will reduce paper consumption.  CADER has started an initiative for recycling paper and all employees are aware of this initiative.  CADER is a free smoking area. Measurement of Outcomes  The Halogen pulps have increased the efficiency of the energy consumption however we can’t provide an accurate percentage due to the fact that the government has raised the price of electricity.  Recycled initiative has decreased the consumption of paper by about 10%. 9 Anti-Corruption Principle Principle Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy/Commitment CADER will not tolerate any violation of the law, dishonesty or unethical business dealing by any employee, including any payment for, or other participation in, any illegal act such as bribery, theft, money-laundering. CADER is committed to do business with the highest ethical standards. Implementation  CADER conducts annual external financial audit.  CADER conducts internal audit. Measurement of Outcomes  Internal and external audit did not observe any incident of bribery/corruption.  One of CADER’s projects was audited internationally and it came out clean.  CADER adheres to American rules and regulations regarding USAID funded projects in Jordan, CADER has implemented several of those. 10
