SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 Balancing Sustainability Economic Introduction Governance Sustainability Environment Social Responsibility About this Review In this Review 1 Introduction 1 Welcome to our Sustainability Review Over 24,700 2 Our Business Overview 6 billion 4 Letter from the Chief Executive 5 Our values employees 5 Strategic goals boxes sold 6 Market context 8 Supply Cycle Thinking 10 Stakeholder engagement 12 Materiality and risk 211 206.8 14 Governance 15 Transparency 16 Strategic oversight production facilities kg CO2e/tonne 16 Targets worldwide production 17 Commitments to international standards 17 Ethics and compliance 17 Code of Conduct 17 Competition law 18 Economic Sustainability 19 20 Procurement SEDEX £3,820m 2,183 GWh Revenues Energy exports in 2014/15 to third parties 22 Environment 23 Packaging reputation 23 Carbon footprint 24 Raw materials 25 Recycling and waste 27 Biodiversity 28 Social Responsibility Insight. 29 Employees Innovation. Leadership. 30 The DS Smith ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Charitable Foundation 30 Employee fundrasing 33 About this review 33 Scope of the Review 34 Assurance Statement 35 Data tables Explore our website at www.dssmith.com Explore our sustainability website at www.dssmith.com/sustainability Download our Annual Report 2015 at www.dssmith.com/investors/annual-reports www.dssmith.com/sustainability Sustainability Review 2015 Introduction Introduction 1 Welcome to our Sustainability Review Balancing Sustainability Sustainability requires us to balance many factors, and this review is one of the ways in which we explain our position to our many diverse stakeholders in order to encourage engagement and debate, and to stimulate innovation. We believe this will ultimately help us make better investment decisions and enable us to prioritise our activities to align ourselves more closely with our stakeholders. As our business continues to grow and We want to share with all our to expand into new territories, publishing stakeholders the stories of our information about our sustainability challenges and successes. Every objectives demonstrates the high priority day, there are many competing we place on conducting our business in priorities that require our managers OUR PRIORITY ISSUES a responsible and sustainable manner. to make difficult decisions and These have been identified balance sustainability objectives. as being the most material We have used the GRI G4 reporting issues to our internal and framework as a guideline for our data We believe that our continued growth external stakeholders. collection strategy, and will publish during 2014 is evidence that we are relevant information on our website: getting this balance right. • Packaging reputation Our priority issues, which remain our www.dssmith.com/sustainability for more information see p23 most material areas for action, have • Carbon footprint Each and every day, the activities of not changed. We have continued to play for more information see p23 all our colleagues are directed towards an active role in helping communities delighting our customers, providing a address these issues, and this is a core • Raw materials component of our corporate values. safe and productive work environment for more information see p24 for our employees, contractors, suppliers, How we have performed during • Recycling and waste customers and other visitors to our 2014, and the areas where we see for more information see p25 locations, and creating value for potential for further improvement • Employees our shareholders. in the coming years are described in for more information see p29 detail in the following pages. www.dssmith.com/sustainability 2 Introduction Our Business Overview We create value by bringing together a collection of skills, all centred around the design and manufacture of packaging. DS Smith now operates across OUR BUSINESS MODEL 32 countries and employs around 24,700 people, having acquired businesses in Spain, INSIGHT Italy and south eastern Europe over the last year. Our vision is to become the leader in recycled packaging PACKAGING for consumer goods. We bring insight and innovation to designing the optimum packaging for our PAPER customers’ supply cycles. To support our production of high-quality corrugated MANUFACTURE INNOVATION packaging, we manufacture paper and in turn have a recycling business to source CORRUGATED PLASTICS the fibre we require. We also design and manufacture certain types of speciality RECYCLING plastic packaging, in particular plastic bags and taps for bag-in-box packaging and rigid crates for bottled liquids. Balance of our combined businesses (million tonnes) DESIGN Corrugated packaging is our primary output: Corrugated Packaging 3.3 Corrugated Paper Manufacture 2.4 Fibre Sourcing/ Recycling 5.4 Sustainability Review 2015 Introduction Introduction 3 OUR BUSINESSES HOW WE CREATE VALUE Corrugated We produce the paper required by our Recycling Packaging packaging operations. We also sell papers externally and we compete on the quality of our product, while our scale and We design and manufacture corrugated We source used paper and old corrugated efficiency mean that we remain cost packaging. We focus on packaging for cases (OCC) from retailers and traders. competitive. We undertake joint research fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG), This fibre is principally used by our and development of innovative new such as grocery products. The remainder own paper mills to make recycled paper, papers in partnership with our packaging of our business is for industrial products, with the remainder sold to other paper operations to optimise the performance other consumer products and other uses, manufacturers. We offer a full recycling of the packaging. We have increased our such as packaging for on-line deliveries. service and handle other materials such production of papers particularly suited Industrial packaging is often very high as glass and metals, which we recycle to making high-quality packaging, such precision and involves complex designs. in partnership with subcontractors. We as white-top grades. differ from other recyclers because we HOW WE CREATE VALUE do not operate landfill sites – our sole We help our customers reduce their costs, focus is on recycling, and helping our Plastic Packaging sell more, and manage their risk. We are customers achieve zero waste. able to do this through our skills in innovation, design and manufacture, and HOW WE CREATE VALUE Flexible packaging and dispensing insight into consumer behaviour in the We provide a recycling service to our We design and manufacture plastic bags, retail environment. We invest in the skills customers by collecting and processing taps and fitments for use in bag-in-box necessary to deliver this promise, and we their waste streams of OCC and other packaging for liquids. Our products are offer our solutions on a pan-European fibres. We also offer a range of services used to transport beverages, concentrates, basis. We work with our customers, such as recycling and environmental chemicals and pharmaceuticals. Bag and analysing every point where packaging audits and consultancy to help customers tap solutions can be used for industrial can be optimised. manage their materials most efficiently, containers, for dispensing beverages in with the aim of achieving zero waste. restaurants or as an end product, such For example, we optimise the box This typically means that better value as a wine box. Our flexible packaging strength, for stacking in a lorry, speed can be achieved for the fibre, through business operates globally. on the packing line, and for easier developing systems to maximise recovery openability and display in store. We also Rigid packaging rates and source segregation. The fibre is look at how packaging works best once We design and manufacture rigid aggregated and sorted, and our recycling on a retailer’s shelf, in order to drive sales plastic packaging products for the operations support our paper operations and improve handling costs for the transit of beverages, health care and by providing fibre with a consistent retailer. We then ensure it can be easily automotive products and in retail. and well-defined quality, which in turn recycled. We describe this approach as This business operates in Europe. enables our paper mills to produce paper ‘Supply Cycle Thinking’. with higher performance characteristics. HOW WE CREATE VALUE Our ability to provide pan-European Specialist plastic packaging solutions solutions, via an extensive manufacturing Paper are designed in close partnership with base, is a key differentiator. We work with customers. The designs of taps and leading FMCG and industrial customers fitments are often specific to the type to supply packaging to their own network of liquid, in order to optimise filling and of factories, with guaranteed service We manufacture recycled paper, dispensing. Once we have finalised levels and quality that apply across the principally the paper used to make a design that fulfils our customer’s business. Our customers know that the corrugated board. We also make some requirements, we manufacture on a large packaging for their branded products will other grades of paper, such as core board scale and distribute the product globally. be precisely as specified, irrespective of and plasterboard liner. The majority of Our rigid plastic products are manufactured where it has been manufactured. the paper that we make is used by our in Europe for the European market, with This is all part of our strategic own packaging business. large scale operations in Bulgaria and commitment to delight our customers. Slovakia. Our flexible plastic products are Our scale also allows us to invest in manufactured in New Zealand, Thailand research, innovation and design, and and the US and are distributed globally. we have a network of design centres. www.dssmith.com/sustainability 4 Introduction Letter from the Chief Executive At DS Smith, balancing sustainability is about optimising the supply cycle. sustainability reporting with the goals provide and by paying taxes when due; of our biggest customers. The issues having a strong relationship with our affecting our company are the same as European Works Council; and ensuring those affecting all our partners in the our raw materials are responsibly sourced. supply cycle – brand owners, retailers, I am pleased to reaffirm DS Smith’s and consumers. This means that building support for the Ten Principles of the a common understanding of how we United Nations Global Compact in can cooperate to meet these challenges the areas of Human Rights, Labour, is perhaps even more important than Environment and Anti-Corruption. focusing purely on those issues that These align with our values, and in this directly affect our business. Ultimately, review we describe our performance in it is about making a contribution to a those areas we believe are integral to more prosperous future for us all. Our our business strategy. emphasis on closed loop recycling places DS Smith at the heart of our customers’ I hope that in this review you will discover sustainability objectives. I am proud of more about our progress and be inspired the part we are playing in improving the by our perpetual devotion to optimising “ Our emphasis on closed loop supply cycles of our existing customers, all aspects of consumer packaging, recycling places DS Smith at and excited by the potential we have reducing global CO2 emissions and the heart of our customers’ to do more. We have continued to realising zero waste in the supply cycle. strengthen our relationships with sustainability objectives.” our stakeholders and I am satisfied that we are meeting all their legitimate Our economy depends on goods expectations: delighting our customers getting to market, whilst reducing with innovative high-quality products; waste, increasing efficiency, and ensuring the safety of all people who Miles Roberts enabling consumer choice. In this regard, work in or visit our factories; delivering Group Chief Executive packaging is more relevant than ever. excellent shareholder returns; Many of our customers share the vision contributing to local communities I outlined last year, where we aligned our through the business opportunities we OUR STRATEGIC GOALS To double To realise the size and To lead To delight our the potential profitability the way in customers of our people of the recycling business See our Annual Report 2015 for more information Sustainability Review 2015 Introduction Introduction 5 OUR VALUES Our values describe the ways in which we strive to exceed the standards expected of us. They guide how we make decisions and shape company policies and practices, driving both individual employee behaviour and organisational culture. To promote a sense of personal ownership, our employees are encouraged to discuss these values and how they can make them relevant to their workplaces. Our values reflect what we genuinely believe, and what we actually do. Be caring We take pride in what we do and care about our customers, our people and the world around us. Be challenging We are not afraid to challenge each other and ourselves constructively to find a better way forward. Be trusted We can always be trusted to deliver on our promises. Be responsive We seek new ideas and understanding and are quick to react to opportunities. Be tenacious We get things done. STRATEGIC GOALS To realise the To double the size To delight potential of and profitability To lead the our customers our people of the business way in recycling We do this by: We do this by: We do this by: We do this by: • Delivering on all • Creating a place where • Winning market share • Building sustainability our commitments people are proud to work and expanding into into our decisions and give their best new markets • Further improving • Growing our recycling our quality standards • Building a common culture • Building a resilient and platform across Europe sustainable business • Driving innovation • Ensuring the safety of all How we have delivered: model • Acquired full control • Building industry-leading How we have delivered: How we have delivered: of Italmaceri, an Italian customer services • 13 per cent reduction in • Volume growth recycling business accident frequency rate How we have delivered: +3.1 per cent • Improved greenhouse • 17 design centres built • 15 per cent reduction • Focused the business with gas emissions in line or refurbished in lost-time accidents the disposal of one small with 10 year plan • Sustainability team • 182 sites with zero paper mill and two other • Improved our waste established lost-time accidents non-core businesses to landfill ratio • Responsive, bespoke • 81 per cent response rate customer-led reporting to our employee survey on sustainability matters www.dssmith.com/sustainability 6 Introduction Market context Expanding our footprint and leadership position. DS Smith is a leading provider of corrugated packaging in Europe and of specialist plastic packaging worldwide, supported by paper and recycling operations. 32 countries Over six billion boxes sold 24,700 employees Sustainability Review 2015 Introduction Introduction 7 INCPEN • Portion control can help tackle far more resources than they use Over the next 10 years, the rate of obesity. This may mean smaller and prevent far more waste than change in the way we live is likely to portions and therefore more they generate. In 10 years’ time keep accelerating. The products and packaging but a worthwhile use there are likely to be exciting services we buy will change too and of material in helping prevent a new packs that will make an even that means their packaging will have serious problem. more positive contribution to to evolve to match. Just think of a few sustainable development. The opportunities are endless. of the likely challenges: Business, however, relies on Jane Bickerstaff • Unpredictable weather will affect policymakers to stimulate innovation Director INCPEN harvests. Food scarcity will become rather than impose restrictions. In INCPEN the Industry Council an issue for more people. Packaging theory, the European Commission’s for research on Packaging and plays a critical role in extending ‘Circular Economy Package’ should help the Environment is a group of food storage. make more efficient use of energy, manufacturers and retailers materials and water. INCPEN is helping • Internet shopping and multifrom across the supply chain this to happen by explaining the critical channel delivery systems offer huge who work together to promote role that packaging plays in enabling opportunities e.g. if a pack does not responsible packaging for the supply cycle. We also explain why need to fit on a supermarket shelf, it sustainable supply chains. the focus on waste which has could be taller, thinner, spherical or DS Smith is a member of INCPEN. dominated European packaging policy any shape a designer can dream up. for many years is not appropriate. • Openability and legibility will Provided they are used appropriately become even more important most types of packaging are ecoin ageing societies. friendly because they each protect INCPEN: The only environmental organisation whose members span the complete supply chain www.incpen.org www.facebook.com/incpenorg twitter.com/@incpen Manufacturing presence Europe Netherlands Austria Poland Belgium Portugal Bosnia Romania Bulgaria Serbia Croatia Slovakia Czech Republic Slovenia Denmark Spain Estonia Sweden Finland Switzerland France United Kingdom Germany Hungary Rest of the world Italy New Zealand Latvia Thailand Lithuania United States Macedonia (as at 31 August 2015) www.dssmith.com/sustainability 8 Introduction Supply Cycle Thinking At DS Smith, we’re driven by the changing needs of our customers. In every process carried out, we offer integrated solutions that serve the entire Supply Cycle, creating simplicity in an otherwise complex supply chain. OUR CUSTOMER SUPPLY CYCLE Transport cost reductions DS Smith Recycling Manufacturer More Faster recycling packing SUPPLY lines Consumer CYCLE Logistics provider Regional Shop distribution More centres Cost sales savings Sustainability Review 2015 Introduction Introduction 9 VALUE PROPOSITION CIRCULAR ECONOMY: CUSTOMER JOURNEY Through innovation and collaboration, SUPPLY CYCLE THINKING We have streamlined the packaging our strategic approach considers every In principle, the business case for the design process into a completely new aspect of our customers’ economic, circular economy in the packaging way of working across our organisation. social and environmental needs. From industry is easy to make. However, We call this ‘PackRight’. PackRight is the factory floor to the shop door, our we are barely even at the start of the a systematic way of working with solutions allow cost reductions at every journey towards the circular economy. our customers to produce results of stage of the cycle. As a strategic partner So, what are the main problems we need substantial value to their business. with cross-industry expertise, our to overcome? The complexity of long, Each customer experiences the same customers can be confident that we will convoluted supply chains in a traditional customer journey when doing business make a positive impact to their business multi-channel retail environment. with us, wherever they are in the world. and deliver a step change in performance. Globalisation, fuelled by digital and Our Impact Centres engage customers, mobile technology, coupled with and bring to life the reality of practical THE SUPPLY CYCLE customer demands for quality and in-store environments, and they When you start thinking beyond the service that are placing manufacturers, challenge preconceived views of immediate customer and consider the suppliers and retailers under intense packaging as ‘just a box’. whole supply cycle, you see a different market pressure. In this environment, picture, resulting in opportunities for packaging is more relevant than ever, This interactive process enables integrated and more efficient solutions. and the benefits of a strategic and customers to assess for themselves what Many organisations think of their supply sustainable packaging solution that the right packaging solution could help chains as a straight line. But if we can can lighten the load has never been them achieve. In our PackRight Centres, change the thinking from linear to circular, more attractive. customers co-create and design the right new opportunities emerge. Information solutions for their products, supported is constantly being created, shared and This is where the ‘Power of Less’ by proprietary DS Smith tools, services exchanged, from consignment tracking comes into play, helping to turn good and skilled individuals. Our PackRight to customer feedback on social media. CSR intentions into best practice. Centres are professional yet creative Our perspective gives us a head start in The Power of Less is about reducing environments, where customers are anticipating and solving problems better complexity and cost, managing risk invited to attend workshops and project than our competitors. With a range of and supporting growth. This focus on launches and hold progress meetings. expertise in design, production and optimising performance underpins the recycling, we can offer innovative shift in mind-set from linear to circular, solutions and great service which enables from supply chain to supply cycle. In us to cater to all our customers’ packaging supply chains, there are many potential and waste management needs. leakage points, but tackling them in isolation can sometimes be worse than Our offer encompasses the full packaging failing to identify them in the first place. supply cycle. We have invested heavily To avoid falling foul of the law of in our capacity to design, source and unintended consequences, any manufacture packaging that leads the successful approach needs to be industry in terms of performance, and we strategic and systemic. have also grown our capacity to recycle packaging waste and thereby to mitigate As supply cycle strategists, we are the downstream environmental impacts. committed to helping customers shed In our Recycling operations we close the the constraints of linear models and drive loop, and the fibres become a valuable efficiencies. ‘Closing the loop’ requires and sustainable raw material once again. that all the segments in the supply cycle cooperate to achieve the right balance of product performance and environmental View our ‘Supply Cycle Thinking’ responsibility. Design, logistics, business at www.dssmith.com/company/ models and waste are tackled in the who-we-are/supply-cycle-strategists round, transforming sustainable packaging into a positive enabler of the circular economy. www.dssmith.com/sustainability 10 Introduction Stakeholder engagement We listen to our stakeholders to understand their issues and expectations. Through our products, we all employees are obliged to follow in surveys to gather feedback, and we their professional relationships. This particularly welcome the opportunity interact with millions of also helps our stakeholders understand to participate in customer events to consumers worldwide every what standards of behaviour they can enhance sustainability and innovation. day. Within our communities, expect from us. Significant stakeholder Our customers have overwhelmingly we are a significant local groups for DS Smith include: told us that our focus on the supply cycle, employer. This is why we CUSTOMERS and on accurately and transparently listen to our stakeholders. describing the impacts and benefits that Each of our businesses is managed locally our packaging and waste management Their feedback helps us to understand within its markets. This ensures that can have within their supply cycle, is the issues of greatest concern. We there is a natural and continual dialogue the right approach. encourage and welcome feedback with our customers. Creating value through any channels our stakeholders sustainably for our customers has INVESTORS want to use: formal and informal become a critical part of our value The investment community is a key meetings, community events, or by offering. We have regular face-to-face stakeholder group. Communication of invitation. Our engagement activities meetings at managerial levels and with information and insight enables a full are guided by a Code of Conduct senior executives, provide technical appreciation of our company’s business which sets out the principles that service and support, and use satisfaction activities, strategy and prospects, and Employee induction Peter White, MD at Ralegh, together with his management team, revamped their employee induction package in 2014. This comprehensive update involved every aspect of employee and company behaviour, and covered our Code of Conduct and Operating Framework, as well as broader social responsibility aspects such as the site’s smoking policy and ‘Healthy Hearts’ campaign, and their relationships with, and responsibilities to, the wider community. It was so well received that it was subsequently delivered to every employee on site, even those who had worked there for more than fifteen years. This occurred over three weeks in 2014, and as a result Ralegh can proudly proclaim more than 60 hours of training on a broad range of sustainability topics such as human rights. 60 sites Number of locations with a Community Engagement programme Sustainability Review 2015 Introduction Introduction 11 allows the market to make an informed EMPLOYEES CONSUMERS judgement about the fair value and We maintain regular contact with Our primary channel for engagement appropriate ownership of our shares. trade unions and, where applicable, with consumers is via our website, Shareholder engagement is stimulated employee forums and works councils. which is one of our main tools for sharing through financial reporting and trading Our relationship with the European Works information with all of our stakeholders. updates, accompanied by management Council provides a channel to discuss and During 2014 we revised our social media presentations and conference calls. to better understand pan-European policy, and our social media sites are These are available as audio replays developments and issues for employees. open to anyone wishing to discuss and in transcript via our website, Maintaining a committed and engaged any interests related to DS Smith. together with archived Annual Reports. workforce is central to our vision and You can follow our feeds, participate We hold an Annual General Meeting two-way dialogue is facilitated via the in discussions and initiate new topics for all shareholders, and conduct a following channels: regular newsletters, online. We want you to engage with us, programme of regular meetings and videos and senior leadership webcasts on so don’t be afraid to ‘like’ our social media site trips with investors, equity analysts our intranet, leadership visits to sites and channels. We have Twitter, YouTube, and financial journalists. site open days, team briefings, employee LinkedIn and Facebook pages, and we’d appraisal, training, and grievance love to hear from you. It is our policy that communications with procedures. In October 2014 we ran our investors are conducted by a limited third Group-wide employee survey which number of individuals nominated by the OUR DS SMITH OFFICIAL had a response rate of 81 per cent. The Chief Executive under the company’s main areas for improvement which this SOCIAL MEDIA CHANNELS Disclosure Policy. This is to ensure that found are discussed later in this document. These channels are monitored information provided to the market is 24/7 and are approved by our strictly in accordance with the company’s INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS AND corporate & communications network. regulatory obligations. TRADE BODIES Connect with us at: SUPPLIERS DS Smith is a member of the UK-based the Industry Council for research on Through our central procurement Packaging and the Environment (INCPEN), function, we have frequent dialogue with an association which undertakes www.linkedin.com/company/ds-smith our strategic suppliers. We ensure regular research on the effects of packaging. www.linkedin.com/company/ face-to-face meetings at managerial We cooperate with trade associations ds-smith-recycling levels and with senior executives, to coordinate environmental, legislative www.linkedin.com/company/ collaboration on reverse logistics and and technical initiatives. These include: ds-smith-plastics-division backhauling, and on recycling projects. collaboration on collection and recycling Increasingly, we are seeking strategic projects, policy direction to ensure partnerships with suppliers who can packaging makes a positive contribution demonstrate that they take their to sustainability and consumer corporate responsibilities seriously, information and education campaigns. twitter.com/dssmithpack for example through establishing twitter.com/dssmithrecycle We also contribute data to the policies and programmes to transparently twitter.com/dssplastics European Federation of Corrugated share sustainability related data. Board Manufacturers (FEFCO) and the Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) Containerboard lifecycle assessment – a triennial study www.youtube.com/user/dssmithgroup to establish the carbon footprint of corrugated board. REGULATORS AND POLICYMAKERS www.facebook.com/dssmith.group Our focus in public policy development www.facebook.com/dssrecycling is to reinforce the initiatives conducted by the industry associations and trade bodies of which we are members. We facilitate meetings and plant tours. www.dssmith.com/sustainability 12 Introduction Materiality and risk Effectively managing our material issues and risks ensures a robust strategy is in place to deliver our targets. MATERIALITY ANALYSIS We last conducted a formal materiality analysis, informed through stakeholder engagement, in January 2014. This was a useful activity which allowed us to interact with diverse stakeholders whom we may not encounter during normal operations, such as academics and NGOs. We intend to repeat this exercise biennially, and to augment this analysis with pulse surveys of those stakeholders with whom we enjoy more frequent contact, such as customers, employees and suppliers. RISK REVIEW Identifying, assessing and managing risks is integral to the way we run our business, and we have structured our risk assessment processes to include sustainability matters in our risk Material waste reduction management process in order to ensure Each year, £125 million worth of paper is wasted or lost during the production of involvement up to Board level. We have corrugated cardboard. To address this, we initiated a material waste reduction clear risk management objectives and an initiative across all of our regions. Based on the shared knowledge within our established strategy to deliver these extensive network, operating standards were re-defined and are being rolled through core risk-managed processes. out to more than 80 sites. Over one hundred examples of best practice have been At a strategic level our risk management identified and communicated internally to all sites. Specific projects are still objectives are to identify our principal on-going. To raise awareness of this initiative amongst all of our employees, risks and to formulate actions to ensure a ‘Waste Challenge’ campaign was launched and the best and most effective that our Corporate Plan and strategic solutions are publicised in a monthly Waste Awareness poster campaign using priorities are aligned with our appetite designs by our own employees. £125m for, and ability to tolerate, these risks over a rolling five year period. Risk identification and assessment is an integral part of our corporate planning Potential savings from reducing waste in corrugated production process, with the objective that the Board continues to have improved Sustainability Review 2015 Introduction Introduction 13 Plastics (Foam Products) DS Smith Foam Products is using smart materials and design to divert waste from landfill with environmentally friendly products such as the HOTBIN®. This container, made out of ARPRO® Expanded Polypropylene, decomposes food and garden waste into organic compost in a process called hot composting. Its design and function result in less waste going to landfill. It is re-usable and 100 per cent recyclable. The HOTBIN was invented by Tony Callaghan, a dedicated gardener who applied commercial composting methods to the domestic market and created a more efficient alternative to his overflowing cold composting bins. HOTBIN is capable of composting more types of waste, more quickly, without the problems of odours and pests. www.hotbincomposting.com visibility of the Group’s principal risks MANAGING OUR CONNECTED RISKS and uncertainties, the consequences of those risks and the controls in place to manage them. We recognise we are subject to many Acquisition general risks such as changes in Strategy Risks socioeconomic conditions, political, financial, general regulatory and legislative changes including events that we cannot influence, but whose effect can impact on Securities of Supply Risks our ability to deliver our Corporate Plan. The risks we face, in the markets we Integration Risks choose to operate in, do not change significantly from year to year, but their Sustainability Legal / Risks influence on our Corporate Plan can vary Regulatory / in magnitude and frequency and this Governance Risks Market influences the way we seek to reduce or Consolidation Risks exploit risks in the pursuit of our objectives. Commercial We continue to recognise the significant Business Differentiation interdependencies between our principal Risks risks. Our connections diagram highlights how the consequences of one risk can be a potential trigger of, or influence on, another. By understanding these Capital relationships, we are better placed to Markets and Liquidity Risks ensure that the strategy and the Eurozone measures taken to manage the delivery Macroeconomic of targets are robust and facilitate and Deflationary Risks stronger discussions of risk and the appropriateness of our current controls. Size of circle = Risk impact Line thickness = Strength of connection www.dssmith.com/sustainability 14 Governance Governance We are committed to measuring and valuing what our customers value. Last year, I talked about the For example, our environmental impacts related to water are actually more about importance of stakeholder water purity and quality than about the participation in our Materiality volume of water we use, and we can Analysis. On reflection, this proudly say that all the water we use represented quite a change in our mills is recycled on site and is returned to the ecosystem cleaner than of emphasis for us. when it was abstracted. However, many Following discussions with senior stakeholders express their interest and colleagues, we made a firm commitment concern based on absolute volumes of to measure and value what our customers water used. This is just one example of value, and to report on those sustainability what we’ve come to realise is actually aspects that mattered most to them. In a much more complex balance of issues some ways, this was a logical continuation and priorities. of our perpetual devotion to great During the last 12 months I have been customer service. But in others, it raised delighted to sponsor our relationship with some challenging questions. When we Keep Britain Tidy. The common interest said that we wanted to publish data on between less litter and more recycling is the topics considered important by our plain to see, but what encourages me stakeholders, the response was often most about this initiative is how our “But how can we possibly please a employees are giving back to their local customer base as diverse and varied communities, improving green spaces and as ours?” Our customers include almost amenities and enhancing the natural every high profile brand owner and retailer beauty of their environment. Through in Europe, the market leaders in sectors initiatives like these, it is pleasing to as diverse as food and drink, industrial consider how ‘closing the loop’ can also goods, technology, cosmetics, and work at the level of social responsibility. consumer goods. In sustainability terms, their material issues really do cover the full spectrum. Peter McGuinness Chair of the Group Sustainability Committee Sustainability Review 2015 Governance Governance 15 GROUP ANNUAL REPORTING FRAMEWORK TRANSPARENCY As DS Smith continues to grow, there E J U LY JUN is greater demand for centralised Full ye a r r e s ul t s communication of sustainability data. Bo ar d m tg. AU However, DS Smith is fundamentally AY GM T . GM T mtg G a Group consisting of local factories mtg M U that were primarily established to . ST Trading m tg. din g Tra t g. m Tra serve local customers. Our policy is to T . m ding G m M t g Sus t ain ab ili t tg . disclose data in aggregate where we yg Tra LTI re v iew Bonus p aym ent ov er na can, with the emphasis on our Bo a mt rd g. m ding tg . ta rg e t Cor p or a te nc e SEP environmental impacts. The reporting IL pla nn g frameworks we use to achieve this are s TEM din nu in APR Bo g Tra tg. m AG M shown below. cy GM T GM T . BER m tg. cle Sal mtg Per f ar y Trading r ev iew Bo ar d m tg. We disclose our Climate Change o r m a nc e r ev iew s m tg. impacts to the Carbon Disclosure Budge Trading Board m t g. t ar M p e r i d -y e a r mtg. Project, and our score in 2014 was f. r e GMT . Ta l e yp r oc es view GMT 85C, an improvement of 22 points s m t g. R over 2013. mtg nt MAR OB E g re din Tra tg. vi m ew CH OCT s Bo a Su Tra mt rd st ai mtding g. na g. bi li t yg Tr ov a er n anc GM t T mtding e GM t T mg. g. g. g m din Tra tg. m Trading mtg. FE GMT ER GMT . BR U mt g. B Bo mtg A a mt rd M E RY OV g. Board ar N m t g. f ye Hal sults re We are also a member of the London Stock Exchange FTSE4Good index, JAN R UA R Y DECE MB E an international responsibility performance benchmark. Financial results and Trading meetings Corporate planning reports to investors • Each division provides cycle • Full–year results monthly updates • Divisional strategy • Half–year results development Sustainability • Trading updates governance • Board approval • Four Sustainability Budgetary process Board meetings Committee meetings • Divisional budget During 2014, we became an A/B • Seven Board meetings a year Talent and development member of the Supplier Ethical Data performance • Board approval Exchange (SEDEX) and we continue to Group Management share supply chain data with our review process Team (GMT) customers and third party auditors. • Talent and • Eleven GMT meetings performance reviews a year • Bonus targets and payments • Salary reviews www.dssmith.com/sustainability 16 Governance Governance continued STRATEGIC OVERSIGHT TARGETS To support these goals, we will: Sustainability is emphasised throughout We believe that it is only by measuring our • Continue disclosure of our carbon our corporate governance framework, impacts that we can find the right balance footprint performance to CDP. starting from our Board of Directors. of sustainability. Where it is clear, we set • Work towards 100 per cent The Board is responsible for reviewing ourselves challenging performance certification to ISO 14001 and and approving the Group’s Environmental targets to improve continuously. OHSAS 18001 standards. and Social Responsibility policies. We believe that by focusing on improving • Ensure that all raw materials Executive responsibility for sustainability our performance against key performance are sourced responsibly and sits within the Group Management Team. measures our managers and employees from sustainable sources. Its members are responsible for overseeing will be better able to understand their the effective implementation of policies • Continue our engagement with the potential to contribute to the greater in areas under their control. UN Global Compact to promote and sustainability of our business. support the implementation of its The Group Sustainability Committee Our targets, set by the Board, require 10 principles. meets quarterly to review the that, in relation to production, we will: management processes, targets and Each production site is required to strategies that address our environmental • Reduce our CO2 emissions from fossil implement an environmental and social risks and opportunities, and fuels by 20 per cent over the 10 years management system which is appropriate ensure compliance with the Group’s to 2020. to its level of activity. At present, 119 environmental and social responsibilities • Reduce our water usage in our paper manufacturing sites have an ISO 14001 and commitments. This governance mills by 20 per cent over the 10 years certification. Each production site that structure ensures that measures are to 2020. converts or trades in wood fibre or other put in place to consider carbon emissions, wood derivative products is mandated • Reduce the amount of production to pursue a recognised certification energy usage, water consumption, rejects sent to landfill by 20 per cent programme leading to a chain of custody waste and product responsibility. over the 10 years to 2020. for responsible fibre sourcing. Once complete, this will result in 100 per cent of relevant production sites holding a certification from a credible external body. COMPOSITION OF GROUP SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Director of Sustainability Packaging Head of Communications Group Health & HR Operations Marketing Group Tax Manager Procurement Director Safety Director Director Director Operations Group Packaging Group IT Group Technical Regulatory Group Head of Risk Commercial Director Director Affairs Director Sustainability Review 2015 Governance Governance 17 COMMITMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS DS Smith subscribes to the following Español български international standards and guidelines: Dansk Code of Conduct Français • United Nations Global Compact. Polski Latvijas Svenska suomi čeština • United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Deutsch • International Labour Organization Roman Nederlands Eesti Magyar Italiano (ILO) eight Fundamental Conventions. • Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational русский ภาษาไทย Lietuvos Slovencina Enterprises. ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Find out more about our Code of Conduct online Ethical business conduct and compliance with local, national and international www.dssmith.com/people/culture/code-of-conduct/ legislation are fundamental to our way of doing business. We believe that an ethical approach will lead to repeat CODE OF CONDUCT COMPETITION LAW business and protect our reputation, The DS Smith Code of Conduct codifies COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME thereby preserving our license to operate. our ethical position on key topics. It An extensive e-learning programme Monitoring ethics and compliance describes common rules which apply has been created to increase awareness and providing annual training to our to all of our employees, and provides of the regulations on competition law employees are the responsibility of guidance on our approach to ethical and compliance. The target group for our Company Secretarial department. business practices, environmental values, this e-learning covers all employees All our employees are encouraged and human and labour rights. It is made with purchasing, marketing and sales to report suspected misconduct or available to all employees as part of their responsibility. A total of 4,830 employees unethical behaviour directly to their own induction, and as at 2014 it has been were trained in this programme during supervisor, Human Resources or the translated into 19 languages. 2014, with a 99.87 per cent pass rate. Group General Counsel. Our employees may also report their concerns in confidentiality to a dedicated hotline, an external service through which anyone can confidentially and anonymously report any issues. Energy efficiency During 2014, six of our German corrugated box plants were certified to the ISO 50001 energy management system. In 2015 all of the remaining box plants will follow suit. The benefit is to have a standard framework in energy calculation, planning and consumption monitoring. The biggest energy consumers in all categories, such as machines, equipment and buildings, were identified and analysed for best practice to reduce energy consumption. Employees were trained in sustainable thinking. The objective is to improve energy efficiency even further. ISO 50001 6 German corrugated box plants certified www.dssmith.com/sustainability 18 Economic Sustainability Economic Sustainability We create opportunities for trade and employment, providing value to wider society. Our long-term prosperity is contingent on managing our business prudently in the short and medium-term. This means ensuring that we are consistently delivering economic value to our shareholders. The cash flows our businesses generate today are available to invest for tomorrow – this fundamental reality underpins our economic sustainability. 14.6% Return on Capital Employed Sustainability Review 2015 Economic Sustainability Economic Sustainability 19 Our industry requires constant capital investment, in innovation and also in maintenance and repairs. Our Brompton Bikes shareholders also have a right to a return The Brompton Bike Company turned to DS Smith when looking for new on their investment, and by delivering packaging. Brompton’s folding bikes are sold in 45 export markets as well as on this promise we will continue to earn directly to retailers in the UK, USA, Canada, China and Ireland. They have become their support towards our long-term a symbol of modern commuting for city dwellers looking to use more sustainable growth ambitions. We also contribute modes of transport. DS Smith was challenged to create a corrugated packaging tremendous value to the communities solution to match the quality of the product. in which we operate, and to wider society. The bike’s new packaging employs creative use of an extended glue flange and We do this by creating opportunities for precise flap arrangements. The internal base flaps fold to form a supportive yet trade and employment, contributing to cushioning structure which offers extra protection. On opening, the bike is the wealth, vitality and stability of our presented to the customer in a logical and pleasing manner. This has enabled communities. Our relentless drive for a Brompton to dispense with tape, making the user experience more aesthetically safe and fulfilling workplace for all our appealing, and the packaging easier to recycle. Tony Foster, DS Smith’s UK sales employees also has economic benefits. and marketing director, said: “This is a pack which really demonstrates how The provision of more highly skilled working closely with the customer produces the highest quality packaging. By jobs enables employees to earn higher taking our cue from the fold-up features of the bike, we have produced a pack salaries. Modernisation results in which is strong and protects the product in transit, but also emphasises the increased productivity and lower qualities of the bike itself.” overall operating costs. PROCUREMENT Overview Our central procurement activities cover a spend of nearly £2.1 billion. We expect our suppliers to support our sustainability objectives. Our procurement activities are structured by category, with the objective of ensuring that we use the strength of the Group to fully leverage our combined spend and get best value, defined in terms of quality, cost, service and innovation. We aim to improve value by: • Reducing the cost of products, services and materials of the required specification. • Identifying opportunities to The team also works with suppliers to through our central paper sourcing optimise specifications. ensure compliance with the DS Smith team, we explored a complex supply chain • Maximising cash flow by minimising Global Supplier Standards. We welcome involving 37 distinct paper manufacturers raw material inventory and spares engagement with all our suppliers, and and more than 75 mills. However, and improving payment terms. if you have questions or opportunities whilst all the paper manufacturers we • Maximising the efficiency of the you would like to share with us, please approached registered, only one third payment process. do not hesitate to contact us by email responded with fully auditable data. • Developing sophisticated sourcing at procurement@dssmith.com. Consequently, we will increase our efforts strategies to enable us to leverage to improve their response rate over the Paper innovation throughout the next year, in order to ensure that we In 2014 our Sustainability Committee supply cycle. continue to provide our customers with demanded greater transparency in our products that we know are sourced from • Defining and communicating an paper supply chain, their fibre sourcing, sustainable forests, legally harvested, ethical procurement policy and CO2 emissions and environmental or – best of all ‒ made from recovered managing compliance. standards. Responsible fibre sourcing is materials that we ourselves have helped one of our material issues. We created to recycle. an online customer questionnaire and, www.dssmith.com/sustainability 20 Economic Sustainability Economic Sustainability continued Raw Materials Capital Equipment and company reputation and improve supply Our raw materials procurement is focused Industrial Goods chain practices. Sedex has two main aims: primarily on consumable commodities A central team purchases our capital • To ease the burden on suppliers used in our manufacturing operations. equipment – anything from a palletiser facing multiple audits, questionnaires Approximately £175 million of spend to an entire paper machine – with and certifications. is broken down into the following average spend of between £35,000 categories: Performance & Technical and £5 million. We engage with technical • To drive improvements in the ethical Chemicals, Commodity Chemicals, Starch, and operational stakeholders to ensure performance of global supply chains. Adhesives, Inks, Pigments & Coatings, the required specifications are met. The core system is a secure, online Dyes, Print Stereos/Clichés, Pulp, Baling We manage the spend on spares and database which allows members to Wire and Expanded Polypropylene/ the engineering services and support store, share and report on information Expanded Polystyrene. required to run our businesses. Suppliers in four key areas: are selected based on their performance Energy • Labour standards and their sustainability credentials. Many of our production facilities • Health & Safety generate their own steam and electricity, Indirects and we purchase fuel, electricity and Indirect costs typically constitute 20–30 • Environment steam from external suppliers. The per cent of our spend. Indirects are usually • Business ethics energy procurement function is bought for internal consumption and Since launch in 2004, over 38,000 responsible for buying energy, including spend categories include: travel, IT, HR organisations from more than 150 fossil fuels, and hedging with regard to services, professional services, facilities countries have made Sedex their energy prices, as well as the trading of management and marketing services. platform of choice for exchanging green certificates and the monitoring of emission trading trends. Energy SEDEX ethical supply chain data. efficiency specialists help to find and DS Smith is a member of Sedex, a exploit opportunities to save energy. not-for-profit membership organisation dedicated to driving improvements Transport in ethical and responsible business The role of transport procurement is practices in global supply chains. As to challenge suppliers to ensure value the largest collaborative platform for creation. Our long-term strategy reduces sharing ethical supply chain data, Sedex total costs and the carbon footprint of is an innovative and effective supply logistics, and drives health and safety chain management solution, helping standards. We take a balanced approach DS Smith to reduce risk, protect our and stimulate our transport providers to bring forward new innovations, such as aerodynamics, alternative fuels and multimodal solutions. Continuous Excellence Fibre is the largest cost category in our paper mills. Improving the efficiency of “ We stimulate our key suppliers our fibre utilisation also has additional environmental benefits, such as improving to bring forward new innovations the efficiency of our effluent treatment plants, and waste management, supply as well as those that we bring to chain, and product quality management systems. For these reasons, each mill the table, such as aerodynamics, carefully measures fibre yield (the ratio of input fibre to output volume). alternative fuels and multimodal As part of our Continuous Excellence Programme, projects to improve fibre solutions.” yield have focused on identifying and minimising losses, and the recovery and re-use of fibre. The results achieved have been impressive: 15,000 tonnes of fibre were saved, which translates as 1,000 fewer lorries each year on the roads around our mills. Sustainability Review 2015 Economic Sustainability Economic Sustainability 21 Plastics (Injection Moulded Products) DS Smith’s Injection Moulded Products factory and we provided a full-circle with Unicer’s logo. Glass was cleaned, service offer includes a mobile recycling service to Unicer. This generated recycled and blown into new bottles truck that collects plastic crates from savings in labour and material cost by the bottling company, and the our customers’ facilities at the end of and resulted in a shorter lead-time. new bottles were loaded into the their useful life, and regrinds them into new crates onsite using our loading a 100 per cent recycled raw material. Once the equipment was set up, machinery. Our trucks delivered the When Portugal-based Unicer Brewery bottles were unloaded and separated new bottled crates to Unicer’s brewery approached us for replacement from the crates and transferred to ready to be filled, and the recycled beverage crates we were able to glass and plastics grinders. Regrinded plastic beverage crates and glass delight this customer by relocating our plastic was cleaned, recycled and bottles started their second life-cycle. automatic unloaders, recycling and moulded into new crates branded moulding equipment to a local bottle At Glass Bottle Factory 1st LIFE-CYCLE Duration: 9 years 1 Crates & bottles are separated SUPPLY-CYCLE Duration: 9 years 2 Regrinded & recycled 3 Moulded into new crates 1st LIFE-CYCLE New crates are shipped 4 New bottles are loaded in crates to Unicer Brewery 5 Bottled crates are sent to brewery 2nd LIFE-CYCLE New crates RETAILER Glass Bottle Brewery Factory 2nd LIFE-CYCLE Brewery – Retailers END OF USEFUL LIFE Crates and bottles are sent Temporarily installs automatic to glass factory to be loader & unloader, recycling regrinded & recycled and moulding equipment www.dssmith.com/sustainability 22 Environment Environment We inform our customers and train sales staff about environmental and social responsibility issues. The core of our business is our perpetual devotion to providing products and solutions that are made from renewable materials and our expertise lies in keeping natural resources productively employed within a closed loop. 206.8kg CO2e per tonne of production Sustainability Review 2015 Environment Environment 23 PACKAGING REPUTATION CARBON FOOTPRINT The figure for total production, used to normalise our total emissions, water and Innovation and product Our carbon footprint waste figures, has reduced slightly since responsibility Since last year’s report, we have the previous year. This is primarily due to The core of our business is our perpetual incorporated additional greenhouse consolidation of our assets and a shift devotion to providing products and gases in our emissions data. In accordance in business mix. A number of recycling solutions that are made from renewable with United Kingdom statutory reporting depots were closed during 2014, and this materials and our expertise lies in requirements,we now express our carbon has outweighed increases in production keeping natural resources productively target in terms of CO2e. We are pleased in our packaging and paper making employed within a closed loop. We to have achieved a reduction in our overall businesses. As a result, our emissions develop our products, services and CO2e emissions per tonne. per tonne figure is lower than the processes in collaboration with our Our Scope 1 emissions have increased as improvement in absolute values. customers. Whilst most of our customer a consequence of our acquisition of feedback relates to products, service, This has also affected the amount of the Combined Heat and Power (CHP) delivery and prices, issues related to effluent water we have discharged. In installation at our paper mill in Italy, innovation, product development absolute terms, there was an increase which resulted in a corresponding and sustainability are also frequently due to record production across a drop in Scope 2 emissions. Another mentioned. We use face-to-face sessions number of paper mills, but the overall consequence of this has been a to inform our customers and train our denominator of all production across the greater power generation capacity, sales staff in environmental and social Group results in a worsened figure for our and a resultant increase in exports responsibility issues. Training sessions target, taken on a like-for-like basis. As of electricity to the grid, which have include practical exercises emphasising indicated last year, this particular target is also contributed to an overall reduction the relevance of sustainability issues in becoming less relevant as we focus more in absolute emissions apportioned to all of our daily work. We are also striving closely on the role water and steam play internal production. to make our paper and board products as carriers and stores of thermal energy. lighter, without compromising on product The large impact of the CHP installations Future efforts will concentrate on quality, so as to save on materials and at our paper mills masks the many reducing water throughput per tonne energy in production and transportation. improvements across our packaging of production, and in the coming year this and plastics plants which are of a smaller Product safety is likely to result in a recalibrated target. scale but are nevertheless important. Our in-house controls and safety systems As our business mix across Europe Of the 155 sites where a year-on-year cover our processes from the product continues to evolve, the impact of those comparison is possible, 102 have achieved development stage through raw material operations which still rely on landfill will reductions in absolute scope 1 emissions. sourcing to delivery of the finished become even further diluted, and our This is the consequence of greater products. Some of our packaging original waste to landfill target will production efficiency and continued materials come into contact with food. increasingly also lose its relevance at investments in more efficient boilers. To guarantee that consumer demands a Group level. We continue to report Analysis of our performance in reducing and food safety regulations are fully our carbon emissions to the Carbon scope 2 emissions tells a similar story, met, all our units producing food contact Disclosure Project (CDP), an international with 79 sites achieving an absolute materials follow Good Manufacturing non-governmental organisation reduction. This has largely been driven Practice (GMP). This helps us to ensure dedicated to reducing global greenhouse by initiatives to replace halogen lighting product safety. We provide our customers gas emissions. with LED lighting. with information on products’ hygiene and safety aspects through declarations of compliance and other documentation, and we have effective processes in place OUR ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS for testing product compliance and For 2014/15, our environmental targets have remained unchanged. Relative safety. We work with our suppliers to to production, we aim to: ensure that we only use chemicals that are safe and in accordance with the • Reduce our CO2 equivalent (CO2 e) emissions from fossil fuels by 20 per cent applicable regulations (e.g. REACH). over the 10 years to 2020; • Reduce our water usage in our paper mills by 20 per cent over the 10 years “ The best way to achieve lasting to 2020; and improvements in packaging • Reduce the amount of production rejects sent to landfill by 20 per cent over performance is to engage the 10 years to 2020. with customers and suppliers.” www.dssmith.com/sustainability 24 Environment Environment continued This allows us to demonstrate our of the water sources are of special commitment to lowering our carbon footprint, by measuring and disclosing ecological status, and our comprehensive and responsible treatment of our effluent Waste reduction our carbon intensity per tonne of ensures that we do not adversely impact DS Smith Launceston carried out production. This year, DS Smith for the these ecosystems. a corrugator trim project to reduce first time participated in the FEFCO/CEPI waste materials. The result was We use wastewater treatment systems Containerboard Lifecycle Assessment. that trim waste was reduced from to ensure that the effluent we discharge This triennial study is the most 2.7 per cent of ‘material on’ to 2.3 per is purified, ecologically safe, and meets comprehensive assessment of the cent. This resulted in Launceston all regulatory requirements. We also environmental load of corrugated preventing 130 tonnes of paper recycle water within our facilities packaging, and we eagerly await the waste per year. where this is feasible, reducing the publication of this study later in 2015. demand for freshwater intake. A direct Corrugator trim waste We also believe that sustainable benefit of these efforts to reduce water 2.73% forest management plays a vital role usage is the improvement in energy and 2.63% 2.40% 2.33% in mitigating climate change. Trees material efficiency. 17.1 absorb CO2 from the atmosphere and Forests act as a store of carbon. Our emphasis The complex nature of recycling and on recycling each fibre as many times reprocessing distribution networks as possible – thereby reducing the need means that it is not possible to verify to fell more trees – is our way of making the provenance of each fibre used in a vital contribution to the overall our products right back to the forest. efficiency of this carbon sequestration. However, we believe that most of the Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 RAW MATERIALS fibres in our products originate from European commercial forestry operations. Water Water plays a central role in paper We strongly believe that supporting Chemicals production processes. It is used as a responsible and sustainable forestry Starch is a carbohydrate that is the transport medium to carry fibres through is a matter of strategic importance for main form of stored energy in plants. the production process. Water is also our industry and, although we don’t Pure starch is a white, tasteless and used for cooling machinery, for cleaning, own any commercial forestry operations odourless powder. The biggest industrial and as a carrier of energy in the form of ourselves, we support initiatives that non-food use of starch is as adhesive in steam. As a water-intensive business, promote forest certification and chainthe paper and board making process. we endeavour to consume and treat of-custody certification schemes and The starches we use are refined from water responsibly and efficiently. we ensure that any virgin fibres in our the following commodities: Water is a critical resource, but for products originate from sustainably • Maize is the most widely grown our business its materiality is aligned managed forests and tree plantations. cereal in the world and maize starch more to reputational risks from our We support the FSC standard, the has become the reference for the stewardship of water resources. PEFC standard and all other credible corrugating industry. It can be used international certification schemes. over a wide corrugating speed range. Group-wide, 51 per cent of our water comes from boreholes, 6 per cent Types of papers used • Wheat starch has been proven to be is municipal, and 43 per cent is in packaging operations suitable for corrugating, although it is surface water. 87 per cent of this less commonly used owing to its total volume is returned to the brittle bonding at low speeds. river after appropriate treatment. • Potato starch allows the production Our assessment of water-related risks speeds of heavyweight board grades in our paper mills and their supply chains to be significantly increased. indicates that the majority of our sites • Pea starch is the newest entrant to are located in regions where freshwater the market. As a speciality starch it is a relatively abundant resource. We have has proved to be better than potato examined the water bodies that our most starch for heavyweight boards and is significant water users discharge into, Kraftliners 21.10% also used in the production of micro and have found that the effect of their Mixed papers 2.50% and nano-flute (micro) grades. Recycled papers 76.40% operations is comparatively small. Many Sustainability Review 2015 Environment Environment 25 RECYCLING AND WASTE sense due to the value of the materials, end up as waste. All of our plants actively which more than covers the cost of their segregate waste to ensure that what Recovered papers collection. Every tonne of recycled fibre can be recycled is recycled. We use Six Our ability to deliver a zero-waste offsets the need to harvest a tonne of Sigma and Lean tools to drive out all solution to major retailers is a significant virgin raw material. Recycled fibres are forms of waste from our manufacturing competitive advantage. Our closed loop turned into new packaging within 14 days. processes. The elimination of waste to recycling model is at the core of this landfill, from our own operations as well strategy. All of our mills currently use As part of our recovered fibre sourcing as those of our customers, has long been 100 per cent recovered papers as their strategy, we are committed to working a Group objective. primary raw material. This is usually with producers to ensure material is, a mixture of old corrugated cases, where possible, collected in separate Preventing food waste recycled newspapers and magazines. streams. This ensures minimum or no With food waste identified as a We do not consider this to be waste; contamination, and provides for a high critical issue, our role in designing we recognise it as a valuable resource quality recycling stream that positively and manufacturing appropriate food which we collect, sort, pulp and convert impacts on the quality of the end packaging contributes to the challenges through an extremely efficient network. product, as well as reducing waste in of food security, protection from High paper recovery rates and the quality the recycling process itself. damage, preservation of freshness, of recovered paper streams are of great prolonged shelf life, added convenience Waste from routine operations strategic interest to us. Our recycling and reduced waste. Our recycling Our internal production processes business manages over 10,000 supply operations also have to deal with food also generate waste streams, the vast contracts with national retailers, local waste that has reached the end of its majority of which are reused through authorities and communities, and we shelf life. We have developed a core our closed loop model. We are constantly promote the most appropriate recycling competency of working with food waste looking for new and innovative ways to and recovery system for all our and end of shelf life produce to reduce, reuse materials that would otherwise customers. This makes good economic reuse and recycle potential food waste. Increasing recycling rates for retailers A pioneering waste management transport food waste (including animal project put in place by DS Smith has by-products) to be sent to an Anaerobic seen innovative processes improve Digestion plant to be converted the transport of food waste from into biogas. major retailers to more sustainable To successfully co-ordinate this project recovery methods. a robust and safe transportation process Our recycling division offers a full needed to be put in place to transfer recycling and waste management this material to its end destination. service for major retailers, which The solution we provided used the same includes operating a successful four-sided cages that deliver products backhaul model, where retail stores into stores, but with an added protective can return materials such as cardboard plastic lining so that the food waste and polythene for recycling to central could be safely transported. Once hubs on returning delivery vehicles. inside our specially adapted vehicles the Using this model enables retailers to cages are protected within a leak proof get the best value for their recyclables container ready to go on their journey. as well as reducing the carbon emissions of store recycling collections. This new innovative concept for transporting food waste has not been However, advances in this process used previously on this scale and needed to be found to incorporate food has played a big role in enabling us to waste into the backhaul model, sending divert vast amounts of food waste from it on to sustainable recovery processes. landfill and improve the environmental The challenge our business faced was performance of our large retail clients. to find a way to successfully and safely www.dssmith.com/sustainability 26 Environment Environment continued Continuous Excellence It is results driven. Results are measured commitment to the projects and their Continuous Excellence is a Group-wide in terms of cost reduction, revenue results. Employees are invited to programme aimed at continuously increase and sustainable growth. brainstorming sessions to generate improving our performance in reducing The vision is to foster a culture that ideas for Continuous Excellence projects. internal waste from our production embraces continuous improvement Ideas are selected based on their impact processes. Working across all divisions, and operational excellence. Every single potential, timescale and cost. Each the programme is based on realising DS Smith employee is encouraged to project is then implemented according to the potential of our people by sharing initiate projects, and then to implement Lean methodology, based on measurable knowledge and competencies, finding them at local sites with their colleagues. improvement results and KPIs. more efficient and collaborative ways This follows the philosophy of OWN IT! of working and eliminating waste. and fosters ownership of and Kemsley Mill zero waste project An innovative project set up at The wastes generated in the mill DS Smith’s Kemsley Paper Mill has and subsequently used in the Reject enabled the recovery of previously Processing Centre were ‘Ragger’ unrecyclable materials from the (a by-product containing baling wire, paper making process. plastics and fibre), and ‘Light Rejects’ (by-products of the various screening Our Kemsley Paper Mill has a production processes, comprising metals, capacity of 800,000 tonnes per year plastic and fibre). Stefano Rossi and is the second biggest recovered Divisional CEO and fibre based paper operation in Europe. Using technology originally used to strip Continuous Excellence Sponsor tyres in France it became possible to To improve our recycling and waste separate these waste streams, allowing management methods a Reject us to give them a second lease of life. “ Excellence is about surpassing Processing Centre was established at the mill in July 2014, with help from This successful project has displayed the ordinary standards. It’s our partners Countrystyle Recycling our commitment to zero waste and about seeking a higher level of Ltd and their sister company FGS Agri. landfill avoidance. It also shows how performance through continuous we strive to ensure materials are used Applying the ‘zero waste’ mantra the improvement of behaviour, and reused as efficiently as possible, centre processes the specific waste and can find ways to make use of services, processes and products. streams that arise from the paper Well embedded into the OWN IT! materials that were previously making process, and organises cast-off and deemed unusable. culture of our company, materials to be reused, recycled, and used to provide steam for the Continuous Excellence is aiming paper making process. As a result to inspire, sustain and strengthen no materials are sent to landfill. our competitive position. It is a relentless process of continuously challenging ourselves by identifying opportunities, setting the right priorities and assigning them to the appropriate people to ensure success. “ Sustainability Review 2015 Environment Environment 27 BIODIVERSITY opportunities to investigate how is crucial. As many species continue to Partnership with the Zoological such changes may impact wildlife face the growing pressures of habitat Society London and ecosystems. The IAU collates and loss and exploitation, identifying Global agreements such as the analyses a number of global datasets, those species and areas that are Convention on Biological Diversity including estimates of abundance most at risk is now fundamental. (CBD) have set stringent goals for for over 15,000 wildlife populations, Determining why particular species biodiversity conservation. ZSL’s covering over 3,000 species. Bringing may be more or less effective will be Indicators and Assessments Unit these data together offers a unique important for informing conservation (IAU) was formed in 2006 to develop opportunity to understand the impact action. It is essential that we develop scientifically robust indicators to track of the loss of these habitats on species our understanding of the impact we progress towards these goals and to in the wild. may be having on the natural world. effectively determine the status and New technologies such as remote Dr Robin Freeman, Head of the IAU, trends of biodiversity globally. sensing offer new opportunities said “Understanding how threats such and new ways to monitor our With the support of the DS Smith as forest loss affect wildlife populations natural world.” Charitable Foundation, the IAU is undertaking a critical research project to investigate the impacts of global forest loss on biodiversity. As habitat loss and habitat degradation continue to be the principal threats to global biodiversity, understanding how and why particular species and populations are most at risk is vital. The recent development of global datasets monitoring the changing state of the earth’s forests offers new This map shows the global pattern of tree cover gains and losses. This has significant impacts both on biodiversity and on the sustainability of our primary raw material supply, and illustrates the fine balance of sustainability. Tree cover loss Monitored wildlife population Global tree cover loss (Hansen/UMD/Google/USGS/NASA) www.dssmith.com/sustainability 28 Social Responsibility Social Responsibility We are committed to conducting our business in a responsible and sustainable manner. All of our activities are directed towards delighting our customers, creating value for our shareholders and providing our employees with a safe and productive place to work. 4.16 Accident Frequency Rate in 2014/15 146 Lost Time Accidents in 2014/15 Sustainability Review 2015 Social Responsibility Social Responsibility 29 EMPLOYEES Context We are committed to ensuring our employees work in a safe, fair and productive environment. We base our approach to, and expectation of, our employees around our five DS Smith values, which describe a bilateral relationship between the company and our employees. Our people are the custodians of our reputation: they represent our capacity to deliver on our promise to be the most sustainable, innovative and commercially successful packaging strategists in each of our markets. All of our executive and regional leadership teams are committed to maintaining high levels of visibility, personally visiting as many plants as possible and holding face to face meetings to build on the dialogue with our employees and to foster gender identity, disability, sexual There are variances across markets trust and continued engagement. orientation or age. Our approach and countries to ensure that we are to diversity and inclusion is all about competitive and compliant in those Health and safety recognising that the ideal working markets. We want all our employees to We recognise that our people, contractors environment is one which allows all understand the Total Rewards of working and visitors are exposed to environments our employees to perform at their with DS Smith and we aim to communicate that can potentially present real hazards. best and develop to their full potential. these benefits clearly and transparently. Every employee is mandated to do their We value all kinds of diversity as well Key and common elements are: utmost to reduce those hazards. Our as individual characteristics such as a target is zero accidents and we have • Fixed pay broad life experience. established key performance indicators • Variable pay to ensure that we continue to make During 2014 we have begun to collect • Learning and Development progress towards that goal. Our more comprehensive data on the diversity businesses’ safety performance is of our workforce. We already knew that • A range of other benefits reported and reviewed on a monthly only 20 per cent of our workforce, DS Smith has a Group-wide employee basis. We monitor progress through and 9 per cent of our senior managers, Sharesave arrangement, which is offered proactive audit programmes and other are women, but understanding the as part of our overall reward strategy initiatives such as observational safety broader societal factors, such as interand is available to all eligible employees. schemes and near miss reporting. generational changes in perception of It provides an opportunity for our the manufacturing sector, will take employees to share in the success The outcomes of incident investigations more time. Our intention is to share of DS Smith. This is a savings-related are shared within the organisation for more detailed data on the diversity arrangement whereby employees can the implementation of steps to avoid of our workforce on our website as buy shares in the company at a fixed future accidents. Where applicable, that research comes to fruition. price. The arrangement unites our we also liaise with machine and equipment suppliers, and trade Reward, recognition and employees around a common purpose associations to ensure that safety share ownership and engages them in the strategic critical communications are shared widely. Our Total Reward approach is designed direction of the Group. The focus on the and structured so as to ensure we attract, Group’s performance reinforces the sense Diversity and Inclusion of ownership and accountability for our retain, develop and motivate the best Diversity is important for us since we delivery at all levels of the business and people, building and ensuring a high believe it to be a key factor behind high drives the DS Smith values, creating an performing culture. Due to the diversity performing and innovative teams. We do environment in which our people are of the markets in which we operate, not tolerate any discrimination based on proud to give their best. our Total Rewards are not standard culture, nationality, race, religion, gender, throughout the Group. www.dssmith.com/sustainability 30 Social Responsibility Social Responsibility continued Employee communication Human rights THE DS SMITH Communication is a primary responsibility Our commitment to respect and support CHARITABLE FOUNDATION for all managers. Employees are human rights extends to our suppliers, At DS Smith we seek to make a positive encouraged to participate and give business partners, and the wider contribution to the communities in which their views on any aspect of the Group’s communities within our sphere of we operate and to build on our reputation performance. In October 2014 we ran influence. Our human rights approach as a good neighbour and employer. our third Group-wide employee survey, is aligned with universally accepted Developing and maintaining good asking our colleagues to share their views international and regional human rights relations in the local communities in on their role, their workplace and their instruments and we subscribe to the which we operate is important to us. managers. With a response rate of 81 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The DS Smith Charitable Foundation per cent there was strong participation We have embedded these elements was established to provide funding to in the process. The main areas identified in our Code of Conduct, which has an charities with activities and values similar for improvement were: enhanced focus on human and labour to those of DS Smith. In particular, we rights. These issues have also been • Performance management: the support charities engaged in improving integrated into our social responsibility completion of quality performance or conserving the environment, and guidelines, supplier sustainability appraisals, at least once a year, for those providing training and educational requirements and due diligence all employees is mandatory and opportunities. During the last year, guidelines for new investments. These should be supplemented by regular the Foundation has helped to support frameworks shape our approach to informal feedback (both positive a number of organisations providing human and labour rights and serve as and constructive challenge) from work placements for disadvantaged guiding standards when we work in line managers. young people. regions where related local regulations • Communication: building on our are assessed as weak or non-existent. The DS Smith Charitable Foundation is a existing employee engagement registered charity, which aims to make a activities under the banner of OWN IT!, Forced and child labour combination of small donations (£1,000 we seek to continue the development During the reporting period, there were or less) as well as a number of larger of skills, channels and culture to allow no reported instances of forced labour donations each year, and the trustees are the open exchange of ideas and or child labour, either in our own particularly interested in opportunities to information between individuals operations, or in those of our suppliers. develop multi-year partnerships with key and teams. We will only ever employ people who selected charities. Details of some of the are working of their own free will. No • Recognition: we are working on charities that the DS Smith Charitable employee is required to lodge a deposit, solutions to improve the identification, Foundation has helped during the last and no individual will be deprived of encouragement and reinforcement year are available on our website. identity papers upon commencing of exemplary behaviours and high employment with the Group. Every Requests for donations can be made performance throughout the business. line manager is responsible for making via the website at: European Works Council sure that these absolute standards www.dssmith.com/company/ The European Works Council (EWC) is are adhered to. sustainability/social-responsibility/ charitable-trust/charitable-form/ an employee consultation body working in partnership with DS Smith with the EMPLOYEE FUNDRAISING objective of developing a fair, safe and In addition to our Charitable Foundation, positive working environment and culture we also encourage and support employee for all. It represents employees across fundraising initiatives at a local and Europe and understands the diversity national level. During 2014, these have of beliefs, cultures and affiliations within encompassed a wide range of activities, the Group. Its purpose is to bring together from individuals achieving personal representatives from all European challenges and milestones to teams countries, meeting twice per year in of DS Smith employees cooperating January and July. Representatives are to support causes that matter to elected or appointed to attend the EWC them and their families. We are proud in accordance with local law and practice of all their achievements and their in each country. visible commitment to living the DS Smith values. Sustainability Review 2015 Social Responsibility Social Responsibility 31 DS Smith Charitable Foundation Grants DANMARKS INDSAMLING ARKWRIGHT UNICEF Annual campaign to raise funds SCHOLARSHIP TRUST Replacing traditional corporate for worthy causes worldwide Engineering scholarships for Christmas gifts with a donation (Photo credit: Preben Hjorth) school children to support the work of UNICEF Find out more about Social Responsibility online FRESHER FOR LONGER CHANGING TUNES www.dssmith.com/ SCHOOLS PROGRAMME Using music and singing to help company/sustainability/ Reducing food waste through rehabilitate former prisoners social-responsibility/ awareness in schools Employee Fundraising MACMILLAN CANCER SUPPORT HEART RESEARCH UK AND CANCER RESEARCH UK Each year, many of our talented colleagues showcase their A 900-mile epic ride from Livingston to Launceston raised baking skills to raise money for Macmillan Cancer Support. over £102,000 for Heart Research and Cancer Research UK. www.dssmith.com/sustainability 32 Social Responsibility Social Responsibility continued Keep Britain Tidy During the year DS Smith has become We are extremely happy to be working During the first year this work has been the primary sponsor of Keep Britain with Keep Britain Tidy on this project, focused in England, with an ambitious Tidy’s Green Flag Award scheme. as this demonstrates how the business plan to roll out the scheme into DS Smith has pledged to volunteer and sector and community organisations additional territories, and in each case fundraise, supporting the development can work together to address the with projects aligned to a local green of green spaces and the Green Flag issues that matter most to our space that is used by employees and Award for communities and businesses communities. Through this initiative, communities in which DS Smith in the UK across all its sites. we intend to make a real difference has a local factory. The partnership to the quality of life of our employees will see the two organisations working Keep Britain Tidy chief executive in the workplace, and to the local together to improve the environment Richard McIlwain said: “We are communities near to DS Smith sites. we live in, which in turn will improve our continually trying to improve parks and Greenspace projects are already local communities’ quality of life. For green spaces and maintain the profile underway across the Group and more information on the Partnership and reach of the Green Flag Award. have been met with enthusiasm contact Sophie Gibbs, Corporate Participating DS Smith employees will by employees. We look forward to Engagement Manager, at: find it incredibly rewarding to be part of sharing our green stories with you. sophie.gibbs@keepbritaintidy.org such worthwhile community projects.” Sustainability Review 2015 About this Review About this Review 33 Scope of the Review Our performance is assessed using the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI G4 framework. This review provides a It is our policy that specified key Unless otherwise specified, statistical performance indicators (KPIs) that information referred to in this document comprehensive description relate to our published targets should covers the calendar year, from 1 January of the governance of be externally assured, and this is clearly to 31 December 2014. Some data is based sustainability issues within annotated for the datasets covered. on our financial year, which runs from DS Smith, and how our 1 May 2014 to 30 April 2015. Our The data collection strategy that consolidated environmental performance progress towards our targets underpins our wider sustainability data covers all production facilities that and the performance of our reporting, and in particular the information were owned and operated for the entire we publish via our website, uses the strategy are evaluated for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 period, unless otherwise stated. Sales each of our environmental, offices and other central staff locations framework, although we have insufficient are excluded from the environmental social and economic objectives. verified data available at present across performance data. a sufficient number of material aspects and indicators to enable comprehensive Data about our people was derived disclosure. This remains an objective we from separately collected HR sources, are actively working towards. and the number of our employees is derived from payroll data. This covers permanent and temporary employees as at 31 December 2014. www.dssmith.com/sustainability 34 About this Review Assurance Statement ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS With the exception of one effluent spillage at our Clay Cross site on 3 February 2015, which resulted in a warning letter from the United Kingdom Environment Agency on 30 March 2015, no other major environmental incidents or incidents of significant impact Assurance Statement reportable to local or national authorities, Bureau Veritas UK has been or incidents potentially resulting in legal commissioned by DS Smith Plc prosecution, have been reported for the (DS Smith) for the seventh year period covered by this Review. to provide an independent opinion DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT on the Environmental Performance APPROACH Indicators presented in this Report. Having completed a process of The management approach to assessment including site visits, sustainability is based on those aspects document review and interrogation of the GRI G4 framework that have been of associated management and identified as material to our business. reporting systems, Bureau Veritas We measure, analyse and report on concludes that there is no evidence additional data for each of these to suggest that the data presented aspects, where we consider this to be here is not a fair and accurate consistent with the legitimate demands representation of DS Smith’s of our stakeholders and appropriate performance. DS Smith should be from a commercial and legislative commended on its approach to perspective. Unless otherwise stated, consistent data collection and the the Group’s consolidated data published work which has been undertaken in this Review or on our website covers this year to ensure that there is a DS Smith Plc (the parent company), and good understanding of associated all subsidiary entities in which we hold processes across the company both over 50 per cent of voting rights directly at a Group and a site level. It remains or indirectly. Consolidated sustainability clear that DS Smith is constantly performance data does not cover looking to improve its internal investments where ownership is below processes and has proactively 50 per cent. These are undertakings in engaged in the verification process. which DS Smith has influence, but which we do not control. DS Smith Plc complies A full verification statement with the corporate and accounting including the methodology, regulations of the UK, and all subsidiary basis for the opinion, additional companies comply with the regulations, recommendations, limitations and a statement of Bureau legislation and permitting requirements Veritas’s independence can of all countries and regions in which be found on the DS Smith Plc they operate. website at: www.dssmith.com/ sustainability/environment/ QUESTIONS AND FEEDBACK performance Any questions about this document should be directed to the Group Health, Safety and Environment Director via the Group website:  www.dssmith.com/sustainability Sustainability Review 2015 About this Review About this Review 35 Data tables ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Data for period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014) Unit of measure 2014 2013 2012 Change Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities ktonnes of CO2e 1,281 1,215 n/a 5.4% Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use ktonnes of CO2e 526 576 n/a (8.6%) CO2e impact of electricity, heat, and steam exported to third parties ktonnes of CO2e (584) (519) n/a 12.4% Total 1,223 1,272 n/a (3.8%) Other environmental indicators Unit of measure 2014 2013 2012 Change Total production ktonnes 5,916 6,027 5,322 (1.8%) Electricity, heat, and steam exported to third parties GWh 2,183 1,995 n/a 9.4% Total effluent water discharged Mm3 17.0 16.6 16.0 2.4% Total waste to landfill ktonnes 63 64 68 (2.1%) Our environmental targets Unit of measure 2014 2013 2012 Change Emissions per tonne of production (CO2e net of energy exports) kg CO2e/tonne 206.8 211.0 n/a (2.0%) Total effluent water discharged per tonne of production m3/tonne 2.9 2.8 3.0 4.3% Total waste to landfill per tonne of production kg/tonne 10.5 10.6 12.8 (0.3%) Methodology 1 DS Smith collects and reports environmental data in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP), to the extent that this is practicable. 2 The figures reported above include data from all the Group’s wholly-owned or majority-owned manufacturing operations. Of the 89 sites whose production process requires fossil fuels (paper mills, corrugating plants and foam plants), actual consumption figures were available for all sites. The total figures also include emissions data from a further 81 smaller production facilities that use only grid electricity. 3 The combined heat and power plant that supplies Witzenhausen with steam is fired predominantly by biogenic fuels. The emission factor for this site has been estimated as 92.019 kg/MWh of CO2e. 4 Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated using the UK Department for the Environment, Food & Rural Affairs 2014 emissions factors. The factors used for converting grid electricity reflect the mix of fuels used for electricity generation in each country. 5 Scope 3 emissions, from sources external to DS Smith but involved in the supply chains for the Group’s products and services, are not included. 6 The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations; they do not include waste collected from third parties as a raw material by our recycling operations. 7 Production is defined as the sum of the production output in tonnes from each site whose energy, waste and water consumption is reported above. www.dssmith.com/sustainability 36 About this Review Data tables continued GROUP GREENHOUSE GAS GROUP GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY SCOPE EMISSIONS BY GREENHOUSE GAS (Data for period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014) (Data for period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014) Total CO2e Total CO2 Total CH4 Total N2O Total HFCs Total C5H12 emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Global 1,824,326 1,292,529 531,798 1,865,171 2,508 2,181 159 199 Austria 3,075 2,354 721 3,069 4 3 0 0 Belgium 9,404 6,073 3,331 9,388 9 7 0 0 Bulgaria 893 59 834 893 0 0 0 0 Croatia 314 15 299 314 0 0 0 0 Czech Republic 7,569 2,965 4,605 7,562 5 3 0 0 Denmark 12,902 7,340 5,562 12,877 11 15 0 0 Estonia 3,128 1,087 2,041 3,124 1 3 0 0 Finland 4,840 2,383 2,457 4,828 5 6 0 0 France 157,753 138,425 19,328 157,414 231 108 0 0 Germany 347,324 224,568 122,755 390,805 517 206 0 0 Hungary 4,830 2,492 2,338 4,824 4 2 0 0 Israel 1,404 0 1,404 1,404 0 0 0 0 Italy 302,631 126,039 176,591 302,138 350 143 0 0 Lithuania 3,262 1,978 1,284 3,258 3 1 0 0 Netherlands 261,159 246,430 14,729 260,574 419 166 0 0 New Zealand 223 8 215 223 0 0 0 0 Poland 41,910 18,417 23,493 41,637 15 258 0 0 Romania 2,463 1,365 1,098 2,460 2 1 0 0 Slovakia 2,618 92 2,525 2,617 0 0 0 0 Spain 2,974 434 2,540 2,973 1 0 0 0 Sweden 2,710 2,115 594 4,192 4 4 0 0 Switzerland 1,798 1,682 116 1,794 3 2 0 0 Thailand 122 0 122 122 0 0 0 0 United Kingdom 642,771 506,037 136,734 640,430 924 1,255 159 199 United States 6,252 171 6,082 6,252 0 0 0 0 Sustainability Review 2015 Our challenge to you: 7 things you can do to make the world a greener place 1 Recycle as much metal, plastic and cardboard as you can. Inform yourself about local recycling regulations so you can optimise your recycling and reduce your waste. 2 Travel with consideration. Millions of litres of fuel are wasted every year due to incorrectly inflated tyres. Preventative maintenance is an important driver of efficiency. 3 Be economical with electricity. Unplug electrical appliances when they are not being used. Sockets use energy when plugs are plugged in, regardless of whether the appliance is active or not (i.e. a phone charger). 4 Check the taps. A tap leaking one drop per second can equate to 1,300 gallons per year. This amount of water could fill 26 baths! Make sure your plumbing is in working order to prevent any unnecessary waste. 5 Save a tree. Trees are crucial to the survival of the planet. The greatest cause of deforestation is conversion to agricultural land use, resulting in losses of 3 to 6 billion trees per year. By recycling old corrugated boxes and packaging, and by insisting on recycled packaging when you shop, you are preventing deforestation. 6 Change your bulbs. Use LED lighting or Contact Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs) to light your home instead of standard light bulbs. In comparison to regular bulbs, they last 10 times longer, produce 90% less heat and use ¼ of the energy, yet still produce more light per watt! 7 Don’t throw it all away. Not all waste should be thrown in the bin. Electrical technology such as old mobile phones and broken computers contain mercury as well as other chemicals which are toxic and increasingly becoming a problem in the environment. Ask your local council where your nearest electronic recycling point is. www.dssmith.com/sustainability Sustainability Review 2015 DS Smith Plc 350 Euston Road Regent’s Place London NW1 3AX Telephone +44 (0)20 7756 1800 www.dssmith.com/sustainability Find us on: Printed in the UK by Principal Colour Ltd on Lumi Silk made from FSC® certified fibre Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc (London) Principal Colour Ltd are certified to the www.blacksunplc.com ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. +44 (0) 20 7736 0011
