Communication on Progress Year: 2015 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact 23rd October,2015 Ms. Judy Njino Global Compact focal point Kenya United Nations Global Compact Nairobi Kenya. Dear Judy Njino, Re: TATA Chemicals Magadi Co Ltd. support to the UN Global Compact TATA Chemicals Magadi Limited (TCML) is committed to rendering support to the global compact programme of The UN and will endeavour to abide by the TEN principles of the United Nations Global Compact in The core agendas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. As a responsible business, TCML has been a leader in corporate social responsibility, environment, safety, and human resource management for over 100 years. As part of actions that demonstrate increasing commitment to sustainability, TCML participated in piloting The IS026000 standard in partnership with The Kenya Bureau of Standards in June 2014.This year we have continued in the journey in the implementation of ISO 26000 and are strengthening the Magadi Soda Foundation to drive the sustainability agenda even further. With this communication we express our willingness to continue supporting and Page 1/14 advancing the principles of The UN global compact through our policies, processes, products, and services. In case of any further enquiries do not hesitate to get in touch with The Manager of The Magadi Soda Foundation-Mr. David Aoll on Telephone +254 722 773 492. For and on behalf of: TATA Chemicals Magadi Limited. Yours Sincerely, Eng. Jackson Muchira Mbui Managing Director. ______________________________________ 23/10.2015, ENG JACKSON MBUI,MANAGING DIRECTOR Company name: TATA CHEMICALS MAGADI LTD. Sector: MINING Number of employees: 400 UN Global Compact signatory since: 2007/02/07 Contact person: DAVID OMONDI AOLL Address: PO BIX 1-00205, MAGADI, KENYA Email: davidaoll@yahoo.com Phone: +254 722 773492 Tata Chemicals Magadi occupies a significant place in the African economy. It is Africa's largest soda ash manufacturer and one of Kenya's leading exporters. Just as significant, the company is an important part of the socio-economic fabric of the Lake Magadi region in Kenya where its soda ash facility is based. Page 2/14 Scope of this COP The scope of This COP defines the activities of the last year in four areas: Human Rights, Anticorruption, Labour Rights and Environment. TATA Chemicals Magadi has elaborate strategies and plans in these areas and has recently strengthened action plans in fulfilment of the same. This COP provides a summary of activities and outputs in these four areas. In this year’s COP we wish to demonstrate unalloyed commitment to the ten principles of the UNGC Human Rights UN Global Principle 1: Business should support and respect the Compact protection of internationally proclaimed human rights principles Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not covered: complicit in human rights abuses Commitment : TATA Chemicals Magadi commits to the full support of Human Rights. The company adheres to all relevant Kenya legislation that are applicable in the industry:  The company supports Right to life, liberty and security of the person right to peaceful assembly and supports this by encouraging regular Human Rights community meetings and supporting peaceful assemblies by partnering with the police and local administrators.  The company is committed to supporting the right to an adequate Current standard of living for its entire staff by providing good standard of housing and incentives that enable access to food and clothing.  The company supports the rights of its employees and community members to physical and mental health. This year we have improved the facilities in Magadi Hospital and strengthened the community wellness program to help support the above objectives. We also support the right to education by provision of bursaries and improvement of education infrastructure. This year we have provided over 22 university Page 3/14 bursaries, 50 secondary schools, 20 colleges.  The company promotes equal recognition and protection under the law; freedom of thought; conscience ,land religion  The company working with the local administrators has carried out several sensitization meetings to promote the human rights mandate of Right to a fair trial, right to hold opinions; freedom of information and expression  The company has promoted the development of local culture in recognition of the right to participate in cultural life, the benefits of scientific progress  Freedom of movement.  The company has worked to guarantee the right to a safe work environment; Right to rest and leisure; and right to family life for all its employees implemented through a community friendly township policy. A brief description of our Processes or Systems:  The company maintains safety, health, and environment policy  Employees have free access to portable water, health services, and modern housing.  The company provides four schools and a hospital.  Employees are covered by group, personal accident insurance  For the local community the company runs a robust community social responsibility program under The Magadi Soda Foundation –providing water, health, employment, microenterprise development, and education, etc  The company holds monthly consultations with the community.  A passenger coach provides service from Magadi to Kajiado for staff, their, families, and the community  Provision of protective clothing for staff and community members that visit the factory. Activities implemented in the last year  We rolled out intensive awareness programs on human rights for employees, contractors and suppliers.  Strengthening the whistle blower policy to take improve reporting of human rights violations  All employees signed the TATA code of conduct that has some provisions on human rights.  We conducted refresher training for managers, supervisors and senor Page 4/14 staff on human rights.  We strengthened the employee works council to check on and report compliance on the human rights agenda.  Strengthening the Magadi Soda Foundation with extra capacity-funding and people-to drive the human rights agenda.  Consultations were held with all stakeholders-employees, communities, suppliers, and contractors for a collaborative approach on human rights Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  No reported cases of human rights violation.  No litigation cases involving human rights  By promoting human rights the company achieved positive relations hips with the community leading to harmonious and productive partnerships, and increased community goodwill and renewed community “license to operate.”  Training staff at all levels on human rights  Improved health access to the community-MOH reports  Improved access to education through bursaries and support(Ministry of Education reports)  Equal access to employment opportunities to surrounding communities(Labour reports)  Zero discrimination based on faith and ethnicity  Cordial relations with all stakeholders through survey reports-union, local community, suppliers, and contractors  Zero targets for loss and injury in the work place  Improved preventive health care-leading to less sick off, high staff productivity Page 5/14 Activities planned for next year: 1.Training contractors and suppliers on human rights issues 2. Training of all staff on fundamentals of human rights both a constitutional and UN perspective. Human Rights 3. Advocacy across the community to strengthen human rights activities and objectives. Future Labour Rights Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining UN Global Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all Compact forms of forced and compulsory labour principles covered: Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Page 6/14 Commitment :  The company strictly adheres to existing labour laws: Right to work; Right to equality at work; Right to equal pay for equal work; Right to organize and participate in collective bargaining; Freedom of association; Right to non-discrimination; Right to just and favourable remuneration  The company supports international labour laws including ILO.  Our code of conduct policy document-TATA code of conduct-has been extended to suppliers and contractors for fair labour practices  Employees are engaged in free and fair labour  The company does not discriminate persons on grounds of skin colour, sex/gender, religion, or tribe  Staff employed must be above 18 years of age and provide proof through a national ID card  The company has an affirmative action plan for marginalized groups such as minorities and disables in accordance with the constitution of Kenya. Labour Rights A brief description of our Processes or Systems  A staff collective bargaining agreement is in place.  Staff wellness program is operational and active. Current  Policies on non–discrimination and non–segregation .  The employee relations office exists to take care of employee grievances and company climate.  Open door policy and monthly communication meetings exist to provide employees with the right to be heard.  Staff suggestion boxes and complaints mechanisms in place to capture employee feedback and situations. Activities implemented in the last year  Full audit of labour practices carried out twice in the year using the TATA business excellence model and the report used to inform improvements in labour practices.  Full time internal auditor retained and routine audits conducted to obtain assurance on compliant labour practices. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Independent audits show implementation of labour laws  Training of staff to understand their rights undertaken half yearly  The HR policy was reviewed to improve compliance with emerging labour practices. Page 7/14  Improved organization climate and improved employee relations as a result of well deployed labour practices.  No incidents of litigations and legal fees incurred as a results of breach of labour laws. Activities planned for next year 1.Strenthening of the works council 2.Refresher course for managers on labour laws Labour Rights 3.Strengthened employee wellness program 4.labour laws compliance audit for suppliers and contractors 5.Capacity building of contractors and suppliers in labour laws. Future Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary UN Global approach to environmental challenges Compact Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to principles promote greater environmental responsibility covered: Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Page 8/14 Commitment : TATA Chemicals Magadi has demonstrated over the years a commitment to environmental stewardship, protection, and sustainability.  This includes having an openly displayed policy as well as integrating environmental considerations in overall management systems and our operations.  The company has obtained a robust safety, Health, and Environment policy The company conforms to The National Environmental legislation under The  Environmental Management and coordination ACT of 1999.  Audits of operations as per the International Finance Corporation(IFC)  Environmental and social audits once every two years  Annual environmental audits and environmental impact assessments A brief description of our Processes or Systems  We have a full time senior manager taking care of safety and environment.  Monthly environmental audits with the objective of eliminating unacceptable risk to the environment and health of employees, Environment customers and members of the public  Permanent Task force reports on weekly actions to reduce to a practicable minimum adverse effect of the environment Current  We c consult regularly with employees, regulatory authorities, and local community Activities implemented in the last year  Planted over 50,000 trees in Kajiado and Magadi under an aggressive afforest ration campaign.  Rolling out of the solar project plan  Construction of gabions and other soil control initiatives to the north of Lake Magadi  Commissioning of the Loita water tower conservation project.  Construction of dikes and other initiatives to control the siltation of Lake Magadi Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Minimum of dust released to the environment Construction o Electro Static Precipitator(ESP)to reduce the amount of dust emitted  Reduced evaporation rate of water at Oloibortoto river leading to sustainable water supply.  Rate of improved tree cover in Magadi Division. Page 9/14  Environmental action plan and environmental audits conducted monthly for sustainable environment policy  Result of 2015 environmental audits defining action plans for environmental conservation.  Greening project implementation-centenary park maintenance  Implemented policy on dealing with environmental breaches with clear mitigation plans. Activities planned for next year  Improved environmental policy Environment  Enhanced Community sensitization on environment forums  Siltation program to control siltation of Lake Magadi Future  Afforestation and soil management program enhancement north of Lake Magadi. Page 10/14 Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all principles its forms, including extortion and bribery covered: Commitment :  The company has a clear policy and very clear guidelines on issues of anti-corruption and this are well documented in standing instructions.  The TATA code of conduct which defines the employee code of conduct has a clause on anti-corruption and this clause is strictly enforced.  The company operates in the international market with major operations in the UK and is keen to comply with The UK anti-bribery act which is enforced as part of the Code of conduct  The standing instructions of TATA Chemicals Magadi are clear on Zero tolerance for corruption.  The company is still committed to adhere to national legislation on corruption. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Anti-corruption  The whistle blower policy encourages reporting of issues on corruption  The company has an innovation and quality team that routinely monitors and implements improvements in the ethics and integrity agenda. Current  The company carries out monthly communication meetings at corporate and departmental levels and policy briefs are given to staff and among the issues highlighted are issues of anti0corruption.  New staff are inducted and have to sign an anticorruption agreement before joining  The company participates in several forums and initiatives to combat corruption-both government and private sector  Robust audit procedures and a full time systems manager to ensure adequate internal controls to minimize/eliminate corruption incidences. Activities implemented in the last year  All employees, suppliers and contractors sensitized on the TATA code of conduct Monthly meetings and communications targeting anticorruption  The CEO Zero tolerance to corruption policy re-launched this year. Page 11/14 Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Zero number of corruption cases reported during the year.  No financial losses incurred due to corruption.  Improvement in the perception index on corruption with suppliers and contractors with the company seen as a zero tolerance zone for corruption.  There have been no legal case and fines related to corruption and bribery in the last year  Zero reported incidences of corruption cases as monitored by the ethic committee  Zero reported incidents of fines and other costs related to corruption  High scores on integrity in the corruption survey reports by anticorruption agencies  Improved reputation as a corruption free zone and organization  Resultant improvement in contractor and supplier services as a benefit from a corruption free operation. Activities planned for next year  Increased advocacy in local and international forums on anti-corruption.  All suppliers and contractors to sign fresh anti-corruption agreements Anti-corruption  Greater visibility in the anti-corruption dialogue by partnering with and participating in national and international anti-corruption forums Future Page 12/14 How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders?  Regular Stake holder Meetings e.g. the monthly community meetings  Newsletters/ Email/ Posters  Email and Social media updates  Hard copy brochures, and posters  Newslettersmailed and emailed.  Sporting and community events as  partner and industry newsletters and forums  briefing meetings  publications, distribution of documents and invitations to comment  Reports-monthly and annual  Exhibitions and Events to showcase results  Stakeholder engagement forums  Use of the provincial administration and in local community administrative meetings Donations, awards We support the community in various activities among them are:  Education: Bursary awards to students in secondary schools and universities(Every year we give 22 university burasies;55 secondary bursaries; and 30 college bursaries.  WATER: Distribution of water to the community, school, and heath centres  Development of school infrastructure-Patterson school  We operate the Magadi Hospital that provided subsidized health services to over 40,000 members of Magadi community.  The community skills upgrade program provides over thirty graduates with on Page 13/14 the job training and experience to make them ready for the job market  We promote and fund livelihood projects for community members by supporting community enterprises and helping them implement income generating projects  We provide direct employment to non skilled workers in the salt plant by deliberately slowing down on mechanization.  Capacity building community leaders by funding leadership and development seminars.  Providing passenger coach services to community members twice a week using our railway infrastructure. Page 14/14
