BRAEMAC LIMITED GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2014/15 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director Having participated in the UN Global Compact for three years now, I am pleased to confirm that Braemac Limited remains fully committed to supporting the United Nations Global Compact and its Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In our third annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to ensure continuous integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Sarah Lavelle Managing Director Braemac Limited COP Page 1 of 5 Human Rights Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or organisations where human rights fail to be respected and unacceptable methods are used e.g. exploitation, torture, slavery and child labour. Braemac Limited strives to ensure equality to all employees and is committed to zero tolerance of victimisation, bullying or harassment. Respecting our employees is vital to the success of daily operations and business activities. In the coming year we will work with our key supply chain partners to identify whether they are signatories to the Global Compact and if they are not we will encourage them to join the Global Compact working to support the Ten Principles. Implementation We fully support the abolition of child labour seeking to ensure all employees’ are above the compulsory school age with identification checks completed prior to employment with the company. We do not condone any form of slavery within the business, with issuance of contract of employment to each employee including details relating to annual pay, hours of work, holidays and sickness. Outcomes All policies are reviewed annually or sooner (if required) for suitability and effectiveness. A formal record of the reviews are documented. In the past year Braemac Limited has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Braemac Limited COP Page 2 of 5 Labour Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited supports the ILO Core Conventions and remains committed to ensuring we have no business activities with any organisation who uses forced or child labour. We use risk assessments to assess for potential hazards and eliminate risk exposure to our employees’. Any risks identified are discussed with all employees’ and appropriate procedures implemented. Braemac Limited complies with all relevant Health and Safety legislation, with regular training provided for employees’ for them to perform their role and adhere with legislative requirements. Implementation An employee training matrix has been introduced and circulated to all team members to clearly identify the area’s in which people are fully trained. This provides the opportunity for all employees’ to request training in an area of interest supporting our commitment to fairness and equality within the workplace. Management meetings include a review of any changes required to the workload of employees’ offering an open forum for any issues or concerns to be raised. Braemac Limited maintains a Health & Safety Policy which continues to be developed to update company safety procedures. Outcome Annual employee reviews within the business have included adjustments to employees’ remuneration based on their role, individual performance and to support present living standards. Braemac Limited has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. In the past year Braemac Limited has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions. Braemac Limited COP Page 3 of 5 Environment Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited has an Environmental Policy to support our commitment to environmental responsibility. We encourage our employees’ to consider the adverse impact on the environment linked to our business activities and discourage excessive waste of any type – energy, general waste, transportation emissions, machinery and packaging. We work closely with our supply chain partners to determine the suitability of packaging used for products with optimum quantities per box without compromise to the integrity of the product. In addition, the method of transportation to be used for all our shipments are considered prior to movement via air, sea or road. Implementation We have continued to reduce the carbon footprint of our company this year through employees using various forms of transportation including trains, bicycles and walking opposed to using company vehicles. In addition, we have encouraged employees’ to consider Car Share where feasible. Braemac Limited continue to use secure paper waste shredding along with general waste collection. All waste is segregated into various sections – paper, glass, plastic, cardboard and metal. Energy efficiency within the office and warehouse is monitored with regular servicing of key equipment to ensure optimum performance at all times. Where possible, office and warehouse machinery is turned off to save energy and reduce energy consumption. Outcomes In the last 12 months Braemac Limited have invested in a new server and computers for all employees’ due to age and performance of old systems. The performance and energy saving capabilities of the new products will have a far less detrimental effect on the environment. We have safely disposed of old and redundant electrical goods through an approved WEEE treatment facility with the intention for all products to be recycled, not sent to landfill. In the past year we have recycled the equivalent amount of paper as is produced from 12 trees through secure waste shredding, with certification held on record. Braemac Limited has not had any reports of environmental incidents within the last year or been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Braemac Limited COP Page 4 of 5 Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion and is compliant with the Bribery Act. We do not work with businesses located in corrupt countries or with organisations that are corrupt. We assess new suppliers’ prior to initial order placement to determine whether they are trading responsibly and ethically, free from any form of corruption, bribery or extortion. Implementation Braemac Limited monitors all daily monetary transactions with a two-tier approval process including an initial check by the Financial Controller and final check as is the responsibility of our Managing Director. Employees are trained in each business area to support anti-corruption in our organisation. We have distributed the company Anti-Bribery Policy to all employees and encourage pro-activeness within the business for any employee to report to management if they think or know something corrupt is taking place internally or as part of the supply chain. Outcomes Annual accounts are audited and verified by independent auditors. Through the monetary checks made we can accurately determine that our financial activity is protected from transactions related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. Employee training on system security and fraudulent emails has been invaluable in protecting the business from threat of exposure to financial extortion. We have successfully identified infiltration of a supplier’s computer system and emails resulting in payment being requested illegally by a hoax individual that was not one of our supplier’s employees’. The financial team and purchasing team recognised the irregularity and made direct contact with the supplier. During the last 12 months Braemac Limited have not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. Braemac Limited COP Page 5 of 5
