”PakMarkas” Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 1 About the Progress Report 2014 3 Thank you for reading our report was prepared according to the GRI G4 version guidelines. A Letter from the Manager 4-5 progress report. In order to ensure transparency in About ”PakMarkas” 6-7 our business, every year we publish The ”PakMarkas” progress report Business Activity and Markets 8-9 a social responsibility (SR) progis published separately from its ress report about the company’s financial statement. The report Membership in Organizations 10 economic, social and environmencovers the period of January 1 to tal impact. We believe that the Content Environmental Responsibility and Responsibility for the Future Supply Chain Management 11 12 About the reports provided by ”PakMarkas” December 31, 2014. All previous ”PakMarkas” reports is the most important source of inStakeholder Engagement 13 Progress Report formation for various stakeholder groups. are available on the UN Global Impact web page www.globalOur Employees Human Rights 14-17 18-19 2014 This year, for the first time, we compact.org and our company’s web page http://en.pakmarkas.lt/ have prepared the SR progress resocial-activity-reports.html Economical Responsibility 20-21 port following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. It Environmental Care 22-25 is the most widely recognized iniRole in the Society 26-27 tiative that helps companies and organizations to assess and disGRI G4 indices 28-30 close their economic, environmental and social performance. This 2 3 In today’s tense and troubled world, social responsibility matters more than ever before. It is important to focus less on personal goals or interests and more on adapting them to community needs. The activities of companies have to be reviewed as well. Is every profit-making company run according to the criteria of socially responsible business? Is there too much waste? Is the company using technology that is upto-date, but has already paid off economically? Is the produce manufactured using easily recyclable materials? Are the package waste minimization requirements taken into consideration? It is also important to evaluate if companies are prepared to continue their business in case of external disturbance, during a crisis of economic or commercial activity and society as well. The community that we belong to needs more attention. A Letter from We need to consider its needs more carefully, even though it might jeopardize short-term or economic goals. It is necessary to better adapt the business to local community interests and work towards long-term goals the Manager together. The modern world requires us to adjust to people close to us and help each other promptly in case of a crisis. We believe that such daily business leads to a more sustainable development and better prospects. Yours sincerely, Virginijus Gumbaragis 4 5 About ”PakMarkas” Mission We aim to be leaders in the Baltics and increase the Values Attention to customer needs, continuous improvewelfare of our shareholders, employees and business ment and competence, teamwork, respect for employpartners by offering advanced packaging and labeling ees and business partners, and the desire to lead. solutions to our customers. Headquarters: VILNIUS, LITHUANIA Branch: RIGA, LATVIA Daržininkų k., Nemėžio sen., Vilniaus r., LT 13281 Ropažu iela 19a, LV-1039 General Manager: Virginijus Gumbaragis Manager: Viktor Grigorjev “PakMarkas” is a leading packaging and labeling solutions provider in the Baltics. 172 1994 20,41 32 31 1995 4,40 Number of Year of Sales in 2014, Export of Number of Year of Sales in 2014, employees establishment million EUR goods/services, employees establishment million EUR % Nature of ownership and legal form The company is a private limited liability company (Lith. UAB). UAB ”PakMarkas” is a legal entity with limited civil liability, founded according to the procedure established by the laws of the Republic of Lithuania, and following the Company Law of the Republic of Lithuania, other laws of the Republic of Lithuania and resolutions of the government. Management bodies are as follows: general meetings of shareholders, the management board and the manager of the company. A general manager is the manager of the company who is authorized to coordinate day-to-day business operations of the company. 6 7 Since the start of the business, ”PakMarkas” has been focusing on these areas: LABEL & PACKAGE PRINTING Labels are printed using a flexographic roll printing technique. We make various different colorful adhesive, 70% shrink-sleeve, two-sided, two-layer, banding, Braille and other types of labels. Labels are decorated using screen printing, hot and cold foil printing, embossing technique and holographic foils. of ”PakMarkas” turnover ENGINEERED PACKAGING SOLUTIONS We also provide engineering services such as sales of standard packaging and labeling equipment, manufacturBusiness ing of conveyors, design and manufacturing of packing lines, and technical maintenance services. 30% Activity and of ”PakMarkas” SPARE PARTS Markets We offer a wide selection of electric motors for industrial equipment, reducers, and automation devices. In addition, we provide reducer assembling services. turnover Main markets: Our products and services help to: • Protect products from environmental factors FOOD & BEVERAGES • Preserve the freshness of a product and all its valuable characteristics COSMETICS & HOUSEHOLD CHEMICALS Geographic segmentation • Reveal the uniqueness of the trademark and add more value to the CHEMICALS product Clients and partners Clients PHARMACY • Ensure product sterility and consumer safety Partners • Optimize the manufacturing processes 8 9 Membership in Organizations Environmental Responsibility and Responsibility for the Future By implementing the principles of social responsibility we seek to fulfill the following aims: We are proud members of the following A responsible approach towards Economic Social Environmental organizations: economic, environmental and • United Nations Global Compact social performance has been Efficiently reuse of industrial incorporated into “PakMarkas” Create shareholder value Respect human rights waste • Lithuanian Association of Responsible Business business activities, strategy and • Association of Lithuanian Printing Industries goals. Ensure healthy and safe work Strengthen the brand Preserve natural resources • Lithuanian Packaging Association environment Growing global demand • German-Baltic Chamber of Commerce for packaging and issues Maintain a dialog with all Perform systemic environmental Satisfy the needs of our clients • Vilnius Regional Association of Industrialists and Business related to human rights and stakeholder groups monitoring • Engineering Industries Association of Lithuania business transparency drive changes and encourage to take Ensure a transparent internal and Comply with environmental Improve production efficiency external communication protection laws initiative to enhance social and environmental welfare. Develop innovative product 10 11 Supply Chain Management Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement We want to understand the expectations of all stakeholder groups. Open and sincere dialog helps to make appropriate decisions to satisfy the needs of both sides and ensure the sustainable development of the company. Relationships with our suppliers Every “PakMarkas” supplier of raw meter are managed following the Supaction ials The table below shows the main stakeholder groups of ”PakMarkas” and forms of communication. In addition, the main issues raised in 2014 and must sign a declaration that the Extr plier SR management procedure. solutions are provided. The importance of each supplier company is familiar with the pla P st r Groups Communication Main issues in 2014 Solution is determined by its share in ”Pakprinciples of socially responsible ic se, llulo nces Markas” turnover, and by assessing business, and agrees to follow Current Weekly meetings with department managers, Equal pay for equal work. Objective work evaluation criteria have been f ce ubsta the level of the supplier’s impact End employees internal training, employee surveys. defined. them. use n o l, s on SR objectives. This level shows Employee Low employee engagement in the company’s SR Meetings with employee representatives for rs Employees tio ica Annual meetings with the SR board manager. representatives activities. SR issues are organized quarterly. how much influence ”PakMarkas” uc em Future Familiarizing with the company’s business can exert over a supplier regarding od s, ch employees activity. the compliance with the SA 8000 Current and Day-to-day communication, exhibitions, requirements. PakMarkas Clients prospect customer satisfaction surveys. Every year we visit and check some in the supply Offer received from the manufacturer of Day-to-day communication, exhibitions, Offer put on hold due to high transportation of our suppliers. In 2014, we auditchain Suppliers Current supplier evaluation. adhesive paper to collect industrial waste for costs. recycling. ed two companies providing caterInvestments made for label printing ing services, and maintenance sere Owners of the Long-term economic value creation, product Trad Shareholders Half-yearly meetings, social progress reports. equipment renewal and acquisition of quality company development perspectives. vices for premises and territories. s rka control equipment. ma A need to reduce the volume of waste water Investments made in modern waste water rk Ma Governmental Financial statements, environmental reports, Pa produced. treatment facilities. n k ow ers Associations, Day-to-day communication, conferences, Society organizations annual meetings. Internship in the company, participation in Schools and Integration of young specialists in labor After a internship, 3 students received job Transportation career days, delivering speeches, guided-tours universities market. offers from the company. in the company. realized in progress unrealized 12 13 Our employees are not just ordinary workers – they form a strong value basis that is driving the growth of the company. Lithuania (number in brackets Statistics 2014 shows the change Latvia compared to 2013) New hires q. 37 (21,28 %) 5 Employment Dismissals Maternity/parental leave q. q. 35 10 (+ 1,6 %) 6 2 Relationship Employee statistics women men q. q. 8 2 1 1 Lithuania Occupational accidents q. 0 ( 0,0 %) 0 (number in brackets Statistics 2014 shows the change Latvia Employed persons with compared to 2013) q. 2 0 disabilities Average number of employees q. 172 31 Training cost per employee Eur 169,74 127,20 Number of employees as of the Number of management q. 26 6 q. 179 (+ 1,1 %) end of the year women % 19,2 (+ 3,8 %) 2 (0%) women % 22,9 (+ 7,9 %) men % 80,8 (3,8 %) 4 (0%) men % 77,1 (0,7 %) Number of non-management q. 153 25 Average age of employees m. 35 ( 0,0 %) 42 (0%) personnel women m. 36,6 42 women % 23,5 (+ 1,0 %) 8 (0%) men m. 34,5 41 men % 76,5 (1,0 %) 17 (6%) 14 15 Additional social benefits Employee representation Employees are provided with an additional health There is no trade union or labor board in our company. The success of “PakMarkas” depends on We have implemented a SA insurance package, which also includes wellness serHowever, following the implemented social account8000 standard of ethical our ability to attract, develop and keep employment that ensures vices. An insurance package is offered for not less ability standard (SA 8000) a representative of the SR than 3 months both to full-time and part-time emmanagement and 6 SR employee representatives are talented people who love their job. additional benefits to the employees. ployees. 80.4% of the insurance services fund has elected by voting. The roles of employee representabeen used in 2014. tives are to defend employee rights, and communicate with the management on all the issues related to emSocial benefits are paid out in case of death of parployment relations. ents, spouse or children, for registering marriage unThere was any occupational der the applicable laws, and to retiring employees. Employees are also provided with an opportuniaccident in the company in ty to report about work practice and ethics vioTraining, professional development courses, and pro2014. lations both anonymously and non-anonymously. fessional trainings that are directly related to the Violations can be reported by using the suggestion main duties are also financed by the company. and complaint boxes and by sending an e-mail to Employee statistics according to age groups Every year corporate summer and winter parties are pasiulymai@pakmarkas.lt. organized for employees and their families. Occupational health and safety Any changes and updates to available documentation We ensure a safe and healthy working environment for 11,2 % are communicated to all employees of the company. our employees. And we pay special attention to pre20 Remuneration system ventive measures. Employees who are involved in dangerous operations once a year have to participate in 34,6 % < 30 years Wages for employees are calculated based on the special training. Starting from 2014, the department 62 level of responsibility, expertise, workload, personal 30-50 years managers and production supervisors bear responsiachievements and the pay level for specific job catebility for the safety of their employees. This decision > 50 years gories in the labor market. proved that personal responsibility encourages taking 54,2 % The minimum monthly wage established by the comgreater care about other employees’ health. 97 pany is higher than the minimum monthly wage of EUR 347.5, stipulated by the laws of the Republic of Lithuania. 16 17 Respect for human rights has become an integral part of “PakMarkas” corporate culture. We seek to ensure that all employees are able to exercise their rights freely, and feel that they are treated with dignity and respect. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights serves as a milestone document for human rights protection. Human Ethical employment policy Reporting about human rights violations Our everyday business activities are based on the Our employees can report human rights violations Rights principles of ethical employment and employment relations policy, stipulating that UAB ”PakMarkas” shall anonymously or not, using a special suggestions and complaints mechanism. not tolerate any human rights violations, any types In 2014, one complaint regarding disrespectful behavof discrimination, forced and children labor. We shall ior toward another employee has been filed. This case not tolerate harassment of any kind or psychological has been discussed in a special committee, and folabuse. We respect our employees’ right to rest and low-up actions have been defined to solve this issue leisure, we ensure a fair and transparent wage system, and make sure that this does not happen again. and we comply with the laws, stipulating the working hours and overtime. This policy is publicly available on our website: http:// en.pakmarkas.lt/social-responsibility-policy.html 18 19 Economical Responsibility Paid taxes and received financial assistance We paid 2,604,000 euros euros for taxes to the State Tax Inspectorate in 2014. EU support We have received EUR 1,361.28 from the EU structural funds. Funds were used to subsidize wages according to the Lithuanian Labor Exchange project ”Stay in labor market”. Investment in technologies In 2014, no cases reported related to the violation of packaging requirements that could pose a threat to a The amount spent for production equipment renewal is A sustainable business is a profitable The consolidated growth 533,843 euros. product user. of “PakMarkas” reached business. “PakMarkas” understands 10.2% in 2014. The major part of the investments was allocated to Attitude toward corruption the implementation of label quality control system ”PakMarkas” will not tolerate any forms of corruption. its economic responsibility as the and software update. We strongly support ethical business, fair competiresponsibility to its shareholders to Evaluation of the quality of services tion, and transparent cooperation with governmental institutions. ensure a positive return of capital and We constantly collect customer feedback information about our products and services. In order to minimize the risk of corruption, we infurther growth opportunities. vite all our stakeholders to report company’s emEvery year a customer satisfaction index is calculatployees who offer or ask for a bribe for making cered for every department and compared, that helps to tain business decisions, using our website http:// evaluate the work of ”PakMarkas” salespeople. en.pakmarkas.lt/social-responsibility-policy.html Product responsibility In 2014, there we no complaints regarding the alleged The package manufacturing process in ”PakMarkas” act of corruption. complies with all the safety and quality requirements established by laws. Only raw materials from certified and trusted suppliersare used. All raw materials are kept in a warehouse where optimal temperature and humidity is constantly maintained. 20 21 Environmental Care How we control environmental impact • We follow the ISO 14001 environmental management system; • We follow the ISO 26000 guidance standard on social responsibility; • We provide the results of our environmental impact monitoring to the Ministry of Environment of the Republic of Lithuania on a set schedule; • Every year we perform an assessment of corporate environmental performance (audit); • We constantly monitor environmental performance indices of our company (please see the table). The scarcity of natural resources and Energy saving solutions Investment in a clean increasing energy costs are the main In 2014, we finished the impleenvironment mentation of a modern building By regularly measuring the waste problems that the packaging industry management system that allows water released from the waste wathe control of the ventilation syster treatment plants, we noticed is facing today worldwide. “PakMarkas” tem. that the volume of waste water made a huge progress in solving these The fluorescent lamp replacement released into the environment exwith LED lamps project was conceeds the established norm. Imissues. tinued. Lamps were replaced in the mediate measures have been taken engineering equipment production to improve the situation, i.e. old premises. technologically-outdated treatment facilities were replace with In 2015, we are planning to mount modern and more powerful ones. solar panels to the roof of the building and they are expected to generate enough energy to fulfill our hot water preparation needs. 22 23 Monitoring of environmental performance indices Enviromental care 2012 2013 2014 Electricity Environmentally friendly products Electric energy consumption KW/h 1942116 2040000 2120371 In order to promote the use of eco-friendly packages, we constantly expand our product portfolio by offering Electric energy saved by using new more environmentally friendly products: KW/h 300000 100000 150000 energy efficiency measures Sources of pollution Transparent Encouraging a repeated use of packaging materials Volume of emissions kg 131 (waste water) 197 (waste water) 155 (waste water) Washable labels enable manufacturers to reuse packages more efficiently and reduce environmental impact. 3725 (gas) 4192 (gas) 4320 (gas) washable labels These labels can be washed off using standard bottle washing machines. After washing the labels, adhesives Pollution tax (fines) eur 29 and dyes remain on the label; therefore, the water used for washing is not contaminated. Raw materials and waste Volume of consumed packaging m2 12127473 14783027 16255000 Digital labels Reducing the amount of raw material waste materials There is no need to make polymer plates when printing digital labels. Labels are printed directly from a file, so 1952350 (labels) 2258803 (labels) the amount of raw material waste is a minimum. In addition, water-based dyes are used. 2497472 (labels) Waste by type m2 694917 (sleeves) 922485 (sleeves) 945243 (sleeves) 376 (photopolymers) 362 (photopolymers) Cardboard 6,44 Cellulose (office paper, magazines, Cardboard 8,01 Banding labels Optimization of raw material use Volume of waste delivered for etc.) 0,07 Cardboard 9,53 t Cellulose (office paper, magazines, These labels are made without adhesives. Labels are tightly wrapped around the product and thermally fused recycling BOPP 5,34 BOPP 4,44 etc.) 0,175 together in the precise location. PE 2,00 PVC 18,22 Water Volume of consumed water m3 3016 3512 2865 24 25 By working and creating together we can do more good for the welfare of society. In 2014, we contributed Our contribution in 2014: to several charity projects • We provided financial support to Vilnius Gediminas Technical University (VGTU) so that a PhD student of Role in the and social initiatives by the Department of Printing Machines could participate in the international conference in the USA where allocating 30,976 EUR. she presented a dissertation on the advance of printing technologies; Society • We fenced the stadium of the Saint Rapolas Kalinauskas gymnasium, which is in the nearby town of Nemėžis, to ensure the safety of pupils when they are doing sports and playing outside; • We contributed to the social projects ”Christmas of Books” and ”Rain of Smiles” that are organized every year; • Company employees participated in a voluntary and non-remunerated blood donation initiative that is organized every year; • We organized guided-tours in our company for pupils, students, representatives of non-governmental organizations and business companies from Lithuania and abroad, and demonstrated various printing technologies. 26 27 GRI G4* indices Relevant section Page No. GRI G4 indices Relevant section Page No. Strategija ir analizė Employees Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the company about EMPLOYMENT G4 – 1 4-5 the relevance of sustainability to the company A Letter from the Manager LA1 Number of new employee hires and employee turnover Employee statistics 15 Įmonės profilis LA2 Additional social benefits to employees Additional social benefits 17 G4 – 3 Name of the company pakmarkas.com 6 LA3 Number of employees that were entitled to maternity/parental leave Employee statistics 15 G4 – 4 Products and services Business Activity and Markets 9 RELATIONS WITH EMPLOYEES G4 – 5 Location of the company's headquarters PakMarkas 6 LA4 Collective employment relations Employee representation 17 G4 – 6 Countries where the company operates (affiliates) PakMarkas 7 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4 – 7 Nature of ownership and legal form PakMarkas 7 LA6 Number of occupational accidents and occupational diseases Employee statistics 15 G4 – 8 Markets served (customers, suppliers, partners) Business Activity and Markets 8 Number of employees with high risk of diseases related to their LA7 Employee statistics 15 G4 – 9 General indices of the company (revenues, number of employees) PakMarkas 7 occupation G4 – 10 Employee statistics Our Employees 15-16 TRAINING G4 – 11 Collective employment relations Employee representation 17 LA9 Training/professional development course cost per employee Employee statistics 15 G4 – 12 Description of the company’s supply chain Supply Chain Management 12 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES G4 – 14 Occupational health and safety Occupational Health and Safety 17 LA11 Remuneration system Employee statistics 17 G4 – 16 Membership in national and international organizations Membership in Organizations 10 LA12 Breakdown of employees per employee category, gender and age group Employee statistics 15-16 Stakeholders LABOUR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4 – 24 List of stakeholders and responsibilities Stakeholder Engagement 13 Employee representation, Ethical LA16 Reporting on labor practice ethics violations 19 employment policy Stakeholders G4 – 28, 30 Reporting period and cycle About the Progress Report 2014 3 G4 – 31 Contact information About the Progress Report 2014 3 G4 – 32 GRI G4 indices About the Progress Report 2014 28 * GRI ( Global Reporting Initiative) is the most widely-used comprehensive sustainability reporting standard for organizations and companies. The report based on the GRI guidelines reveals the organizational performance towards the goal of sustainable development regarding economic, environmental and social impact. 28 29 GRI G4 indices Relevant section Page No. Environmental Care MATERIALS EN1 Volume of raw materials used Environmental performance indices 24 EN2 Amount of recycled materials Environmental performance indices 24 ENERGY EN3 General energy consumption Environmental performance indices 24 WATER EN8 Total water consumption Environmental performance indices 24 Your opinion matters Society We would appreciate your feedback regarding the social activities of ”PakMarkas” and improvements to this LOCAL COMMUNITY report. SO1 Charity projects, implemented initiatives Role in the Society 27 Please contact us by e-mail jurgitar@pakmarkas.lt or phone +370 655 934 56. ANTI-CORRUPTION Jurgita Bagdonavičienė, Communication Coordinator SO4 Anti-corruption policies Attitude toward corruption 21 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Number of non-compliance incidents related to the safety of products/ PR2 Product Responsibility 21 services PR5 Feedback from clients Evaluation of the quality of services 21 Human Rights HR4, HR5, HR6 Corporate responsibility to protect and support human rights Ethical employment policy 19 HR12 Prevention of human rights violations Reporting about human rights violations 19 30 31 32
