COP 2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS2014 TATA SPONGE IRON LIMITED Bileipada, At/P.O.Joda, Keonjhar, Orissa758034 -1COP 2014 -2COP 2014 Company’s Profile: Tata Sponge Iron Limited, is in the business of manufacturing sponge iron from its three rotary kilns and the current production capacity is 390,000 TPA of sponge iron. It also generates 26 MW of power from the waste heat recovered from the rotary kilns during sponge iron production. The primary raw materials for the manufacture of sponge iron are Iron Ore, Coal and Dolomite. The registered office-cum Works is in the north-western part of Odisha at Bileipada, in the district of Keonjhar, India. Overall local geo-ecological context and social environment The sponge iron plant is located in village Bileipada of Birikala Gram Panchayat under Joda Block. The entire area is predominantly a mining belt, inhabited by poor, illiterate, under nourished children and unemployed youths mostly belonging to the scheduled tribes. The primary source of their livelihood is from the wages earned as daily labourers in the surrounding mines, very few families practice agriculture as source of livelihood, whereas most of the inhabitants depend upon the minor forest produces. Deojhar Coverage Area Anseikala The company’s corporate social responsibility interventions covers 38 Revenue villages of the 5 surrounding Gram Panchayats namely Anseikala, Birikala, Chamakpur, Deojhar and Kandara in Joda Plant at Block of Keonjhar district in Odisha covering BILEIPADA Kandara approximately thirty thousand population. Birikala Chamakpur Synopsis Source: Corporate Sustainability As a mark of company’s value towards social equity and development for the surrounding community that forms an integral part of our business. An exclusive and dedicated corporate sustainability department of the company identifies the need and aspiration of the local community, develops and implements developmental projects that would be visible and instrumental in creating a change in lives of the surrounding villagers. Also bring improvements in the socio economic status of this marginalized section of the people. The company under its Article of Association is committed to serve the local community and in the process shall endeavor to meet the socio-economic challenges of this region and the country at large. An overview of multifarious CSR initiatives undertaken during past half-decade are enumerated below confirms its commitment towards upliftment of downtrodden. -3COP 2014 Promotion of Education: With a deep conviction that Education is fundamental for any upliftment of any society, Tata Sponge placed its primary focus on promoting education from pre-school to high school students through the development of school infrastructures such as Anganwadi Centres, School buildings, Toilet facilities, boundary walls, etc. Also, periodically taken up drives on school enrolment, retention, child labour issues, Swachh Bhart Abhiyan, etc. Tata Sponge firmly believes in children’s rights to participation and had organized consultation with the students in five High Schools situated in all its five functional Gram-panchayats and captured the children’s thoughts and voice for promoting education and accordingly developed the education programme in coordination with the teachers, parents and Panchayat representatives. Some of the activities undertaken to promote education as follows; Facilities Provided Up to Dec’14 New School building 14 Building renovation 14 Kitchen-cum-Dinning unit 08 Dual bench-desk 1256 Boundary wall 18 Toilets 04 Repair of Anganwadi centre 06 Water filters 15 Almirah/ Book shelves 21 Sponsorship/ Financial Aid Level Beneficiary Financial support to meritorious SC/ST students pursuing professional National 1 courses, through FAEA Financial support to ST students for degree engineering course State 4 Scholarship for poor students in Pry. Schools District 5 Tuition fees for extra coaching Classes in +2 College District 97 Financial support for Diploma course State 5 Financial support for ITI State 6 Financial support for Higher Study in Colleges State 9 Financial support for poor students in Schools District 26 “Rights to Education” An initiative for Tribal Children in Munda sahi of Lahanda village: Munda sahi is a hamlet of Lahanda revenue village, which is inhabited by Munda tribes, surrounded by hills and forests. One side of the village the busy National Highway and Railway line separates Munda sahi from its main village, which are the primary reasons to debar the children from getting education in the school situated at main village. In the absence of education facility coupled with lack of awareness among the -4COP 2014 parents the children loiter around the village and jungle whole day. With an objective to promote education for these tribal children, 26 children were mobilized with the support of volunteers and a Non-Formal Education centre was started during 2008. Other hand regular interface made with the education department, as a result a primary school came into existence in the year 2009. Over the years the enrolment of children have increase, two students from this school have appeared in scholarship examinations, there was no evidence of school dropout so far and the current strength of students has grown up to 153 with almost equal number of girl students. To encourage the students and keeping in mind the overall development time-to-time co-curricular activities were organized in this school. Govt. has provided four teachers, two class rooms, kitchen and toilet, whereas, the company has provided dining hall, toilets and constructed an approach road to the school. Also, Vidya Shakti Niyias a NGO supported a teacher and motivated the parents to ensure regular attendance of their children in the school. All these concentrated efforts enabled this school as a model school in the region. Community Healthcare: Despite of lot of efforts made by the government to bring improvement in health status in the region, still the health conditions of this tribal region has not improved to the desired level due to the ignorance of the people. Therefore, Tata Sponge has been undertaking various activities are as follows; Health checkup camps were held on regular basis focusing on both curative and preventive measures. In collaboration with Health and ICDS departments various programs i.e. immunization, pulse polio drops, mother & childcare, nutrition supplements initiatives were conducted in regular intervals. Orientation of adolescent girls on reproductive healthcare were organized. Aligning to “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan” appealed by Honorable Prime Minister Shri. Narendra Modi, Tata Sponge had organized series of cleanliness and awareness drives covering more than 2000 students in periphery schools along with their parents and teachers. Also, the drive has covered more than five villages and Company Township and nearby market areas to achieve the goal of the abhiyan. To address Malaria one of the major issue in the region, 15,000 mosquito nets were provided in the operational villages and fogging activities were undertaken along with awareness building among the villages on both preventive and curative aspects. -5COP 2014 Cancer and Tumor operation cases were supported in case of poor and marginalized families. Periodic health checkup camps and awareness initiatives were undertaken in the schools for early detection of disabilities. Promoted voluntary family planning with emphasis on “Small Family is Happy Family”. The men and women in the reproductive age group were encouraged to adopt safe contraceptive methods. World AIDS Day observed annually within the plant, in periphery villages, market areas, railway sidings and brick kilns through employees CSR volunteering initiatives. In this process the awareness made to demonstrate responsible behavior and addressed the myths and misconceptions related to HIV & AIDS. Drinking water: Around 70% of total population belongs to ST and SC communities who live in scattered hamlets on undulated village topography, where non-availability of drinking water is major issue. Keeping in view this acute crisis in this region, 45 number of open wells, 96 hand pumps and 18 bore wells were made. Moreover, company maintains the hand-pumps to ensure round the year water availability in these villages. Moreover, during pick summer drinking water provided to few villages situated on hilly upland. Livelihood Promotion: Considering Joda is predominantly a mining area, where agriculture receives least priority, The Company has made conscious effort to promote agriculture as major source of livelihood. In four Gram-panchayats, four Farmers SHGs were formed and provided Power Tillers along with technical knowhow. Now these groups not only cultivating their own land same time supporting other farmers and encouraging farming in the locality. Women SHGs were formed and organized training programs on Agarwati, Soap, Phenyl making, -6COP 2014 Duckery and Paper packet preparation. These groups were trained on procuring raw materials, marketing the products and maintaining the bank accounts. Now these groups have more than Rs. 1.5 lakhs savings. Also, these empowered women have been playing active role in their village development process. Girls from underprivileged families were sent for Nursing / Tailoring trainings. Seasonal vegetable Seeds were provided to encourage vegetable farming. Most evidently in many villages the women groups have been providing vegetables to the MDM (Mid-Day-Meal) schemes in the schools to add nutritional value to the food consumed by the students. Promotion of Sports & Culture: Village youth groups were provided Volley ball, Valley ball net, football, Cricket sets and other sports materials and supported to organize inter panchayats tournaments at Joda block. More than 69% percent population belongs to Scheduled Tribe in the region, therefore various local tribal festivals and cultural activities were supported during this period. Affirmative Action: The Company promotes inclusion of the underprivileged SC/STs community through its Affirmative Action Programme under the 4 Es. Tuition fees was given for SC/ST students in MGS College, Naradpur Under education scholarship two outstanding students from poor families were supported, now they are pursuing their 3 year Diploma in Engineering and 4 year Degree Engineering. Scholarship provided to 5 students from poor Scheduled Caste families pursuing their education in Sarswati Sishu Mandir at Beleipada Stipend given to 10 ITI Apprentice Trainees from Scheduled Caste families. Environment Sustainability: In a village Sankarpur with the participation of the villagers one thousand mango saplings were planted, with two pronged objectives i.e. environment sustainability and revenue generation for the villagers. Series of plantation programmes were organized on the community land, school campuses and colonies, involving the school children, youths and TSIL staff. During this period awareness programmes were organized for the school children and rural youths on plantation of trees, use of biodegradable and recyclable products. -7COP 2014 Rural Development Projects: Solar lights handed over to respective village communities at 42 locations, which are used as street lights, lighting at Panchayat bhawan and other community locations, these solar lights were managed by the community representatives and respective institutions. Bus rest shed, a bridge on sona river, stadium, roads were constructed at various locations by Tata sponge. -8COP 2014 Principles Company’s Policy Key Results & Measurement Human Rights Principle – 1 We review our HR policies Business should periodically to ensure that support and human rights are not respect the violated. protection of  We ensure that  We have standard operating procedures, contractors internationally contractors do not produce list of persons with their age/identity proof with proclaimed employ child photograph. After verification from HR department gate human rights labourers in our passes issued to enter to work premises. IT system (Face premises. Identification for attendance) in place not to allow any (HR 1,2,3,4) proxy attendance. Security personnel check the get passes on regular basis to ensure that no delicacy and no child labour entering to work premises. Daily monitoring of the report is in place.  Factories Act &  In terms of working hour we are abide by Factories Act & Rules, Contractor Rules, Contractor Labour (R&A) Act & Rules. Each shift runs Labour (R&A) Act & for eight hours. In terms of welfare amenities we have Rules are strictly provided subsidized canteen facility to company employees adhered in terms of and free canteen facility to contract workers. We are working hours and maintaining both the canteen as per factories act and ISO welfare & benefits norms and conditions. All the employees are provided restroom inside the work premises. Contractor workers are provided with rest male and female rest shed and male and female bath house inside the plant premises. to take care of health and hygiene of the employee and contractor laborers regular health checkup is conducted by the Management. A First Aid facility is available inside the work premises.  TATA Code of  A copy of Tata Code of Conduct has been given to each Conduct employees working in our company. To create awareness, classes are being taken on regular basis to reinforce its clauses, training programme named as “JAGRUTI” for company employees and “ADHAR” for contract workers are being taken on regular basis. Every department is being advised to discuss clauses of TCoC in their monthly departmental meeting.  Human rights issues  We have a HR committee functioning effectively which reviews human right issues on regular basis. In every coordination meeting human rights issues are discussed and taken care.  We ensure that all  To ensure that all contract labourers are getting minimum contract labourers wages, we verify monthly wages register duly sign by their get minimum wages. contractor and workers. Monthly wages to the labourers are disbursed in the presence of company’s authorised representatives to ensure that there is no violation. A survey is being conducted every year to know that the contract workers are getting right wages in right time. -9COP 2014 Principle – 2 We emphasize on Make sure they bipartite / collaborative / are not consultative decision complacent to making to address HR human rights issues proactively to abuses avoid conflict with the union and Associates. (HR 2,3)  Company’s  Before engaging any agencies in our business we business relations. thoroughly verify their ethical practices, including compliance to all statutory regulations.  Various bipartite  We have various Bipartite Committee representing foras representing Management and Associates to resolve various issues Management & and bring out development. We have committee like Associates JCCM, JDCs, Welfare committee, safety committee, canteen management committee. Town development committee, grievance redressal committee, Internal Compliant Committee for Prevention of Sexual Harassment at workplace, house allotment committee, medical committee and provident fund committee.  Statutory  We have statutory committees like safety, canteen Committees and health that review and resolves various grievances/concerns related to statutory.  Due diligence on  To ensure safe working condition, we have process human rights like identify hazards on regular basis and assuring safe working corrective and preventive actions to the identified condition and on hazards. Imparting regular safety training to the entire the job safety work force. Periodical inspection of workplace is followed by line Management. 10 COP 2014 Business at Tata Sponge supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principles Company’s Policy Key Results & Measurement Labour Standards Principle – 3 All statutory labour laws  Focus is given to settle common issues of Associates Businesses are implemented and we through collective bargaining forum being represented by should uphold have a process to review equal representative from Management & Associates. the freedom of the statutory compliance Several bipartite agreements are arrived at through this association and by a core committee kind of forum. the effective constituted by the recognition of Management.  In the process of participative management council equal the right to participation of Management & Trade union collective representatives are ensured by the management. bargaining. Principle – 4 No forced & compulsory  Engagement of contract labourer / indirect employment is The elimination / under aged labour are in line with contract labour regulation & abolition Act. of all forms of deployed. This is being There is no violation or any forced / compulsory entry of forced and ensured through various labour force inside the factory premises. compulsory check post like labour Security/Safety/HR.  Interstate migrant (CL) are given equal opportunity on human rights including remuneration. (HR 5, 7LA 3, 4) Principle – 5 All contractors /  Our hiring policy reflects transparency and focus on equal The effective suppliers are informed opportunity by Employer. abolition of child not to deploy child  Company ensures engagement of labour over 18 years of labour labour / under aged age including in its township. personnel.  In process of abolition of child labour in plant and township, (HR 6) Our standing order also we ensure school drop out for readmission in the school restricts engagement of through CSR activity. child labour / under aged labour. Principle – 6 We honestly follow TATA  Company’s hiring process evidences that no discrimination Eliminate Code of Conduct, also prevails on account of age, sex, locality, caste, creed, discrimination in practice role of equal religion. respect of opportunity employer. employment and  Company doesn’t discourage for employment of physically occupation. challenged people. (HR 4, LA 10,11) 11 COP 2014 Principle – 7 Business at Tata Sponge supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Tata Sponge Iron Ltd. addresses its productivity in harmony with nature. Manufacturing of sponge iron mainly contribute dust pollution to the environment. Due to handling and processing of bulk dry solids such as iron ore, coal and sponge iron, particulate matter is generated. To combat with this dust pollution, Tata Sponge has taken several measures in place. By these, company is fully compliant with all the regulatory norms and conditions laid by SPCB, CPCB and MoEF. Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) is identified as major Key Business Process at the company and is formally documented in SHEQ apex manual. With defined Roles & Objectives and Operational Control Procedures, entire process is mapped. The key performance indices (KPI) and key activity indices (KAI) are reviewed periodically at different levels for effectiveness and efficiency of the process. The best industry practices for environment protections are deployed during plant operations and also during project activity. Level-1 Process of EMS at Tata Sponge is as given below. Supplier Input Process Steps Output Customer Env. acts & Env. Impact Assessment Government rules, consent Clean work agencies conditions, ISO atmosphere guide lines etc. Environment Policy Tata values, Compliance to R  Employees Tata group Group policies, environmental E  surrounding TCoC Formulation of EMP regulations V community Pollution Control of air, I  Government caused and water & noise E  Suppliers Works & Waste Implement / Execute W pollution Support generation, Compliance to Departments Identification of certification significant Monitor & Measure stipulations aspects 12 COP 2014 Tata Sponge Iron Ltd. is the first coal based Sponge Iron plant in the country to have achieved ISO14001:1996 version certification on 28th March 2003. Subsequently the company achieved certification of ISO-14001:2004 version in the year 2006 and continuing with its latest verion.. Environmental Policy of Tata Sponge iron Limited is as produced below: ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Tata Sponge Iron Limited is committed to sustainable and continual improvement in its activities pertaining to the handling of raw materials, production & marketing of sponge iron and power; so as to achieve ever improving legal, environmental and all other compliance standard and provide clean environment to its employees and the society. To this end, it will • Identify the impact of its activities upon the environment. • Prepare an annual environmental improvement plan and implement. • Communicate the policy, plan and performance to persons working for or on behalf of the organization and also make it available to public as and what is applicable. (D.P Deshpande) 1st May, 2013 Managing Director Highlights of Environmental Performance as a support to Business by ‘Going Green’ Power generation from waste heat : Tata Sponge is generating 26 MW power from waste heat, which is emanating during production of Sponge Iron. After utilizing this power for it captive use (about 7MW), the excess power (19 MW) is exported. This power generation replaces fossil fuel based power generation and thereby reducing the emission of GHG, SOx, NOx etc.). Power generation from waste heat during last several years is shown here. 13 COP 2014 Reduction in Energy Consumption: TSIL’s drive to reduce energy consumption thro’ various initiatives such as introduction of VVVF drives, improvement in power factor, replacing high Specific Power Power Consumption (KWH) capacity drives by low capacity ones, replacing 150 higher watt incandescent electric bulbs with low 113.04 110.1 106.88 102.94 100.3 99.52 95.04 watt energy efficient CFL bulbs, bringing 100 awareness among users to consume less power and the overall focus on conserving power has 50 '07-08 '08-09 '09-10 '10-11 '11-12 '12-13 '13-14 resulted in a decreasing trend in specific consumption of power in DRI produced. Specific power consumption per ton of sponge iron production for last several years is shown. Assessment of Carbon Foot Print : Towards the perspective of Climate change, every year Tata Sponge assess it Carbon Foot Print for taking necessary actions to reduce its GHG emission. Initially company made an agreement with Ernst & Young to ascertain its Carbon Foot Print, later an independent study was conducted by Tata Quality Management Services (TQMS). From 2009 onwards company is conducting its carbon foot print study by its own climate change champions, who are specially trained by TQMS. The standard followed is the GHG protocol convened by the World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). TSIL is in the process of implementing various abatement levers on the basis of assessment for reduction of CO2 emission. Water Conservation: Tata Sponge does not discharge any water to outside its premises. Cooling water is re-circulated in the system. Entire waste water generated is used for dust suppression on roads, raw material as well as solid waste dump yards and gardening purpose after primary treatment. Given below is a schematic of waste water treatment system at Tata Sponge. River water Condenser TG DM Plant Cooling Make-up Cooler Tower Road sprinkling Dump yard (Dust) Pump Cooling Pump Hot Well Hot Well Tower Cold Well Make-up Coal yard (Dust) Neutralization Rly siding (Dust) Pit Clarifier Domestic Fire fighting water Recirculation Oil Recirculation Oil Recirculation Thickener Pump Pit-I Separation Pit-II 14 Separation Pit-III (Reservoir) Sump COP 2014 Rain Water Harvesting Pond Water Recirculation area Main facilities used for control Water Pollution & Water Discharge are:  Cooling towers and recirculation pumps  Neutralization pit and pumps for recirculation  Settling pit and pumps for recirculation with electronic float system for auto recirculation.  Oil separation pits at recirculation pond Company is doing water harvesting for ground water percolation as well as water Specific Industrial Water Consumption (KL/ton of DRI ) 5 3.94 utilization. In addition to the previous water 3.59 3.32 3.1 harvesting arrangements, TSIL has added one more huge water harvesting facility within its premises during 2012-13 at an expense of INR 0 70 lacs, after conducting the resistivity survey '10-11 '11-12 '12-13 '13-14 and feasibility study of the area. The water consumption (in KL/MT of DRI produced) is as shown. Principle – 8 Initiatives undertaken to promote greater environmental responsibility Afforestation / Tree Plantation: In last several years Tata Sponge has transformed a completely barren land into a green patch and eco zone. The company has planted more than 1,63,000 trees since its inception with survival rate of about 94%. Plantation of trees remained as one of TSIL’s major priorities since its inception. Given below is a graphical representation of the year-wise plantation (Cumulative) taken up by Tata Sponge over the years. 170000 161000 162000 163000 160000 158000 154000 155000 151000 150000 140000 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 15 COP 2014 TATA SPONGE AREA (During Inception)) TATA SPONGE AREA (Now) SATTELITE VIEW OF TATA SPONGE Waste utilization: Use of Waste heat : Tata Sponge is generating 26 MW power from waste heat, which is emanating during production of Sponge Iron. After utilizing this power for it captive use, the excess power is exported. By generation of power through waste heat, lot of coal (Non-renewable natural resource) is saved which are calculated as follows: 16 COP 2014 Coal saved (MT) Year Total power generation (KWH) KWH x 0.9 /1000 2009-10 181392700 163254 2010-10 191370600 172233 2011-12 134395300 120956 2012-13 178868700 160982 2013-14 195711800 176140 Use of ESP dust: The ESP waste generated from the DRI plants is used for manufacturing bricks through FALG technology. No heat is required for manufacturing of these bricks, thus conserving natural resources such as coal and soil. ESP dust is also used during concreting of roads, platforms and filling of low lying areas. Use of Char: The non-magnetic char generated as a solid waste from the DRI plants at TSIL is sold to the private entrepreneurs for their industrial use (Cement, AFBC, sponge iron etc.). Used Oil & Batteries: TSIL does not produce any hazardous waste except used oil and batteries. All the used oil is collected from different user points and sold to authorized dealers (approved by Central Pollution Control Board-CPCB) for further processing at their end. The old batteries are sold to authorized dealers through buy back system. Use of Canteen wastes: Food and vegetable wastes collected from canteens are used for generation of Biogas, which is used as fuel for cooking purpose. Principle – 9 Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology Use of cleaner & greener processes:  Ensured ‘Zero’ discharge of waste water, 100 % waste water is re circulated Company does not discharge any waste water to outside its premises. Cooling water is recirculated in the system. Other wastewater is used for road cleaning, coal yard dust suppression etc. after primary treatment.  Water Harvesting for ground water percolation and utilisation Company is doing water harvesting for capturing rain water for its utilization and also for ground water percolation. In addition to the existing water harvesting, TSIL has added one more huge rainwater harvesting facility within its premises. Also roof rain water is collected in a big tank and water is utilized for cooling purpose. 17 COP 2014  High capacity semi-automatic brick manufacturing machine capable to convert 100 % ESP dust (Waste) for making bricks. Company initially installed 4 brick manufacturing machines with a capacity of 8000 bricks/ shift/machine to convert its ESP generated Fly ash into useful bricks. During the year 2012-13 company has installed one semi-automatic brick manufacturing machine, which has a capacity to produce 4500 bricks /hour of operation. Bricks are made through cold pressing process where no heat/fire is required, thus conserving natural resource (coal) and soil. Company is capable to convert 100 % fly ash generation to manufacture Fly ash bricks.  Online AAQ & Stack monitoring: Company has 03 numbers of online AAQ monitoring stations and 03 numbers of online stack monitoring stations. Out of 03 AAQ stations, one station is mounted on mobile van. The parameters are displayed at the main gate on a giant display board for the information of the public.  Generating Biogas from canteen Wastes and utilizing for energy utilization at canteen: Company has installed 2 nos of Biogas units within its premises. Food and vegetable waste of Canteen and guest houses are utilized to generate gas and subsequently for generation of heat during preparation food. By adopting this process, waste as well as its foul smell at the dump area is eliminated, also the waste of biogas plant is used as good fertilizer to maintain gardens and lawns  Procured heavy duty fogging Canon for suppression of Fugitive dust: Company has procured one water cannon for suppression of fugitive dust of localized area. The canon is movable as well as truck mountable for its quick movement. The waste water is used though this cannons to suppress air borne dust up to distance of 50 mts. 18 COP 2014  Telescopic unloading spouts have been provided with pressurized water jacketing system at the discharge point of bunkers to control fugitive dust during unloading of char.  Chemical dust suppression system is used to reduce the dust in running circuits. Viscous chemical is sprayed over the running belt to entrap the flying dust and bring it back on the belt. A significant reduction in the fugitive dust is achieved by this process.  For cleaning of roads, the road vacuum-cleaning machine is used. The machine sucks the road dust and controls air pollution. Besides, the machine is also used for vacuum cleaning of the deposited dust from the floors of raw material circuits and finished product circuits using flexible pipe assembly In addition, TSIL has undertaken the following development activities over the years.  Reduction in CO2 emission: Various energy saving initiatives have been taken to reduce coal consumption, power consumption etc. Company is calculating its carbon fort print every year taking target to take necessary actions to reduce Greenhouse gas emission.  Use of alternate energy : TSIL has provided rural electrification in the nearby villages by installing solar powered panels. Environmental Expenditure (Million INR) 200 The total expenditure incurred on account of installation and maintenance of pollution control 100 73.13 55.54 56.22 53.11 50.94 49.34 equipments over last few years is shown. 26.07 Shown below the avg. ambient dust level at plant 0 area in µg/m3: '07-08 '08-09 '09-10 '10-11 '11-12 '12-13 '13-14 µg/m3 µg/m3 PM-2.5 level (2013-14) PM-10 level (2013-14) 100 100 78 82 89 89 87 82 81 100 100 43 47 43 45 43 48 33 41 32 27 33 30 17 14 19 19 18 0 0 AP R JU N SE OC NO T FE B AP M JU N SE OC NO T FE B MAY JU AU L G PT DE JAN V C M No AR R AY JU AU L G PT DE JAN V C M No AR rm rm 19 COP 2014 Awards & Accolades on environmental performance received over the years: Following Environmental Awards are received by Tata Sponge Iron Limited. Assessing Type of Award Rank Year Organization/Institution CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL TERI 1st Prize AWARD 2002-03 Greentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award GOLD Award 2002-03 Greentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award GOLD Award 2003-04 Confederation of Indian SHE award 1st Prize Industries (CII) 2004-2005 Greentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award Platinum Award 2004-05 World Environment Golden Peacock Award 1st Prize 2005 Foundation Directorate of Factories & Best Environmental award 1st Prize 2005 Boilers Directorate of Factories & Best Performance in Safety & 1st Prize 2005 Boilers Environmental award Genentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award GOLD Award 2006 Srishti Publications G-Cube Award Winner Award 2007 Genentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award GOLD Award 2007 CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL TERI Appreciation AWARD 2007 World Environment Golden Peacock Award Finalist 2008 Foundation Runner Up Times of India Group & JSW Earth Care award on GHG Mitigation 2008 Award Srishti Publications G-Cube Award Winner Award 2008 Genentech Foundation Environment Excellence Award GOLD Award 2009 Frost & Sullivan Green India Award Green Challenger 2009 State Pollution Control Appreciation Pollution Control Award 2010 Board, Orissa Award Confederation of Indian Best Practices in Safety Health & Second Prize 2012 Industries (CII) Environment JIPM TPM Award (Category-A) Excellence Award 2012 State Pollution Control Pollution Control Award Excellence Award 2013 Board, Orissa Frost & Sullivan Green India Award Golden Award 2013 Policies addressing TSIL environment: TSIL has following policies in place as a part of its commitment to the environment: Environmental policy Climate change policy CSR policy TPM policy ( addressing environment) and Mission of the company 20 COP 2014 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle – 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Consistent with Tata Group purpose and in line with Tata Code of Conduct, the company has a set of defined Values (TSIL) as follows: T – Trust & respect S – Social equity I – Integrity L – Loyalty and also an Organisational culture (SEWA) as follows: S Safety E – Environment friendly operations W – Welfare of employees & surrounding community A – Adaptability to changing scenario Corporate Governance: In order to enhance shareholders’ value and promote national interest, the company is committed to good corporate governance and to achieve the objectives of this, the company follows the principles of transparency , disclosure, fairness, independent supervision, healthy competition, equal opportunity in employment and compliance to all relevant laws, rules and regulation. Adoption of Code of Conduct: Keeping in view the Values (TSIL), Organisational Culture (SEWA) and requirements of good corporate governance, the company has laid down a code which is called Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC). It is mandatory for the company and all employees to follow the TCoC which has 25 clauses. Coverage of Code of Conduct: All employees of Tata Sponge have signed the “Tata Code of Conduct”. This has also been extended to suppliers and customers along with the contract for compliance in respect of relevant clauses. To re-enforce company’s firm resolve towards fostering an ethical environment, employees are encouraged to raise ethical issues through Whistle Blower Policy, a formal mechanism for all employees to make protective disclosures about unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the company’s Code of Conduct. The Ethics Counsellor personally addresses employees, local contractors, suppliers & customers to support them in upholding ethical transactions. The Clause No 2 (regarding financial Reporting and records) of the Tata Code of Conduct states that the company shall prepare and maintain its accounts fairly and accurately and in accordance with the accounting and financial reporting standards which represent the generally accepted guidelines, principles, standards, laws and regulations of the country in which the company conducts its business affairs. Internal accounting and audit procedures shall reflect, fairly and accurately, all of the company’s business transactions and disposition of assets, and shall have internal controls to provide assurance to the company’s board and shareholders that the transactions are accurate and legitimate. All required information shall be accessible to company auditors and other authorised parties and government agencies. There shall be no willful omissions of any company transactions from the books and records, no advanceincome recognition and no hidden bank account and funds. Any willful, material misrepresentation of and / or misinformation on the financial accounts and reports shall be regarded as a violation of the Code, apart from inviting appropriate civil or criminal action under the relevant laws. No employee shall make, authorise, abet or collude in an improper payment, unlawful commission or bribing. The clause No 5 of the code (regarding gift & donation) states that the company and its employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations 21 COP 2014 or comparable benefits that are intended, or perceived, to obtain uncompetitive favours for the conduct of its business. Further, the company shall cooperate with governmental authorities in efforts to eliminate all forms of bribery, fraud and corruption. The company has laid down a Gift Policy clarifying its rules and regulations on gifts and entertainments. The Clause No 6 of the Code (regarding dealing with Government Agencies) makes it obligatory for the company and its employees, unless mandated under applicable law, not to offer or give any company funds or property as donation to any government agency or its representative, directly or through intermediaries, in order to obtain any favourable performance of official duties. The company shall comply with government procurement regulations and shall be transparent in all its dealings with government agencies. The Clause No 7 of the Code (regarding political non-alignment) requires the company to be committed to and support the constitution and governance systems of the country in which it operates. The company shall not support any specific political party or candidate for political office. The company’s conduct shall preclude any activity that could be interpreted as mutual dependence / favour with any political body or person, and shall not offer or give any company funds or property as donations to any political party, candidate or campaign. The Clause No 17 of the Code (Ethical Conduct) casts a duty upon every employee to ensure ethical behavior. Failure to adhere to this clause could attract severe consequences, including termination of employment. Reporting of Concerns: The Clause No 25 of the code gives freedom to all employees to raise concerns regarding unethical behavior and actual or suspected violation of Code. During the year 2015, total of 5 (five) concerns were received from employees and one from a service provider and all were resolved. The Whistle Blower Policy (WBP) gives freedom to all the employees to raise concerns regarding actual / potential violation of Code of Conduct at the same time ensuring full protection to Whistle blowers against any form of victimization or harassment/reprimand. A high level Whistle Blower Protection Committee is in place. Awareness sessions were held by the Ethics Counsellor on TCoC / WBP with the following stakeholders :  Employees 8 sessions (covering over 140 employees)  Service Providers 1 session (covering 37 service providers) Additionally the Ethics Counsellor also addressed employees in 8 Dialogue sessions covering over 650 employees. Organisation Structure for ensuring Ethics: The Company has an Ethics Counsellor and a team of 5 Ethics Co-ordinators which also include a female Ethics Coordinator. The campany also has a Committee for dealing with the cases of sexual harassment at workplace 22 -
