Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report Recycled papers and soy ink, certified by Forest Stewardship Council(FSC), was used to print this report. About Contents this Introduction report 04 CEO Message As a representing energy and chemical company in Korea, GS Caltex is 06 Corporate Overview committed to creating economic, environmental, and social values throughout 08 GS Caltex Vision & GSC Way its entire production process. Every year, we share insights into our business 09 Corporate Governance practices and the progress we have made towards achieving the highest level of 10 Ethics Management sustainability with our stakeholders from both inside and outside the company. 11 Sustainability Management 12 Selection of Report Subject Reporting Period 14 GS Caltex 2014 at a Glance This report covers our sustainability strategy, commitments, practices, and performance from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. For the key quantitative Material aspects performance, the results of the past three years(from 2012 to 2014) are shared for comparative analysis. Some of the highlights over the first half of 2015 are included 16 Management Activities for Sustainable Growth in this report to ensure its timely release. 20 Providing the Best Quality Products and Services for Customers Scope of Report The scope of this report encompasses the GS Caltex headquarters and major 24 Environmental Management and Response to Climate Change business facilities including Yeosu complex. A certain portion of the data was derived from the logistics center, lubricant plant, gas stations, filling stations, and affiliated 29 Reinforcement and Dissemination of Safety System companies. Any parts that require special attention are indicated accordingly. 32 Employee Value Enhancement 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Reporting Guidelines For Additional Information The GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report was prepared in line with the G4 Core More information on GS Caltex can be found on the company website(www.gscaltex.com). If you have any questions appendix Guidelines of GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) and designed to take feedback from or require more details on this report, please contact us. stakeholders in compliance with AA1000SES. The content of this report has been 40 Financial Data reviewed by internal professionals with GRI certification and external specialized agency. There are no significant changes in terms of its scope, boundaries, and 41 GRI G4 Index GS Caltex CSR Team measuring processes from the previous report. 43 UN Global Compact GS Tower, 508, Nonhyeon-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea 44 Third Party Assurance Statement +82-2-2005-1614 c16895@gscaltex.com Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner introduction CEO Message At GS Caltex, we are striving to strengthen our competitive advantages both inside and outside the Dear valued stakeholders, company to realize our vision as the Value No. 1 Energy & Chemical Partner. We will engage in a This year marks the tenth year since we published our first sustainability report process of continuous, open communication with our stakeholders to grow together with the society. back in 2006. The refining industry has seen many changes over the years, and we expect even more changes and challenges in the future. As a corporate citizen, we will continue to fulfill our social responsibility while building a strong foundation for sustainable growth and profitability. Despite the uncertainties in the business environment with the slowdown of the global economy and plunging oil prices in 2014, GS Caltex has pushed forward with proactive initiatives to strengthen our internal competitiveness. As a result, GS Caltex was able to create value through the diversification of crude oil supply sources, development of biobutanol and LFT(Long Fiber Reinforced Thermoplastics), and process optimization through the V-Project. Everyone at GS Caltex will continue our unified efforts to improve the profitability and reinforce the competitiveness of the company’s core businesses. Our company will overcome the challenging business environment by strengthening the fundamentals, safety, and communication with the stakeholders. We ask for your continued interest and support for GS Caltex’s commitment to creating a sustainable and better future. Jin-Soo Huh Vice Chairman & CEO 04 05 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report introduction Corporate Founded in 1967 as Korea’s first private oil refiner, GS Caltex played a critical role in the nation’s economic development and has grown into one of the leading exporters of petroleum products Overview and petrochemicals to more than 20 countries worldwide. We will continue to make progress towards global leadership in the energy market as a strong energy supplier while contributing to our nation’s economic growth. Corporate Profile Profile Description Business Domain GS Caltex produces high quality petroleum products using refineries with a daily capacity of 785,000 barrels* As of December 31, 2014 and state-of-the-art automated production facilities including desulfurization plants for kerosene and diesel. As Name of company GS Caltex Corporation Date of establishment May 19, 1967 of 2014, we are focusing our resources on stabilizing the supply of petroleum products in the domestic market Location of headquarters GS Tower, 508, Nonhyeon-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul with more than 2,840 gas stations and 420 filling stations nationwide. About 66% of our sales is from exports, leading our country’s economic development. Meanwhile, we have expanded our facilities to reflect technical Overseas offices(branches) China, India, Singapore, London, etc. innovation and respond to a fast changing market environment. In 2010, we went into full scale operation of our No. of employees 3,059 third VRHCR and replaced asphalt with high value-added light petroleum products, significantly increasing our Type of industries Crude oil refining industry profitability. In 2013, we started operation of VGO FCC and reached a daily process capacity of 268,000 barrels, the Business domain Petroleum, Petrochemicals, Base Oil & Lubricants highest in Korea(achieving an upgrade rate of 34.6%). By doing so, we realized our vision of Perfect Complex and took our profitability and competitive edge to the next level. *In May 2014, the refining capacity increased from 775,000 barrels to 785,000 barrels by expanding Crude Distillation Unit #1. Our aromatic business has now attained world-class scale and competitiveness through steady investment and optimum efficiency since its establishment in 1990. Currently, we are able to produce 2.8 million tons of aromatic 1 GS Caltex China Co., Ltd. products per year including 1.35 million tons of paraxylene, 0.93 million tons of benzene, 0.17 million tons of 2 GS Caltex(Langfang) Plastics Co., Ltd. toluene, and 0.35 million tons of mixed xylene while ensuring that our growth momentum continues. 3 GS Caltex(Jinan) Energy Co., Ltd. Overseas Network 4 GS Caltex(Yantai) Energy Co., Ltd. We began our production of polypropylene(PP) upon completion of the production facilities with an annual 5 GS Caltex(Qingdao) Petroleum Co., Ltd. capacity of 120,000 tons in 1988. Since 2001, we managed to secure propylene from our own RFCC process and 6 GS Caltex(Qingdao) Energy Co., Ltd. ensure stable supply of materials to ensure a competitive price in the market. In March, 2013, we secured an 7 GS Caltex(Suzhou) Plastics Co., Ltd. additional production of 250,000 tons of propylene and reached a total production capacity of 476,000 tons, thanks 8 GS Caltex(Suzhou) Trading Co., Ltd. 9 GS Caltex India Private Ltd. to a new VGO FCC. Furthermore, we are expanding our production bases by establishing GS Caltex(Langfang) 10 GS Caltex Singapore Pte. Ltd. Plastics Co., Ltd.(2006), GS Caltex(Suzhou) Plastics Co., Ltd.(2010), GS Caltex Czech, s.r.o.(2011), and GS Caltex 11 GS Caltex London Branch Jinju Composite Resin Plant(2013) as part of our expansion plan for composite resin production while actively 12 GS Caltex Czech, s.r.o. developing new markets. 13 GS Caltex Abu Dhabi Branch Our base oil production started in November 2007 when our BOP(Base Oil Plant) with a daily capacity of 16,000 barrels(800,000 tons/year) was completed. Since then, we increased our capacity to 23,000 barrels per day(1.15 million tons/year) in 2010 followed by a further increase to 26,000 barrels(1.3 million tons/year) through additional improvement in our production facilities. More than 70% of our production is for global buyers, and we are Vice Chairman & CEO increasing our presence in the global market by developing our sales network and prospecting new customers. Corporate Audit Government & For our lubricant business, we are maintaining a daily capacity of 9,000 barrels of lubricants with 9,000 tons Organization Public Relations Human Resources of grease per year. We hold the highest market share and sales in the finished products market in Korea as As of December 31, 2014 Corporate Planning Corporate Legal our superior level of quality and technical expertise have been recognized. Our product portfolio ranges from automobiles and industrials to ships and special oils including more than 200 product categories with Kixx engine GS Caltex China oil as our flagship brand. Based on our competitive advantage in the domestic market, we are making inroads into global markets including China and Russia and have established a local company in India in 2010 as we Supply & Trading Manufacturing Marketing Petrochemicals & Finance continue increasing our export volume. Lubricants 06 07 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report introduction GS Caltex Vision In January, 2014, we unveiled our new vision of operating as the ‘Value No. 1 Energy & Chemical Corporate Structured approach to corporate governance has always been a part of GS Caltex’s long-term Partner’. We created this vision based on the feedback we collected and through in-depth sustainable growth. Our management has formed an advanced decision-making system led by & GSC Way discussion on our corporate governance to secure our position as a global energy and chemical Governance the Board of Directors(BOD) to secure reliability and transparency within the company. player. We make sure that all members of GS Caltex align their vision with our corporate goals and apply the GSC Way into their daily practice. GS Caltex Vision Our directors are nominated by GS Caltex, GS Holdings, GS BOD Members(as of June 2015) Energy, and Chevron according to the internal policies and Title Name Position guidelines. All the directors are appointed at the General Dong-Soo Hur Chairman, GS Caltex Corporation Meeting of Shareholders. The board of directors is comprised Inside of ten directors who possess professional expertise and risk Jin-Soo Huh Vice Chairman & CEO, GS Caltex Corporation Director management capabilities. In 2014, three directors were from GS Byong Yol Kim President, Manufacturing, GS Caltex Corporation Vision Statement Caltex, one from GS Holdings, one from GS Energy, and five from Chevron. Wan Bae Rha Vice Chairman & CEO, GS Energy Corporation Our mission is to deliver quality products and services by developing Taik Keun Jung President & CEO, GS Holdings Corporation the potential of energy & chemical resources. As our Board members are executives from each company, We are committed to increasing our capacity to generate environmentally responsible Vice President, their compensation schemes follow the internal policies of the A. B. Walz and innovative new values. Chevron International Products As a global energy & chemical company, we are passionate about growing with respective company, and no additional compensation is granted NonVice President, for their board-related activities. The Board resolutions require an J. S. Farrand our partners and helping the world move forward. standing Chevron Downstream & Chemicals affirmative vote of more than two-thirds of all registered directors, Director President & CEO, as stated in the Articles of Incorporation. In order to guarantee the W. L. Stone Star Petroleum Refining Company independent operation of the BOD and prevent possible conflicts W. J. Miner Country Chairman, Chevron Korea of interest, any Board members who have a special interest in the agenda will be prohibited from exerting their vote. General Manager, J. J. Kuehn Corporate Values Chevron Supply & Trading The Board Support Office provides support to the directors on Trust Fulfill one’s role, and trust and respect one another. all Board matters, including preparation of the agenda for Board Flexibility Welcome diversity with an open mind and behavior. meetings, through proactive communication and cooperation with Challenge Set high goals and pursue them aggressively. related divisions and regular meetings with Chevron resident Excellence Strive for excellence in individual and organizational performance. director. Board members are provided with meeting materials at Role of the Board Committees least one week before the actual meeting to ensure enough time Title Member Roles D Core Behaviors to review the agenda items. Nine Board meetings were held in 2014 to review and approve key agenda items such as the 2015 Proactive Think ahead and be the first to act. Accountability Review and discussion of business plan and the merger of GS Mbiz and GS GreenTech. 3 Excellence Committee governance-related issues Collaboration Strategically utilize external resources and capabilities. Performance-Driven Deliver tangible results. BOD operates separate committees such as Accountability Committee, Audit Committee (different from the Audit Committee Review and discussion of Trust under the commercial code), and LNG Procurement Management Audit Committee 4 compliance program and major GSC Way Statement audit issues Flexibility Challenge Committee. Each committee members is appointed at the BOD Maintaining the highest level of Trust, Flexibility, Challenge, meeting every year. Four committee meetings were held in 2014. and Excellence, we… on •Think ahead and are the first to act. LNG Procurement Management Committee 2 Review and discussion of LNG business-related issues •Strategically utilize external resources and capabilities. •Deliver tangible results. We achieve our vision by applying the GSC Way in practice. 08 09 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report introduction Ethics At GS Caltex, we established the Code of Ethics as a foundation for ethical business practices Sustainable At GS Caltex, we actively pursue sustainable business practices based on our comprehensive risk in 1994 and implemented our voluntary compliance program in 2001. The internal control and management in economic, social, and environmental aspects with support from the CSR Strategy Management ethical practices are reported to the Audit Committee under the BOD twice a year. In addition, the Management Framework and CSR Committee while focusing on establishing a practice-oriented sustainable following system applies to the appointment of our corporate compliance officer and reporting management system. Since our establishment of the four CSR strategies in 2010, we have continued improving process under the CEO’s voluntary compliance policies. the CSR Strategy Framework based on which we manage and respond to various issues of our company. We ensure that our voluntary compliance Compliance Organizational Structure & Reporting Process Status of CSR Framework(2010-Present) system is efficiently implemented by CEO Year Description our CCO(Corporate Compliance Officer) and BOD Audit Committee ① CCO Appointment The Four CSR Strategies: Sustainable Operation, Reliable Energy, Accountable Engagement the UCO (Unit Compliance Officer) from Four CSR and Responsible Marketing were established to effectively manage the economic, social, Strategies each business division and subsidiary. Corporate Each Unit and environmental aspects of the company. Reward/ CCO 2010 Compliance We organize the Corporate Compliance Punishment Office(Corporate (Corporate ② Committee Compliance Officer) Reporting UCO Legal Team) 86 indicators were defined based on ISO 26000 to internalize CSR and used to assess and Committee consisting of the CCO and Appointment ISO 26000 improve the level of CSR over the past 3 years(2010-2012). UCOs to supervise and encourage UCO (Unit Compliance ethical management business practices Corporate Officer) The existing ISO 26000-based indicators were upgraded to 30 CSR performance Compliance CSR Performance in the fields twice a year, and the BOD Committee *(including CCOs 2012 management indicators to reflect actual business practices and introduce ‘CSR from subsidiaries) Management System Performance Management System’. is informed of their activities. All our Training & Dissemination ① Corporate Compliance Officer employees are required to take the ‘CSR Management Topics and Expected Issues’ were selected in consideration of global ② Unit Compliance Officer Head of Unit CSR 2014 guidelines(e.g. GRI, UNGC, ISO 26000) and the existing CSR Performance Indicators for more CCP(Corporate Compliance Program) which Management Topics proactive management. provides guidance on ethical principles, CCP Performance(Unit: person) fair business transaction, prevention of Classification 2012 2013 2014 sexual harassment, data security, and Since 2010, GS Caltex has operated CSR Committee with the CEO as the chair. The committee helps discuss and No. of GS Caltex Online 3,011 3,026 3,197 CCM. We make sure to do everything we employees make decisions on CSR-related issues while sharing their opinions on sustainability with other key committees, Offline 261 159 137 can to realize full compliance with ethical providing a corporate-wide perspective as part of its efforts to reinforce sustainable practices. The CSR No. of partners’ Online 16 conduct in every aspect of our business. Committee meetings were held 15 times from July 2010 to May 2015. Recently, the committee is discussing the employees Offline 154 44 12 ways to reinforce the coordination system among key committees and councils in line with the development of the CSR Strategy Framework. We revised our ‘Code of Ethics’ and ‘Internal Compliance Regulations’ to make sure that our overseas CSR Committee/Status on Sustainability subsidiaries comply with our compliance program and reinforce their roles and responsibilities while continuing our efforts in improving the level of compliance for GS Caltex and subsidiaries. As part of these initiatives, all Committee Activities our employees pledged to uphold compliance early this year and sent out 3,130 official letters to our clients CSR Committee Corporate-wide discussion and decision-making on CSR-related issues and partners to encourage ethical business practices. On a quarterly basis, we publish a web magazine called ‘Ethics Virus’ to raise our employees' awareness and set up a hotline to respond to ethics-related questions CCM Committee Decision-making on consumer-oriented strategies and their implementation and provide consultation regarding business transactions with GS Caltex. We also ensure full anonymity in our Corporate Compliance Committee Discussion on key issues of Voluntary Compliance Program hotline operation for our employees and stakeholders who report any unethical practices, corruption, and unfair Information Security Committee Corporate-wide discussion and decision-making on information security and policies business transactions. Ethics Management Hotline +82-2-2005-6011 Grievance Settlement(Sexual Harassment Claims) +82-2-2005-6012 Risk Management Committee Risk assessment/management on exchange rates and prices Email ethics@gscaltex.com Environmental Safety Committee/Council Decision-making on SHE(Safety, Health and Environment) policies and strategies We also recognize the importance of fair business practices and competition and promote compliance with laws Fair Trade Review Committee Internal reviewing for fair and transparent business practices through employee training programs and a mandatory internal review process against potential violations. By doing so, we are able to clarify the employees’ obligation to comply with laws and proactively respond to any Industrial Safety Committee Reviewing and resolution of key safety issues for employees issues that may potentially compromise our compliance as part of our commitment to transparent and fair business practices. Plan for the Future Plan for the Future At GS Caltex, we will continue to optimize the CSR framework to fulfill our social responsibility in an efficient At GS Caltex, we actively engage in the development of our training content and performance so that our online and strategic manner. We will take a corporate-wide approach to ensure sustainable business practices by and offline programs will be more effective for our employees. We will continue our efforts to achieve the highest responding to changes in both the internal and external CSR environment and implementing more proactive ethical standards and practices based on the Code of Ethics and Internal Compliance Regulations. measures. 10 11 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report introduction Selection of The topics of this report have been selected according to the GRI G4 guidelines in consideration of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality and Completeness. GS Caltex Report Subject responds to each topic as follows. Stakeholder At GS Caltex, we maintain close communication with all our stakeholders including the government, customers, Result of materiality evaluation Inclusiveness local communities, and employees as we undertake various activities to achieve the highest level of sustainability. Economy(2) Society(3) Environment(3) Employees(4) Customers(1) In this report, we focus on some of their key areas of interest we have identified through communication. •Financial soundness •Communication with •Energy management •Employment and retention •Pricing & customer •New growth engine/ stakeholders activities of human resource satisfaction initiatives Classification of stakeholders & communication channels Diversification of •Mutual growth with •Response to climate •Performance training business partners change e.g. program •CSR activities greenhouse gas •Internal communication Government Unions NGO Subsidiaries Partners •Response to environmental •Safety control based on •Public hearings, •Joint Labor-Management •CSR activities •Announcements •Consultation meeting regulations risk factors Discussions, Seminars conference •Discussion including the CEO with partners •Website •Joint Labor-Management •Website, Company message •Web-portal for buyers •Conference on volunteer activities Newsletter, Media •Website, Company •Survey on satisfaction Completeness We identified 13 key issues in terms of their completeness(2 from Economy, 3 from Society, 3 from Environment, 4 from economic cooperation •Joint Labor-Management Reports Newsletter, Media level Employees, and 1 from Customers). Among those issues, we apply the overall content for ‘Communication with campaign Reports stakeholders’, and the rest of the issues were divided into 16 key aspects defined in the GRI G4 guidelines. In this report, we focus on 6 topics to explain the economic, environmental, and social aspects of our business operation Community Customer Shareholders & nvestors Employees to our stakeholders. We also intend to monitor the existing CSR management and potential issues to prevent any •CSR activities •Customer satisfaction •Business Report •Company Newsletter, •Discussion survey •Disclosure internal Bulletin board associated risks. •Website, Company •Communication •Survey on employees Newsletter, Media channels including the Key Issues Report Topics G4 Aspect Reports customer center •Financial soundness •New growth engine/ Management activities for •Economic performance Diversification of business sustainable growth •Procurement practice •Mutual growth with partners Sustainability Our pool of sustainability issues consists of 31 issues based on the review of global guidelines and standards(e.g. GRI G4, ISO 26000) and our internal issues and materials, as well as external environmental analysis(e.g. benchmarks •Products & services Context •Pricing & customer satisfaction Providing the best-quality products and •Product & service labeling on leading companies, media research and survey results). initiatives services to customers •Customer privacy Pool of sustainability issues •Energy •Energy management activities •Emissions •Response to climate change e.g. Environmental management and response •Effluents and waste Economy(5) Society(5) Environment(8) Employees(8) Customers(5) greenhouse gas to climate change •Compliance •Response to environmental regulations •Financial soundness •Communication with •Energy management •Employment and •Pricing & customer •Overall •New growth engine/ stakeholders activities retention of human satisfaction initiatives Diversification of •Mutual growth with •Response to climate resource •Safety and health of Reinforcement and dissemination •Occupational health and safety •Safety control based on risk factors business partners change e.g. •Performance training customers of safety system •Asset integrity and process safety •Market share •CSR activities greenhouse gas program •Accurate information •Research & •Investment in local •Response to •Internal communication about products and •Employment and retention of Development communities environmental •Safety control based on services •Fair marketing human resource •Employment •Ethical and fair •Protection of the rights regulations risk factors Employee value enhancement •Performance training program •Training and education practices of local communities •Oil Spill •Employee healthcare practices •Internal communication •Compliance with •Promotion of safety •Privacy environmental laws culture •Development of eco•Balance between work •Indirect economic impacts •CSR activities CSR activities friendly products and life •Local communities •Air pollution control •Labor-Management •Water pollution control relationship Trend Analysis When compared to the evaluation results in 2013, new issues such as ‘Communication with stakeholders’, ‘Internal communication’, ‘Mutual growth with partners’, and ‘CSR activities’ appeared on the list in 2014. This Materiality We have conducted an evaluation on the materiality based on ‘the impact on our growth’ and ‘the level of interest is mainly due to the fact that a lack of communication in the industries has resulted in some recent controversy. of external stakeholders’. The impact on our growth was identified through the survey on our employees in terms Issues such as ‘Financial soundness’, ‘Performance training program’, and ‘Employment and retention of human of both long and short-term performance while the level of interest of our external stakeholders was derived resource’ which made their entry in the list last year were also selected this year as we recognized the need for from the industrial benchmarks, media research, and survey on external stakeholders. The same criteria that strengthening our competitive advantages, especially in light of the economic recession. were used last year have been applied to make sure that they are aligned with our long-term goals and how key issues are developed. ※ The measures we have taken regarding the Wu Yi San collision and oil spill which took place in January 2014 will be published separately and covered in the next report as they are still ongoing. 12 13 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report introduction GS Caltex 2014 at a Glance Supply Human Resource 3,059 employees Material Resource 254M barrels of crude oil Capital GS Energy 50% Chevron(Overseas) Holdings Ltd. 40% Chevron Global Energy Inc. 10% Business Refining Capacity 785,000 barrels/day Aromatic Production Capacity 2.8M tons/year Base Oil Production Capacity 1.3M tons/year 15 consolidated subsidiaries 15 global networks 2,840 gas stations /420 filling stations 16.62M membership subscribers Segment Oil Refining & Petrochemical /Marketing & Service Value of Exports Sales Sales Investment in Facilities Investment in R&D KRW 40.3T Export to 23 countries KRW 26.7T KRW 335.7B KRW 39.81B Investment Value Total Employee Compensation KRW 265.2B Environmental Investment KRW 27.85B Investment in CSR Activities KRW 22.8B Crude Oil Purchase KRW 28.3T Purchase(excl. Crude Oil) KRW 6.88T Low Interest Loan Program for Partners KRW 65.3B Distribution 14 15 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner Major stakeholder G4 Aspect GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report Material aspect .1 Shareholders & Investors/Employees/Partners Economic Performance/Procurement Practice Enhance Internal Competitiveness with the V-Project Financial Performance of the V-Project (Cumulative Amount/Unit: KRW 100M) At GS Caltex, we recognize the importance of strengthening the competitiveness of the ‘crude oil※ The projection for 2015 is included. production-sales’ value chain in order for us to generate a more stable profit structure in this increasingly uncertain and low-revenue business environment. With this goal in mind, we have carried out the V-Project, our company-wide mega project named after the ‘Innovation in Our Value Chain’ as well as ‘Vision’ and ‘Victory’ since 2013. Each year, we have expanded the areas of improvement through the V-Project. In 2013, the project began with 40 improvement activities for the ‘Optimal Operation of Upgrading Units’ and the scope has been extended to include ‘Optimize Energy/Utility’ and ‘Optimize Petrochemical Production’ in 2014. In 2015, we conducted activities to reduce costs and increase yields 4,767 in the areas of ‘Increase Competitiveness of Feedstock’, ‘Optimize Process Operation’ and ‘Maximize Product Value’ in order to continuously improve profitability. As a result, we have improved our net yield, energy consumption and the mix of high value-added products which are the key indicators of the refinery competitiveness. Key Areas of Improvement & Financial Performance(Unit: Bil. KRW) 2013 2014 2015 V-Project Areas of Improvement Actual Actual Projection 1. Enhance competitiveness of processing crude oil 18.2 6.1 1.8 Wave 1 2. Improve yields and feed mix 30.2 58.1 58.9 (2013) 3. Optimize sales 15.7 35.0 48.0 Sub Total 64.2 99.2 108.7 Management Activities for 1. Optimize facilities operation 20.7 68.6 지속적인 성장을 위한 Sustainable Growth 경영활동 Wave 2 2. Optimize energy/utility 37.5 31.8 (2014) 3. Optimize petrochemical production 2.8 5.2 Sub Total 61.0 105.5 The energy industry faces a myriad of challenges in both internal and external environments. 1. Increase competitiveness of feedstock 6.6 At GS Caltex, we take diversified approaches to overcome these challenges while strengthening our 2. Optimize process operation 27.5 Wave 3 competitive advantages to achieve sustainable growth. (2015) 3. Maximize product value 4.1 Sub Total 38.1 Grand Total 64.2 160.2 252.3 Disclosure on Management APPROACH ※ The numbers have been rounded to the first decimal place. Securing New Growth Engines through R&D Context & Challenge Our Progress Our Commitment Our commitment to R&D will enable us to improve our competitive advantages and secure new growth engines. At GS Caltex, we focus on driving growth in the areas of biochemical and composite materials Challenging internal and external ● Build up internal competencies ● Continue V-Project while achieving the highest level of customer satisfaction in the refinery and lubricant sectors. We are business environments through V-Project ● Commercialize biochemical and ● Securing New Growth Engines composite materials committing our best efforts to facilitate these R&D projects while exploring new business opportunities. •Fluctuating oil prices through R&D ● Invest in facilities in line with In the biochemical sector, we are reviewing our opportunities in commercialization and technical •Sluggish global economic recovery ● Diversify business portfolio and profitability •Increasing competition from China ensure financial stability ● Improve cost efficiency expertise from securing biomass materials to development of production technologies and demand and oil-producing countries in ● Promote mutual growth ● Continue our commitment for and are planning to pursue various activities including validation of technologies and downstream terms of refining capacity with partners mutual growth based on our scale-up research. In addition, we will focus our resources on the development of commercialization technologies with the technical expertise we have secured in the composite material sector and continue expanding our market and seek new areas of application by the development of physical properties. We intend to take more proactive measures to changing business environments and create a foundation for sustainable growth in existing sectors. 16 17 GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report Key R&D Projects Promote Mutual Growth with Partners Investment in R&D(Unit: KRW 100M) Low Interest Loan Program for Partners (Unit: KRW 100M) At GS Caltex, we promote and sustain mutual growth with our partners. We operate various partner The original technology for producing bio-alcohol by fermenting microorganisms from biomass has been secured and is in the process of commercialization. We are also continuing our research to support programs in areas such as finance, technical development, management, and training to help further improve its financial viability and sustainability. 2014 398.1 Biochemical our partners improve competitiveness. 2013 458.7 Cosmetics & Personal Care Agricultural Products At GS Caltex, we provide various financial support programs for small and medium-sized business operations. We settle our payment in full cash within 7 days from receipt of New 2012 434.2 Growth Engine Based on our technical expertise we have accumulated over the years, we are focusing our 653 invoice and set up a mutual growth fund of KRW 100B for our partners jointly with financing institutions. As of the end of 2014, the fund has provided 86 companies with KRW 65.3B in research resources in creating high added values in the composite material sector using our Financial low-interest loans. In addition, we introduced a program through which we pay 20% of the byproducts. Additionally, we are studying bio-based functional textile and engineering plastic Support Composite composite materials in response to a strong market demand for eco-friendly materials. monthly dues in advance to 6 shipping companies under our long-term contracts. Materials Carbon Textile Composite Materials Functional Textile We support patent application fees of our first and second-tier partners in order to safeguard new technologies and implemented a technology escrow system through which Competitive Refinery In response to a demand for higher quality and new environmental energy policies in refinery, we Strength / they can retain their intellectual properties at the government-designated centers. We are researching quality control as well as the development of products and catalyst technologies as in Existing Process Technical organize seminars to provide technical training about polymer and lubricant materials Sectors Catalyst part of our efforts in increasing productivity and adding more value to semi-finished products. Support as well as industrial trends and new product portfolio. We are also enacting a project for localizing imported materials and promote stable supply by entering long-term contracts. Mutual Growth Policies We operate an energy diagnosis support program where we assess energy consumption Commercialization & Increase in Supply of Carbon Fiber LFT Promote mutually levels of all our partners to identify waste elements and provide solutions to improve their beneficial business Fair arrangement based on Management energy efficiency. Additionally, we provide consultation for building KOSHA 18001 through Our LFT(Long Fiber Reinforced Thermoplastic) is made by combining various types of plastic resins fairness and transparency. Consulting site inspection to help create safer working environments and improve their productivity. and additives using GS Caltex’s exclusive processing techniques to increase its strength and durability against impact. It is only half the weight of existing steel materials with the same or lower level Pay partners in cash, form of strength. The polymer technology development team at GS Caltex undertook the development long-term partnerships, and of carbon fiber composite materials for use as lightweight automobile parts in 2012. The massStable adjust prices to promote At our training support center, we are providing 17 courses designed to improve the level sustainable business of safety, job performance, and management skills for our maintenance service partners production was successfully launched in 2014, and they were exclusively supplied to Hyundai Kia operation for partners. Motors for certain Kia models, and more models are expected to be included in the future. In addition, at the Yeosu complex while 7 safety training courses are offered to shipping partners we are negotiating with several European automakers for the supply of carbon fiber LFT materials. through the maritime transportation safety support center. We support the Corporate Training & Currently, our production capacity reached 12,000 tons of carbon fiber LFT materials per year Provide practical and Compliance Program and ethical practice training program to ensure mutual support effective management Education with new production facilities in Jincheon, Korea and Suzhou, China. We are planning to add more Practical support including technical and growth with our partners while providing the framework for our code of ethics and production facilities in Jinju to increase the annual production capacity to 20,000 tons by 2015. cooperation, training, and internal control techniques. consulting programs. Result of Partner Training Programs Category Training Program Result(Freq. /Participants) Diversify Business Portfolio and Ensure Financial Stability Construction safety training program for supervisors 2/21 In response to low-margin fundamentals, we at GS Caltex are undertaking various business activities. Human error prevention /rescue program 1/25 Following the investment in the advanced facilities in 2013, we are diversifying our portfolio in the Practice training for signalmen 5/188 petrochemical sector and investing in the production facilities in the lubricant sector while restructuring Yeosu Partner Training by Practice training for scaffolding men 7/217 our product lines based on the diversification of market channels, development of high value-added complex Category Orientation program for new employees of partners 1/8 products, and improvement of our revenue stream. At the same time, we are focusing our resources to Training program for hoist/crane operators 2/22 ensure our financial stability in response to the highly unpredictable and volatile business environment. Training program for maintenance staff of partners 3/70 By reinforcing our competitive advantages in the market, we are generating more stable cash flow and Performance improvement program for managers 1/11 maintaining a proper level of cash and loan in consideration of our long and short-term strategies. We Subsidiary Safety Firefighting training 1/8 optimized our structure for loan expiration in line with our operational cash flow and secured sufficient Performance Support Human error prevention program 1/10 credit line with banks as part of our plan to ensure stable funding and risk control. We also managed to Headquarters Coaster Safety Training Safety training programs for coaster owners 2/249 secure condensate produced in the U.S. and crude oil from Alaska for diversification and cost reduction. /crews(17 vessels, 9 companies) Ethics/Human Rights Importance and scope of ethical management 1/12 18 19 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner Major stakeholder G4 Aspect GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report Material aspect .2 Customer/Community/NGO/Subsidiaries Products & Services/Product & Service Labeling /Customer Privacy Maximize Customer Values Customer Value Creation Process At GS Caltex, we operate our business in accordance with the CCM(Consumer Centered Management) which is operated by the Korea Consumer Agency and certified by the Fair Trade Commission for the purpose of ensuring that corporate activities are in line with consumers’ needs and performing evaluations to Consumer Centered Management Consumer-Oriented Corporate find room for improvement. Its focus lies on the prevention of complaints from consumers, earning earn Culture & Protection of Consumer their trust while reflecting VOC as part of continuous improvement process. The objective is to provide Rights and Interests the highest quality products and services while creating values and improving competitive advantages. GS Caltex introduced the CCM in 2006 and was certified for its excellent performance in 2010—a first in the refining industry. In 2013, we integrated the CCM Committee with our key decision-making executive Strategic committee to further increase its efficiency and expedite the reporting process. We mandated our Planning CCM training program for all employees to internalize our consumer-centric management philosophy. VOC-based Strategic Planning Our commitment to customers was recognized by the industry, and we became the first oil company to be certified for three consecutive years while being selected as one of the top CCM performance management companies. Our one-stop consultation service is provided through the CSC(Customer Service Center) to respond to Proactive customers’ inquiries regarding our service and product quality. It has a dedicated team of service Protection System representatives who respond to customers’ demands in an efficient and professional manner using Quality/Service Management an advanced communication infrastructure and processing system. We are constantly improving our & Training service quality by monitoring our key action indicators and work process on a regular basis. Improve Customer Satisfaction & Marketing Campaigns Providing the Best Quality Products and Services for Customers Internal Management At GS Caltex, we undertake cultural marketing campaigns and promotional events to increase the System level of customer satisfaction. As a result, we were ranked in First Place in the gas station service CCM System/CSC category for 6 consecutive years according to NCSI(National Customer Satisfaction Index) measured by Operation/VOC Korea Productivity Center as we were recognized for meeting our customers’ high level of expectation As petroleum and petrochemical products are mainly used as fuel and basic materials, it is essential Management and quality. We also received the highest mark in terms of speedy service-delivery and membership to maintain high quality at all times. In this fiercely competitive market environment, there is an increasing need to privileges as ‘key quality factors’. We are continuing our efforts in delivering quality service to meet our differentiate our efforts for customer satisfaction. At GS Caltex, we focus our resources on improving the quality of customers’ increasing expectations. our products and services and creating value for our customers at a corporate-wide level. Remedial I am your Event System Complaint Handling/ We have launched the promotional campaign called ‘I am your Event’ through which we offer various Disclosure on Process membership benefits in affiliation with movies, concerts, books, and vehicle maintenance service. Standardization Management APPROACH One of the programs, ‘I am your Cinema’, has offered brunches and movies at the exclusive GS Caltex Theater on weekend mornings for more than 10 years and has received an enthusiastic response from our customers. As of 2015, we are adding more discount offers and maintenance service in addition to our cultural events. Evaluation & Improvement Context & Challenge Our Progress Our Commitment GS&POINT Operation Result Evaluation/VOC Sharing/ GS&POINT is our GS Group membership program through which we offer various benefits including Fundamental Process ● Increasingly competitive market ● Consumer centered ● Solidify the foundation for Improvement sports, travelling, and cultural experiences under the theme of enjoying the ‘Best Experience with Your environment management practice Consumer centered ● Market demand for high quality ● Quality control activities management practice Family’. Since its establishment in 2013, GS&Camping provided our customers with opportunities to ● Increased social interest in ● Customer service center ● Manage customer feedback travel with their families to popular destinations in the country 12 times in 2014. In 2014, we introduced consumer rights operation ● Service quality and on-site ● Customer privacy initiatives training at gas stations our new campaign, ‘GS&Kids’, in which parents and their children can participate in programs such ● Marketing communication ● Enhance authenticity and fair as Youth Soccer Class, Baseball Class, and Escort Kids. Thanks to these programs, GS&POINT transaction programs was recognized for its excellent membership programs and won the ‘Consumer Choice Quality & Satisfaction Award 2014’ in June 2014. 20 21 GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report GS&CONCERT 2014 Most Trusted Products GS&POINT Membership Subscribers In November 2014, GS Caltex hosted the ‘GS&CONCERT 2014’ for its GS&POINT members. Marking its Quality Inspection Performance (Unit: 10,000 Persons) At GS Caltex, we apply internal quality control procedures that are stricter than the legal requirements third year since 2012, ‘GS&CONCERT’ has provided a great opportunity for parents and their children to spend some quality time together as part of the promotional campaign for families, couples, and friends. Frequency of Quality Inspection under the Petroleum and Petroleum Substitute Fuel Business Act to provide fully compliant products In 2014, over 320 safety personnel were allocated and evacuation was simulated several times to ensure for Gas Stations and services and meet our customers’ demands and expectations. Our quality management serves as a the safety of about 8,000 people in the audience. Along with the concert, we organized GS&STREET in foundation for realizing our vision of growing as a ‘Value No. 1 Energy & Chemical Partner’. which popular singers perform in outdoor settings so everyone can enjoy their performance, and GS Group affiliates and brands participated in various events. At GS Caltex, we will continue to bring high 2014 5,373 Product Quality Control quality cultural content to people of all generations as part of our marketing campaign. 2013 6,523 At GS Caltex, we are constantly monitoring any risk factors that may compromise our product quality. 1,662 We conduct a thorough inspection for fake oil and a deceiving meter. These measures have had a direct Privacy PIMS Certification 2012 6,639 impact on consumers as we build trust and ensure ethical practice in distribution. We are also operating ‘Kixx Quality Service Vehicles’ on site to identify any compromise in quality as part of our quality control In 2013, GS Caltex became the first domestic oil company to receive the PIMS(Personal Information Management System) certification endorsed by the Korea Communications Commission and reviewed by in distribution channels since July 2007. The ‘Kixx Quality Service Vehicles’ perform quality inspections Frequency of Quality Inspection the Korea Internet & Security Agency. We successfully maintained the certification status through the in GS Caltex stations nationwide and are dispatched in response to any complaints raised by consumers. for Filling Stations follow-up review process. About 16 million GS&POINT subscribers and GS Caltex reward card holders In 2013, we started operating additional ‘LPG Quality Service Vehicles’ for filling stations and apply stricter quality control to prevent any legal violations, especially when the legal quality requirements are 645 can enjoy their membership benefits without worrying about their information security. In the future, 2014 we will continue to enhance our internal and external review process to maintain the highest level of in the process of undergoing changes. security while providing the necessary administrative training programs and carrying out technical security initiatives for all our employees. 2013 655 Eco-Friendly Product Development At GS Caltex, we apply strict quality control throughout the entire production and sales process under Customer Index ISO International Quality Certification System and develop eco-friendly products as part of our lowcarbon energy policies. Our gasoline, kerosene and diesel are recognized for their superior quality as Item 2012 2013 2014 they are produced through the advanced refinery process. PIMS certification Certified Certified CCM certification Recertified Recertified Our commitment to the environment will continue as we join the Auto-oil research program, in which we Average time it takes to handle customer research automobile fuel specifications in collaboration with auto manufacturers and the government to 2.4 1.8 1.6 complaints(days) reduce greenhouse gas and exhaust gas while developing eco-friendly technologies such as biobutanol. KSQI(Korean Service Quality Index) High service quality High service quality High service quality Membership subscribers(10,000 persons) 1,407 1,543 1,662 GS Caltex High Quality Gasoline contains a high-purity functional additive which protects the key parts Domestic market share 25.1% 24.2% 24.9% of the engine and significantly reduces the emission of hazardous substances. It filters any unwanted materials and carbon residue to improve fuel efficiency while preventing the required octane value from increasing. This ensures that the vehicle provides a high level of driving comfort, especially in new cars. Service Quality Control NCSI GS Caltex Diesel with Ultra-low Sulfur offers great performance in terms of ignition and power At GS Caltex, we operate a system to improve the quality of our service in four stages-service strategy (National Customer Satisfaction Index) planning, field training, evaluation and reward, and field practice enhancement-and distribute our 6 output as it contains a high performance liquidity boost that prevents the formation of wax in winter. step service manual through both online and offline channels. Our service evaluation consists of offline It also makes sure that the vehicles start in low temperature condition. It is produced at our advanced 20 20 20 monitoring, through which monitoring agents visit the site, and an online customer survey. The result is desulfurization facilities and meets world-class quality in terms of cetane number, lubricity, density, and 09 10 11 used to reward those sites with excellent service quality and improve the level of customer satisfaction. content of poly-aromatic compound. In addition, we implement our customer-oriented business practice to raise the level of overall service 20 20 20 GS Caltex Kerosene is highly pure and eco-friendly with less emission of harmful gas as it is produced 12 13 14 quality as we have held ‘Start Festival’ and selected gas stations and filling stations with a superior level of service since 1993. Partners with outstanding performance such as ‘Star Partners’ are awarded, and through our advanced refinery process. It produces less petroleum odor and helps promote comfortable their operational know-how is shared among other partners. environments. The content of sulfur is less than 30ppm, which is 30% of the legal limit. Ranked 1st for 6 consecutive years Operation of Star Service Team At GS Caltex, we organized the Star Service Team with service training experts to increase the level of customer satisfaction and provide standardized service. The team visits more than 1,000 stations nationwide each year and makes sure that the staff complies with the service manual, receives feedback from customers, and encourages the staff to improve their service quality. Since 2014, we have upgraded our service in terms of car washes and inspections and provided more professional training programs. The team shares their experience and case studies to ensure that their training is effective and meets customers to understand the quality level of service that they are receiving. 22 23 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner Major stakeholder G4 Aspect GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report Material aspect .3 Government/Community/NGO Energy/Emission/Effluents and Waste/Compliance/Overall Enhance Environmental Management System Since we declared our environmental policies in 1996, we have reinforced our management system so that we could set the highest priority on environmental protection. Prevention of Air Pollution In response to increasing social interest in air quality and related health issues as well as political demands for environmental health, we ensure strict compliance with the legal requirements and diversify our efforts to prevent air pollution. At GS Caltex, we developed ways to improve our process operation and facilities by reducing contaminants and fuel consumption and introduced cleaner fuel such as LNG while establishing new facilities and expanding the Low NOx Burner in the existing heating furnace to reduce the emission of nitrogen oxide. We also invested a great deal of effort in building prevention facilities such as Electrical collector·Scrubber·RTO*·VRU**·NOx reductor to reduce dust, VOC, SOx and NOx. Since 2008, we have also added NOx reductors to our boilers and incinerators while replacing their catalysts on a regular basis to improve their efficiency. We also installed CleanSYS to automatically measure the emission of dust, SOx, NOx, and CO on a continuous basis and a monitoring network to manage the air quality around our production facilities more efficiently. We signed the 2nd Gwangyangman Region Voluntary Environmental Agreement with the Ministry of Environment and Jeollanam-do in 2008 as part of our efforts to reduce air pollutants around the Yeosu Environmental Management and Response National Industrial Complex. The goal of the agreement is to reduce the emission of air pollutants by to Climate Change 13% by 2016. *RTO: Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer **VRU: Vapor Recovery Unit At GS Caltex, we are committed to environmental protection and technical development to meet legal and social requirements and minimize the environmental risks in our business practice. Prevention of Soil Contamination Soil Contamination Prevention At GS Caltex, we entered a voluntary agreement with the Ministry of Environment to protect soil Performance for Gas Stations environment(1st Phase: 2002-2012, 2nd Phase: 2013-2023) and as part of this agreement, we installed Disclosure on monitoring devices in all areas of the Yeosu complex to ensure constant monitoring of soil and No. of Inspected Gas Stations Management APPROACH underground water quality. In addition, we inspect all our directly operated stations for any soil 252 contamination every 3 years and perform cleaning activities if needed. When establishing new directly2014 operated stations or replacing tanks, we implement our Clean Station with dual wall tanks, dual pipes, 2013 259 and leakage prevention sensors and provide training programs for our sales staff and station partners to raise their awareness in soil contamination. Context & Challenge Our Progress Our Commitment 2012* 565 Prevention of Water Contamination ● Response to new legal ● Implementation of ● Enhance environmental AT GS Caltex, we manage wastewater produced during our production process on a daily basis through requirements for environmental environmental policies and management system *The number increased in 2012 when all the stations protection practice ● Comply with environmental laws were inspected due to the voluntary agreement. our monitoring system on the source of wastewater. To improve the recyclability of wastewater, we ● Increasing social demand for ● Environmental preservation ● Maintain TF for chemical reuse it for the dealkalization facilities in the crude oil refinery process and installed carbon filters at our environmental protection ● Greenhouse gas control materials ● Energy management activities ● Develop mid and long-term No. of Clean Gas Stations water treatment facilities to improve their efficiency. In August, 2014, we completed the improvement roadmap for greenhouse gas of our water treatment facilities, adding carbon filters to reduce contaminants produced in new process 149 control • Continue investment in Energy 2014 facilities. As a result, we managed to reduce the production of contaminants by 5% compared to 2013. management activities We are planning to build a system for collecting highly concentrated wastewater separately and further 2013 147 improve its efficiency and stability in 2015. 2012 154 24 25 GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report Hazardous Chemical Control Activities Environmental Investment At GS Caltex, we monitor the consumption of hazardous chemical on a daily basis and review its result Environmental Monitoring System (Unit: KRW 100M) every month and quarter through SHE Integrated Information System. We set our internal goals for System Description reducing emission and are reaching our target of reducing benzene, toluene and xylene through stable Onsite Measurement Conduct measurement and analysis on a regular basis(e.g. air, water, waste materials). operation of ocean VRU, installation of aromatic Tank VRU and enhancement of LDAR(Leak Detection And TMS* Measure and control air/water pollutants in real time. Repair) system. Meanwhile, we entered ‘Joint Prevention Agreement for Chemical Accident Emergency LDAR** Monitor VOC and LDAR. Response’ with companies in the Yeosu Industrial Complex to respond to hazardous chemical spill Protection Kit Control System Check and manage the inventory of protection kits. on time and prevent additional damages while organizing emergency response teams, establishing Plant Drainage Control Install oil detectors, pH meters and CCTVs. prevention plans, and conducting joint response training. In 2014, we represented the second group of 278.5 Analyze the time of impact and take proactive measures against typhoon for Yeosu the Yeosu Industrial Complex and conducted a quarterly information sharing forum and half-yearly joint Typhoon Monitoring System complex. response training. In addition, we upgraded and added boxes of protective gears and medical kits to SHE System Conduct general environmental management. improve the level of response to accidents. *Tele-Monitoring System / **Leak Detection And Repair Recycling of Waste Materials At GS Caltex, we recycle waste materials for various uses jointly with recycling companies. •Recycle tank sludge(waste oil) for auxiliary fuel for cement plants. •Recycle waste catalyst produced during cracking process for cement material and sewage sludge. Environmental Indicators •Extract metal from catalyst containing transition metal by outsourcing. Indicator 2012 2013 2014 •Recycle waste food for animal feed and compost. Dust 179 202.6 189.1 •Recycle active carbon, synthetic resin, wood pallets and vegetable residues. Volume of Air Pollutants Nitrogen oxide(NOx) 3,410 4,279.7 4,010.9 (Ton) Sulfur oxides(SOx) 7,113 7,644.8 8,541.3 To maximize the recyclability of waste materials, we conduct training and inspection to ensure that Carbon monoxide(CO) 457 428.1 775.9 waste materials are collected and stored separately without being neglected on the site through the Dust 30/5.8 30/5.8 30/4.8 waste material process system. Concentration Level of Air Nitrogen oxide(NOx) 150/69.3 150/73.4 150/64.2 Pollutants 1) Environmental Cleaning Activities (ppm. Legal Req./GS) Sulfur oxides(SOx) 180/55.8 180/58.1 180/55.5 As a corporate citizen, we, GS Caltex, engage in environmental cleaning activities on a regular basis. Carbon monoxide(CO) 200/29.3 200/21.3 200/34.7 They include river cleanup for preserving water eco-system and cleaning activities around the Yeosu Biochemical oxygen demand(BOD) 66.19 169.28 145.45 Volume of Water Pollutants Industrial Complex while making contribution to our local communities by cleaning one of the popular (Ton) Chemical oxygen demand(COD) 118.37 157.13 161.79 tourist spots side known as ‘Yeosu Getgagil’. Suspended solids(SS) 80.83 103.22 97.27 Biochemical oxygen demand(BOD) 30/1.54 30/6.80 30/5.42 Concentration Level of Water Status of Voluntary Environmental Management Agreements Pollutants 2) Chemical oxygen demand(COD) 40/2.18 40/10.17 40/8.97 (ppm. Legal Req./GS) Suspended solids(SS) 30/1.19 30/5.83 30/2.99 Agreement Activities Designated waste 16,927 20,542 19,796 Promote the production, distribution and purchase of eco-friendly Voluntary Agreement for Purchase(2005-2016) Volume of Waste Material products(Eco-Labeling Certification and GR Mark Certification). General waste 15,727 19,047 18,026 (Ton) The 2nd Gwangyangman Region Voluntary Recyclable 18,072 23,744 24,525 Reduce emissions of air pollutants by 13% from 2008 to 2016. Agreement(2012-2016) Volume of Waste Water(Ton/Day) Annual average 22,057 24,230 24,775 Reduce emissions by 60% from 2009 to 2017(achieved the target Agreement for Voluntary Chemical Reduction(2013-2017) Caustic soda(NaOH) 4,939 6,777 9,220 reduction of benzene). Use of Hazardous Chemicals Sulfuric acid(H2SO4) 460 562 602 Prevent soil contamination by oil spills and perform voluntary Voluntary Agreement for Soil Preservation(2013-2023) (Ton) inspection and recovery. Hydrochloric acid(HCl) 1,741 1,734 1,647 Ammonia(NH3) 32 323 466 Compliance with New Legal Requirements Waste water & ocean contamination 150 61.3 136.1 Air 300 184.6 12.2 Act Activities Environmental Investment 3) Volatile organic compounds 55 3.9 49.6 •External impact evaluation/Hazard control plan TF activities. (KRW 100M) •TF activities for improving facilities under the Chemicals Control Act. Soil contamination 6 17.7 73.3 Chemicals Control Act(2015) •Distribute personal protective gears under new regulations. Misc. 80 18.4 7.3 •Apply stricter rules on reporting. Act on the Registration and Evaluation, etc. of •Build a chemicals control system(improve the purchase process, etc.) Note 1) Dust/SOx/NOx: Effluent quality standards and average concentration level of standard heaters and boilers. Chemical Substances(2015) •Register chemical substances. CO: Effluent quality standards and average concentration level of incinerators. Note 2) Effluent quality standards and concentration level of ocean effluence. •Upgrade the prevention facilities to improve their efficiency Clean Air Conservation Act(2015) (e.g. replacement of NOx reductors and catalyst in SOx elimination process). Note 3) The values for 2012-2013 are based on the Yeosu complex base while those for 2014(and onward) are based on the corporate-wide results. 26 27 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner Major stakeholder GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report G4 Aspect Material aspect .4 Government/Community/NGO/Employees/Partners Occupational Health and Safety/Asset Integrity and Process Safety Reinforcement of GHG & Energy Management GHG/Energy Management Plan At GS Caltex, we maintain the highest level of greenhouse gas and energy efficiency improvement activities including various energy innovation programs and the Solomon-Study program. As a result, we became the first domestic oil company to be certified by ISO 50001. We enact initiatives and implement the internal cap-and-trade system(GS-ETS) to promote the voluntary reduction of emissions as part of our proactive GHG and energy management. Plan GHG Management Activities •Review opportunities to At GS Caltex, we engage in various activities under our mid and long-term carbon management reduce energy consumption. •Predict GHG emissions/reduction. plans in response to the change from the GHG/Energy Target Management System to GHG Cap-andTrade System. To earn trust in terms of quantity, which is the most important aspect of the system, we constantly improved our MRV(Measuring, Reporting, Verification) System and organized a GHG task force to analyze the system and follow the reduction process while assigning the roles and responsibilities to organizations of interest. In addition, we established a procedure to reflect the result of impact analysis in our decision-making process while maintaining active communication with the Do refining industry and the government agencies including the Korea Petroleum Association as part of our commitment to system’s advanced operation. At this time, we completed our application for quota •Invest in reduction facilities. under the operating guidelines and earned the quota for 3 years under the first planning term(2015•Introduce energy management system. •Implement and respond to the goal 2017) in 2014. Based on our mid and long-term carbon management plan, we set the estimation on GHG management system. and will continue our sustainable GHG reduction activities in consideration of various factors including the case studies, quota deferment and loan, and any additional flexibility measures. Reinforcement and Dissemination Energy Management Activities of Safety System Due to the global economic recession and falling oil prices and increasingly strict regulations on climate change, the efficiency of production facilities including energy saving is now an essential part check of corporate management. At GS Caltex, we implement our energy reduction programs by organizing a Preventive activities for potential accidents related to safety are essential for gaining competitive advantage. TF. We establish improvement plans for processes with pending maintenance schedules by undertaking •Manage EII(Energy Intensity Index)* At GS Caltex, we are constantly reinforcing and promoting our safety systems in all areas of our business. •Internal cap-and-trade system. study activities and invest in them to improve their efficiency. Recently, we invested in the atmospheric •Collect data on GHG emissions. distillation process in 2014 based on the reduction plan established in 2012. We will continue this type of investment in the future. In addition, we set the goal for energy reduction by process each year and organize workshops and meetings on a regular basis to share ideas for saving energy as part of our Disclosure on daily management activities. As a result, we came up with more than 60 new ideas for energy efficiency Management APPROACH and implemented them. Furthermore, we use our energy portal system to monitor consumption and improvement activities on a daily basis. Thanks to these activities, we saved about KRW 50 billion at action our Yeosu complex in 2014 and reached a world-class level in the energy efficiency index and carbon emission index, setting a great example for other companies. •Reduce energy costs. •Achieve the reduction target in advance. Context & Challenge Our Progress Our Commitment GHG Emissions(Unit: tCO2eq) ● Growing interest in safety due to ● Promotion of safety culture ● Continue promoting safety *EII(Energy Intensity Index) major accidents and disasters ● Building an effective crisis culture Type 2012 2013 2014 ● More stringent safety laws Developed by Solomon in the U.S. to response system ● Reinforce crisis response compare energy efficiency by refinery ● Proactive risk management performance Scope ❶ Direct Emissions 6,283,089 6,824,874 6,500,458 ● Continue safety analysis, training process, the Energy Intensity Index(EII) (fixed combustion, mobile combustion and process emission) indicates the amount of energy and audit actually supplied to a process against Scope ❷ Indirect Emission 1,348,271 1,601,917 2,024,761 the amount of energy required per (externally purchased steam and power) production unit. If energy efficiency goes up, then the consumption per unit goes down and thus, the EII. Energy-Related Index (Unit: TJ) Type 2012 2013 2014 Scope ❶ Direct Energy Consumption 87,458 91,937 88,292 (all sources of energy excluding purchased power and steam) Scope ❷ Indirect Energy Consumption 11,596 13,415 17,270 (purchased power and steam) Annual Energy Reduction 2,303 2,475 2,919 28 29 GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report Dissemination of Safety Culture In addition, the facilities are equipped with seven chemical fire engines, 2 fire engines, 4 oil spill recovery Duties of Each Position in IIF Program Emergency Response Drills in 2014 vessels, three fire boats, and 10 ladder trucks and cargo cranes in case of any industrial incidents in At GS Caltex, we place the highest priority on safety and ensure that all our employees and partners set (Frequency) proximity to our site. a high standard and establish a positive safety culture. Since 2014, we appointed CSO(Chief Safety Officer) Onsite who reported directly to CEO to respond to changes in SHEQ in a more effectively, timely manner and Worker 0 Proactive Risk Management enhance our Safety First Leadership. In addition, we organized Safety Assessment Team for safety assessment, incident investigation to fine root causes, risk assessment and safety & environment Risk Analysis on Wharf Facilities audit, and PSM Team for process safety management at Yeosu complex to strengthen organizational Corporate-wide When it comes to petrochemical production facilities, wharves play a significant role in the entry and Living capability and maintain world class safety performance. 9 Firefighting & Oil 3 release of materials and products and are important to consider avoiding serious incidents. At GS IIF in Action Spill Response Drills Caltex, we organized a dedicated team of experts specializing in vessel, risk assessment, and wharf Actively express their Safety Culture based on Communication & Trust facilities to inspect the wharf facilities in the Yeosu complex and nationwide logistics centers and opinions for safety. At GS Caltex, we introduced the IIF(Injury Incident Free) Program with aim to ensure safety of our 6 conduct the self-assessment on our safety operation and emergency response system. We address any employees and promote communication in potentially unsafe conditions for the first time in the industry. areas of improvement and maintain the safety of our vessel and wharf system. The program allows us to assign roles to workers, supervisors, and managers and share knowledge Workplace* Supervisor and action plans through job training while fostering internal facilitators to promote our safety culture. Safety Assessment in Design & Planning Stages 0 In 2014, we implemented various safety management programs to incorporate our process safety To prevent even the smallest issue in the design and construction stages that can lead to serious management system into our daily activities and ensure that leaders set good examples for their teams. incidents, we are operating the Project Safety Management Process through which experts in safety, 16 Coaching environment and facilities identify risk factors from the designing phase of a new project. We introduced IIF in Action 15 Firefighting 5 Process Safety Management Drills ‘Periodic Safety Review during Construction’ and ‘Pre-Startup Safety Review’ for the first time for Give directions to workers in an effective At GS Caltex, we operate our onsite safety management system through which we established the petrochemical production facilities. As a result, we managed to save maintenance costs and significantly manner for safe operation. PSM(Process Safety Management) System under the Industrial Safety & Health Act to promote voluntary reduce the incident rate for projects. In addition, we conduct a safety inspection to improve the facilities, compliance with safety standards and prevent major industrial incidents. As of 2014, our Yeosu complex 10 systems, and protocols from the maintenance planning stage when it comes to processes that require received the highest grade(P) in four out of five sub-divisions, and nine of our logistics centers achieved 0 maintenance work. We also use cutting edge 3D modeling techniques to measure and minimize the Manager the highest grade. Meanwhile, our R&D center and Incheon lubricant production facilities introduced impact of noise when undertaking a new project. KOSHA 18001. Since then, they have maintained their certification status through making continuous On & Offshore improvements. Oil Spill Safety & Health Training 15 5 Leading Response At GS Caltex, we established our Safety Training Center on a land area of 19,000㎡ where our employees IIF in Action Drills Cooperation with Partners on Safety Management and employees from our partners learn how to identify risk factors in workplaces and experience Provide education on organizational behaviors At GS Caltex, we are operating various programs to motivate our partners’ employees to comply with incidents in real life. The facilities include 24 indoor and outdoor training courses, video room(with 40and establish safety culture. our safety guidelines and raise their awareness in safety. We foster experts in risk assessment through 11 10 70 seats) and a display room with personal protective gears for more professional and effective training our cooperation program and use it to prevent incidents through various support programs including 0 sessions. When it comes to high risk jobs, we provide practice-based training and a qualification system. Safety & Health Performance Indicator mutual growth cooperation group, safety environment contest and reward program, and KOSHA 18001 Our new employees are required to take more than 60 hours of safety and health training programs that certification program. In addition, we support incident and injury free resolution conference and job cover such topics as protective gear, firefighting, emergency response, and human errors. TRIR*(Total Recordable Incident Rate) certification for high risk work to help our partners improve their safety management practice. Process 30 Dry Training** 10 Drills Safety & Environment Audit 2014 0.10 Emergency Response System Our Safety Environment Audit enables us to check compliance with safety regulations and identify any vulnerabilities in our safety environment system while generating new ideas for safety. At GS Caltex, 2013 0.03 Enhancement of Emergency Response Capability through Emergency Drills At GS Caltex, we revised our entire emergency response manual and applied it in our emergency 20 0 we conduct our own safety & environment audit on all business operations each year in addition to the internal audit on safety and environment. In 2014, we organized a dedicated safety assessment team to 2012 0.05 drills to reflect the recent industrial incidents and events. The revised manual specifies the roles of our employees and local citizens in the event of an emergency from its early stage, as well as carry out the safety & environment audit and discuss ways to improve and achieve incident and injury 48 free workplaces. communication with the government to ensure more consistent and effective response and minimize Early DAFWR**(Day Away from Work Rate) 45 Response 15 the environmental impact. We conduct our emergency drills at both the corporate-wide level and Drills Employee Health Management organizational level under the supervision of the Emergency Response Committee while organizing a 0.08 At GS Caltex, we provide various health care programs including a musculoskeletal disorder prevention 2014 joint prevention drill with the Coast Guard Safety Bureau and Korea Marine Environment Management program, smoking cessation program, and healthcare lecture to help our employees lead healthy and 30 Corporation to improve the level of response to oil spills in real life situations and develop expertise in 0.03 productive lives. For our Yeosu complex, we are operating a medical clinic with a team of dedicated 2013 the identification of information, rescue activities, material detection, boundary setting, spilled material professionals including doctors, nurses, medical technologists, and emergency medical technicians *The drills at the workplace are based on 0.04 recovery, and use of personal protective gear. as well as provide cutting-edge equipment to ensure that our employees are provided with emergency 2012 the Yeosu complex, and internal drills are conducted under the guidelines of each medical services, blood testing, hearing test and X-ray services, as well as thorough follow-up care in Efficient Emergency Response & Equipment Maintenance workplace. *TRIR(Total Recordable Incident Rate) **A type of drill based on an emergency an efficient manner. In addition, we provide various health care supports including MSDS management Number of incidents(any injuries, illnesses and fatalities At GS Caltex, we operate emergency response teams at our headquarters and each business operation response scenario. and training programs on wearing protective gear and work environment control to further enhance our excluding those equivalent to or less serious than incidents requiring first-aid) occurred for every 200,000 to respond to industrial incidents such as fire and oil spill and minimize loss of life and property employees’ health and well-being. working hours. damage. At our Yeosu complex, more than 200 first-line emergency agents and 100 daily duty workers **DAFWR(Day Away From Work Rate) Number of incidents that cause a loss of one or more as second-line agents are ready to respond to emergency situations. days’ work per every 200,000 working hours. 30 31 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner Major stakeholder G4 Aspect GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report Material aspect .5 Employees/Unions Employment/Training and Education Employment & Retention of Human Resource No. of Employees(Unit: Person) At GS Caltex, we recognize the importance of human resource and seek passionate, creative individuals who will lead the future of the energy industry. We value diversity and actual qualifications of our employees rather than focusing on their academic background. To do this, we reset the score of applicants in each stage of the hiring process, and our interviewers are not allowed to view their academic records: applicants are thus judged based on their level of competency. In addition, we have introduced an academy-industry internship program, chemical engineering leadership, and mentoring program to recruit talented, qualified individuals. The academy-industry internship program combines 3,059 an academy-industry scholarship program and internship program to provide an opportunity for applicants to prove their qualifications and experience what it is like to work for our company. The chemical engineering leadership is a course that is co-established by the company and the university and allows the executive officers of the company to share their know-how and knowledge in practice with students. The mentoring program helps students to gain a working knowledge and understanding Employee Salary(Unit: KRW 100M) of business practices from our employees. Our performance evaluation and compensation system is designed to increase job satisfaction and motivate our employees by keeping the system fair and effective. When it comes to our evaluation system, we categorize based on their jobs and positions and ensure that their performance is evaluated based on their roles and responsibilities in a fair and objective manner. We closely align employees and business goals to drive success and have our employees prepare a report on how to achieve their job 2,652 performance. Each year, we conduct a mid-term review on their progress and seek ways to improve Employee Value Enhancement their performance through self-reflection and constructive coaching. At the end of the year, we evaluate performance using a descriptive form to consider both quantitative and qualitative aspects and apply them for their development and compensation. To improve the level of fairness and acceptability of performance evaluation, evaluators are required to record their observation at all times and Average Years of Employment implement the follow-up interview and feedback. The objection system about result of evaluation is also Human resources are the most sustainable and competitive advantage for any organization. At GS Caltex, we focus (Unit: Year) implemented. on developing our human resources and providing various supports for employees to grow professionally. The level of compensation for our employees is determined based on our business performance, increase in prices, external and internal working environment, and competitiveness while ensuring that compensation is in line with performance through our performance management system. We Disclosure on apply a fixed amount of pay raise for each pay grade and consider the same level of performance as Management APPROACH 15.1 the same level of contribution while taking into account the result of the performance evaluation, contribution, and value when determining individual compensation. High performers are rewarded with additional incentives to motivate our employees to improve their performance. As a result, the level of compensation for our employees varies depending on performances, and the base salary of the highest earner is 8.4 times of the average base salary of employees excluding him in 2014. At GS Caltex, we will Context & Challenge Our Progress Our Commitment continue to improve our compensation system to make sure that our employees’ performance is fully recognized and rewarded in a transparent, fair manner. ● Importance of securing human ● Employment and retention of ● Employ talented and capable resource human resource individuals and motivate them to ● Grow social interest in work-life ● System for developing human grow professionally Talent Development balance resource ● Make performance evaluation ● Provision of welfare benefits and compensation transparent ● Internal communication ● Create an open-minded At GS Caltex, we believe human resources are the most important asset needed to realize our vision of channels corporate culture ‘Value No. 1 Energy & Chemical Partner’. That is why we have established our competency model based on ‘GSC Way’, ‘Job Competency’ and ‘Leadership’ for our talent development. We focus on developing expertise and leadership skills based on corporate values and core behaviors by providing all our employees with practical programs helpful in achieving performance goal. Our programs are designed with a focus on substance and include leadership training, job training, coaching/mentoring, various practice courses, and external qualification courses. Every member of our organization can freely choose any training programs guided by his/her competency level, while additional long and short-term training programs are available for talented employees. 32 33 GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report Leadership Development Programs Jiyeseul Childcare Center Talent Development Model At GS Caltex, we provide training programs for all our employees on a regular basis to help them In order to ease employees’ burden of child rearing, company runs a childcare center located near improve their job competency and skills at each stage of growth. We select and foster candidates for the headquarters in Seoul. The childcare center building is composed of two ground floors and one team leaders through the LDC(Leadership Development Center), our internal leadership program. We also underground floor on a land area of 430㎡. The center can accommodate up to 58 children, and it is evaluate the leadership of our executives and team leaders from multiple perspectives and provide managed by a professional childcare service provider. There are 11 nursing teachers, who provide agethem with feedback on a yearly basis. based childcare programs for children between 1 and 4 years of age. The company pays the full cost of Leadership operation, excluding government support and expenses for special activities. Coaching/Mentoring Program We have organized a coaching program for our executives and team leaders to help them improve the Club Activities Support Development of leadership competency based on market environment and leadership skills required to perform their duties. Our internal coaching program helps employees to As part of our employee welfare program, we provide monetary support for leisure clubs up to KRW 1.6M business strategy. adapt to organizational environment and bring out their full potential. Our mentoring program in which per club a year, including special support for the clubs’ external event participation. Currently, there are team leaders or seniors play the role of mentors is also available to new employees on their first and more than 50 clubs with over 1,700 members. second years of employment. Job Competency Promotion of Internal Communication Channels (Common Areas/ Job Competency Development Program Specialized Areas) Our job competency model consists of common areas required of all employees and specialized areas At GS Caltex, we operate the ‘Junior Board’ and ‘Nanumteo’ to promote our internal communication. Business Acumen (Refinery Process, Finance) based on each job category. To develop job competency in the common areas, we provide business The Junior Board is a communication channel that generates new and creative ideas and presents Communication courses dealing with refining process and corporate finance as well as courses for improving individual people’s opinions directly to the top management. The members are selected from managers and Creativity communication skills, creativity, and skills of planning and analysis. The specialized areas are developed assistant managers once a year. Since its establishment in October, 1993, a total of 384 members have Analysis/Planning Job Competencies by job with analysis of all the jobs and tasks in our organization and built into training programs. served the board for 22 years(41st members at present). Until now, 162 ideas have been presented, 56% of category which have been implemented. The Nanumteo is an online bulletin board where our employees can High Potential Individual Development share their ideas and thoughts while discussing ways to improve their work processes and presenting Job Competency consists of common areas required of all employees and At GS Caltex, we believe talent development is an essential part of sustainable growth. We provide ideas for new business. Since 2003, 174 ideas have been registered each year on average. These ideas specialized areas based on each job selected high potential individuals with the opportunity to earn various academic degrees including MBA are reviewed by individual teams for application in practice. category. in eminent domestic or global colleges and training program at global companies such as Chevron to help them reach their full potential. We also provide opportunities for our employees to take various courses and external education programs in their areas of expertise when needed. HR-Related Indicators GSC Way Item Unit 2012 2013 2014 (Corporate Values /Core Behaviors) Welfare and Benefits for Work-Life Balance Training Hours/Employee Hour(s) 79.1 68.2 56.3 Trust/Flexibility Executive Officer 52 54 55 Challenge/Excellence Health Care System Office Staff 1,542 1,535 1,450 Proactive We provide annual medical check-ups for all our employees and their spouses as part of our employee Collaboration Production Engineers 1,331 1,358 1,313 Performance-Driven health care program. Employees over 35 years of age receive full medical check-ups every year, while No. of Employees by Support 52 53 51 their spouses over 35 years of age receive the check-ups every other year. In addition, we cover full Employment Type Contract, Dispatched 212 187 152 medical expenses not only for our regular employees but also for their spouses and underage children. Misc. 63 46 38 Our fundamental values and code of Persons We also make sure that our employees get diagnosis and prescription services at the medical clinics conduct required of all GS Caltex people Total 3,252 3,233 3,059 are promoted with corporate values and located at the headquarters and the refinery. core behaviors. Seoul, etc. 1,566 1,507 1,406 No. of Employees Yeosu 1,686 1,726 1,653 Resort Facilities Support System by Location Total 3,252 3,233 3,059 As part of refresh and recharge program for our employees, we provide condominiums (205 accounts) No. of Retirees 303 236 322 and resort facilities all year around. We cover a part of the accommodation expenses for the resort Rate of Retirement % 10.7 7.3 10.5 facilities, and specially during summer vacation, resort facilities in some of our employees’ favorite Rate of Female Employees % 11.4 8.6 10.4 locations (e.g. Seoul, Gangwon, Baekam, Yeosu, Haeundae) are provided free of charge. Rate of Employees with Disabilities % 1.54 1.59 1.71 Labor Union Members Members/Eligible 1,302/1,799 1,299/1,717 1,298/1,769 EAP(Employee Assistance Program) No. of Labor Dispute Cases Case 0 0 0 Our Employee Assistance Program is designed to help our employees deal with job-related stress, Annual Training Investment(excl. indirect cost) KRW 100M 72.8 64.2 31.5 career development, child care, and legal issues. Via this EAP, employees can get helps with one-onYears of Employment Year 14.2 14.6 15.1 one counseling by designated specialists regarding diverse issues, organizational and individual. This Salary of Production Engineers 3,184 3,285 3,285 counseling service is provided by the company free of charge. New Employees KRW 10,000 Office Staff 4,010 4,150 4,150 Newly Employed Person 187 76 50 ※Certain employee data may be different from the previous report due to changes in criteria. 34 35 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner Major stakeholder G4 Aspect GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report Material aspect .6 Community/Employees/NGO Indirect Economic Impacts/Local Communities Undertaking Major CSR Activities Investment in CSR Activities (Unit: KRW 100M) At GS Caltex, we launched ‘Mom Talk Talk’ to help underprivileged children relieve their psychological distress as part of our major CSR activities. For 2 years starting in 2013, more than 4,300 children suffering from depression, anxiety, lethargy, and aggressiveness have experienced the Mom Talk Talk at 2014 228 nationwide local centers, support organizations, and ‘Yeosu Culture & Arts Park GS Caltex Yeulmaru’. In order to improve the quality of psychotherapy for children, we help train therapists and provide 2013 245 various support programs, including a healing class for middle school students and facilities support at 490 the local centers. In 2015, we are providing the Mom Talk Talk program to help students adapt to their 2012 schools and eliminate school violence in collaboration with the Wee Project organized by the Ministry of Education. We also organized training programs for therapists with top experts in fine art, theater, dance/ choreography to further improve its quality. A dedicated team of more than 40 professional therapists were carefully selected through a strict qualification process and in-depth interviews with professors. They have attended more than 150 hours of theoretical study and practice, as well as case study presentations and supervision to improve their expertise. At 19 Mom Talk Talk Network Centers nationwide including Good Neighbors Joeun Maum Center(cumulative), the therapists counseled more than 2,700 children for the last 2 years. Based on our experience and know-how we have accumulated over the years, we are now collaborating with the Ministry of Education to the Mom Talk Talk to the Wee Center. The center provides teenagers Corporate Social with counseling on school violence and adaptation to school life as a counseling organization under Responsibility Activities the District Office of Education. Through Mom Talk Talk, we provide group art therapy and emotional support for children. At GS Caltex, we undertake social responsibility activities in consideration of our business areas and local ‘Mom Talk Talk Camp’ takes place at the Yeosu Culture & Arts Park GS Caltex Yeulmaru for 3 days, providing 8 sessions of intensive art therapy in combination of painting/playing, music/choreography, communities with active participation and support from our employees. and music/painting, and each session lasts 90 minutes. Thanks to all the hard work and dedication from therapists, supervising professors, and volunteers, and the natural environment of GS Caltex Yeulmaru overlooking the sea, the camp provides a great healing effect for participants. Disclosure on ‘Middle School Class Healing’ is a part of the Mom Talk Talk program designed to help students Management APPROACH overcome academic pressure, bullying, and school violence by developing social skills and self-esteem. Therapists provides art therapy in various forms including play/painting, dancing/painting, and music/ painting for groups of 10 or more students for 12 times a year. Context & Challenge Our Progress Our Commitment Mom Talk Talk Program Summary ● Increase in corporate ● Undertaking major CSR activities ● Continue social responsibility welfare and demand for ● Deployment of local social activities in a sincere manner Center Therapy Camp Class Healing Year Total CSR activities responsibility activities Centers Children Camps Children Schools Children ● Need for communication with ● Activated in employee 2013 13 1,410 6 738 2,148 local communities participation ● Support for promotion of 2014 16 1,278 2 292 3 560 2,130 culture and art 2015(Scheduled) 31 1,391 4 250 26 1,632 3,273 Total 4,079 1,280 2,192 7,551 36 37 GS Caltex 2014 Sustainability Report CSR Activities for Local Communities Meanwhile, we are actively participating in various donation programs. The amount of our employees’ GS Caltex Love Sharing Center Total Hours of Employees’ donations reached KRW 800 million in 2014. More than 1,500 employees donate each year, and the As part of local communities, GS Caltex accepts its responsibility for the improvement and welfare of Volunteer Activities company matches the amount of their donation through our ‘Matching Grant’ system. Furthermore, our the communities. To prevent and solve problems and to assist development of the communities, GS labor union members donate and raise a social service fund which is used as a resource for providing 27,726 Caltex actively engages in CSR activities in Yeosu where our major complex is located. free meals after school hours and school uniforms for middle school students from low income 2014 families. The company also matches the donations made by union members. GS Caltex Love Sharing Center Since May 2008, we provide free meals for more than 350 senior citizens 5 days a week as part of our 2013 30,495 Promotion of Culture & Art through Yeulmaru 527,389 Meals Provided ‘GS Caltex Love Sharing Center’. In 2014, 85,935 meals were provided, which makes 527,389 meals in total so far. The program is supported by the GS Caltex Employees’ Wives Club, the GS Caltex Retired 2012 36,610 Opened in May 10, 2012, the Yeosu Culture & Arts Park GS Caltex Yeulmaru is a landmark of the south (2008~2014) Employees Club and 16 local women’s voluntary service groups with 18 volunteers participating each coast of the Korean Peninsular, which the GS Caltex invested more than KRW 110 billion. The name day. As of 2014, 26,637 volunteers were recorded to have participated in this program. ‘Yeulmaru’ carries the meaning of ‘a space full of rolling waves of culture and art and where people can Annual No. of Visitors to Yeulmaru relax as if they are lying down on a floor of a traditional house’, and it represents a great example of Hope Energy Class for Local Children’s Center (Unit: Person) collaboration among a corporation, local government, and communities for building infrastructure for Since 2010, we have organized the ‘Hope Energy Class for Local Children’s Center’ where volunteers culture and art as part of the commitment for mutual benefits and sustainable growth. participate in various experience and learning programs to help underprivileged children pursue their dreams. In 2014, more than 200 volunteers provided over 1,500 children from 39 local children’s centers 2014 106,602 It is fully equipped with the state-of-the-art audio and lighting facilities with Grand Theater and Small with various programs including career planning, job experience, Korean history, painting/crafting and psychotherapy. 2013 137,357 Theater with 1,021 and 302 seats, respectively. The park also features multi-purpose exhibition halls taking the culture and art experience in Yeosu to the next level and meets the local communities’ need English Lesson with Native Speakers in Remote Areas 2012 83,508 for cultural spaces. Since March, 2007, we have provided ‘English Lesson with Native Speakers in Remote Areas’ for Yeulmaru features a wide variety of genres including classical, opera, musical, concert, ballet, and plays students living in places with inadequate educational resources. In 2014, native English speaking to extend the opportunities to enjoy quality cultural and art contents after EXPO 2012 Yeosu. In 2014, teachers visited 13 schools with more than 190 students on the islands and gave weekly English Annual No. of Concerts & Exhibitions some of the long-time favorite musicals such as ‘Guys and Dolls’ and ‘Broadway 42nd Street’ were put lessons. on the stage as original performances, making Yeosu a popular tourist destination in Korea. The ‘Person 352 and People’ sculpture exhibition was held to celebrate its 2nd year anniversary, and it portrayed people’s GS Caltex Scholarship Program 2014 lives from multiple perspectives and established personal connections with audiences. The exhibition At GS Caltex, we have awarded scholarships to middle, high and college students in Yeosu since 1996 242 ‘The Arts in Textbooks’ provided a great opportunity to see masterpieces we had only seen in textbooks, as part of our human resource development program. In 2014, our scholarship amounted to KRW 250 2013 and it was a popular attraction for students on their winter break and people from all generations. million with more than 240 students, making our total scholarships worth KRW 5.7 billion with about 7,700 students. 2012 94 Yeulmaru is diversifying its efforts to grow as a leading culture and arts space in Korea. Taking the year 2014 as a starting point for achieving excellence in customer service, we established an online and Active Employee Participation offline feedback system and conducted customer satisfaction surveys as part of our efforts to increase and improve our communication channels. In addition, we provided educational lectures on various At GS Caltex, we are engaging in various employee participation programs nationwide. Our corporatesubjects including classical, fine art history, travelling for cultural experiences, and humanities, as wide volunteer service activities have taken place in May around the anniversary of our incorporation well as practice lessons on vocal music and musicals in English language to further extend cultural while our employees donate more than 3,000 personal items through the ‘Weaja flea market’ every experience. From 2014, we are hosting the ‘Music Camp with Yonsei University’ each year as part of our October. At the end of each year, we take part in various volunteer service programs including briquette CSR activities for art education. delivery service for senior citizens, special meals at welfare facilities, and Christmas presents for orphanage. As of 2014, more than 7,200 employees have volunteered for these programs. Individual volunteer activities are also actively carried out in each region including the headquarters and Yeosu complex. There are 28 individual volunteer groups organized at the Yeosu complex, and they participate in more than 20 volunteer activities each month, providing electrical and boiler repair service, taking pictures for funerals, and supporting the experience disabilities program. In addition, our employees volunteer to join one-on-one mentoring programs for teenagers, support meal services at welfare centers, help people with disabilities enjoy outdoor activities, and improve living environments for teenagers from low income families. A total of 251 individual volunteer activities were carried out with 1,715 participants in 2014. 38 39 Financial Data GRI G4 Index Consolidated Statements of Financial Position(Unit: KRW 1M) Consolidated Statements of Income(Loss) (Unit: KRW 1M) General Standard Disclosures ● Full ◐ Partial ◦ None N/A Not Applicable Category 2014 2013 Category 2014 2013 Indicator Description Page Degree of Disclosure External Assurance Assets Sales 40,258,357 45,659,771 Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO statement 05 ● 44~45 Current assets Cost of sales -39,896,451 -43,919,469 Organizational Profile Cash and cash equivalents 509,005 600,721 G4-3 Name of reporting organization 06 ● Selling, general and administrative expenses -818,231 -840,222 Accounts and notes receivable 2,714,803 3,266,605 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 07 ● Operating profit(loss) -456,325 900,080 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 06 ● Short-term financial assets 982,721 1,130,636 G4-6 Countries of operation(list of countries where business operations are located or sustainability issues are directly related) 06 ● Inventories 3,593,104 5,210,040 Share of profit(loss) of equity -12,203 -7,677 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 15 ● method accounted investees Prepaid income taxes 4,652 364 G4-8 Markets served(regional division, areas of business, types of customers/beneficiaries) 06,07 ● Finance income 1,160,144 1,197,077 G4-9 Scale of the organization 06,15 ● Other current assets 487,019 594,085 44~45 G4-10 Breakdown of employment type, contract and regional workforce 35 ● Total current assets 8,291,304 10,802,451 Finance costs -1,535,928 -1,455,374 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 35 ● Non-current assets Other income 544,323 264,890 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain related to key activities, products and/or services 14~15 ● G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period No significant changes Long-term financial assets 352,851 399,028 -498,065 -371,701 Other expenses G4-14 whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 11 ● Investments in associates 274,037 282,860 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the -798,054 527,295 G4-15 organization subscribes or which it endorses. 43 ● Profit(loss) before income taxes Property, plant and equipment 10,372,965 10,655,481 G4-16 List memberships of associations(such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations 43 ● Income tax benefit(expense) 121,840 -153,628 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Investment property 36,534 44,969 -676,214 373,667 G4-17 List of all entities including key business units, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint venture companies 06 ● Intangible assets 62,762 64,392 Profit(loss) for the year G4-18 Defining report contents 12~13 ● Deferred income tax assets 1,027 2,375 Profit(loss) attributable to: G4-19 Material aspects identified in the defining process 12~13 ● Other non-current assets 34,697 33,740 G4-20 Aspect boundary within organization 16,20,24,29,32,36 ● 44~45 Owners of the Parent Company -676,214 373,667 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside organization 16,20,24,29,32,36 ● Total non-current assets 11,134,873 11,482,845 Non-controlling interests G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 35 ● Total assets 19,426,177 22,285,296 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 02 ● Liabilities Stakeholder Engagement Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income(Loss)(Unit: KRW 1M) G4-24 List of stakeholders engaged 12 ● Current liabilities G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 12 ● Accounts payable-trade 2,250,137 3,346,710 Category 2014 2013 44~45 G4-26 Types of engagement, the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 12 ● Short-term financial liabilities 3,438,786 3,763,590 Profit(loss) for the year -676,214 373,667 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 responded to those key topics and concerns 13 ● Income taxes payable 5,133 69,019 Other comprehensive income(loss), net of tax: Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 02 ● Other current liabilities 113,332 145,096 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 02 ● Total current liabilities 5,807,388 7,324,415 G4-30 Reporting cycle 02 Remeasurements of defined benefit -25,170 3,168 ● liability, net of tax 44~45 Non-current liabilities G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 03 ● Changes in equity method accounted G4-32 Reporting standard selected by organization 02 ● Long-term financial liabilities 5,184,413 5,541,949 8 557 investee’s retained earnings, net of tax G4-33 Policy and current practices with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 02 ● Employee benefits 87,645 32,057 Governance Total -25,162 3,725 Deferred income tax liabilities 137,587 279,823 G4-34 Governance structure 09 ● 44~45 Items that will be reclassified Other non-current liabilities 66,090 97,386 Ethics and Integrity subsequently to profit or loss G4-56 Description of the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 10 ● 44~45 Total non-current liabilities 5,475,735 5,951,215 Net change in unrealized fair value of available-for sale financial assets, net of tax -3,243 7,388 Total liabilities 11,283,123 13,275,630 Specific Standard Disclosures Equity Changes in equity method accounted investee’s capital, net of tax 386 127 ECONOMIC Common stock 260,000 260,000 Effective portion of changes in unrealized Indicator Description Page Degree of Disclosure External Assurance fair value of cash flow hedges, net of tax -19,958 -6,637 Capital surplus 66,270 66,270 Economic Performance Capital adjustments -59,129 -58,926 Foreign currency translation differences, net of tax 7,282 -2,266 Generic DMA 16,24 ● EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 14~15,40 ● 44~45 Accumulated other comprehensive income -1,340 14,193 Total other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax -15,533 -1,388 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 28 ● Retained earnings 7,877,253 8,728,129 Indirect Economic Impacts Total comprehensive income(loss) for the year -716,909 376,004 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 8,143,054 9,009,666 Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 36 ● Total comprehensive income(loss) attributable to: 44~45 Non-controlling interests EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 37~39 ● Owners of the Parent Company -716,909 376,004 Procurement Practices Total equity 8,143,054 9,009,666 Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 16 ● Total liabilities and equity 19,426,177 22,285,296 Non-controlling interests 44~45 EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 19 ● 40 41 GRI G4 Index ENVIRONMENTAL ● Full ◐ Partial ◦ None N/A Not Applicable PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ● Full ◐ Partial ◦ None N/A Not Applicable Indicator Description Page Degree of Disclosure External Assurance Indicator Description Page Degree of Disclosure External Assurance Energy Product and Service Labeling Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 24 ● Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 20 ● 44~45 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. 28 ● PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 22 ● 44~45 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 28 ● Customer Privacy EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 23 ◐ Generic DMA 20 ● 44~45 Emissions PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ●(Zero customer complaints) Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 24 ● EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(Scope 1) 28 ● EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(Scope 2). 28 ● 44~45 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions. 28 ● EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions. 27 ● Effluents and Waste Generic DMA 24 ● EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 27 UN Global Compact ◐ EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 27 ● 44~45 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. 27 ◐ OG5 Volume of discharged and disposed industrial water 27 ● Products and Services Since we joined the UN Global Compact, we have been fully committed to its ten principles covering human rights, labor, Generic DMA 20 ● the environment and anti-corruption and reported our progress to the COP(Communication on Progress). 44~45 EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 23 ◐ At GS Caltex, we will continue to improve our compliance with the UN Global Compact and its principles. Compliance Generic DMA 24 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 44~45 EN29 with environmental laws and regulations 25~26 ◐ Sector Principles Related activities Results(pages) Overall 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of •Providing education on in-house sexual harassment prevention Generic DMA 24 ● 10 44~45 internationally proclaimed human rights. and human rights protection EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 27 ● Human rights 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in •Running welfare system for employees’ work 34~35 human rights abuses. and life balance LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Indicator Description Page Degree of Disclosure External Assurance •Operating labor union and guaranteeing freedom 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the of engaging in the union Employment effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. •Discussing issues related to human rights through Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 32 ● the CSR Committee LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 35 ● 44~45 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, 34~35 ● 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms •Abiding to the regulations of the International Labor Organization by significant locations of operation of forced and compulsory labor. and the UNGC principles Occupational Health and Safety Labor 11,32~35 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition ※G  S Caltex strictly prohibits every kind of forced labor Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 29 ● of child labor. and child labor in all workplace LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety ●(All workers) committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number 44~45 LA6 of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 30 ◐ •Prohibiting discrimination by gender regarding wages, 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 30~31 ◐ evaluation and promotion in respect of employment and occupation. •Offering equal opportunity of employment online Training and Education Generic DMA 32 ● LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 35 ● 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to •Establishing Environmental Management Principles 44~45 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of environmental challenges. •Obtaining Certificate of the Energy Management System LA10 employees and assist them in managing career endings 33~34 ◐ •Adopting the internal cap-and-trade system(GS-ETS) 24~28 •Signing the Voluntary Agreement of Hazardous SOCIETY Environ8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Chemicals management with local government and ment environmental responsibility. companies in the Yeosu Complex Indicator Description Page Degree of Disclosure External Assurance Local Communities Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 36 ● 9. Businesses should encourage the development and •Developing High Quality Products 44~45 17~18 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 38 ● diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. •Conducting R&D of Biochemical Anti-Corruption Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 10 ● •Signing of all employees for the pledge of SO3 Total number and percentage and of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 10 ◐ 44~45 voluntary compliance Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 10 ● •Expanding Voluntary Compliance System and 10 corruption including extortion and bribery Asset Integrity & Process Safety Strengthening the role of Compliance Officer •Run training programs on compliance OG13 Total number of process safety events performed as part of business activities 31 ● 44~45 42 43 Third Party Assurance To the Stakeholders of GS Caltex • Inclusivity: Shareholder Engagement In compliance with the Principles of Inclusivity, GS Caltex categorizes its stakeholders into nine groups: the government, labor unions, The Korea Productivity Center (‘the KPC’ or ‘the assurance provider’ hereafter) was commissioned to perform NGOs, subsidiary companies, partner companies, regional communities, customers, stockholders and investors, and employees. The a third-party assurance engagement of the ‘2014 GS Caltex Sustainable Management Report’ KPC verified that GS Caltex clearly defined the communication channels and expectations of each group and garnered the opinions of (hereafter ‘the Report’) by GS Caltex. The KPC presents its findings as follows. its stakeholders through active interaction and dialogue. • Materiality: Selection and Reporting of Key Issues Responsibility and Independence Based on the issues of the last report, GS Caltex has selected a comprehensive report topic through issues of companies within the The responsibility for the information and statements included in the Report lies solely with GS Caltex. The KPC is responsible same industry, media analyses, and international standards in sustainable management such as the GRI G4 Guidelines, ISO26000, for the assurance findings generated in the Report. As an independent assurance provider, the KPC was not engaged in and others. The KPC has also verified that issues that are important to GS Caltex have been selected through surveys of internal the preparation of the Report in any other way and does not have any interest in GS Caltex in a way that may hamper its and external stakeholders. With regards to the 12 key issues derived from the materiality evaluation, a report scope regarding the independence as an assurance provider. stakeholders has been proposed and it has been verified that GS Caltex’s current status of responses has been disclosed in each page of the report in a balanced manner. Assurance Standards The KPC performed a Type 1 moderate level assurance engagement in accordance with AA1000AS (2008)1 . Following these • Responsiveness: Organizational Response to Issues assurance standards, the KPC verified the Report against such principles as inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness in The KPC verified that the Report properly demonstrates GS Caltex’s awareness of the key issues that would impact stakeholder accordance with AA1000APS (2008)2 . In addition, the KPC verified whether the Report complied with the GRI G4 Guidelines. judgment of its performance and that it undertook measures to resolve such issues. Through the Report, GS Caltex is faithfully disclosing the actions and performance of their responses to key issues in sustainable management. Limitations This assurance engagement covers GS Caltex’s 2014 performance in accordance with the assurance standards stated above. Recommendations The KPC verified the financial data through financial statements and publicly announced materials. In addition, the KPC KPC rates highly the range of endeavors and achievements made by GS Caltex to advance its sustainability and presents the verified the environmental and social performance data by performing a Type 1 and sample-based moderate level assurance following recommendations to enhance GS Caltex’s future reports and its level of sustainability management. engagement. On-site inspections were limited to GS Caltex’s corporate headquarters in Seoul, Korea. It should be noted that the results may change in cases where additional verification processes are carried out. •It is the KPC’s opinion that it is important to propose objectives and produce reports regarding their activities and results for making sustainable performance improvements of the key issues. Through such proposals and reports, the stakeholders shall be able to Assurance Methods understand the current status of GS Caltex’s pursuit of sustainable management. The KPC adopted the following methods in assuring this Report. •A continuous and systematic communications channel needs to be established between GS Caltex and the stakeholders. The KPC •The KPC verified whether the Report met the requirements of the Core Option of the GRI G4 Guidelines. also recommends a council that can gather the opinions of various outside stakeholders and, through such things as interviews with •The KPC verified whether the Report abided by the principles that concern the report content and experts and stakeholders, opinions should be gathered directly and reflected in the sustainable management activities. quality in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines. •The KPC verified the appropriateness of the report content, and any errors regarding the representation of 1 AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008): A global assurance standard developed by Accountability that provides methods for reporting on an organization’s management of sustainability issues such content, through comparative analyses made with other sources. beyond financial indicators including its adherence to the Accountability Principles Standard and the reliability of its sustainability performance information.AA1000 Accountability •The KPC conducted on-site inspections of the headquarters in Seoul to verify the evidence of major data and Principles Standard (2008): Global assurance principles developed by Accountability that provide a framework for the AA1000 standards. 2 AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008): Global assurance principles developed by Accountability that provide a framework for the AA1000 standards. information as well as internal process and systems. Findings Material Aspect DMA & Indicators The KPC believes that the Report is a sincere and fair representation of GS Caltex’s sustainability Economic Performance Generic DMA, G4-EC1, EC2 management initiatives and achievements. Procurement Practices Generic & Aspect-specific DMA, G4-EC9 August 2015 The KPC verified that the Report satisfies the Employmen Generic & Aspect-specific DMA, G4-LA1, LA2 Hong Soon-Jick, Chairman and CEO requirements of the Core Option of the GRI G4 Training and Education Generic DMA, G4LA9, LA10 of Korea Productivity Center Guidelines. Indirect Economic Impacts Generic & Aspect-specific DMA, G4-EC7 Local Communities Generic & Aspect-specific DMA, G4-SO1, SO2 Kim Dong-Soo, Director Lee Yang-Ho, Team Leader Jeong Yeong-Hoon, Expert Adviser The KPC has verified that the Core Option’s Occupational Health and Safety Generic & Aspect-specific DMA, G4LA5~LA7 requirements have been met in the case of Asset Integrity and Process Safety Generic DMA, G4-OG13 General Standard Disclosures. As for Specific Energy Generic & Aspect-specific DMA, G4-EN3, EN6, EN7 Standard Disclosures, the KPC has examined Emissions Generic & Aspect-specific DMA, G4-EN15, EN16, EN19, EN21 Effluents and Waste Generic DMA, G4-EN22, EN23, EN24, OG5 the DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach) and Compliance Generic DMA, G4-EN29 Indicators regarding the Material Issues that Overall Generic DMA, G4-EN31 were derived from the following report item Products and Services Generic DMA, G4-EN27 The Korea Productivity Center Sustainability Management Center is an assurance agency officially certified by Accountability, decision process. Product and Service Labeling Generic & Aspect-specific DMA, G4PR5 which established AA1000 (international standards for stakeholder engagement and assurance), and is qualified to perform Customer Privacy Generic DMA, G4PR8 independent assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is comprised of competent experts who have ample experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance and have completed relevant professional training. 44 45
