P.O. Box 1842 Blantyre Tel: 01 657 509 Fax: 01 657 768 E-mail: chabiscon@globemw.net 7th December 2015 Chabi's Construction & Arte Casa Communication on Progress: January 2013-December 2015 Human Rights In the area of human rights, Chabi's Construction & Arte Casa ensures that its workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. Building safe temporary structures on site for office, sanitation, safety meetings conducted to ensure safety precautions and procedures are being adhered to and construction equipment being safely used, no accidents reported on site. We ensure that workers are provided with the protective equipment and training necessary to perform their tasks safely. We ensure all personnel have their work suits, boots, helmets and other necessary safety equipment on according to their task for the day. The environment is safer and no incidents have taken place. We actively involve workers in health and safety work. We involve the safety officers actively who coordinates with all employees in the ways to work safely, explaining safety procedures in case of fire, working ethics with sensitive substances, and coordinate with the safety departments of the clients who ensure that all measures are taken, before the daily work permit in case of fuel companies or otherwise. Employees have a good understanding of how to contribute as a team in maintaining a safe working environment and no accidents have been reported. We ensure that the workweek is limited to 48 hours, that overtime is infrequent and limited, and that workers are given reasonable breaks and rest periods. We ensure that working hours is limited to 9 hours of work a day Monday to Friday totaling 45 hours a week and overtime is limited to alternate week ends when the project has been delayed for whatever reason. Whenever possible cost beneficial to the company, we provide a living wage that enables workers to meet the basic needs of themselves and their dependents. The company always provides a higher wage than the minimum stipulated by government according to the labour grades and motivates the hard workers with a higher salary employees are encouraged to work more efficiently, we ensure that workers are paid holiday leave, sick leave, and parental leave in accordance with international minimum standards. The company liaises with the labour officers in the country and makes sure all benefits due to the employees are met with avoiding any labour disagreements or conflicts, we ensure that all workers have an official employment status. All workers are required to fill in an employment form, where all individual information is required and job description. We protect workers from workplace harassment including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse, or threats. A mechanism is set up where workers are encouraged to approach with any grievance or complaint which is then analysed and treated accordingly by management in a timely manner. No disputes have been reported. We respect the privacy of employees whenever it gathers private information or monitors the workplace. All confidential information is kept by top management which is not disbursed to other fellow employee The employee works in a safe environment without harassment or intimidation, we ensure that all affected owners and users of the land or property, have been adequately consulted and compensated before buying, renting, acquiring or otherwise accessing land or property. The company's offices are currently on rented property from a private individual who is being remunerated according to his asking price, no conflicts faced on this area, we take steps to ensure that company security arrangements are in accordance with international principles for law enforcement and the use of force. The security personnel are drilled on steps to take when security is breached which includes triggering the alarm and steps to take until security company contracted officers, in this case G4S Security show up. No unnecessary force or violence is permitted, no major incidents been reported, this being a very small construction company, there is no such threats in this area where the company is concerned again, no potential threat in this area. We deal in construction of buildings etc, and usually a group of consultants are employed by the client to ensure delivery of safe structures before handover is finalized and project completion certificates is issued, we seek to avoid involvement in human rights abuses owing to government or societal practices. Labour In the area of labour, Chabi's Construction & Arte Casa recognises the rights of its workers to freedom of association and to bargain collectively. We enable workers to gather independently to discuss work-related problems. We take all necessary measures to ensure that it does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. We comply with minimum age standards. We ensure that employmentrelated decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Environment In the area of the environment, Chabi's Construction & Arte Casa supports a precautionary approach to environmental issues, by taking care with the excavations, disposal of fill and drainage systems ensuring prevention of soil erosion and protection of rivers and streams, we have emergency procedures in place to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health, on all our sites the company has a safety officer and a vehicle ready for any emergency and all Staff are drilled at the beginning of the day on the tool box meetings, we take measures to reduce energy consumption and emissions of greenhouse gasses. We take measures to reduce water consumption and treat waste water. We take measures to prevent and reduce the production of waste and ensure responsible waste management. We prevent, reduce and treat air emissions. We prevent and reduce impacts on the surrounding environment from noise, odour, light and vibrations. We minimise the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemicals and other dangerous substances. We prevent, minimise and remedy significant impacts on biodiversity. We ensure that natural resources are used in a sustainable manner. We encourage the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies. This part of the world burnt bricks is used for construction of building. The company has invested big in a cement block plant and have since stopped using the local burnt bricks Anti-Corruption In the area of anti-corruption, Chabi's Construction & Arte Casa takes a clear stand against corruption. We assess the risk of corruption when doing business. We ensure that relevant workers are properly trained. Our internal procedures support its anti-corruption commitment. Our anti-corruption initiative covers agents, intermediaries and consultants. We take joint actions with others to engage in and promote anti-corruption initiatives.
