Communication on progress Implementing UN Global Compact principles in RABUTEC GROUP OF COMPANIES 1. INTRODUCTION I am pleased to confirm that RABUTEC Group of Companies reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Rajenthiran Narayanan Managing Director 2. RABUTEC Group of Companies Rabutec Sdn. Bhd. was incorporated on 21 March 1987. Our main business objective is to evolve as an integrated maintenance and engineering company. We plan to develop this by developing critical elements in both Subsurface and Topside Services by (i) Engaging in Topside Production and Maintenance Related Services. (ii) Design & Manufacture of Topside Lifting Equipment, cranes and special custom equipment. (iii) Provision of Subsurface Engineering and Consultancy Services. (iv) Provision of Well Services (v) Marine Support Services to supplement and support Topside and Subsurface Services. The company also promotes specific engineering products which support the development of our business objective. Our clientele are typically oil & gas production companies, drilling / marine contractors, vessel/asset owners, FPSO operators and other related players in the oil & gas industries. MISSION STATEMENT & OPERATIONS PHILOSOPHY Recognizing the rising needs and demands of the oil and gas industry, we aspire to develop as a reliable integrated maintenance service company to the oil / gas industry. We define integrated maintenance service to include both topside and subsurface (well services included) operations. 1. We intend to achieve our aspirations by: 2. Ensuring that Safety remains as the single most important intrinsic value in our company. 3. Ensuring that we adhere strictly to our HSE Policy Statement and Business Ethics Policy in all aspects of our operations. 4. Providing cost efficient and profitable services to our clients. 5. Ensuring prudent financial practices. 6. Investing in our staff by carrying out active and continuous training, certification and competency development programs for all our staff at all levels. 7. Investing in R&D and technology orientated products and services to remain competitive and ahead in the industry. 8. Ensuring that all our task and actions are proactive in the preservation of the environment and also ensuring the rights of our staff are always upheld. Human Rights Principle Rabutec`s goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment we have set up a code of conduct, to make our position clear for all our suppliers, employees and partners. We have published and actively informed all our suppliers, partners and employees of our commitment and encouraged them to commit as well. An internal system is in place were the employees are trained in regards of our commitment. We have a system in place that encourage employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our Code of Conduct. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented. Labour Principles Rabutec support the UNGC principles on labour stadards in addition to following local laws on labour rights. Our written Code of Conduct regulates our policies and are compliant with UNGC principles. The documents are handed out during training internally. Environmental Policies Rabutec support the UNGC principles on the Environment. The principles have been included in our Code of Conduct. Rabutec strives to minimise the environmental impact of our activities. Through the HSE Policy, we have had a thorough audit of our business and put in place several actions to further minimize our environmental impact. We continuously work with our environmental actions and strive to be innovative when it comes to environmental friendly products and services. We have a system in place that encourage employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our Code of Conduct. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented. Anti-Corruption Principles Rabutec supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption. We work strongly against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Code of Conduct includes our policies on anti-corruption and responds to incidents. We have a system in place for whistle-blowing for any Code of Conduct violation. We have a system in place that encourage employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our Code of Conduct. No incidents have been reported since the system has been implemented.
