SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ITC LIMITED FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI G4 COMPLIANT: IN ACCORDANCE COMPREHENSIVE ITC’s Sustainability Report can be downloaded from www.itcportal.com ITC’s Sustainability app can be downloaded from http://www.itcportal.com/app/itc-apps.aspx Follow ITC on Twitter @ITCCorpCom ITC Limited is an Organizational Stakeholder of GRI and supports GRI’s mission to provide widely used standards on sustainability reporting. Contents 126 Category: Social Labour Practices & 128 04 Chairman’s Statement Decent Work and Human Rights 10 Organisational Profile Occupational Health 136 and Safety Supply Chain 24 Social Investments – 144 Certifications, Honours and Awards 30 Mission Sunehra Kal Stakeholder Engagement, Product Responsibility 164 Risks & Opportunities and 34 Materiality Analysis 174 GRI Index Report Profile, Scope 48 and Boundary GRI-G4 Food Processing Sector 54 Governance Structure 193 Supplement (FPSS) 62 Category: Economic Management Approach 64 Economic Performance 65 74 Category: Environment Management Approach 76 Energy 78 Air Emissions 84 Water Management 96 Alignment to BRR Recycling and Waste Management 108 195 Principles Raw Materials 116 196 Annexures Biodiversity 122 Policies and Guidelines 196 Quantification Methodology: 197 Energy and GHG Emissions Memberships and Affiliations 198 Independent Assurance 200 Statements Sustainable Livelihoods n More than 1,95,000 hectares greened Out of this, ITC’s Social Forestry Triple Bottom Line Programme cumulatively covers 69,421 hectares in 3,958 villages, impacting over 72,000 poor households. Performance n Well-being Out of Waste (WOW) The ‘Well-being Out of Waste’ initiative inculcates the habit of source segregation and recycling. The initiative currently extends to Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru, Coimbatore and some towns of Telangana. ITC: Creating 6 Million Sustainable Livelihoods Environment n Carbon Positive: 10 Consecutive years n Water Positive: 13 years in a row n Solid Waste Recycling Positive: for the last 8 years Economic n Soil & Moisture conservation to over 2,00,000 hectares ITC has created multiple drivers ITC’s Watershed Development Programme, of growth by developing a designed to assist farmers in identified portfolio of world-class Indian moisture-stressed areas, increased by an businesses and brands. additional 63,492 hectares in 2014-15 taking the total area covered under the Over the last nineteen years: programme to over 2,12,200 hectares. n Net Revenue grew at a n Use of Renewable Energy compound rate of 15% annually Over 43% of ITC’s total energy requirements n Net Profit grew at 20.9% per was met from carbon neutral sources such annum as biomass, wind and solar. n Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain n Total Shareholder Returns All ITC’s premium luxury Hotels are (measured in terms of increase LEED® Platinum certified (certification in market capitalisation and is in progress for the super premium ITC dividends) grew at a compound Grand Bharat which opened recently). annual growth rate of 24.3%. 02 Triple Bottom Line Performance n Diversified multi-business n Over 45,000 sustainable conglomerate spanning livelihoods for rural women FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards & These women were gainfully employed Packaging, Agri Business and either through micro-enterprises or Information Technology assisted with loans to pursue income generating activities. n Market capitalisation: $ 40 billion n Animal husbandry services n Turnover: Nearly $ 8 billion for nearly 12,00,000 milch animals n ITC Group provides direct The programme for genetic improvement employment to more than of cattle through artificial insemination 32,000 people to produce high-yielding crossbred progenies is implemented through 256 Social Cattle Development Centres covering over 10,000 villages. ITC’s Social Investments n Afforestation programme Programme is spread over generates nearly 90 million 16 states covering 71 districts. person-days of employment n Primary Education Initiative: n ITC’s bio-diversity Benefitting 4,20,000 children programme now covers During 2014-15, a new initiative called the 3,191 hectares ‘Read India Programme’ reached out to 36,000 children. In addition, another 34,000 The objective is to protect native children were covered by Supplementary flora and fauna and providing other Learning Centres, taking the total number eco-system services. of children benefitted to 4,20,000. n ITC’s Vocational Training n ITC e-Choupal: Empowering programme Training over 4 million farmers 22,000 youth ITC’s globally acknowledged e-Choupal This program played an active role initiative is the world’s largest rural in building and upgrading skills of digital infrastructure benefitting over marginalised youth to better meet the 4 million farmers. emerging needs of the job market. Figures in this section are as on June 2015. Figures in the rest of the Report pertain to the Financial year 2014-15. 03 Chairman’s Statement I have great pleasure in presenting ITC’s Sustainability Report 2015. This is the 12th year of its publication. As in earlier years, this Report, prepared as a pro-active disclosure of ITC’s Triple Bottom Line performance, is independently assured and based on the international guidelines recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). It is a matter of great satisfaction that this Report once again conforms to the highest “In Accordance – Comprehensive” level of reporting prescribed in the latest G4 guidelines of GRI. I am also happy to once again reaffirm ITC’s commitment to the principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact. It is indeed heartening that the Company’s large-scale social investments continue to make a meaningful contribution to the country’s progress towards achieving the UN Millennium Development Goals. A World in Peril One of the most enduring images that shocked the world in 2015 was of the “boat people refugees” thousands of men, women and children desperately fleeing poverty, persecution and conflict in a perilous journey across the Mediterranean to seek asylum in the European Continent. Equally of concern have been the recent events of extreme weather that continue to worsen with every passing year be it the scorching heat wave in India that has already claimed more lives in any single year in the last decade or the continuing four-year drought in California that has demonstrated the vulnerability of people in even the world’s richest nation. 04 These are vignettes of a world in peril and of a deep-rooted global malaise that threatens the future of mankind. For over a century, the world has witnessed remarkable progress. Man conquered space, eliminated dreaded diseases, and shrunk the globe into a borderless virtual society. World GDP expanded over 60-fold in the last 50 years. Yet, a grossly unequal world got created. Less than 1% of adults in the world own 44% of global wealth, while the bottom 70% own just 3% of the world’s wealth. It is obvious that the economic model pursued by the world for decades failed to deliver growth with equity. The consequences are dangerous. Apart from widespread global poverty, an entire generation of 600 million youth today stare at a jobless future. The resultant frustration, disillusionment and despair not only fuel social unrest but make them vulnerable to the lure of crime and even terrorism. Unstable societies cannot foster sustainable economic growth. It negates the tremendous advancements made in science and technology miring the world in a state of constant conflict and uncertainty. The race for material wealth creation over the last century also paid scant attention to the imperative need for environmental replenishment. Today, the world consumes natural resources at a rate that is one and a half times the earth’s capacity to regenerate. At this pace, we will bequeath future generations a barren planet in less than 30 years from now. The spectre of climate change is no longer an issue of the future. It is here and now, posing the greatest threat to poor farming communities who are the most vulnerable to the vagaries of nature. India’s socio-economic challenges mirror the global conundrum. If at all, our problems are even more acute. Nearly 300 million people need critical support to move out of endemic poverty. Every year 12 million young people join the workforce. With gainful opportunities, they will be a source of exponential growth. Without adequate opportunities, they will be a source of explosive disaster. India is set to cross China in 2025 as the world’s most populous nation. How do we ensure food security, water security, energy security and livelihood security for these teeming millions? How will the conflict for food, fuel, feed, forests and fibre be resolved from the scarce land resources? We have 17% of the world’s population, but only 2.4% of arable land, 4% of water and 1% of forest resources. It is obvious that we need a new model of economic growth that will simultaneously fuel economic growth, create sustainable livelihoods and replenish and preserve the environment. And that is indeed a tall order. 05 Sustainable Livelihoods ITC’s businesses The Role of Business and valueNo single section of society can enable such transformational change of epic proportions. chains generate A confluence of efforts is therefore required from all sections of society be it Government, sustainable Business or other sections of Civil Society. livelihoods for It is my strong belief that Business can play an immensely constructive and meaningful role. around 6 million Businesses possess the innovative capability, creative capacity and entrepreneurial vitality to people, many of engender transformational change by harnessing these strengths to co-create much larger whom represent societal value. They are also present in the front-line of economic activity with numerous touch points in society, enabling a synergy of financial and managerial resources to deliver the weakest in impactful solutions. society The seed of unleashing this transformative capacity for the larger good of society lies in defining a super-ordinate purpose of business. It is this fundamental belief that has helped shape ITC’s Vision & Strategy in building a sustainable enterprise of tomorrow. ITC’s Vision & Strategy Close to two decades ago, when I assumed office as Chairman, the Company was confronted with formidable challenges. The early diversification efforts had either failed or were languishing, the businesses were not competitive enough in an emerging liberalised economic environment, and the Company’s reputation was sullied by a public smear campaign triggered by a hostile takeover attempt. It was critically important to create a new future for the organisation by redefining a vision that could invigorate and inject new life to every sinew of the enterprise. Inspired by the opportunity to serve larger national priorities, we articulated a super-ordinate Vision to make ITC a National Champion by not only repositioning the organisation for extreme competitiveness but by also making societal value creation the bedrock of our business strategy. We committed ourselves to abiding Values, with Trusteeship at its core, ensuring that we put Country before Corporation and the Institution before the Individual. The focus was on spurring innovative strategies that would enable us to make a growing contribution to building economic, environmental and social capital for the nation. It was our aspiration that this Triple Bottom Line approach would manifest not only in sustained wealth creation for all our stakeholders, but also in the simultaneous generation of sustainable livelihoods as well as augmentation of precious natural resources. A multi-pronged strategy was put into play to enable a new dimension of growth that would be sustainable and inclusive. Leveraging enterprise strengths, and by matching internal competencies with the opportunities of an emerging economy, multiple drivers of growth were launched through a chosen portfolio of vibrant businesses. Relentless efforts were made to create world-class Indian brands that would help in capturing and retaining more value for the Indian economy. The vitality of such brands also serve as market anchors to enhance the competitiveness of the entire value chain, including that of farmers and rural communities. To ensure a positive environmental footprint, ITC adopted a low-carbon growth strategy which focusses on enhanced use of renewable energy sources as well as reduction in specific energy consumption. At the same time, the Company also invested in enlarging its positive footprint through increased carbon sequestration by expanding forestry projects in wastelands. Endeavours to reduce specific water consumption and augment rainwater harvesting activities both on site and off site at watershed catchment areas contributed to the imperative need to ensure water security. Focussed initiatives to minimise waste generation, maximise reuse & recycling and use external post-consumer waste as raw material in its units contributed to maximising and optimising resource efficiency. 06 Chairman’s Statement To accomplish the goal of securing sustainable livelihoods, the Company’s Social Investments Programme has identified three important stakeholder groups: (a) rural communities in the Company’s operational areas which face enormous challenges in ensuring the sustainability of their farming systems; (b) communities residing in close proximity to our production units which require sustainable solutions to help generate additional income streams; and (c) Central and State governments, that encourage Public-Private-People Partnerships to demonstrate scalable and replicable models of development. Interventions have been appropriately designed to respond to the unique multi-dimensional development challenges of such communities in order to accomplish the overall goal of creating sustainable livelihoods. The footprint of ITC’s CSR projects promoted under the Social Investments Programme is spread over 14 states covering 71 districts. To guide ITC’s proactive action for superior Triple Bottom Line Performance, a comprehensive set of Sustainability Policies has been adopted. A comprehensive CSR policy has also been crafted to define the framework for the Company’s Social Investments Programme. The Board Committee on CSR and Sustainability reviews, monitors and provides strategic direction to the Company’s CSR and sustainability practices. The Committee formulates, reviews and monitors the CSR Policy and recommends to the Board the annual CSR Plan of the Company in terms of the Companies Act, 2013. An internal Sustainability Compliance Review Committee has also been constituted to monitor and evaluate compliance with the Sustainability Policies of the Company. Today, I draw immense satisfaction that the vision and strategy adopted to pursue sustainable and inclusive growth have enabled the Company to be a global exemplar in sustainability. ITC’s businesses and value-chains generate sustainable livelihoods for around 6 million people, many of whom represent the weakest in society. Relentless pursuit of environmental excellence has also led ITC to be the only Company in the world of comparable dimensions to be carbon positive for 10 years now, water positive for 13 years in a row and solid waste recycling positive for the last 8 years. Creating Sustainable Livelihoods The theme for this year’s Sustainability Report – Creating Sustainable Livelihoods – highlights the Company’s progress in contributing to this very important priority for developing countries like India. Over 65% of India’s population is below 35 years of age, and therefore significantly large numbers will progressively enter the work-stream every year. Creation of sustainable livelihood opportunities is thus a crying priority. The Hon’ble Prime Minister has highlighted, on more than one occasion, the critical need to generate jobs across all sectors of the economy. Relentless pursuit The flagship schemes announced, such as Make in India, Skill India and Digital India, are all aligned to help create growing livelihood opportunities in the near future. of environmental excellence has Over the years, ITC has made a far-reaching contribution to the national cause of livelihood also led ITC to be creation, particularly in rural India. The Company’s integrated rural development programme the only Company has helped create a vibrant rural eco-system empowering farmers, enriching the environment and raising rural incomes. These innovative interventions have reached meaningful scale given in the world the core focus on empowerment and co-creation, development of institutional frameworks of comparable and capacity building at the grass-roots. dimensions to be carbon positive for ITC’s celebrated e-Choupal initiative, that empowers farmers by leveraging the power of the Internet as well as through a host of services related to know how, best practices, relevant 10 years now, water weather information, transparent discovery of prices and many more, has till date empowered positive for 13 years 4 million farmers in 40,000 villages. in a row and solid waste recycling The Company’s Afforestation programme enables poor tribals and small farmers to transform positive for the last private wastelands into green plantations. It has so far greened nearly 2,00,000 hectares and 8 years 07 Sustainable Livelihoods generated close to 90 million person days of employment. By 2017-18, ITC plans to augment this programme with an additional 92,000 hectares. ITC’s Integrated Watershed Development programme provides soil and moisture conservation to over 2,00,000 hectares and has generated over 4.7 million person days of employment benefitting more than 1,60,000 families. By 2017-18, the watershed development programme is projected to cover an additional 1,82,000 hectares. The Company’s Livestock Development programme has created off-farm livelihood options for over 4,60,000 cattle owners and has provided animal husbandry services to over 11,00,000 milch animals. This programme will extend services to an additional 6,30,000 milch animals by 2017-18. The Women’s Empowerment programme has created sustainable livelihood opportunities for over 43,000 women so far, with plans to include 25,000 more women in the programme by 2017-18. The Primary Education programme aims at increasing enrolments, minimising drop-outs, and providing infrastructural support to government schools. It has benefitted nearly 4,00,000 rural children, helping them to build a better future. By 2017-18, this programme is envisaged to reach out to an additional 1,45,000 children. ITC’s Vocational Training programme equips youth with necessary skills and makes them more employable in the formal sectors of the economy. The programme has benefitted over 19,000 youths so far. In the next 3 years, another 33,000 youths will be covered under this programme. Improving the quality of life of rural households, ITC’s Health & Sanitation initiative in alignment with the Government’s ‘Swacch Bharat’ campaign, has constructed over 8,000 family toilets. The Company plans to construct 8,250 more toilets by the close of FY 2018. By adopting a 360 degree approach to enriching rural eco-systems, ITC has put in place long term drivers that will contribute meaningfully to the national priority of employment generation and sustainable growth. Environmental Stewardship Today, more Climate change is undoubtedly one of the most daunting challenges confronting society than 43% of today. While ITC’s large scale initiatives in afforestation, sustainable agricultural practices the Company’s and watershed development have helped in making rural communities in our catchment total energy areas more secure, the Company has also pursued an extensive low carbon strategy in its consumption is operations. This is manifest in our efforts to continuously enhance energy efficiency and from renewable conservation as well as invest in cleaner and renewable energy sources. Today, more than 43% of the Company’s total energy consumption is from renewable sources. Several ITC Hotels and sources. Several manufacturing facilities are powered by renewable energy. It is our aspiration to increase the ITC Hotels and share of renewable energy to 50% by 2020. Pioneering the movement for ’green buildings’, manufacturing several of the Company’s properties are now LEED® certified. All premium luxury hotels facilities are of ITC have earned the LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Platinum powered by certification making ITC Hotels the “greenest luxury hotel chain” in the world. The ITC Grand renewable energy. Chola is the world’s largest LEED® Platinum certified green hotel and enjoys a 5 Star GRIHA It is our aspiration rating, the highest national rating for green buildings. The ITC Green Centre in Gurgaon is the highest rated green building in the world. The ITC Green Centre in Manesar has earned the to increase the LEED® Platinum certification, as well as the BEE 5 Star rating from the Government of India. share of renewable energy to 50% by ITC continuously strives to improve processes and systems to minimise its environmental 2020 impact as far as possible, create a work environment that is safe, healthy, productive and fair 08 Chairman’s Statement for its employees and proactively engages with its suppliers and partners to maximise value for all stakeholders. For companies like ours, deeply Recognising the need for collective action to shape a shared future that is more sustainable rooted in India’s and inclusive, ITC has partnered the Confederation of Indian Industry to set up a Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development to help build the enterprises of tomorrow. The Centre soil, we recognise champions the adoption of sustainability practices by raising awareness, building capacity, the need to play a enabling thought leadership and recognising excellence. much larger role in creating growing Being Future Ready with Responsible societal value for the country Competitiveness given the colossal While ITC has achieved significant milestones in its sustainability journey, the road ahead socio-economic will continue to be challenging. For companies like ours, deeply rooted in India’s soil, we challenges recognise the need to play a much larger role in creating growing societal value for the country given the colossal socio-economic challenges. Therefore, it is not only crucial to build extreme competitiveness in an increasingly global Indian market, but to also ensure that growth strategies foster sustainable growth. Unfortunately, we compete in a market where many have not adopted a broader canvas of contributing to larger societal goals, but are largely focussed on the narrow pursuit of financial competitiveness alone. Therefore, our commitment to building Responsible Competitiveness entails a far larger mobilisation of resources, organisational energy and creativity. Regrettably, markets, as they are structured today, do not prize companies that create larger societal value but continue to predominantly reward financial value creation alone. A paradigm change will take place only when consumers, investors, and civil society make an enlightened choice in favour of products and services of sustainable companies. This will unleash strong market drivers to support corporates that innovate to deliver larger sustainable and inclusive value. Preferential government policy and incentives in favour of such companies will lend even further support to companies that subserve larger national priorities. ITC’s aspiration to be a National Champion is manifest in its Vision and Values as well as in the Vitality of its human capital, dedicated to building an exemplary enterprise for the country. We recognise that the Company’s capacity to create societal value will crucially depend on the continued robust growth of its businesses. Towards this, significant investments have been made to create superior intellectual capital through a world-class ITC Life Sciences and Technology Centre; in brick and mortar industrial infrastructure; in iconic hotels; in worldclass Indian brands; in talent management and in an efficient marketing and distribution network that will together lend renewed strength to the Company in the years to come. This Sustainability Report is once again a dedication of our pledge to contribute to a secure, sustainable and inclusive future. I would like to thank all our stakeholders for their support and encouragement in making this a meaningful journey towards a promising tomorrow. Y C Deveshwar Chairman, ITC Limited June, 2015 09 Organisational Profile ITC’s Businesses FMCG Hotels Paperboards, Paper & Packaging Agri Business Information Technology Sustainable Livelihoods Creating Enduring Value ITC Limited is one of India’s most valuable and admired corporations. Inspired by an abiding vision to sub-serve larger national priorities, ITC has pursued innovative strategies to synergise the creation of long-term shareholder value with the continuous enhancement of societal and environmental capital. Creating World-Class Brands that Capture Value for India ITC believes that it is of paramount importance to build Creating Multiple Drivers and nurture world-class Indian brands which help create, of Growth capture and retain larger value for the Indian economy, in addition to generating sustainable livelihoods. A With a turnover of nearly $ 8 billion and a market successful brand is a badge of honour for the country it capitalisation of $ 42 billion, ITC’s aspiration to create belongs to, and a sustained source of wealth creation. enduring value for the Nation and its stakeholders Leveraging the Company’s core competencies, is manifest in its robust and diversified portfolio institutional strengths and internal synergies, the new of traditional and greenfield businesses. The FMCG businesses comprising Branded Packaged Foods, competitiveness of ITC’s diverse businesses rest on the Personal Care Products, Lifestyle Retailing, Education & strong foundations of institutional strengths derived Stationery Products and Matches and Agarbattis have from its deep consumer insights, cutting-edge Research gained significant market standing over the years. This & Development, differentiated product development phenomenal growth has been rated by a Nielsen Report capacity, brand-building capability, world-class to be the fastest among the consumer goods companies manufacturing infrastructure, extensive rural linkages, operating in India. Within a relatively short span of time, efficient trade marketing and distribution network and ITC has established vital brands, many of which are today dedicated human resources. ITC’s ability to leverage market leaders in their segments, or have garnered a internal synergies residing across its diverse businesses significant share of consumer franchise. ITC’s bouquet lends a unique source of competitive advantage to of brands includes ‘Aashirvaad’, ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy’, its products and services. Today ITC is the country’s ‘Sunfeast Dream Cream’, ‘Sunfeast Delishus’, ‘Sunfeast leading FMCG marketer, the clear market leader in the Mom’s Magic’, ‘Sunfeast Yumfills’, ‘Sunfeast Bounce’, Indian Paperboard and Packaging industry, a globally ‘Bingo!’, ‘Yumitos’, ‘YiPPee!’, ‘Candyman’, ‘mint-o’, acknowledged pioneer in farmer empowerment through ‘B Natural’, ‘GumOn’ and ‘Kitchens of India’ in the its wide-reaching Agri Business, the second largest Hotel Branded Packaged Foods space; ‘Classmate’ and Chain in India and a trailblazer in ‘green hoteliering’. ITC ‘Paperkraft’ in Education & Stationery products market; Infotech, a wholly-owned subsidiary, is one of India’s ‘Essenza Di Wills’, ‘Fiama Di Wills’, ‘Engage’, ‘Vivel’ and fast-growing IT companies in the mid-tier segment. This ‘Superia’ in the Personal Care products segment; ‘Wills portfolio of rapidly growing businesses considerably Lifestyle’ and ‘John Players’ in the Lifestyle Retailing enhances ITC’s capacity to generate growing value for Business; ‘Mangaldeep’ in Agarbattis and ‘Aim’ in the country. Matches, amongst others. 12 Organisational Profile Building Natural and Social Capital ITC’s Vision of sustainable and inclusive growth has led to the adoption of a Triple Bottom Line approach that simultaneously builds economic, social Achievements and environmental capital. Its Social Investment Programmes including Social Forestry, Soil & Moisture ITC has received national and global recognition for Conservation, Sustainable Agriculture, Livestock its multi-faceted achievements. It has been ranked as Development, Biodiversity, Women Empowerment, ‘India’s Most Admired Company’ in a survey conducted Education, Skilling & Vocational Training and Health & by Fortune India magazine and Hay Group. ITC has also Sanitation have had a transformational impact on rural been rated as the world’s 8th largest ‘sustainable value India. These Programmes strive to empower stakeholder creator’ among consumer goods companies globally, communities to conserve, manage and augment their according to a report by the Boston Consulting Group natural resources, create sustainable on and off-farm (BCG). As a testimony to its exemplary Triple Bottom livelihood sources and improve social infrastructure in Line performance, ITC has also been presented the rural areas. Through its businesses and associated value World Business and Development Award at the historic chains, ITC has supported the generation of around 6 Rio+20 UN Summit for its Social and Farm Forestry million livelihoods, touching the lives of many living at initiative. ITC Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar has been the margins in rural India. ranked the 7th Best Performing CEO in the world by the Harvard Business Review in its January-February In line with its commitment to environmental goals, edition 2013. Mr Deveshwar has also been conferred the ITC has constantly strived to reduce the impact of its Padma Bhushan, one of the country’s highest civilian businesses, processes, products, and services and honours, for his leadership in transforming ITC into create a positive footprint. ITC has adopted a low-carbon an organisation with a deep commitment to national growth strategy through reduction in specific energy priorities of sustainable and inclusive growth. consumption and enhancing use of renewable energy sources. At the same time it seeks to enlarge its positive footprint through increased carbon sequestration by expanding forestry projects in wastelands. 43.1% of the total energy requirement of the Company is today met from renewable sources, a testimony to its commitment to a low carbon growth path. ITC also endeavours to reduce specific water consumption and augment rainwater harvesting activities both on site and off site at watershed catchment areas, as well as minimise waste generation, maximise reuse & recycling and use external post-consumer waste as raw material in its units. 13 Sustainable Livelihoods ITC’s Businesses Fast Moving Consumer Goods ITC straddles a range of businesses within the FMCG segment, including Branded Packaged Foods, Personal Care Products, Cigarettes, Lifestyle Retailing, Education and Stationery Products, and Safety Matches and Incense Sticks (Agarbattis). Keeping pace with the rapid growth of the FMCG industry in India, ITC has significantly scaled up its presence in this segment. 14 Organisational Profile Branded Packaged Foods Sunfeast Dark Fantasy Choco Meltz; Sunfeast Delishus Nuts & Raisins and Sunfeast ITC’s Branded Packaged Foods business is Delishus Nut Biscotti biscuits. Adding to this one of the fastest growing foods businesses bouquet, the business launched the health in India. A spread of delectable offerings biscuit, Sunfeast Farmlite in two variants in Staples, Snacks & Meals, Confections (Almonds and Raisins), and a new range and Beverages is available under 8 popular of cookies, Sunfeast Mom’s Magic (Rich brands ‘Aashirvaad’, ‘Sunfeast’, ‘Bingo!’, ‘YiPPee!’, ‘Kitchens of India’, ‘mint-o’, Butter and Cashew & Almonds). To further ‘B Natural’, ‘Candyman’ and ‘GumOn’. In line its presence in the premium segment, it also with the Company’s strategic objective of entered the cakes category with the launch being the leader in the premium segment, of the delicious Yumfills Whoopie Pie. The ITC Foods offers an array of top-end products Business forayed into the Juices segment like Aashirvaad Select, Aashirvaad Atta with during the year with its new range under the Multigrains and Aashirvaad Atta with Methi; B Natural brand and the gums segment with Sunfeast Dark Fantasy Choco Fills and the GumOn brand. 15 Sustainable Livelihoods Personal Care Products products exquisitely created to give gentle Keeping pace with and effective care for timeless youthfulness. the rapid growth of Specially crafted for Indian preferences, Engage’s proposition of ‘playful chemistry’ ITC’s personal care products portfolio offers is represented in its increasingly popular the FMCG industry a range of internationally benchmarked portfolio of colognes and deodorants. Vivel in India, ITC has grooming and personal wash products. offers a wide range of bath care products significantly scaled Anchored on extensive consumer and market designed to cater to the specific skincare up its presence in research based product development, ITC’s needs of the Indian consumer. It is enriched this segment personal care brands ‘Essenza Di Wills’, with Vitamin E and rich nourishing ingredients ‘Fiama Di Wills’, ‘Engage’, ‘Vivel’, ‘Cell Renew’ to fulfil its promise of soft glowing skin. and ‘Superia’ offer products with relevant, Shower to Shower medicated powder protects differentiated benefits to the discerning from prickly heat and controls sweat. Savlon consumer. Essenza Di Wills has been created to encapsulate the essence of fine provides effective anti-bacterial protection living through an exclusive, internationally through a range of antiseptic liquid, soaps developed range of fine fragrances and and handwash. Savlon products are known grooming products. Fiama Di Wills offers a for their gentleness whilst offering effective range of shower gels, gel bars and skin care germ protection. 16 Organisational Profile Cigarettes ITC also strengthened its product portfolio across segments to reinforce its leadership position in the cigarette industry. Lifestyle Retailing ITC’s Lifestyle Retailing business continues to grow its market standing by investing in brand building, enhancing product vitality and supply chain capabilities; expanding its retail footprint across the country. Synonymous with Fashion and Elegance, the Wills Lifestyle range of apparels offers a premium lifestyle wardrobe for Indian men and women at over 100 exclusive specialty stores. With its high fashion imagery, rich product mix and delightful shopping experience, the brand offers a tempting choice of ‘Wills Classic’ formal wear, ‘Wills Sport’ relaxed wear, ‘Wills Clublife’ evening wear and ‘Wills Signature’ designer wear. ‘John Players’ embodies the essence of the Indian youth that is free-spirited, playful and fashionable. The brand presents smart formals, trendy casuals and edgy denims incorporating an exciting mix of colours, patterns, styling and fits. 17 Sustainable Livelihoods Education and Stationery Safety Matches and Incense Products Sticks (Agarbattis) ITC’s Education & Stationery Products ITC’s ‘Mangaldeep’ agarbattis are Business offers consumers a wide range of manufactured by small scale and cottage differentiated products under the brands units, providing livelihood opportunities for ‘Classmate’ and ‘Paperkraft’. A clear more than 14,000 people. Mangaldeep ASHA market leader in the student notebooks (Assistance in Social Habilitation through segment, Classmate’s portfolio also includes Agarbattis) is an ITC initiative to improve writing instruments (pens & pencils) and the quality of raw agarbatti production and scholastic products (mathematical drawing provide better livelihood for women rollers. instruments, scales, erasers & sharpeners). Sourced from the small-scale sector, the Colour Crew, a new sub brand of Classmate Safety Matches business leverages the offers an exciting range of superior quality core strength of ITC in marketing and student art materials which includes nondistribution, brand building and supply chain toxic oil pastels, wax crayons and sketch pens. management to offer Indian consumers The Business recently launched Saathi, a high quality safety matches. ITC’s range value brand of notebooks, targeted at smaller of Safety Matches includes popular brands markets. The ‘Paperkraft’ brand is the leading like ‘AIM’ & ‘Homelites’. provider of premium executive & office paper stationery including notebook ranges of Green Impression and Signature Series as well as an assortment of premium pens. Offering the greenest range of stationery products, supported by a green wood fibre value chain that creates large-scale livelihoods in rural India, ‘Classmate’ and ‘Paperkraft’ notebooks are an embodiment of the environmental capital built by ITC in its paper business. In line with the Company’s strategic objective of being the leader in the premium segment, ITC Foods offers an array of top-end products 18 Organisational Profile Hotels With more than 100 hotels in over 70 destinations in the country, ITC Hotels has redefined the fine art of hospitality. ITC’s hotel group operates under 4 brands: ‘ITC Hotel’ at the luxury end, ‘WelcomHotel’ in the 5 star segment, ‘Fortune’ in the mid-market to upscale segment and ‘WelcomHeritage’ in the heritage leisure segment. Embodying ITC Hotels’ credo of ‘Responsible Luxury’, all ITC luxury hotels are an archetype of the culture and ethos of the region they are located in, offering unique indigenous experiences, internationally acclaimed cuisines and spa, with globally benchmarked standards in accommodation, environment and guest safety. With a LEED® Platinum rating for all its luxury hotels (certification is in progress for the super premium ITC Grand Bharat which opened recently), ITC Hotels is the ‘Greenest ITC’s hotel group Luxury Hotel Chain in the World’. operates under 4 brands: ‘ITC Hotel’ at the luxury end, ‘WelcomHotel’ in the 5 star segment, ‘Fortune’ in the midmarket to upscale segment and ‘WelcomHeritage’ in the heritage leisure segment 19 Sustainable Livelihoods Paperboards, Paper ITC’s pulpwood & Packaging is largely sourced from renewable Paperboards and Specialty Papers plantations under Business its Social and ITC’s Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business Farm Forestry is No. 1 in Product Range, Market Reach, programmes, Environmental Performance and is the which provide market leader in Value-Added Paperboards in sustainable India. Providing internationally competitive livelihood quality and cost, the business caters to a wide spectrum of packaging, graphic, opportunities communication, writing, printing and to tribals and specialty paper requirements. marginal farmers The business established the country’s first Elemental Chlorine Free fiber line with Ozone bleaching technology and is fully compliant Packaging and Printing Business with world-class environmental standards. The Packaging and Printing Business It is also the first paper business in the provides contemporary and superior country to be invited to be a member of the packaging solutions through its state-ofGlobal Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) of the the-art technology and processes. With Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF). Committed multi-locational manufacturing facilities in to developing a sustainable raw material Chennai, Munger and Haridwar and a robust base, ITC’s pulpwood is largely sourced from technology platform, the business offers a renewable plantations under its Social and diversified & value added product range in Farm Forestry programmes, which provide packaging for cartons, flexibles & tobacco sustainable livelihood opportunities to tribals and caters to a wide range of customers in and marginal farmers. domestic and export markets. 20 Organisational Profile The Business supplies value-added packaging to ITC’s various FMCG businesses. Its plant in Chennai is India’s greenest packaging facility. Backed by expertise in design, innovative product development and cutting edge technology, the business has won several World Star awards for packaging excellence. The Business has also received appreciation and recognition from its customers for partnering and enhancing value through creative packaging solutions. Backed by expertise in design, innovative product development and cutting edge technology, ITC’s Packaging Business has won several World Star awards for packaging excellence 21 Sustainable Livelihoods crops and sources the finest of Grains, Oil The revolutionary Seeds, Pulses and a range of high-value agri ITC e-Choupal products such as Fruits, Coffee and Shrimps initiative of the across multiple geographies in India. business delivers ITC’s Agri Business provides a competitive large-scale edge to the Company’s Foods Business societal value by sourcing high-quality agricultural raw by co-creating material directly from farmers and preserving markets with rural the identity of those commodities along the communities supply chain, to enable manufacturing of the food products with consumer-preferred value traits. The revolutionary ITC e-Choupal initiative of the business delivers large-scale societal value by co-creating markets with rural Agri Business communities. A unique click-and-mortar ITC’s Agri Business is one of India’s largest channel, it facilitates the two-way flow of agri business players. It is also one of India’s goods and services in and out of villages, leading exporters of agricultural commodities. transforming them into vibrant economic The leadership position of the business institutions. The initiative serves more than 4 is anchored in the strong and enduring million farmers in over 40,000 villages through partnerships it has built with farmers across a network of 6,500 Internet Kiosks spread the country. The Business works with farmers across 11 states, making ITC e-Choupal the to improve the productivity and quality of largest digital infrastructure in rural India. 22 Organisational Profile Information Technology Global Outsourcing 100 “Leader’s Category” by the International Association of Outsourcing ITC Infotech is a specialised global scale Professionals (IAOP) for 9 consecutive years. full service provider of Domain, Data and Digital technology solutions, backed by a strong business and technology consulting focus. The company caters to enterprises in Supply Chain based industries (CPG, Retail, Manufacturing, Hi-Tech) and Services (Banking, Financial Services and Insurance, Airline, Hospitality) through a combination of traditional and newer business models, as a long term sustainable partner. With client engagement spread across 35 countries, ITC Infotech is engaged with over 60+ Fortune listed companies. The company has set up The company’s office in 18 countries and established 10 Top 10 clients have global development centres, powered by a 6500+ strong workforce. Leading companies been with ITC have placed their trust in ITC Infotech; the Infotech for over 10 company’s Top 10 clients have been with years, a testament ITC Infotech for over 10 years, a testament to ITC Infotech’s to ITC Infotech’s commitment to delivering commitment enhanced business value. ITC Infotech won to delivering the 2014 European Outsourcing Award in enhanced business the category “Delivering Business Value” in European Outsourcing and is featured in the value 23 Supply Chain Management To formalise the sustainable procurement process, ITC has put in place Board approved Approach Policies which address the issues of labour practices, human rights, bribery, corruption, ITC’s vision to subserve larger national occupational health, safety and environment priorities is realised by the strategic approach in the supply chain. These policies, meant of embedding sustainability in its core for Third Party Manufacturers (TPM), service business models. Innovative strategies have providers including transporters, suppliers therefore been designed and implemented to of agricultural & non-agricultural materials create sustainable value chains linked to its and capital goods, franchisees, dealers businesses. Dependent as the organisation and distributors collectively referred to as is, on agricultural resources, these value supply chain partners, define the structure chains encompass small and marginal around which efforts are directed for farmers, who constitute some of the most continually improving the sustainability disadvantaged sections of Indian society. performance along the supply chain. These The vitality of ITC’s winning brands drive the policies are actualised through a ‘Code of competitiveness of these value chains. At the Conduct for Vendors and Service providers’ same time, these linkages provide unique that details out specific requirements sources of competitive advantage to the related to the aspects addressed in the Company’s businesses. ITC recognises that policies. Through acceptance of this code with an expanding and diversified portfolio of by the supply chain partners, ITC seeks their businesses, the actualisation of its vision of commitment to comply with all applicable sustainable development has to necessarily laws, respect human rights and contribute to take into account the environmental and environmental conservation. social impact within the supply chain. It is Each ITC Business has developed road therefore important to extend ITC’s Triple maps for phase-wise implementation of Bottom Line approach along the supply chain. the sustainability policies and inclusion of This will ensure long-term competitiveness their supply chain within their sustainability management system in a progressive through a balance between creation of long manner. Progress of implementation of these term social & environmental value and the road maps is reviewed by the Sustainability economic viability of the businesses. Compliance Review Committee. 25 Sustainable Livelihoods A simplified representation of the material flow in ITC’s businesses is given below: ITC Businesses Leaf business Cigarettes Packaging and Farmers Printing (Agri-raw materials) Paperboards and specialty papers Transporters Personal care Transporters products Foods Customers/ Consumers Other Suppliers (Other raw materials, service Agri Business providers etc.) Education and Stationery Products Matches and Agarbattis *The above diagram includes material flow only and does not include Lifestyle Retailing Business, Hotels Business and ITC Infotech : Indicates material flow within ITC As evident from the above representation of the generic material flow for ITC businesses, Sustainability in the supply chains of most of ITC’s businesses the Agri Supply are vertically integrated. Farmers are the key suppliers for the majority of our businesses Chain which are dependent on agri-commodities, Agri Commodities and therefore constitute an integral part of ITC’s supply chain. Accordingly the Company ITC’s Agri Business operations span the has focussed on enhancing the sustainability entire spectrum of activities starting from of its agri-supply chain, details of which are agri-services/crop development to risk mentioned in the section that follows. management, including sourcing, processing, 26 Supply Chain supply chain, multi-modal logistics, stock discovery, knowledge, information as well management and customer service. The as agricultural best practices. A hub and ITC’s Agri Business solutions offered are a combination of all or spoke model has been built along with the Division has been some of these interventions. The solutions necessary physical infrastructure that has continuously also offer the customers the flexibility enabled multi-level aggregation. investing in in terms of quantity, timing, as well as Based on the above approach, the Division strengthening packaging solutions for delivery of the sourced over 21 lakh tonnes of agricapability through agri-commodities. These solutions not only commodities covering wheat, soya, coffee, help customers in enhancing their cost and multiple sourcing potato, fruits, barley, maize, rice, and shrimps quality benefits, but also create and capture models, customised from over 20 states to service a range value for other partners, especially farmers. and identity of customers in India and across several ITC’s Agri Business Division has been countries, including leading brand owners preserved supply continuously investing in strengthening and bulk processors. chain infrastructure capability through multiple sourcing models, and network, Leaf Tobacco customised and identity preserved supply processing and chain infrastructure and network, processing At ITC’s Leaf Tobacco Division, the warehousing tieand warehousing tie-ups, technology sustainability framework encapsulates and guides its efforts to create value for the ups, technology enabled systems and processes and people capabilities. The Division also works closely farming community at large and the farm enabled systems with farmer groups to develop identified value chain in particular. Working closely and processes and geographies for certified and organic with the farming fraternity, ITC has constantly people capabilities crops. These investments coupled with transferred technology from the lab to deep understanding of agriculture, and the the land with appropriate crop solutions, reach of the e-Choupal network, provide the apart from pioneering the introduction of opportunity to offer a wide range of reliable High Yielding Varieties. “Model villages” are and consistent solutions that are efficient adopted to drive sustainable community and effective along the entire supply chain. development by empowering Indian farmers through deployment of Good ITC’s e-Choupal network ensures traceability, Agricultural Practices (GAPs) to meet identity preservation of the produce customer requirements. The sustainable along the entire value chain as well as crop production system enhances crop product integrity by leveraging Information competitiveness and surplus income Technology and digital infrastructure generation to the farming community. The that enhances the competitiveness of the sustainable income generation in turn will agri value chain. This has been achieved minimise vulnerability and drive overall by empowering farmers through price village development. 27 Sustainable Livelihoods Enabled by a team of agronomists, From an environment protection point of view, agriculture experts, engineers and initiatives pertaining to soil conservation, development managers, the sustainability popularising the use of organic amendments initiative has helped in substantially and techniques on soil fertility management improving the quality table of the Indian towards reducing chemical fertilizer use tobacco basket. The key strategy of ITC’s are propagated. Towards sustainable fuel farmer empowerment programme is management, ITC has adopted a three integrated resource deployment. Multiple pronged approach in tobacco farm value interventions are grounded in the model chain – introduction of fuel efficient villages (i) Crop development for ensuring technologies, alternate fuel usage and selfhigher productivity, product quality & sustenance through energy plantations. In integrity (ii) Farm sustainability for ensuring 2014-15 around 10,000 hectares of energy environment sustainability (iii) Research plantations have been undertaken around & Development for developing next best the tobacco growing regions. practices and (iv) Community development For further details about our relationship for building rural infrastructure. The with the agri-supply chain, please refer to integration aims at achieving higher farmer ‘Social Investments – Mission Sunehra Kal’ income, improved crop saleability, optimum section in this Report. Since ITC is resource utilisation and complete custody of supplies within the auction system thereby vertically integrated it provides unique moving from Sustainable Crop Production to Sustainability in opportunities Sustainable Livelihoods. the Value Chain for establishing Initiatives pertaining to enhancement of Since ITC is vertically integrated to a large synergy and farmer profitability which are essential for extent, it provides unique opportunities thereby minimising the pursuit of a sustainable living for the for establishing synergy and thereby environmental farm communities are implemented across minimising environmental impacts through impacts through tobacco growing regions. These include optimum utilisation of raw materials, reuse/ climate resilient seedling production, recycling of wastes and optimum logistics. optimum utilisation integrated pest management practices As explained earlier, agri-commodities of raw materials, ensuring compliance to regulation with being the key raw materials for most of reuse/ recycling high product integrity and customised crop ITC’s businesses, they are accorded prime of wastes and advisory via mobile phone, disseminated to focus for addressing supply chain issues. optimum logistics around 17,000 farmers. ITC’s interventions in this domain along with 28 Supply Chain community development initiatives have had been prepared for the Notebook not only supported sustainable agricultural manufacturers and Agarbatti Units, to help Life cycle practices but also contributed to sustainable them mitigate the various environmental and assessments have livelihood creation for farmers. Thus, material safety risks associated with their operations. been carried sustainability issues specific to environment Similarly, efforts have been extended to out for selected have been taken care of to a large extent. train our Wholesale Distributors’ employees In addition, ITC’s sustainability policies, for on 2-wheeler safety. Going forward, ITC product categories which each Business has developed specific will continue to make efforts and provide from Paperboards phase-wise implementation plans, and support to its supply chain members in & Specialty Papers, associated code of conduct for vendors and these aspects. In 2013-14, ATC Limited, an Packaging & suppliers provide the necessary framework associate company had been brought within Printing and the to deal with aspects associated with labour the reporting boundary, where support had Lifestyle Retailing practices, human rights, bribery, corruption, been extended in implementing systems occupational health, safety and environment and process to improve the sustainability Businesses which in the entire value chain. performance of its manufacturing have helped operations. Further, as committed in last in identifying Further, in line with the overall strategy to year’s Sustainability Report, 2 TPMs of the broad areas for embed the principles of sustainability, as Cigarettes Business have been included in far as practicable, into the various stages improvements this year’s reporting boundary and necessary of product or service life-cycle, ITC initiated knowledge support was provided in specific life cycle assessments (LCA) of its products areas like energy and water conservation, & services in 2010 with an objective to material utilisation, etc. evaluate the impacts and identify areas for improvement in the value chain. So far, LCAs have been carried out for selected product categories from Paperboards & Specialty Papers, Packaging & Printing and the Lifestyle Retailing Businesses which have helped in identifying broad areas for improvements within as well as beyond ITC’s boundary. These assessments have been followed up with detailed studies which in turn have provided concrete solutions towards more efficient packaging designs, loading efficiencies and consequent reduction in transportation costs/GHG emissions/energy use. ITC will continue to work in this direction, in line with its Policy on Life-cycle Sustainability, to identify the opportunities for improvement in the value chain and take appropriate measures for optimisation. In line with its commitment to extend the Triple Bottom Line philosophy along our supply chain, ITC, as a preliminary step in 2013-14, started including the Notebooks The Road Ahead manufacturers of ESPB which contributed ITC will continue to work along with the to around 90% of the total business of ESPB, supply chain partners in line with its within the reporting boundary. The material policies to enhance their understanding aspects of these exclusive TPMs are included and performance on sustainability aspects. in this Report. During the year, engagements Businesses will progressively move towards were made with these key supply chain monitoring the performance of key supply partners to enhance their environmental chain partners on identified material aspects and social performance. Specific guidelines and reporting on them. 29 Major Awards n ITC Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was conferred the Indian Visionary — and Accolades – Business Leader Award by The Economic Times, India’s leading business daily, 2014-15 for being the country’s most visionary corporate leader who has made n ITC was ranked as “India’s Most Admired “significant contribution to business Company” in a survey conducted by growth, organisational transformation Fortune India magazine and Hay Group. and setting forth examples of industry n ITC featured among the top 3 Companies initiatives and trends”. in terms of corporate reputation in n Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was conferred the 2014-15 Nielsen Corporate Image the Management Man of the Year Award Monitor. It has also retained the top by the Bombay Management Association position in terms of being ‘the most active (BMA), one of India’s oldest and premier in CSR’ for the fourth year in a row. Management Associations. The award was conferred on Mr Deveshwar in recognition of his contribution to entrepreneurship, the management movement and Indian Industry. Certifications, n ITC was voted the ‘Buzziest Brand’ in the ‘Corporate’ category by afaqs, one of the world’s largest marketing and advertising Honours and portals. In addition ‘Sunfeast’ and ‘Vivel’ were voted ‘Buzziest Brands’ in the Foods and Personal Care categories, respectively. Awards n ITC received the CSR Impact Award in the ‘Livelihoods’ category, conferred by NGOBOX, Asia’s biggest development sector platform. n ITC was conferred the Legal Era IP Award for the ‘Best IP Team of the YearFMCG’. n ITC’s Foods Business received the ‘Overall Excellence in Procurement Award’ and ‘Outstanding Green Initiative Award’ from Conference Asia. 30 n ITC was selected as the top Indian company n ITC’s Corporate Communications in the “Cigarettes Sector” at the ‘Dun & Department has bagged three First prizes Bradstreet Corporate Awards, 2014’. and one Third prize at the prestigious n ITC Hotels won the ‘Best Luxury Hotel Public Relations Society of India (PRSI) Chain of the Year’ award at the 10th National Awards 2014. Hospitality India and Explore the World n ITC Limited and Dum Pukht Restaurant Annual International Awards. at ITC Maurya won the CNBC Awaaz n ITC’s Education and Stationery Products Travel Awards 2014 presented by Madhya Brand, ‘Classmate’ was voted the “Most Pradesh Tourism. ITC Limited won the Popular School Accessories Brand” at the “Emerging Trend in Indian Tourism – ‘Child Most Popular Awards’ 2014. Responsible and Sustainable Tourism” n ITC’s Packaging & Printing Business award, while Dum Pukht won the “Best won 4 ‘World Star Awards’ from the Dining Experience” award. World Packaging Organisation, 4 ‘Asia n The Kovai Unit of ITC’s Paperboards Star Awards’ from the Asian Packaging and Specialty Papers Business received Federation and 17 ‘India Star Awards’ the Tamil Nadu state award for ‘Green from the Indian Institute of Packaging for Initiatives and Environmental Best excellence in packaging solutions. Practices’, by the Ministry of Environment, n ITC Infotech was accorded the ‘Award Government of Tamil Nadu, and the Tamil for Delivering Business Value in Nadu Pollution Control Board. European Outsourcing’ by the European n ITC’s Factory at Bengaluru received the Outsourcing Association (EOA). ‘Overall Leader’ Award at the Frost & n ITC Infotech was featured in the Leader’s Sullivan Green Manufacturing Excellence Category for the 8th consecutive year in Award & Summit 2014. the 2014 Global Outsourcing 100 by the n ITC’s Units at Bengaluru and Saharanpur International Association of Outsourcing received the ‘Platinum’ and ‘Gold’ Awards Professionals (IAOP). respectively at the India Manufacturing n Time Food and Nightlife Awards for ITC Excellence Awards (IMEA) instituted by Hotels – Pan Asian, Dum Pukht and West Frost & Sullivan and The Economic Times. View Bar & Grill (ITC Sonar, Kolkata); n ITC’s Factories in Bengaluru, Munger and Peshawri, Chandravanshi Pavilion, Ranjangaon were conferred the ‘Energy Sheesh Mahal and Jal Mahal (ITC Efficient Unit’ by the Confederation of Rajputana, Jaipur) and K&K (ITC Grand Indian Industry (CII). Central, Mumbai). n ITC Windsor, Bengaluru received the n ITC Maratha, Mumbai, was conferred the ‘National Energy Management Award 13th Annual Greentech Safety Award 2014 2014’, while the Bhadrachalam and Kovai for excellence in fire & safety management. Units of ITC’s Paperboards Business n The Central Quality Assurance Laboratory received the ‘Excellent Energy Efficient of ITC Foods located at ITC Life Sciences Unit’ awards from the Confederation of and Technology Centre, Bengaluru has Indian Industry (CII). received ‘Certificate of Accreditations’ n ITC Windsor Bengaluru received the from the National Board for Testing and ‘Corporate Sustainability Stewardship Calibration Laboratories (NABL) in both Award 2014’ at the Parivartan Chemical and Biological (Microbiology) Sustainability Leadership Summit in fields, in accordance with ISO 17025 recognition of the resource management – 2005, certifying the technical leadership demonstrated by the hotel. ITC was ranked competence of the laboratory (personnel and infrastructure). n ITC’s Unit at Kovai bagged the ‘Award of as “India’s Honour’ from the National Safety Council. n ITC Grand Chola was named the ‘Best Most Admired Business Hotel’ at the 3rd Annual Lonely n ITC’s Unit at Saharanpur and the Packaging Company” in a Planet Magazine Travel Awards 2014. & Printing Unit at Munger received the First Prize (Gold) at the 4th FICCI Safety survey conducted The Hotel was also accorded the ‘Signum Virtutis’ (Seal of Excellence) in the Hotels System Excellence Awards. by Fortune India & Resorts category at the Seven Star n ITC Hotels received the Business magazine and Hay Global Luxury Awards. Leadership in Sustainability Award from Group 31 Sustainable Livelihoods the World Green Building Council, Asia Development, presented by the then ITC Grand Chola Pacific Network. Finance Minister, Shri Pranab Mukherjee was named the n ITC’s Unit at Bhadrachalam won the first (2010). ‘Best Business prize in a Six Sigma Case Study Contest n Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar received the Hotel’ at the 3rd organised by the Indian Statistical Business Person of the Year Award from Institute in Bengaluru. UK Trade & Investment (2006). Annual Lonely Planet Magazine n Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was awarded Travel Awards 2014 Major Awards over the SAM/SPG Sustainability Leadership Award in Zurich (2007). the Years n The National Award for Excellence in n Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was Corporate Governance from the Institute conferred the Padma Bhushan by the of Company Secretaries of India (2007). Government of India (2011). n ITC was ranked 2nd among top Indian n Harvard Business Review ranked ITC companies in the first of its kind Standard Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar as the 7th & Poor Environmental, Social and Best Performing CEO in the World in its Corporate Governance ratings (2008). January-February 2013 edition. n ITC ranked 2nd among top companies in n Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was conferred India and 7th in Asia in the first of its kind the Global Leadership Award by the Asian Sustainability Rating released by US India Business Council of the US CSR Asia (2010). Chamber of Commerce (2010). n ITC became the first Indian Company to gain Membership with WWF-GFTN for n ITC Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was Responsible Forestry (2010). conferred the Business Leader of the Year Award by the All India Management n ITC was ranked the world’s 6th largest Association (AIMA). sustainable value creator among consumer goods companies according n ITC’s Chief Financial Officer, Mr Rajiv to a report by Boston Consulting Group Tandon, was ranked the ‘Best Overall CFO’ (2010). at the ‘Business Today Yes Bank Best CFO Awards 2013’. He was also declared n ITC won the top UNIDO Award at the the winner in the category of ‘Sustained International Conference on Sharing Wealth Creation (large companies)’. Innovative Agri Business Solutions at Cairo (2008). n ITC was presented the World Business and Development Award at the historic n ITC was conferred the Corporate Social Rio+20 UN Summit for its Social and Farm Responsibility Crown Award for Water Practices from UNESCO and Water Forestry initiative. Digest (2008). n ITC has been presented the AIM Asian CSR Award by the Asian Forum on Corporate Social Responsibility (AFCSR), in recognition of its contribution to the creation of sustainable livelihoods and fostering economic growth in rural communities in India. n ITC won the prestigious 12th Businessworld FICCI CSR Award in the Large Enterprise category. The award recognises the most socially responsible Indian corporates in CSR. n The FICCI Outstanding Vision Corporate Triple Impact Award, presented by the then Prime Minister, Dr Manmohan Singh (2008). n The FICCI Award for Outstanding Achievement in Rural and Community 32 Certifications, Honours and Awards SA 8000: Social Accountability Leaf processing plants at Chirala, Anaparti and Mysuru, Cigarette factory at Kolkata, Packaging and Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur and Haridwar and ITC Infotech Bengaluru. Food Safety: ISO 22000/HACCP Food Safety Management System ITC Maurya, ITC Mughal, ITC Maratha, ITC Grand Central, ITC Sonar, ITC Windsor, ITC Kakatiya, ITC Rajputana, WelcomHotel New Delhi and My Fortune Chennai and Foods Units in Haridwar and Pune. LEED® Platinum Rating by US Green Building n The Asian CSR Award for Environmental Council – Existing Building category Excellence, given by the Asian Institute of Management (2007). Hotels: ITC Maurya, ITC Windsor, ITC Maratha, ITC Grand Central, ITC Mughal, ITC Sonar, ITC n ITC was the 1st Indian Company and 2nd Kakatiya and ITC Rajputana. in the world to win the Development Gateway Award for its trail-blazing LEED® Platinum Rating by Indian Green e-Choupal initiative (2005). Building Council – New Construction category n Inaugural World Business Award by UNDP for ITC’s e-Choupal initiative (2004). ITC Gardenia, ITC Grand Chola and My n ITC e-Choupal won the Stockholm Fortune Bengaluru. Challenge Award (2006). LEED® Platinum Rating by Indian Green n ITC was rated amongst Asia-Pacific’s 50 Building Council – Green Factory Building biggest listed companies in ‘Asia Fab 50’ ITC’s Units at Saharanpur, Bengaluru, Munger by Forbes (2010). and Pune. n All ITC’s premium luxury hotels accorded Green Rating for Integrated Habitat LEED® Platinum certification, making ITC Assessment (GRIHA) by The Energy and Hotels the ‘Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain Resources Institute (TERI) and Ministry in the World’ (2011). of New & Renewable Energy (MNRE), n ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Government of India Units at Bhadrachalam, Bollaram, Kovai 5 star rating for ITC Grand Chola. and Tribeni are FSC Chain of Custody certified (2011). LEED® Gold Rating by Indian Green Building n ITC’s Unit in Bhadrachalam has been Council awarded the Forest Stewardship Council Packaging and Printing Unit at Haridwar and Forest Management (FSC-FM) certification Leaf processing plant at Mysuru. by the SmartWood Programme of the TM FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL Chain Rainforest Alliance (2011). of Custody and Controlled Wood by Rainforest Alliance EHS Certifications Paperboards and Specialty Paper Units at ISO 14001: Environment Management System Bhadrachalam, Tribeni, Kovai and Bollaram. Manufacturing units and Hotels of ITC BEE 5 Star Rating by the Bureau of Energy (except new commissioned units; ITC Grand Efficiency, Government of India Bharat, My Fortune, Bengaluru and Foods ITC Green Centre at Manesar. unit at Malur) and the ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre at Bengaluru. LEED® Platinum Rating (core & shell) by OHSAS 18001: Occupational Health & Indian Green Building Council and LEED® Safety Management Systems Platinum Rating (commercial interiors) by US Green Building Council Manufacturing Units of ITC (except the newly commissioned Foods Unit at Malur) ITC Green Centre at Manesar. 33 Stakeholder Engagement, Risks & Opportunities and Materiality Analysis Stakeholder processes. Targeted consultations are being conducted on a regular basis, with due Engagement weightage given to each stakeholder’s nature of engagement with the organisation. The ITC has a structured approach to address stakeholder engagement processes focus on: stakeholders’ concerns, in line with the Company’s policy on stakeholder l Transparency and accountability engagement. The approach draws upon the l Monitoring and tracking of key concerns long term stable relationships built with expressed by those who have been consulted key stakeholders such as shareholders, l Timely reporting back to those consulted farmers, customers, suppliers, employees, on ITC’s action plan local communities, regulatory bodies and the media. Recognising that stakeholder l Periodic review of actions taken for redressal of concerns engagement is an integral part of enriching partnerships, ITC has institutionalised these l Continued integration with materiality existing relationships through appropriate identification ITC’s Process of Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Addressing the Identification and prioritised concerns Identification of key Consultation with the prioritisation of and needs in a stakeholders key stakeholders concerns and needs consistent and transparent manner Details of each of the above mentioned steps are elaborated below. Identification of Key Stakeholders Consideration of Identification Stakeholders’ Selection of and profiling of existing identification guided stakeholder stakeholders who are relationship of the by the attributes representatives directly/indirectly stakeholder with such as dependency, ensuring that they impacted by business the organisation, responsibility, genuinely represent activities as well as stakeholders’ immediacy and the views of their directly/indirectly reliance on the influence constituents, influence business organisation, and faithfully activities communicate willingness to the results of the engage and engagements with level of influence ITC, back to their constituents 35 Sustainable Livelihoods Consultation with Key Stakeholders and Identification of Key Concerns Highlighted below are the consultation mechanisms with the key stakeholders, together with key concerns, requirements and expectations identified through them. Stakeholder Consultation Mechanism Key Issues Providers l Annual General Meeting l Continued profitability and growth of the of Financial organisation Capital l Exclusive section in Corporate Website on ‘Shareholder Value’ which serves to inform and l Transparent and effective communications service shareholders l Investor servicing l An exclusive e-mail id: isc@itc.in for direct l Anti-corruption, whistle blower mechanism interaction with shareholders l Regular interventions with institutional investors Government l Representations on policy issues through l Regulatory compliance and industry associations and other bodies l Strong governance Regulatory Authorities l Participation in policy advocacy discussions at l Anti-corruption various forums l Tax revenues l Resource efficiency l Transparency in disclosures l Livelihood generation Customers l Market surveys l Fair and competitive pricing l Personal contacts/visits l Product/service quality l Personalised lifestyle privilege programme l Transparent communication to consumers l Customer satisfaction surveys l Adequate information on products l Joint development and improvement projects l Product/service availability l Timely delivery of product/service l Key account management l Maintenance of privacy/confidentiality Employees l Induction programmes/training workshops l Caring and empowering work environment l Individual performance appraisal l Personal development and growth l Employee engagement survey l Employee safety l Grievance handling processes l Grievance resolution l Competitive compensation Farmers l Regular formal/informal talks l Inputs on agricultural best practices l Agreements for all procurement activities l Know-how on improvement of productivity and profitability l e-Choupal and Choupal Pradarshan Khets (demonstration farms) l Consistent increase in income generation l Capacity development for further investment l Sustainable & accelerated growth in livelihoods and farm incomes l Responsible sourcing of agri-raw materials 36 Stakeholder Engagement, Risks & Opportunities and Materiality Analysis Stakeholder Consultation Mechanism Key Issues Supply Chain l Manufacturers’ meets l Knowledge and infrastructure support Partners l Vendor meets l Regular communication and updates on business plans l Pre-agreement negotiations l Inclusion of local medium and small scale l Agreements for all procurement activities enterprises in vendor base l Competency development of local vendors l Stability/tenure of relationship l Ordering and payment routines l Purchasing prices l Changes or cancellation of orders Local l Community needs assessment activities l Community development programmes based Communities undertaken in collaboration with independent on local communities’ needs parties/Civil Society Organisations l Strengthens livelihood opportunities l Formation and regular meetings of village l Improvement of social infrastructure for institutions hygienic and healthy living environment l Public hearings during greenfield/expansion l Dignity of life through economic & social projects empowerment l Assessment of direct and indirect impacts of ITC’s social investments on communities Media l One-on-one Media interactions l Transparent and accurate disclosure to stakeholders l Press conferences/Press releases l Responsible Corporate Citizenship l Advertisements/Promotions l Corporate Reputation l Interviews with Senior Managers Civil Society l Partnership in implementation of CSR l Financial support for community Programmes under Mission Sunehra Kal development programmes l Discussions on community issues with Civil l Managerial support Society Organisations l Environmental pollution prevention l Safe products and services l Responsible Corporate Citizenship 37 Sustainable Livelihoods Prioritisation and Addressal of effectively address the emerging challenges ITC has classified Key Concerns in a dynamic business environment. its sustainability The sensitivity of an issue to a stakeholder and Based on the ongoing risk assessments challenges into two to ITC, in terms of high/low importance forms at Businesses level and aggregated at the broad categories organisation level, ITC has classified its the basis of the materiality analysis. Please – those that are sustainability challenges into two broad refer to the Materiality Analysis section for influenced by further details. categories – those that are influenced by global events, and global events, and challenges that are unique challenges that are Risks and to India. unique to India Opportunities: Global Challenges Sustainability According to the World Economic Forum Report on Global Risks 2015, short term Challenges risks that endanger the world today arise as a direct outcome of human action, including Sustainability Risk Portfolio interstate conflicts, collapse of states, As a diversified enterprise, ITC has always governance deficits and large-scale terrorist upheld a system-based approach to business attacks. On the other hand, the list for long risk management. The Corporate Risk term global risks is dominated by those Management Cell works with the Businesses related to physical and environmental issues to establish and monitor the specific that have been less prominent in recent profiles including strategic, operational, headlines, such as climate change and food environmental and social risks. The process & water security. Although the importance includes the prioritisation of risks, selection of of these slow-burning issues have been appropriate mitigation strategies and periodic recognised by the world at large, little reviews of the progress on the management of progress has been made to address them in risks. The annual planning exercise requires light of their detrimental and far-reaching all Businesses to clearly identify their top consequences for the current and future risks and set out a mitigation plan with agreed generations. The expected impact of climate timelines and accountability. The senior change on the ability to grow food and access management of the Company also periodically water could further exacerbate population reviews the risk management framework to migrations, thereby threatening the sociokeep it contemporary and relevant so as to economic stability of receiving countries. 38 Stakeholder Engagement, Risks & Opportunities and Materiality Analysis Another growing concern is unemployment population, with only 2.4% of the world’s and underemployment further contributing land share. to social and rising socio-economic Agriculture in India engages around 50 inequality. This is reflected in the fact that per cent of the country’s workforce and among the members of the Organisation for supports the livelihoods of 75 per cent of Economic Co-operation and Development the population living below the poverty (OECD), the average income of the richest line. Ironically however, agriculture today 10% has now grown to about nine times that accounts for just about 14 per cent of GDP of the poorest 10%. and therefore, the average farmer’s per The anticipated and real impacts for the above capita income is less than one-fifth of the issues amongst developed and developing rest of the country’s average. Such low countries are however vastly different, both incomes are a result of a deteriorating natural in scale and scope. These differences are resource base, disconnected value chains, multi-layered and multi-faceted given the fragmented and small-size landholdings, dimensions of the challenges and the socioweak infrastructure, inadequate knowledge economic environment prevailing in different and multiple intermediaries. In addition, countries. Given this context, countries like around 55% of India’s total sown area meets India while cognising for the larger global its requirements from rainwater alone. challenges, will have to shape their own This assumes importance in the face of ITC’s operations sustainability agenda with focus on specific climate change related challenges of erratic issues that have an immediate and direct rainfall leading to drought and floods. A and markets are impact on the Indian society at large. majority of the farmers are hence trapped India centric and in a vicious cycle of low productivity and the Company’s The Indian Context low investments. Therefore there is a need world-class Indian to address these challenges by means of brands ensure It becomes essential to understand in this ensuring farming population’s sustainable context that while India mirrors many of the that larger value is access to water, knowledge and other global challenges, issues like poverty, social created, captured necessary resources, whilst simultaneously inequities, unemployment, environmental and retained arranging for diversifying the income base for degradation, water and food crises assume India’s workforce aligned with Government of in the country even more acute and multi-dimensional India’s “Make in India” campaign. for national characteristics in India. Land pressure for instance, assumes greater significance in The other risks that India faces are inadequate development and India which is home to 17% of the world’s infrastructure and the failure of urban growth 39 Sustainable Livelihoods planning in the face of rapid urbanisation. people that continue to depend on polluted As per a World Bank Study “Power for All: water from rivers, this also endangers the ELECTRICITY ACCESS CHALLENGE IN INDIA” biodiversity dependant on it. It is therefore published in November 2014, around 311 the need of the hour for the country to invest million people in India still remain without in basic infrastructure. This will further access to electricity. Of these, more than require enormous resources that can only be 100 million currently are beyond the reach generated with a larger focus on livelihood of the grid and can be reached only by using creation and widening of the tax base. decentralised household or village systems. On the other hand, rapid urbanisation, ITC’s operations and markets are India increasing population, higher consumption centric and the Company’s world-class levels and inadequate infrastructure are Indian brands ensure that larger value is putting a severe strain on the ecology. A large created, captured and retained in the country amount of waste being generated today ends for national development and growth. up in landfills, leading to serious concerns Therefore the organisation’s sustainability of public health and sanitation risks as well is closely driven by the country’s advantages as large scale environmental degradation. and vulnerabilities. In line with the risks Negative impacts of urbanisation are also and opportunities that may impact India’s manifest in the pollution of almost all Indian economic, social and environmental rivers that have been absorbing domestic and sustainability, ITC has mapped the key industrial sewage and agricultural wastes challenges, risks and opportunities likely over the last few decades. Apart from posing to impact its own long-term prospects and a serious health problem to millions of those of its stakeholders. ion u tat Wa ste e p -fe d ag r ic in u teR y of ra ltur al se M a a t ivit S us t a i n a c po c b to nt r du of Na le Av r me Co r ro tur ail o ge al ab ia na se p Re nd dU Low f I y an e s Continued Profitability t ili ourc d Social Ineq Sustainable Use of s uit Natural Resources y Health and Safety Dynamics of Government Policies y an and Regulations ite ver t Human Capital and pu Lim Po lat oc Well-being rtn ion fS Po e so Sa rs ge d c al tis len Ca Lo Pa fac Chal ia pa Employability of i n tio lM bil ha n ed itie s of S p ply C me r ia mall Scale Su t o s Cu Own Operations Supply Chain Customer/Consumer Space Catchment Areas 40 Stakeholder Engagement, Risks & Opportunities and Materiality Analysis Challenges Risks and Opportunities Own Operations Continued RISKS Profitability l High incidence of taxation and a discriminatory regulatory regime on cigarettes has been leading to a significant shift in tobacco consumption to cheaper and revenue inefficient forms like bidis, chewing tobacco etc. and also to cheaper tax-evaded as well as contraband cigarettes. OPPORTUNITIES l ITC’s strength lies in its multiple drivers of growth which leverages its enterprise strengths such as consumer insights, innovative product development, brand building, state-of-the-art manufacturing, efficient supply chain and distribution infrastructure, world-class human capital and sustained investments in R&D. Sustainable RISKS Use of Natural l Increased water scarcity may directly impact ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business Resources which is relatively more water intensive in its operations compared to other ITC Businesses. With continuous decline in ground water and uneven supply of surface water, it may become even more challenging for Businesses to meet their requirements. Disruptions in rainfall patterns will also impact water quality requiring additional treatment and costs before it can become usable. These challenges may bring about further regulatory pressure on water withdrawal. l Challenges related to energy security due to volatile energy prices and inadequate infrastructure for capitalising on off-site renewable sources of energy in the country. OPPORTUNITIES l These risks provide an immediate stimuli to focus on energy conservation and maximising contribution from renewable energy sources. This should provide long-term advantages in terms of both reduced costs as well as reliability of support. ITC would also enjoy first mover advantage by developing internal systems and processes to operate in such a natural resource constrained environment. l Integrated Watershed Development Programme to increase availability of water and recharge aquifers. Health and RISKS Safety l While ITC is progressing steadily towards its target of zero accidents of employees within its premises, ITC cognises that accidents while traveling to and from the workplace are on the rise in India, given the steady proliferation of 2 wheelers, the poor conditions of roads and inadequate infrastructure. l Given ITC’s presence in the FMCG and Hospitality sectors, constant vigilance is required to monitor the health and safety impacts of its products and services on consumers. OPPORTUNITIES l Safe work environment is critical in boosting employee morale and productivity. Apart from bestin-class infrastructure, ITC’s opportunity lies in its robust systems that have been developed over the years to ensure safety of employees within ITC premises as well as outside premises. ITC employees can also act as ambassadors for safety and play an individual role in creating awareness on this vital aspect. l Creating a culture of safety through appropriate behavioural interventions. l ITC has well established systems and processes to ensure that its products and services are delivered in compliance with national or international standards as relevant. In service sectors such as Hospitality, these strengths have permitted ITC to leverage the market to its advantage. 41 Sustainable Livelihoods Challenges Risks and Opportunities Dynamics of RISKS Government l The Cigarette industry had to contend with a steep increase in Excise Duty for three years in Policies and succession along with discriminatory and punitive increases in Value Added Tax (VAT) rates by some Regulation States. Such tax increases undermine the legal domestic cigarette industry by providing a large arbitrage to the tax-evaded and contraband suppliers. This sub-optimises the revenue potential from this sector, diminishes the share of the legal industry besides failing to achieve the objective of tobacco control in the country. l Strong regulations like Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act were put up to curb excessive speculation in agri-value chain and to allow farmers efficient access to the market without the exploitation of intermediaries. But such regulations today limit sufficient flexibility for farmers and deprive them of maximum value. In addition, regulations like the Essential Commodities Act (ECA), which impose stock limits and curb movements from time to time, create uncertainty in business viability for organisations like ITC with significant dependence on agri-inputs. This acts as a huge deterrent to long-term investments required to build infrastructure like climate-controlled storages and transport facilities to prevent wastage. l Multi-layered and complicated system of environmental and labour laws in the country reduce overall competitiveness. l Moreover, possible regulatory measures such as carbon taxes or additional requirements under the Perform, Achieve, Trade (PAT) and Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) schemes can put additional cost burdens. OPPORTUNITIES l ITC has created strong Indian brands in the cigarettes segment, in the absence of which, the domestic market would have been more vulnerable to the onslaught of smuggled tax evaded cigarettes of foreign origin. Raising the awareness of policy makers and civil society on the menace of illegal and contraband cigarettes, which impact both revenue and livelihoods of farmers would help in enhancing enforcement as well as stemming the rapid increase of the illegal industry. This will lead to eliminating the losses to the exchequer as a result of tax evaded cigarettes, and also help in ensuring that livelihoods of farmers and others in the value chain are not lost. l ITC engages with industry associations, organisations and other appropriate forums in line with its Policy of Responsible Advocacy. This is aimed to help the formulation of a balanced and pragmatic policy framework that addresses the concerns of the industry. Human Capital RISKS and Welll ITC operates in a diversified, ever-changing, highly competitive global landscape. This necessitates being the development of a strong, customer responsive world-class human capital base. The challenge of meeting the growing needs of an organisation with the requisite skills co-exists with the challenge of attracting and retaining the best talents given the multitude of options available to skilled professionals. l There is also a need to nurture harmonious employee relations to enable smooth functioning and productivity enhancement to be able to support the organisation’s growth and progress. OPPORTUNITIES l In order to sustain growth and to continue to deliver value for stakeholders, it is necessary for organisations to recognise human capital as a critical resource base. The over 100-year-old brand value of ITC provides an opportunity to attract talent from premier institutions. Retention of such a talent pool is in turn facilitated through a talent management strategy focused upon building a high quality ‘future-ready’ pool of managers, specialists and business leaders, supported by significant investments in learning and development and backed by a culture of care and concern. 42 Stakeholder Engagement, Risks & Opportunities and Materiality Analysis Challenges Risks and Opportunities Catchment Areas Sustainable RISKS Availability l Rapid growth in population and unplanned urbanisation has led to consumption of natural and Use resources at a rate far higher than the earth’s capacity to regenerate. Sustainable availability of Natural of resources for industrial use as well as domestic consumption could therefore be a risk in the Resources catchment areas of ITC. OPPORTUNITIES l ITC’s deep rooted stakeholder centric approach and understanding of interdependence of social and environmental aspects have enabled ITC to be a pioneer in identifying sustainability issues beyond the horizon and taking necessary actions. This is manifested in integrated watershed development as well as afforestation programmes initiated by ITC more than a decade ago for ensuring augmentation of natural resources and enabling higher productivity, creating a green cover and restoring soil health. Employability RISKS of local l Lack of proper education and inadequate availability of requisite skills in local population, especially population from disadvantaged sections of society in the catchment areas is a challenge faced by most of ITC’s manufacturing units. This points to the compelling need to create a large pool of skilled human resources from among the local populace. OPPORTUNITIES l ITC’s deep engagement with rural communities, which has been enhanced by the co-creation of economic opportunities, has helped in forging strong relationships. This provides an opportunity to enhance gainful livelihoods of local population. l ITC’s partnership with local Industrial Training Institutes and agencies that impart vocational training on skills related to sales & distribution, hospitality, construction and technology acts as an opportunity to enhance the employability of youth from disadvantaged sections of society in the catchment areas of ITC operations. Poverty and RISKS Social Inequity l Nearly 700 million people living in rural India, with low adaptive capacities, have a direct and symbiotic dependence on climate sensitive sectors (agriculture, forest and fisheries) and natural resources (water, bio-diversity, mangroves, coastal zones and grasslands) for their subsistence and livelihood. l The limited options of alternative off-farm employment, combined with endemic poverty, continue to imperil the livelihood of millions of small and marginal farmers with fragmented landholdings, mainly in rain-fed agriculture regions, where the production regime is inherently fragile and getting more so due to a number of factors. OPPORTUNITIES l ITC’s innovative development models based upon the foundation of its deep rooted stakeholder centric approach, provide the opportunity of simultaneous generation of sustainable livelihood as well as creation of positive environmental footprint. Such models unleash strong drivers for achieving development with social equity. The Company’s approach to develop the competitiveness of value chains of which it is a part enables the creation of long term drivers that address the problem of social inequities. 43 Sustainable Livelihoods Challenges Risks and Opportunities Supply Chain Low RISKS productivity l ITC operates across the agri value chain of 19 crops and is present in 18 states with substantial of rain-fed investments in resource intensive models that entail heavy capital infrastructure. Since around 55% agricultural of India’s total sown area meets its requirements from rainwater alone, climate change generated sector of India environmental challenges aggravate the risks of low productivity of agricultural sector of India, in turn impacting sustainability of agri based businesses. l Low productivity risks are compounded by absence of focussed incentivisation of precision farming, micro-irrigation, watershed development and power-efficient farm mechanisation. l There are inadequacies in the policy framework required to boost the provision of rural infrastructure so that wastage can be eliminated and farmers can receive better returns. l Furthermore, absence of crop and weather insurance reduce the risk-taking capability of the smallscale farmers for investment in infrastructure improvement. OPPORTUNITIES l Owing to long standing presence in the agri-commodities market of the country, ITC has created a rich knowledge pool of agri-based interventions in terms of infrastructure, connectivity, price discovery, market access and farm productivity. ITC’s close connect with the grass root level and effective dissemination of critical information provide opportunities for ITC to address the challenges in its agri-value chain. Limited RISKS Capabilities l ITC’s supply chain comprises of a large number of small-scale partners many of whom operate under of Small Scale limiting circumstances in terms of their ability to invest in efficient technologies and their necessity Supply Chain to rely on labour intensive practices. Partners OPPORTUNITIES l ITC’s long presence in the Indian market has helped in understanding the pulse, strengths, weaknesses and concerns of its supply chain partners, especially the rural population. This in turn has helped in forging strong relationships with supply chain partners and in capacity building of these partners for overcoming their own limitations and maximising value. Customer/Consumer Space Waste RISKS Management l Average per capita waste generation of India is lower than that of OECD countries or even other Asian countries. However, the Indian industry is facing increasing pressure on packaging waste, which highlights the need for more effective solid waste management. l Inadequate solid waste management systems result in a large amount of wastes being generated today to end up in landfills. Heaps of unattended waste, foraged by cattle and rag-pickers alike, have become a common sight both in urban and rural areas of the country. l Public concerns on inadequate solid waste management across rural and urban India can initiate regulatory attention on product packaging. OPPORTUNITIES l ITC’s deep rooted stakeholder centric approach and understanding of interdependence of social and environmental aspects have enabled ITC to be a pioneer in identifying sustainability issues beyond the horizon and taking necessary actions. This is reflected in the fact that fibre for the Kovai Unit of Paperboards and Speciality Papers Business of ITC, is sourced from recycled waste. Given ITC’s century old significant presence in the country and its close connect with the grass root level change makers, ITC has the opportunity to propagate waste segregation at source at all levels of society and to facilitate effective collection mechanism whilst generating livelihood for rag-pickers. 44 Stakeholder Engagement, Risks & Opportunities and Materiality Analysis Challenges Risks and Opportunities Corporate RISKS Reputation l Inadequate information or misrepresentation, especially in the media, can impact corporate reputation. l Adverse coverage or feedback on ITC’s brands and Businesses can impact brand salience in the minds of the consumer/customer. OPPORTUNITIES l ITC’s structured media engagement plan comprises an array of activities including press releases/ statements, media interviews by top management, media coverage of important corporate and business milestones and regular presentations to senior media editors. In addition, presentations are also made to key stakeholders backed by publications on various issues. These provide an opportunity to the senior management team to effectively engage with stakeholders on issues relating to ITC’s products, services, initiatives and business practices. l During the year, perception surveys have led to ITC being ranked as the ‘Most Admired Indian Company’ by Fortune India magazine. The latest Neilsen Corporate Image Monitor also lists ITC among the top 3 companies in India in terms of reputation. Social Media RISKS l The explosion of Social Media, namely web applications like Facebook, Instagram and Twitter, which allow individuals to form virtual communities of common interest and link up with people across the globe to share news, views, visuals and videos, is posing a new challenge to organisations. l Being unregulated, social media allows the instant dissemination of information globally without any mechanism to verify or authenticate the flow of information. This creates the possibility of spreading misinformation that can impact consumer behaviour as well as corporate reputation. OPPORTUNITIES l ITC has created its own presence in social media leveraging publicly available web applications as well as creating dedicated branded web applications to disseminate information about the organisation and its brands in the digital space. l ITC’s corporate Twitter handle, @itccorpcom provides an opportunity to engage in the social media space. In addition, ITC has created customised apps for mobile phones to provide superior and transparent access to information to its stakeholders. ITC’s Facebook page, Hub and Scope has created a community to also engage with potential employees. Several ITC brands like Bingo!, Yippee!, Wills Lifestyle and Engage have a social media presence to constantly interact with their respective target audiences. 45 Sustainable Livelihoods Materiality Analysis ITC’s materiality matrix enabled the design of the content of this Report so as to provide a reasonable and balanced picture of the organisation’s Triple Bottom Line impacts and its performance. ITC’s materiality analysis is based upon the following three pronged approach. l Relevance of GRI G4 defined aspects in terms of IDENTIFICATION OF boundary of impacts MATERIAL ASPECTS l Cognition of Sector Specific Issues l Evaluation of relevance to stakeholders l Analysis of high or low importance of a particular aspect based on stakeholder engagement l Evaluation of the stakeholder’s perception of ITC’s impact with respect to that material aspect PRIORITISATION l Significance of a material aspect to a particular ITC business based on ITC’s Corporate Strategies, policies, risks and opportunities for the Business l Corporate level aggregation of material aspects by Corporate EHS l Review by various Corporate Functions VALIDATION l Final review and approval by Sustainability Compliance Review Committee Materiality Matrix Economic Performance Local Community Development Increasing influence on stakeholders’ assessments and decisions Statutory Compliance Procurement from Sustainable Livelihoods Local Suppliers Employee/Customer Health Employee Engagement and Safety Sustainable Forest Management Employment Product Packaging Anti-corruption Sustainable Supply Chain Human Rights Learning and Development Transportation Natural Resources Public Policy Advocacy Usage Efficiency Product Labelling Marketing Communication Customer Privacy Climate Change Increasing Significance of ITC’s Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts Economic Environmental Social Environmental & Social 46 Stakeholder Engagement, Risks & Opportunities and Materiality Analysis Disclosure on Material Aspects Sl. No. Material Aspects Details Available in Sections 1 Economic Performance Economic Performance Economic Performance 2 Sustainable Livelihoods Social Investments – Mission Sunehra Kal Procurement from Local 3 Economic Performance Suppliers Energy 4 Climate Change Air Emissions Energy Natural Resources Usage Water Management 5 Efficiency Recycling and Waste Management Raw Materials Product Responsibility 6 Product Packaging Recycling and Waste Management Energy 7 Transportation Air Emissions Sustainable Forest Raw Materials 8 Management Biodiversity 9 Sustainable Supply Chain Supply Chain 10 Statutory Compliance Product Responsibility Labour Practices & Decent Work and Human 11 Employment Rights Labour Practices & Decent Work and Human 12 Learning and Development Rights Labour Practices & Decent Work and Human 13 Employee Engagement Rights Labour Practices & Decent Work and Human 14 Human Rights Rights Economic Performance 15 Local Community Development Social Investments – Mission Sunehra Kal Economic Performance 16 Social Infrastructure Social Investments – Mission Sunehra Kal 17 Anti-corruption Governance Structure 18 Public Policy Advocacy Responsible Advocacy Employee/Customer Health Occupational Health and Safety 19 and Safety Product Responsibility 20 Product Labelling Product Responsibility 21 Marketing Communication Product Responsibility 22 Customer Privacy Product Responsibility 47 Report Profile, Scope and Boundary The 12th Sustainability Report of the Company covers the sustainability performance for the period from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015. ITC reports its performance on an annual basis and the last Sustainability Report was published in June 2014. ITC is headquartered at Virginia House, 37 J L Nehru Road, Kolkata, 700 071 (India). The contact point for any clarifications on the Report or for requesting additional copies of this Report is Corporate Communications Department at the above address or e-mail: enduringvalue@itc.in. The reporting principles and methodology are in accordance with the “Comprehensive” option of the fourth generation Global Report & Accounts (R&A) 2015, audited by Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability independent External Auditors – M/s Deloitte Reporting Guidelines – G4. The Reporting Haskins & Sells. Principles and Standard Disclosures and The data in the environment & social sections the Implementation Manual of the GRI-G4 of the Report is based on actual performance Reporting Guidelines have been followed. of the various businesses, factories, hotels The relevant aspects/indicators from GRI-G4 and large offices of the Company, TPMs Food Processing Sector Supplement have and subsidiary companies as detailed in also been considered while reporting the the reporting boundary. An Integrated Foods Business performance. Sustainability Data Management System This Report highlights the Triple Bottom Line established in the Company to collect, dimensions that reflect the organisation’s collate and analyse environmental and social significant economic, environmental and data, along with strong internal controls, social impacts, or substantively influence the support overall integrity and credibility of the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. disclosures in the Report. ITC’s Businesses/Units continue to In order to obtain an objective and impartial proactively engage with key stakeholders, assurance on the Report, ITC has been who either have a major interest or are seeking the same from third party agencies significantly affected by the Company’s on all its Sustainability Reports since it operations, products or services. The details started reporting in 2004. In the current on stakeholder engagement are covered year, authenticity of the data and systems elsewhere in the Report. disclosed in Sustainability Report 2015 and conformance with ‘in accordance’ – In line with ITC’s Policy on Responsible comprehensive requirements of the GRI G4 The reporting Sourcing, the Company continues its efforts guidelines has been verified by M/s KPMG, to influence sustainability practices along principles and an independent third party assurance the value chain with the intent to cover all methodology are provider. They have conducted the assurance significant supply chain partners in the in accordance engagement as per the International Standard years to come. In the current year, ITC has for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and with the incorporated in this Report, the performance have provided assurance, at a ‘reasonable “Comprehensive” of 22 exclusive Third Party Manufacturers level’, the statement of which forms a part option of the fourth (TPMs) catering to the Notebooks segment of of this Report. The assurance statement by Education and Stationery Products Business generation Global M/s KPMG covers the summary of the work and 2 TPMs of Cigarettes Business and ATC Reporting Initiative performed, the manner in which the assurance Limited, an associate company of ITC. (GRI) Sustainability engagement has been conducted, the extent The economic performance reported to which ITC has applied GRI G4 Guidelines Reporting here is excerpted from the Company’s and the conclusions on the Report. Guidelines – G4 49 Sustainable Livelihoods This Report Reporting Education and Stationery Products Business: highlights the Boundary Divisional Head Quarters: Chennai Triple Bottom ITC Head Office: Kolkata (West Bengal) (Tamil Nadu) Line dimensions that reflect the Third Party Manufacturers of Notebooks – FMCG organisation’s 22 nos. Trade Marketing and Distribution significant (TM&D): Matches and Agarbattis Business: economic, TM&D Head Quarters: Kolkata (West Bengal) Divisional Head Quarters: Chennai environmental and (Tamil Nadu) social impacts, Cigarettes Business: Divisional Head Quarters: Kolkata or substantively (West Bengal) Hotels influence the Divisional Head Quarters: ITC Green Centre, assessments Units at: Kolkata (West Bengal), Bengaluru Gurgaon (Haryana) and decisions of stakeholders (Karnataka), Munger (Bihar), Saharanpur Hotels: (Uttar Pradesh) and Pune (Maharashtra) l ITC Maurya (New Delhi) Third Party Manufacturers – 2 nos. l ITC Maratha (Mumbai) FMCG Others l ITC Grand Central (Mumbai) Foods Business: l ITC Sonar (Kolkata) Divisional Head Quarters: Bengaluru l ITC Mughal (Agra) (Karnataka) l ITC Grand Bharat (Gurgaon) Units at: Haridwar (Uttarakhand), Pune (Maharashtra) l ITC Windsor (Bengaluru) and Malur (Karnataka) l ITC Gardenia (Bengaluru) Personal Care Products Business: l ITC Rajputana (Jaipur) Divisional Head Quarters: Kolkata l ITC Grand Chola (Chennai) (West Bengal) l My Fortune Chennai Units at: l My Fortune Bengaluru Haridwar (Uttarakhand) and Manpura (Himachal Pradesh) l WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi 50 Report Profile, Scope and Boundary Leaf Tobacco Business Lifestyle Retailing Business Divisional Head Quarters: Guntur and Others (Andhra Pradesh) Lifestyle Retailing Business Head Quarters Units at: at ITC Green Centre, Manesar (Haryana), Anaparti (Andhra Pradesh), Chirala (Andhra ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre, Pradesh), Mysuru (Karnataka) and Research Bengaluru (Karnataka), Centre, Rajahmundry (Andhra Pradesh) Central Projects Organisation, Bengaluru Agri Business (Karnataka) Divisional Head Quarters: Hyderabad (Telangana) Subsidiaries ITC Infotech India Limited: Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business Units at: The data in the Bengaluru (Karnataka) and Kolkata Divisional Head Quarters: Hyderabad environment & (West Bengal) (Telangana) social sections Units at: Srinivasa Resorts Limited: of the Report is Tribeni (West Bengal), Bhadrachalam Hotel: ITC Kakatiya, Hyderabad (Telangana) based on actual (Telangana), Bollaram (Telangana) and performance of the Kovai (Tamil Nadu) Bay Islands Hotels Limited: Hotel: Fortune Resort Bay Island, Port Blair various businesses, Packaging and Printing factories, hotels Business Landbase India Limited: and large offices of Classic Golf Resort, Gurgaon the Company, TPMs Divisional Head Quarters: Chennai (Tamil Nadu) and subsidiary Associates companies as Units at: Munger (Bihar), Tiruvottiyur (Tamil Nadu) ATC Limited, detailed in the and Haridwar (Uttarakhand) Unit at Hosur (Tamil Nadu) reporting boundary 51 Sustainable Livelihoods The following subsidiaries included in ITC’s Consolidated Financial Statements are not included in the Sustainability Report 2015. Names of Subsidiaries Remarks Fortune Park Hotels Limited * Surya Nepal Private Limited * BFIL Finance Limited @ MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited @ (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Investments & Holdings Limited) Russell Credit Limited @ Greenacre Holdings Limited @ (a 100% subsidiary of Russell Credit Limited) Wimco Limited * Prag Agro Farm Limited * Pavan Poplar Limited * Technico Pty Limited * Technico Technologies Inc. * (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Pty Limited) Technico Agri Sciences Limited * (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Pty Limited) Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited * (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Pty Limited) Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited * (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited) ITC Infotech Limited * (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech India Limited) ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. * (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech India Limited) Pyxis Solutions, LLC. * (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech (USA), Inc.) Wills Corporation Limited @ Gold Flake Corporation Limited @ King Maker Marketing, Inc. @ WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited * ITC Investments and Holdings Limited @ North East Nutrients Private Limited * 52 Report Profile, Scope and Boundary The following Jointly controlled entities (incorporated Joint Ventures) included in ITC’s Consolidated Financial Statements are not included in the Sustainability Report 2015: Names of Joint Ventures Remarks Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited # Espirit Hotels Private Limited # Logix Developers Private Limited # ITC Essentra Limited (formerly known as ITC Filtrona Limited) (a joint # venture of Gold Flake Corporation Limited) The following Group’s Associates included in ITC’s Consolidated Financial Statements are not included in the Sustainability Report 2015: Name Remarks Gujarat Hotels Limited # International Travel House Limited # Russell Investments Limited @ In order to obtain Divya Management Limited @ an objective and Antrang Finance Limited @ impartial assurance on the Report, ITC Classic Infrastructure and Development Limited # has been seeking the same from third * ITC is currently in the process of defining the system for inclusion of these entities in the Sustainability Reporting boundary. Going forward, the performance of these entities against identified material aspects will party agencies on be reported in a progressive manner. all its Sustainability # These entities will be progressively included within the reporting boundary, as part of ITC’s supply chain, based on identified material aspects. Reports since it @ These entities primarily invest in financial market instruments and do not have any material sustainability started reporting in impacts. 2004 53 Governance Structure The Company’s Corporate Governance processes are designed to support effective management of multiple businesses while retaining focus on each one of them. The practice of Corporate Governance at ITC takes place at three interlinked levels. Strategic supervision by the Board of Directors (Board) Strategic management by the Corporate Management Committee (CMC) by the Divisional/Strategic Business Unit (SBU) Executive management Chief Executive assisted by the respective Divisional/SBU Management Committee The role, powers and composition of the Board, Board Committees, CMC and Divisional/SBU Management Committees are available on the Company’s corporate website. BOARD OF DIRECTORS CSR AND AUDIT NOMINATION & CORPORATE SECURITYHOLDERS INDEPENDENT SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE COMPENSATION MANAGEMENT RELATIONSHIP DIRECTORS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DIVISIONAL/SBU MANAGEMENT CORPORATE FUNCTIONS COMMITTEES Corporate Functions include: Divisional/SBU Management Committees, each Planning & Treasury, Accounting, Taxation, headed by a Divisional/SBU Chief Executive Risk Management, Legal, Secretarial, Internal Businesses include: Audit, EHS, Human Resources, Corporate FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards, Specialty Papers Communications, Corporate Affairs, Research & Packaging, Agri Business and Information & Development, Central Projects Organisation Technology and IT Support Services Board of Directors as required under the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules thereunder. The Governance The ITC Board is a balanced Board comprising Policy of the Company also inter alia Executive Directors and Non-Executive requires that Non-Executive Directors, Directors, including Independent Directors. including Independent Directors, be drawn from amongst eminent professionals with Selection of Directors experience in business/finance/law/public The Nomination & Compensation Committee administration & enterprises. The Board of the Board approved the criteria for Diversity Policy of the Company requires the determining qualifications, positive Board to have balance of skills, experience attributes and independence of Directors and diversity of perspectives appropriate to 55 Sustainable Livelihoods the Company. The Articles of Association of rotation unless otherwise approved by the the Company provide that the strength of the Shareholders or provided under any statute. Board shall not be fewer than five nor more than eighteen. The Independent Directors have confirmed that they meet the criteria of ‘Independence’ Directors are appointed/re-appointed as stipulated under the statute. with the approval of the Shareholders for a period of three to five years or a shorter Composition of the Board duration, in accordance with retirement The strength of the Board as on 31st March, guidelines as determined by the Board from 2015, was sixteen, of which four were time to time. The initial appointment of Executive Directors and eight Independent Executive Directors is normally for a period Directors. The composition of the Board, of three years. All Directors, other than including other Directorship/Committee Independent Directors, are liable to retire by membership of Directors was as follows: No. of Membership(s) No. of other [including Chairmanship(s)] Director Directorship(s)1 of Board Committees of other companies2 Executive Directors Y. C. Deveshwar 1 Nil N. Anand 8 Nil P. V. Dhobale Nil Nil K. N. Grant 2 Nil Non-Executive Directors – Independent Directors A. Baijal 5 2 [as Chairman] S. Banerjee Nil Nil A. Duggal 5 3 [including 1 as Chairman] S. H. Khan 7 9 [including 4 as Chairman] S. B. Mathur 12 5 P. B. Ramanujam Nil Nil S. S. H. Rehman Nil Nil M. Shankar (Ms.) 1 Nil Non-Executive Directors – Others A. V. Girija Kumar Nil Nil R. E. Lerwill Nil Nil S. B. Mainak 6 Nil K. Vaidyanath Nil Nil 1. Excludes Directorship in Foreign Companies and Membership of Managing Committees of Chambers of Commerce/Professional Bodies. 2. Denotes Membership/Chairmanship of Audit Committee and/or Stakeholders Relationship Committee of Indian Public Limited Companies. 56 Governance Structure ITC’s Governance Policy requires the Board to recommends to the Board the annual CSR meet at least six times in a year. During the Plan of the Company in terms of the statute. year, seven meetings of the Board were held. The Committee also reviews the Business Responsibility Report of the Company. Board Committees The CMC has constituted a Sustainability Currently, there are five Board Committees Compliance Review Committee, which – the CSR and Sustainability Committee, presently comprises eight members an the Audit Committee, the Nomination Executive Director, two CMC members and & Compensation Committee, the five senior members of management. The Securityholders Relationship Committee and role of the Committee, inter alia, includes the Independent Directors Committee. monitoring and evaluating compliance with the Sustainability Policies of the Company CSR and Sustainability and placing a quarterly report thereon for Committee review by the CMC. The CSR and Sustainability Committee Audit Committee presently comprises the Chairman of the Company and four Non-Executive Directors, The Audit Committee presently comprises one of whom is an Independent Director. The five Non-Executive Directors, four of whom The CSR and Chairman of the Company is the Chairman of are Independent Directors. The Chairman of Sustainability the Committee is an Independent Director. the Committee. Committee, inter The Executive Director representing the alia, reviews, The CSR and Sustainability Committee, Finance function, the Chief Financial inter alia, reviews, monitors and provides Officer, the Head of Internal Audit and the monitors and strategic direction to the Company’s CSR and representative of the Statutory Auditors are provides strategic sustainability practices towards fulfilling its Invitees to meetings of the Audit Committee. direction to the Triple Bottom Line objectives. The Committee The Head of Internal Audit, who reports to Company’s CSR seeks to guide the Company in integrating the Audit Committee, is the Co-ordinator, and sustainability its social and environmental objectives and the Company Secretary is the Secretary practices towards with its business strategies and assists in to the Committee. The representatives of the crafting unique models to support creation Cost Auditors are invited to meetings of the fulfilling its Triple of sustainable livelihoods. The Committee Audit Committee whenever matters relating Bottom Line formulates & monitors the CSR Policy and to cost audit are considered. objectives 57 Sustainable Livelihoods Nomination & Compensation leadership to the Board and the CMC for Committee realising Company goals in accordance with the charter approved by the Board. The Nomination & Compensation Committee presently comprises the Chairman of the ITC has a diversified business portfolio, which Company and five Non-Executive Directors, demands that the senior leadership has an four of whom are Independent Directors. in-depth knowledge and understanding of The Chairman of the Committee is an the functioning of the Company, so as to Independent Director. enhance the value-generating capacity of the organisation and contribute significantly Securityholders Relationship to stakeholders’ aspirations and societal Committee expectations. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company is therefore generally chosen The Securityholders Relationship Committee from amongst the executive management of presently comprises four Directors. The Chairman of the Committee is a Nonthe Company. The current Chief Executive Executive Director. Officer of the Company is also the Chairman of the Board. ITC has a Independent Directors diversified business Committee Avoidance of portfolio, which The Independent Directors Committee comprises all Independent Directors of the Conflicts of demands that the senior leadership Company. Interest has an in-depth Note: Further details of the Board In terms of the ITC Code of Conduct, Directors, knowledge and Committees are available in the ‘Report senior management and employees must understanding of on Corporate Governance’ section of ITC’s avoid situations in which their personal Report & Accounts 2015. interests could conflict with the interests the functioning of of the Company. This is an area in which it the Company, so Chair of the Highest is impossible to provide comprehensive as to enhance the Governance Body guidance but the guiding principle is that value-generating The Chairman is the Chief Executive of the conflicts, if any, or potential conflicts, must capacity of the Company. He is the Chairman of the Board be disclosed to higher management for organisation and the CMC. His primary role is to provide guidance and action as appropriate. 58 Governance Structure The Directors and key executives are and individual Director evaluation. In required to disclose to the Board whether keeping with ITC’s belief that it is the The parameters for they, directly or indirectly or on behalf of collective effectiveness of the Board that Board performance third parties, have material interest in any impacts Company performance, the primary evaluation have transaction or matter directly affecting the evaluation platform is that of collective been derived from Company. Senior management is required to performance of the Board as a whole. Board the Board’s core confirm on an annual basis that no material performance is assessed against the roles and transaction has been entered into by them role of trusteeship responsibilities of the Board as provided in the which could have potential conflict with to protect statute read with the Company’s Governance the interests of the Company at large; such Policy. The parameters for Board performance and enhance confirmations are placed before the Board. evaluation have been derived from the Board’s shareholder value All transactions of the Company with related core role of trusteeship to protect and enhance as well as fulfil parties, or their subsequent modifications, shareholder value as well as fulfil expectations expectations of are required to be approved by the Audit of other stakeholders through strategic other stakeholders Committee. Further, transactions with supervision of the Company. Evaluation of through strategic related parties which are not in the ordinary functioning of Board Committees is based on course of business or not on arm’s length supervision of the discussions amongst Committee members basis would also require the approval of the Company and shared by each Committee Chairman with Board or Shareholders, as applicable. the Board. Individual Directors are evaluated in The Company has a code of conduct for the context of the role played by each Director prevention of insider trading in the securities as a member of the Board at its meetings, of the Company. The ITC Code of Conduct for in assisting the Board in realising its role of Prevention of Insider Trading 2015, inter alia, strategic supervision of the functioning of the prohibits purchase or sale of securities of the Company in pursuit of its purpose and goals. Company by Directors and employees while The Board determines the remuneration of in possession of unpublished price sensitive the Chairman and other Executive Directors, information in relation to the Company. on the recommendation of the Nomination & Performance Compensation Committee; remuneration of the Directors is subject to the approval of the of the Highest shareholders. Such remuneration is linked Governance Body to the performance of the Company in as much as the performance bonus of Executive ITC believes that a Board, which is well Directors is based on various qualitative informed/familiarised with the Company, and quantitative performance criteria. can contribute significantly to effectively Such criteria also includes the Company’s discharge its role of trusteeship in a manner contribution with respect to sustainable that fulfils stakeholders’ aspirations and development of the society/nation & social societal expectations. In pursuit of this, the investments and sensitivity to environment. Directors are updated on a continuing basis Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors on changes/developments in the domestic/ is by way of commission for each financial global corporate and industry scenario year; such commission is determined by including those pertaining to statutes/ the Board within the limit approved by the legislations and economic environment, shareholders. Their remuneration is based, to enable them to take well informed and inter alia, on Company performance and timely decisions. The Directors are also kept regulatory provisions and is payable on a abreast on all business related matters, risk uniform basis to reinforce the principle of assessment & minimisation procedures, and new initiatives proposed by the Company. collective responsibility. Non-Executive Directors are also entitled to sitting fees The Nomination & Compensation Committee for attending meetings of the Board and has approved the Policy on Board evaluation, Committees thereof, the quantum of which is evaluation of Board Committees’ functioning determined by the Board. 59 Sustainable Livelihoods Remuneration and Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999]. The Company has not incurred any expenditure Incentives for this purpose which can be ascribed to any Director or Employee. ITC’s remuneration strategy is marketled, leverages performance and takes into account the Company’s capacity to pay. The Ethics and Integrity remuneration package is competitive and is ITC believes that every employee is a trustee designed to attract and retain quality talent. of its stakeholders and must strictly adhere to a Code of Conduct and conduct himself/ The ratio of remuneration of the highest herself at all times in a professional and paid employee to the median remuneration ethical manner. Integrity is a core value for the year 2014-15 was 439:1. The ratio and forms the basis of the Company’s of the annual increase (percentage) in Total organisation culture. Compensation of the highest paid employee to the median annual increase (percentage) ITC’s Code of Conduct, has been in place in Total Compensation of all employees since 1996. The Code is anchored in three (excluding the highest paid employee) was core principles – good corporate governance, 23:14 in FY 2014-15. good corporate citizenship and exemplary personal conduct in relation to the Company’s Remuneration includes salary, performance business and reputation. The Code clearly bonus, allowances & other benefits/ spells out guidelines for employees on dealing applicable perquisites except contribution with people in the organisation, ensuring a to the approved Group Pension under the gender friendly workplace, relationships with defined benefit scheme and Gratuity Funds suppliers and customers, legal compliance, and provisions for leave encashment which health & safety, avoidance of conflict of are actuarially determined on an overall interest, transparency and auditability in Company basis. The term ‘remuneration’ all their actions, protection of confidential has the meaning assigned to it under the information, leading by example etc. Companies Act, 2013. Stock Options have been granted to the Directors and Employees The ITC Code of Conduct is displayed on the under the Employee Stock Option Schemes Company’s corporate website and is shared of the Company at ‘market price’ [within the with employees at the time of their induction meaning of the erstwhile SEBI (Employee into the Company. A system has also been Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock put in place to get employees to read and ITC’s Code of Conduct is anchored in three core principles – good corporate governance, good corporate citizenship and exemplary personal conduct in relation to the Company’s business and reputation 60 Governance Structure sign-off ITC’s Sustainability Policies and the and prioritisation of strategic and ITC Code of Conduct. Any violation of the ITC operational risks, development of The management Code of Conduct by an employee renders appropriate mitigation strategies and of risk is embedded him/her liable for disciplinary action. conducts periodic reviews of the progress in the corporate on the management of identified risks. ITC’s Code of Conduct specifically states that strategies of in the context of possible or potential areas l A combination of centrally issued policies developing a of conflict of interest, such incidents must be and divisionally-evolved procedures brings portfolio of worlddisclosed immediately to higher management robustness to the process of ensuring that class businesses for guidance and action as appropriate. business risks are effectively addressed. that best match A Whistleblower Policy is in place and has l Appropriate structures are in place to organisational proactively monitor and manage the been displayed on the Company’s corporate capability inherent risks in businesses with unique/ website and has also been appropriately with market relatively high risk profiles. communicated to all employees. opportunities l A strong and independent Internal Audit Risk Management function at the Corporate level carries out risk focused audits across all businesses, As a diversified enterprise, ITC continues to enabling identification of areas where risk focus on a system-based approach to business management processes may need to be risk management. The management of risk strengthened. The Audit Committee of the is embedded in the corporate strategies Board reviews Internal Audit findings, and of developing a portfolio of world-class provides strategic guidance on internal businesses that best match organisational controls. The Audit Compliance Review capability with market opportunities, Committee closely monitors the internal focusing on building distributed leadership control environment within the Company and succession planning processes, nurturing including implementation of the action plans specialism and enhancing organisational emerging out of internal audit findings. capabilities through timely developmental inputs. Accordingly, management of risk l At the Business level, Divisional Auditors continuously verify compliance with laid has always been an integral part of the down policies and procedures, and help Company’s ‘Strategy of Organisation’ and plug control gaps by assisting operating straddles its planning, execution and management in the formulation of control reporting processes and systems. Backed by procedures for new areas of operation. strong internal control systems, the current Risk Management Framework consists of the l A robust and comprehensive framework following key elements: of strategic planning and performance management ensures realisation of l The Corporate Governance Policy approved business objectives based on effective by the Board, clearly lays down the roles strategy implementation. The annual and responsibilities of the various entities planning exercise requires all businesses in relation to risk management covering a to clearly identify their top risks and set out range of responsibilities, from the strategic a mitigation plan with agreed timelines and to the operational. These role definitions, accountability. Businesses are required to inter alia, provide the foundation for the confirm periodically that all relevant risks Company’s Risk Management Policy and have been identified, assessed, evaluated Framework that is endorsed by the Board and that appropriate mitigation systems and is aimed at ensuring formulation of have been implemented. appropriate risk management procedures, their effective implementation across ITC The combination of policies and processes and independent monitoring and reporting as outlined above adequately addresses the by Internal Audit. various risks associated with the Company’s businesses. l The Corporate Risk Management Cell, through focused interactions with The Company also constituted a Risk businesses, facilitates the identification Management Committee during the year. 61 Economic Performance Management Approach Economic Performance Sustainable Livelihoods Disclosure of enhance the wealth generating capability of the enterprise in a globalising environment Management delivering superior and sustainable Approach (DMA): stakeholder value’. The Company’s strategy is to ensure that ITC’s Vision to subserve national priorities and each of its businesses is world-class and create enduring societal value has led to the internationally competitive in the Indian adoption of multi-dimensional sustainability global market in the first instance and initiatives that deliver superior ‘Triple Bottom progressively in global markets. Line’ performance and generates large scale economic, environmental and social capital. This Vision is premised on the belief that the Goals and transformational capacity of business can be effectively leveraged to create significant Performance societal value through a spirit of innovation At the enterprise level, the Company’s goals and enterprise. The Company’s ‘Triple Bottom include Line’ contribution is manifest in the crafting l Sustaining ITC’s position as one of India’s of innovative models that not only generate most valuable corporations. new sources of competitive advantage l Achieving leadership in each of the for its businesses, but also leads to the business segments within a reasonable augmentation of natural capital and creation time frame. of sustainable livelihoods. l Achieving a Return on Capital Employed This ‘Triple Bottom Line’ approach to (ROCE) in excess of the Company’s cost of creating larger ‘stakeholder value’, as capital, at all times. opposed to merely ensuring uni-dimensional ‘shareholder value’ is the driving force Please refer to the ‘Report of the that defines the Company’s sustainability Directors and Management Discussion vision and its growth path into the future. and Analysis’ section of the Report ITC’s commitment in the area of economic and Accounts 2015 (available on www. performance is encapsulated in its vision itcportal.com) for a detailed discussion statement, which is to ‘Sustain ITC’s position on the Company’s market standing in each as one of India’s most valuable corporations of the business segments, as well as the through world-class performance, creating business environment, opportunities, key growing value for the Indian economy and the challenges, etc. pertaining to each of the Company’s stakeholders’. ITC’s Mission is ‘to Company’s businesses. 64 Economic Performance Economic crores compared to `10,759.50 crores in the previous year. Performance ITC, as a premier ‘Indian’ enterprise, The Company delivered another year of consciously exercises the strategic steady performance in the backdrop of choice of contributing to and securing continuing sluggishness in the macrothe competitiveness of the entire value economic environment, exacerbated by a chain, of which it is a part. This philosophy steep increase in taxes/duties on cigarettes, has shaped the Company’s approach to which led to unprecedented pressure on business into ‘a commitment beyond the legal cigarette industry sales volumes. ITC market’. With its diversification initiatives also had to contend with start-up costs over the past few years, the Company is well relating to the launch of new products positioned to establish itself as the ‘most and categories in the non-cigarette trusted provider of food products in the FMCG segment, input cost pressures Indian market’ leveraging a strong portfolio in the Paperboards, Paper & Packaging of world-class brands, deep understanding Businesses and a weak demand and pricing of the diverse tastes and preferences of environment in the Hotels Business. Indian consumers, focus on best-in-class quality and operational excellence across Gross Revenue for the year grew by 7.0% the value chain. to `49,964.82 crores. Net Revenue at `36,083.21 crores grew by 9.7% primarily Continuing with its chosen strategy of driven by a 11.3% growth in the noncreating multiple drivers of growth, the cigarette FMCG segment, 8.1% growth in Company is presently the leading FMCG the Agri Business segment and 8.7% growth marketer in India, the ‘greenest luxury hotel in the Cigarettes segment. Profit Before Tax chain’ in the world, the clear market leader registered a growth of 10.6% to `13,997.52 in the Indian Paperboard and Packaging crores while Net Profit at `9,607.73 crores industry and leading exporter of quality Agri increased by 9.4%. After adjusting for products. ITC’s wholly owned subsidiary, ITC liability written back in Q2 FY14 (towards Infotech India Limited, is poised to achieve Rates and Taxes and Interest thereon its strategic and financial objectives by pertaining to earlier years, aggregating leveraging its leadership in the knowledge`192.68 crores) underlying growth in Profit centric Information Technology services Before Tax and Net Profit for the year and its increasing global presence. grew by 12.3% and 11.0%, respectively. Earnings Per Share for the year stood at For the year ended 31st March, 2015, ITC `12.05 (previous year `11.09). Cash flows declared a Dividend of `6.25 per share from Operations aggregated `13,534.65 (previous year `6.00 per share). 65 Sustainable Livelihoods Direct Economic Impact ` Crores Key Economic 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 CAGR Indicators* Gross Revenue 30,528 34,872 41,810 46,713 49,965 13% Net Revenue 21,168 24,798 29,606 32,883 36,083 14% Exports 2,464 2,315 3,474 4,046 4,511 16% Contribution to 15,860 18,006 22,343 25,669 26,912 14% Government/Exchequer Cost of Bought out Goods 12,374 14,255 17,031 18,391 19,764 12% and Services Employee Benefits 1,140 1,258 1,387 1,608 1,780 12% Expense Payments to Providers of 4,498 5,669 6,800 7,977 8,645 18% Capital Interest and Dividend 3,512 3,596 4,235 4,775 5,067 Retained Profits 986 2,073 2,565 3,202 3,578 * Detailed Financial Performance available at www.itcportal.com 66 Economic Performance Revenue and Profit Before Depreciation Interest and Tax (PBDIT) ` Crores Year 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 CAGR Gross Revenue 30,528 34,872 41,810 46,713 49,965 13% PBDIT 7,993 9,674 11,566 13,562 15,017 17% Total Assets and Returns higher returns on the assets deployed. Hence, while the Balance Sheet size of the Despite the extremely challenging business Company has expanded at a compound rate environment during the year under of 15% over the previous five years to reach review, ITC continued to make significant `44,195.66 Crores as at 31st March, 2015, investments in the Indian economy across returns on assets deployed have increased its business domains, even as it has been from about 29% to about 32% during the successful in generating progressively same period. ITC consciously exercises the Return on Total Assets strategic choice 33 of contributing to 32 48000 and securing the 32 32 32 competitiveness 32 31 41000 of the entire 31 31 value chain, of ` Crores % 30 34000 which it is a part. 30 This philosophy 29 has shaped 29 27000 29 the Company’s 28 approach to 28 20000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 business into ‘a commitment Total Assets (RHS) Return on Total Assets (LHS) beyond the market’ 67 Sustainable Livelihoods Market Capitalisation & Earnings Per Share ITC is one of India’s most admired and valuable corporations and has consistently featured over the last nineteen years, amongst the top 10 private sector companies in terms of market capitalisation and profits. It is amongst the most influential stocks in the Indian equity market. 1996 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CAGR Market Capitalisation (` Crores )* 5,571 1,00,476 1,40,408 1,77,360 2,44,245 2,80,708 2,60,864 22% Adjusted EPS (`)** 0.35 5.31 6.45 7.88 9.39 11.05 11.99 20% *Market Capitalisation based on year-end closing prices quoted on the Bombay Stock Exchange. **EPS adjusted for impact of Corporate Actions to facilitate like to like comparison. Analysis of Value Added Distribution of Value Added 35000 30000 25000 20000 ` Crores 15000 10000 5000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Exchequer Employees Providers of Capital Contribution to Contribution to Exchequer the National Exchequer 29500 26912 26000 25669 The Company’s contribution accounts for 22500 22343 about 7.48% of the total excise revenue 19000 18006 ` Crores of the Government of India. In the area of 15500 15860 income tax, the Company is the highest tax 12000 payer in eastern India and among the top tax 8500 payers nationally. 5000 1500 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Contribution to Exchequer 68 Economic Performance Dividend Payout The Company’s For the current year, the Company has declared a dividend of `6.25 per share of `1/each. strategy is to Dividend Paid (incl. Dividend Distribution Tax) ensure that each of its businesses 6500 is world-class and 6000 5500 6030 internationally 5000 5583 competitive in 4500 ` Crores 4853 the Indian global 4000 3500 1484 market in the 4089 3000 first instance and 2500 progressively in 2000 2518 global markets 1500 1000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Ordinary Dividend 2011-Special Dividend on 100th AGM Locally Based Suppliers All businesses of the Company have modern facilities and use state-of-the-art technologies The Company’s suppliers, both local and to ensure benchmarked quality and value. international, constitute one of its important Accordingly, the Company sources specialised stakeholder groups. Supplier engagements production machinery from reputed are founded on a positive procurement culture international and Indian manufacturers – supported by policies, processes and best across large, medium and small scale sectors. practices to ensure that procurement activity Utility machinery such as boilers, generator is conducted in an open, transparent and sets, air-conditioning and refrigeration non-discriminatory manner. Strong processes machinery and electrical & electronic systems are in place to identify/develop and qualify are sourced largely from Indian or India-based vendors on the basis of supply assurance, suppliers. Competent Indian contractors innovation quotient, product quality and carry out construction and renovation of new value for money considerations. Formal manufacturing facilities, hotels, warehouses competitive processes are established and & offices. About 85.8% of raw materials and documented discussions, recommendations stores & spares have been locally procured and decisions underlay procurement activity. during the year. Raw Materials, Stores & Spares Consumed 12000 10000 8000 9630 ` Crores 9165 6000 8018 4000 6826 6184 2000 1001 1067 1138 1335 1589 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Imported Indigenous 69 Sustainable Livelihoods The Company actively encourages of its product categories, both directly and competency development among local in collaboration with various State agencies vendors and its vendor base includes and NGOs to assist in the creation of numerous medium and small scale sustainable livelihoods. enterprises that are proximate to its manufacturing locations. Wherever Financial Assistance from appropriate, vendors are provided technical Government support and managerial inputs to enable them to move in tandem with the Company’s The Company had availed the incentives business plans. The Company also supports offered by the States of Andhra Pradesh several vocational training initiatives in areas and Tamil Nadu, by way of deferment of in the vicinity of its operations. These have Sales Tax, which are repayable over a been effective in empowering youth with period ranging from 10 to 14 years. The requisite skills and increased opportunities outstanding amount of such assistance in for entrepreneurial development. Further, the form of Deferred Sales Tax due to be the Company has continued to set up repaid by the Paperboards and Specialty sourcing centres in rural India for several Papers Division (PSPD) is given below: Deferred Sales Tax 100 91 90 86 80 78 70 66 60 ` Crores 51 The Company 50 actively encourages 40 competency 30 development among local 20 vendors and 10 its vendor base 0 includes numerous 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 medium and small scale enterprises Deferred Sales Tax 70 Economic Performance Engaging Talent, Local Hiring amongst its employees in compensation, training and employee benefits, based on and Senior Management caste, religion, disability, gender, sexual It is the Company’s Human Resource (HR) orientation, race, colour, ancestry, marital philosophy that while dealing with each status or affiliation with a political, religious other, the management and employees or union organisation or majority/minority shall uphold the values of trust, teamwork, group. A necessary structure for dealing with mutuality and collaboration, meritocracy, requirements like sexual harassment has objectivity, self-respect and human been put in place. dignity. ITC’s HR management systems and processes are relentlessly customer-focused, The Company’s talent management strategy competition-differentiated, performanceis focused on building a future-ready talent driven and future-capable. The Company’s bank in the organisation to ensure a pipeline HR Development strategy seeks to fulfil of high-quality managerial talent, specialists this mandate through careful selection and and business leaders. ITC’s talent engagement rigorous implementation of a wide range of approach focuses on attracting and nurturing programmes and interventions. quality talent, supported by significant investments in learning and development. ITC believes that its competitive capability to build future-ready businesses and In 2014-15, the minimum wage paid to entry create enduring value for stakeholders is level workers of the Company was equal enriched by a dedicated and high-quality to or more than the statutory minimum human resource pool. Therefore, nurturing wage applicable at all locations of ITC’s quality talent and caring for the well-being operations. The employees are also entitled of employees form an integral part of ITC’s to retirement benefit schemes which work culture, which focuses on creating include employee pension, provident fund a conducive work environment that helps and gratuity. All statutory payments, as deliver winning performance. applicable, e.g., Provident Fund and Family Pension contributions, are deposited with the The Company’s policy on “Diversity and Equal Government in a timely manner. Opportunity” is premised on its fundamental belief that diversity at the workplace creates The pension plans and other applicable an environment conducive to engagement, employee benefits obligations are determined alignment, innovation and high performance. and funded in accordance with independent The Policy provides for diversity and equal actuarial valuation. The assets of these trust opportunities to all employees across the funds are managed in accordance with the Company, based on merit and ability. The prescribed statutory pattern. The assets policy also ensures a work environment of the trust funds are well diversified and that is free from any form of discrimination investments are made with the objective of 2000 1800 The Company’s 1600 talent management 1400 strategy is focused 1200 on building a ` Crores 1000 1505 1112 1331 future-ready 800 1024 600 902 talent bank in the 400 organisation to 200 117 128 148 162 167 ensure a pipeline 0 121 106 127 115 108 of high-quality 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 managerial talent, Contribution to Provident Workmen & Staff Welfare Salaries & Wages specialists and & Other Funds business leaders 71 Sustainable Livelihoods Contribution to Provident & Other Funds 200 180 121 160 127 115 140 108 120 ` Crores 106 100 77 80 51 53 60 35 40 20 20 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Contribution to Pension Funds Contribution to Provident & Other Funds protecting capital and optimising returns It is in pursuance of these goals that the within acceptable risk parameters. The funds Company has drafted its policy on Corporate are consistently sustained to meet requisite Social Responsibility (ITC’s CSR Policy superannuation commitments. detailed in the Policies & Guidelines section of this Report and in the section on Report of Corporate Social Responsibility the Directors & Management Discussion and Analysis in the Annual Report and Accounts ITC’s overarching aspiration to create significant 2015). Given ITC’s operational spread, its and sustainable societal value, inspired by a stakeholder representation cuts across rural vision to subserve a larger national purpose and urban milieus. Interventions therefore and abide by the strong value of trusteeship, is are appropriately designed to respond to manifest in ITC’s CSR initiatives that embrace their unique multi-dimensional development the most disadvantaged sections of society, challenges in order to accomplish the goal especially in rural India, through economic of empowering stakeholder communities empowerment based on grassroots capacity building. Towards this end, the Company adopted a comprehensive CSR policy in 201415 conceived to address the major development challenges being faced by the Nation. In the social sector, the two most important stakeholders for the Company are (a) rural ITC’s CSR initiatives communities in the Company’s agri-business embrace the most areas who look at ITC to find viable solutions disadvantaged to some of the major challenges that could sections of threaten the sustainability of their production systems and (b) communities residing in close society, especially proximity of the Company’s production units, in rural India, situated in urban and semi-rural locations, who through economic expect help in the creation of the necessary empowerment socio-economic infrastructure for the based on development of a healthy, educated and skilled grassroots capacity work force with the capability to successfully building compete for modern jobs. 72 Economic Performance ITC’s interventions Areas listed under Schedule – VII (including through to the Companies Act, 2013 Trusts established by the Company) (i) Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition, promoting health care including preventive health care Health & sanitation, and sanitation including contribution to the Swachh drinking water, Bharat Kosh setup by the Central Government for the contribution to Swachh promotion of sanitation and making available safe Bharat Kosh drinking water. (ii) Promoting education, including special education and Education, vocational employment enhancing vocation skills specially among training, livestock children, women, elderly, and the differently abled and development and livelihood enhancement projects. livelihoods generation (iii) Promoting gender equality, empowering women, setting up homes and hostels for women and orphans; setting up old age homes, day care centres and such Women empowerment other facilities for senior citizens and measures for reducing inequalities faced by socially and economically backward groups. (iv) Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological Environmental balance, protection of flora and fauna, animal welfare, sustainability soil & agroforestry, conservation of natural resources and moisture conservation maintaining quality of soil, air and water including and wasteland contribution to the Clean Ganga Fund setup by the development Central Government for rejuvenation of river Ganga. (v) Protection of national heritage, art and culture, including restoration of buildings and sites of historical Protection of national importance and works of art, setting up public libraries, heritage, art and culture promotion and development of traditional arts and handicrafts. (vi) Training to promote rural sports, nationally recognised Sports sports, paralympic sports and Olympic sports. (vii) Contribution to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund or any other fund set up by the Central Contribution to the Government for socio-economic development and relief Prime Minister's National and welfare of the schedule castes, the scheduled Relief Fund tribes, other backward classes, minorities and women. (viii) Rural Development projects. Agri development to promote sustainable livelihoods. Various and other expenses of `206.45 Crores of CSR activities in which the Company has which `12.67 Crores is accrued for payment been engaged during the current year are as on 31st March 2015. Such CSR expenditure listed above. of `214.06 Crores excludes `4.97 Crores being the excess of expenditure of salaries of The expenditure incurred under Section 135 CSR personnel and administrative expenses of the Companies Act, 2013 applicable for over the limit imposed of 5% of total CSR the first time in 2014-15 on CSR activities expenditure laid down under Rule 4(6) of the amounted to `214.06 Crores comprising Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility employee benefits expense of `7.61 Crores Policy) Rules, 2014 for such expenses. 73 Environmental Performance Management Approach Energy Air Emissions Water Management Recycling and Waste Management Raw Materials Biodiversity Sustainable Livelihoods Management Approach According to the World Economic Forum (WEF) performance, during 2014-15 ITC’s Businesses Report on Global Risks 2015, the evolving risk have set voluntary targets in terms of landscape indicates a shift over the past few specific energy reduction, specific water years from economic risks to environmental intake reduction, specific waste generation, risks – ranging from climate change to water etc. Accordingly targets have been set at crises. The challenges related to environment the Business/Unit levels for maintaining and ecosystems especially due to climate this performance. An organisation-wide change are complex, long-term and interintegrated sustainability data management related, especially in terms of its impact system supplemented by standard operating on water and availability of other natural procedures for measurement and recording resources. This in turn has wide-ranging provides the platform to monitor the data of implications on ITC and its stakeholders. each business on resource utilisation and environmental impact vis-à-vis production. ITC strives to In order to address these challenges, environmental best practices have been In addition, ITC also constantly endeavours maximise the deeply integrated into ITC’s operations on to create a positive environmental footprint. efficiencies of the basis of which, the Company strives to Large-scale Social and Farm Forestry, natural resource maximise the efficiencies of natural resource Integrated Watershed Development, usage across its usage across its Businesses. Furthermore, for Sustainable Agriculture Practices and Businesses continuous improvement on environmental logistic network optimisation of ITC’s FMCG 76 Environmental Performance products, among others, are a few examples by each Business is regularly reviewed by the of extensive initiatives in this direction. Sustainability Compliance Review Committee ITC’s Board (SCRC) of the Corporate Management approved Policies ITC’s Board approved Policies such as those Committee (CMC). on Environment, Health and Safety, Life such as those Cycle Sustainability of Products and Services The following sections outline the challenges on Environment, and Responsible Sourcing, provide the being faced by ITC on material environmental Health and necessary framework to address the direct aspects within as well as outside the Safety, Life Cycle impacts of the Company’s own operations as boundary of its operations, the strategy for Sustainability well as progressively extend the efforts along addressing each of these challenges and the supply chain (Please refer to Policies performance for 2014-15. of Products and available at www.itcportal.com). During Services and the reporting period, each Business drew a Responsible roadmap for implementation of each of these Sourcing, provide policies in a phased manner. the necessary It is the overall responsibility of the framework to Divisional/Strategic Business Unit (SBU) address the direct Chief Executives, to ensure implementation impacts of the of relevant policies and standards on Company’s own environmental performance through the operations as well members of the respective Management as progressively Committees, General Managers and Unit Heads. This also includes institution of extend the efforts various committees and designating specific along the supply responsibilities. chain ITC’s Corporate Environment, Health & Safety (CEHS) Department is responsible for reviewing and updating Corporate Standards, verifying compliance, providing guidance and support as required. Compliance and progress based upon the roadmap defined 77 Energy Management around 600 million1 people lack reliable access to electricity. Extreme energy price Approach volatility has been identified as a significant global risk in the World Economic Forum Continued economic progress and business (WEF) Report on Global Risks 2015, which sustainability are today challenged by natural resource depletion with its consequent will exert even more pressure on developing impacts on long term energy security. Energy economies like India. ITC has mapped its availability, accessibility and price volatility challenges on the basis of existing as well are expected to be amongst the biggest as the evolving energy scenario and has developmental challenges for India, where strategised its response as follows: 1 Source: http://planningcommission.nic.in/sectors/index.php?sectors=energy ITC’s Challenges Sustainability in Energy Policies ITC Security Addressing these Strategy Challenges l Volatility in energy prices. l Adopting a low carbon growth path: l Existing regulatory requirements such as the è Goal set for 50% renewable energy share Perform, Achieve, Trade (PAT) and Renewable by 2020. Energy Certificate (REC) scheme. l Energy conservation through audits, l Future regulatory pressures–carbon tax or benchmarking and target setting for progressively reducing specific energy consumption (energy additional requirements under PAT and REC. per unit of product/service). l Investment risks involved in offsite Investment in renewable energy assets Policy on l renewable energy investments weak based on techno-commercial feasibility. Environment, infrastructure linkages, restrictions on Health and Continuous monitoring and review of inter-state wheeling/banking of electricity, l Safety performance through an organisationopen access etc. wide data management system. Policy on l Increasing competition for biomass. Life-cycle l Life-cycle assessment based approach l Viable alternatives for fossil fuel to meet Sustainability embedded in the design and development thermal process energy requirements. of products and services: Policy on l Addressing energy issues across the value Responsible è Accounting of energy footprint along chain of products and services which are Sourcing the value chain and identification of beyond operational control. opportunities for improvement. è Engagement with supply chain members for monitoring and improvement of energy performance. è Progressive inclusion of energy performance of supply chain partners within the sustainability reporting boundary. è Reduction of energy consumption in transportation of raw materials, finished goods and wastes. Within Boundary Beyond Boundary 79 Sustainable Livelihoods Reporting ITC’s The marginal increase in total energy consumption despite reporting boundary Performance expansion has been achieved through better capacity utilisation and concerted efforts on Energy Consumption within energy conservation implemented across the Organisation several ITC Units. In 2014-15, ITC Units consumed 21,777 Terra Sources of 21,777 TJ of Energy in ITC Joules (TJ) of energy, which shows a marginal in 2014-15 increase of around 2% in the total energy consumption as compared to the previous 3.0% year (21,433 TJ in 2013-14). The increase in total energy consumption can be attributed primarily to the inclusion of the following Units/activities into the 43.1% 53.9% reporting boundary – Snacks and Noodles Unit of Foods Business at Malur (Karnataka), clonal plantation development activities of Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business at Bhadrachalam, ITC Grand Bharat in Gurgaon and My Fortune Bengaluru of the Hotels Business, together with units of Energy purchased from state utilities subsidiary companies, namely Classic Golf Resort in Gurgaon, ITC Kakatiya in Hyderabad Energy from Renewable Sources and Fortune Resort Bay Island in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Energy directly from Fossil Fuels Energy Consumption within ITC across Businesses Energy % of ITC’s Total % Renewable Businesses Energy Consumption Consumption in TJ Energy Share Paperboards and Specialty 19,503.95 89.6 44.9 Papers Hotels 642.11 2.9 34.8 Leaf Tobacco 414.55 1.9 11.1 Foods 419.56 1.9 Target 33.2 for 2014-15 was 26% Cigarettes 362.69 1.7 Packaging and 277.52 1.3 31.4 Printing Personal Care 50.23 0.2 0.2 43.1% of the Products total energy consumption of Others* 106.11 0.5 39.4 ITC was met from *Others include Agri Business, Lifestyle Retailing Business Unit in Manesar, Classic Golf Resort – a subsidiary renewable sources unit in Gurgaon, ITC Infotech, ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre and large offices. 80 Environmental Performance Energy Portfolio of ITC Break-up of Direct Energy by Fossil Fuel Break-up of Renewable Energy by Sources* Types* 7.7% 1.7% 5.0% 0.2% 90.6% 94.8% Solid fuel Liquid fuel Gaseous fuel Biomass Wind Solar *Figures are rounded off *Figures are rounded off Renewable Energy Utilisation in ITC* 41.2 43.1 10000 35.3 38.5 38.1 50 9392 8000 30.6 30.9 8802 40 8133 8175 Energy in TJ 7957 Percentage 6000 6622 30 26.3 24.1 5909 4000 20 3437 3571 2000 10 0 0 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Total Renewable Percentage of *Figures are rounded off The marginal Energy (TJ) Total Energy increase in total energy Increase in renewable energy utilisation in è Higher consumption of chip/saw dust consumption 2014-15 from 2013-14 is predominantly due and de-oiled bran at the Paperboards to two factors: Unit in Kovai. despite reporting boundary l Increase in direct renewable energy l Addition of 160 TJ from indirect sources of consumption by ITC from 8,175 TJ in 2013expansion has renewable energy in the form of: 14 to 9,232 TJ in 2014-15, primary reasons been achieved of which were: è Purchased steam generated from biomass through better in Pune Unit of Foods Business and capacity utilisation è The Paperboards Unit at Bhadrachalam Bengaluru Unit of Cigarettes Business, utilised increased quantity of domestic and concerted wood, and in turn produced more virgin è Purchased electricity generated from efforts on energy pulp leading to reduced dependence on biomass in ITC Kakatiya, a subsidiary conservation imported pulp. This in turn enhanced unit and availability and utilisation of black liquor implemented for steam generation and consequentially è Purchased solar electricity in Guntur across several ITC led to lesser coal consumption. office of Leaf Threshing Business. Units 81 Sustainable Livelihoods Energy Savings within ITC conventionally designed hotels. ITC hotels are not only energy efficient by design but Substantial improvements in specific energy also conserve fossil fuels – with several of performance were achieved at many of ITC’s hotels sourcing more than 50% of their the Units by a focused approach on energy electrical energy requirements from wind conservation through rigorous third party farms. In order to continually reduce ITC’s audits and implementation of the viable environmental footprint, green features are recommendations, coupled with better capacity integrated in all new constructions and are utilisation. As a result of implementation of also being incorporated into existing hotels, energy conservation measures, a total saving manufacturing units, warehouses and office of 145 TJ in energy consumption has been complexes during retrofits. achieved in 2014-15. Targets and Performance Direct Energy Savings Total of 131.7 TJ In order to continually improve on energy Energy performance, ITC Businesses have set voluntary Savings of Indirect Energy 145 TJ specific energy reduction targets. Accordingly Savings of 13.3 TJ targets have been set at the Unit level for maintaining this performance. The LEED® Platinum rating accorded to all of ITC’s luxury hotels (certification is in Since Units of Paperboards and Specialty Papers progress for the super premium ITC Grand Business account for 89.6% of ITC’s total energy Bharat which was opened recently), making consumption, greater focus is directed towards it the greenest luxury hotel chain in the the energy performance of each manufacturing world, implies a significant reduction in Unit of this Business, performance of which specific energy consumption with respect to against the targets are as follows: Specific Energy Paperboards Consumption Unit Comparison Comparison and Specialty of against against Primary Factors Actual Target Actual Papers Business for for for Measurement target last year 2013-14 2014-15 2014-15 l Non availability of wind power from own wind farms due to interstate wheeling problems between states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana l This non-availability of electricity had to be compensated by electricity generated in-house (with 2.6% 0.6% attendant auxiliary consumption Bhadrachalam 31.2 30.6 31.4 GJ/MT and conversion loss from fuel higher increase to energy) l Increase in pulp generated in own pulp mill by 10% l Commissioning and stabilisation of new lime kiln 14.1% 15.9% l Improvement in boiler efficiency Kovai 13.8 13.5 11.6 GJ/MT lower decrease l Replacement of 2 old boilers and 18.5% 20.0% turbines with new boiler and turbine Tribeni 47.5 46.6 38.0 GJ/MT resulting in system efficiency lower decrease improvement Bollaram 0.8 0.8 0.8 GJ/MT Same Same For computation methodology of energy consumption within organisation, please refer to Quantification Methodologies: Energy and GHG Emissions. 82 Environmental Performance Energy Consumption areas for improvement, in 2010 ITC initiated Outside of the Organisation the life cycle assessment (LCA) for its Life cycle products. So far life cycle assessments assessments have During 2014-15, ITC has expanded of products from Paper, Paperboards & been followed the upstream boundary of energy Packaging and Lifestyle Retailing Businesses up with detailed accounting. Accordingly 2,558 TJ of energy have been carried out which have helped in consumed outside of the organisation identifying broad areas for improvements studies which in has been accounted for during the year. as well as building internal competencies turn have provided Quality of data continues to be a challenge for such type of studies. These assessments concrete solutions in the third party manufacturing facilities of have been followed up with detailed studies towards more Energy Consumption efficient packaging designs, loading efficiencies and Exclusive Third Party consequent Manufacturers (TPMs) Local road catering to notebooks reduction in Inbound Outbound segment of Education and transportation travel by transportation transportation Employee Stationery Products Business; Hotels costs/GHG of raw of products commuting Business 2 exclusive TPMs of materials and wastes emissions/energy guests Cigarettes Business; ATC Limited (an associate use company) For computation methodology, please refer to Annexure — Quantification Methodology: Energy and GHG Emissions. Education and Stationery Products Business. which in turn have provided concrete Capacity building and regular review of solutions towards more efficient packaging performance data will continue in order designs, loading efficiencies and consequent to improve the data quality in the coming reduction in transportation costs/GHG years. The boundary of accounting will be emissions/energy use. progressively expanded in the years to come, based on ITC’s ability to overcome challenges Going forward, ITC intends to undertake more with regard to data quality. LCA studies for evaluating hotspots in the With an objective to evaluate the impacts value chain of its products and services and in the value chain and to identify additional identify further opportunities for optimisation. The Road Ahead Moving towards 50% renewable energy share by 2020 Addressing Impacts in the Value Chain 1. Continuation of the management approach in terms of: 1. Progressive accounting of energy footprint of l Energy audits, benchmarking and target setting for goods and services along the value chain within the progressively reducing specific energy consumption sustainability reporting boundary (energy per unit of product/service) 2. Engagement with supply chain members for l Investment in renewable energy assets based on improvement of energy performance techno-commercial feasibility 3. Reduction of energy consumption in transportation of l Continuous monitoring and review of performance raw materials, finished goods and wastes through Integrated Sustainability Data Management System (ISDMS) 2. Redesign of strategy if warranted according to the dynamics of the economy u Life cycle assessment studies for evaluation of the opportunity for energy reduction in the value chain of products/ services and taking necessary corrective actions u Development of internal capacities and use of LCA as a tool for product design and development by each business 83 Air Emissions Management Another aspect linked with rapid industrialisation and urbanisation is the ITC has focused Approach problem of air pollution in terms of emissions on progressively of SO2, NOX and particulate matter that has increasing its The adverse impact on the environment become a very serious health issue across renewable due to air emissions is complex, long-term and inter-related. Climate change caused almost the entire urban landscape in India. energy share by Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions has This not only has huge adverse impacts on and enhancing already begun to change precipitation health of human beings but also on the sequestration of patterns across the globe including in biodiversity of a region. ITC has continued GHGs aligned with India, thereby disrupting yields in primarily to invest in reducing air emission levels Government of rain-fed Indian agriculture. Since most of through focus on cleaner technologies/ India’s National ITC’s businesses depend significantly on combustion efficiency improvement while Action Plan on agri-inputs, disruption in crop yields and simultaneously reducing specific energy Climate Change consequent competition for agricultural consumption and increasing ITC’s renewable commodities, has wide-ranging implications energy share. on ITC and its stakeholders. Recognising the fact that is necessary to play an active role on ITC has mapped the various challenges the issue of climate change, ITC has focused arising from GHG and other air emissions on progressively increasing its renewable that may impact its own operations or its energy share and enhancing sequestration stakeholders and devised strategies driven of GHGs aligned with Government of India’s by Board approved policies addressing the National Action Plan on Climate Change. various dimensions involved. 85 Sustainable Livelihoods ITC’s Challenges Sustainability from GHG Policies ITC and other Air Addressing these Strategy Emissions Challenges l Extreme weather events posing a major l Reinforcing the protection of our assets in threat to ITC properties in coastal areas – coastal areas. disruption in operations, rail and road traffic l Developing appropriate contingency links, in turn affecting supply of essential and insurance plans for uninterrupted raw materials and finished goods. production and delivery, in situations of l Volatility in energy prices. extreme weather events. l Adopting a low carbon growth path by l Existing regulatory requirements such setting a 50% renewable energy share as the Perform, Achieve, Trade (PAT) and target by 2020. Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) schemes. l Energy conservation through energy audits, benchmarking and target setting l Future regulatory pressures – carbon for progressively reducing specific tax or additional requirements under the energy consumption (energy per unit of Perform, Achieve, Trade (PAT) and REC. product/service). Policy on l Air pollution in terms of emissions of Life-cycle l Investment in renewable energy assets SO2, NOX, particulate matter etc. from Sustainability based on techno-commercial feasibility. combustion of fuels. l Continuous monitoring and review of Policy on l Severe changes in precipitation patterns performance through an organisationEnvironment, owing to climate change could significantly wide data management system. Health and disrupt rain-fed agriculture. Safety l Continued investment in reducing air emission levels through adoption of l Disruption in crop yields leading to Policy on cleaner technologies/fuels, monitoring of increased competition for agricultural Responsible combustion efficiencies and investment in commodities due to: Sourcing state-of-the-art pollution control equipment. è Adverse impact on water availability in snow-fed rivers owing to retreating l Ensuring the sustainability of agriculture glaciers. through integrated watershed development and soil and moisture conservation projects. è Increased temperatures impacting l Evaluating agricultural productivity/ productivity. adaptation issues related to climate change and providing support to farmers. l Enhancing GHG sequestration through afforestation programmes. l Life-cycle based approach embedded in the design and development of products and services: è Progressive inclusion of performance of supply chain partners within the sustainability reporting boundary. è Reduction of GHG emissions in transportation of raw materials, finished goods and wastes. Within Boundary Beyond Boundary 86 Environmental Performance ITC’s Performance ITC has computed its Greenhouse on Greenhouse Gas (GHG) inventory, including GHG emissions, biogenic carbon dioxide Gases (CO2) emissions and GHG removals, in accordance with ISO 14064:2006, which is the latest international Based on applicability, ITC has accounted standard specifying principles and for the following gases in its GHG inventory: requirements at the organisation level Carbon Dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), for quantification and reporting of Nitrous Oxide (N2O), Hydrofluorocarbons GHG emissions and removals. (HFCs), Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and Sulphur The 2014-15 inventory has been Hexafluoride (SF6). Provided below is a verified by KPMG at the “Reasonable comparison of ITC’s GHG inventory for 2014Assurance” level. 15 with that for 2013-14: 6,000 4,529 4,896 5,000 4,000 3,000 1,613 1,519 1,234 1,143 2,000 742 860 1,000 177 183 202 193 0 Direct GHG CO2 Emissions Energy Other Total GHG GHG Emissions from Indirect GHG Indirect GHG Emissions Removals (Scope 1) combustion of Emissions Emissions (excluding CO2 (Scope 2) (Scope 3) Emissions from biomass combustion of biomass) 2013-14 2014-15 All above figures are rounded off and are in kilotonnes. 87 Sustainable Livelihoods Deviations in GHG emissions between 2014-15 and 2013-14 are primarily attributable to the ITC has continued following factors: to invest in reducing air Decrease in Direct GHG (Scope 1) emissions emission levels l Decrease in fossil fuel utilisation due to increased availability of biomass as fuel in through focus the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business (Please refer to “Energy” Section for on cleaner further details). technologies/ Increase in CO2 emissions from combustion of biomass l Increased utilisation of biomass as fuel in the Paperboards and Specialty Papers combustion Business Units. efficiency l Inclusion of CO emissions from indirect sources of renewable energy in the form of: improvement while 2 è Purchased steam generated from biomass in Pune Unit of Foods Business and simultaneously Bengaluru Unit of Cigarettes Business, reducing è Purchased electricity generated from biomass in ITC Kakatiya, a subsidiary unit. specific energy Increase in Energy Indirect GHG (Scope 2) emissions consumption and l Inclusion of additional Units/activities into the reporting boundary as detailed in increasing ITC’s “Energy” section of this Report. renewable energy Decrease in Other Indirect GHG (Scope 3) emissions share l Primarily due to reduction in imported raw materials and optimisation of transportation logistics. ITC’s efforts in energy reduction across various l Fuel switching measures (Please refer to Units have helped control GHG emissions in Energy consumption within ITC across 2014-15. In 2014-15, 25,845 tonnes of GHG Businesses in the “Energy” section for emissions (Scope 1 & 2) were avoided by the: details on renewable energy share of each Business): l Implementation of energy conservation measures leading to savings in both direct and indirect energy and 88 Environmental Performance Carbon Positive 29,933 hectares Total plantations 48,96,321 ITC Carbon of plantations as on March 31, tonnes of CO2 Positive for 10 added during 2015 at 1,93,072 sequestered in years in a row 2014-15 under hectares this year Social and Farm Forestry Initiatives GHG Emissions and CO2 Sequestration 4785 4896* 6000 4380 4529* 4011 3690 5000 3695 4000 2638 3000 2025 1058 1202 1013 2000 2046 1709 1572 1564 1475 1613 1519 1352 1244 1143 1000 906 311 839 860 742 0 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 CO2e Emission (Scope 1, 2 CO2 Sequestered CO2e Emissions from Combustion of Biomass & 3) in kilotonnes in kilotonnes in kilotonnes (computed since 2012-13) All above figures are rounded off *Dip in CO2 sequestration in 2010-11 caused by reduced productivity of Eucalyptus plantations due to infestation in some areas and lesser incremental addition of plantation area. * Dip in CO2 sequestration in 2012-13 is primarily due to the revision in methodology of computing CO2 sequestration in order to comply with ISO 14064:2006 requirements. * Increase in CO2 sequestration in 2013-14 and 2014-15 is primarily due to increase in the planted area of Subabul and Casuarina species as compared to the previous years. 89 Sustainable Livelihoods Targets and Performance In order to continually improve upon GHG emissions performance, some of ITC’s Businesses have voluntarily set specific GHG emissions reduction targets at the Business/ Unit levels. Since the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business accounts for around 80% of ITC’s total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, focus has been directed at the specific GHG emissions (including Scope 1 and 2 emissions) against targets set for the manufacturing units of this Business: Specific GHG Emissions Units of (tCO2e/MT) Comparison Paperboards Comparison and Specialty against against last Remarks Actual Target Actual target year Papers Business for for for 2013-14 2014-15 2014-15 l Increased production of pulp to replace imported pulp, which led to higher generation of black liquor and subsequent combustion in soda recovery boilers. Bhadrachalam 1.67* 1.67 1.56 7% lower 7% decrease l Energy conservation measures e.g. Replacement of 3 vacuum pumps with one energy efficient vacuum pump, optimisation of power consumption of high capacity motors by installing variable frequency drives, etc. l Energy conservation measures e.g. Improvement in boiler efficiency. Kovai 1.08 1.08 0.79 27% lower 27% decrease l Higher utilisation of biomass fuels viz. wood chips, saw dust and deoiled bran. l Energy conservation measures e.g. Replacement of 2 old boilers and Tribeni 4.79* 4.70 3.70 21% lower 23% decrease turbines with new boiler and turbine resulting in efficiency improvement. l Non availability of gas-based power purchased from third party due to interstate wheeling problems between Andhra Pradesh and Bollaram 0.10 0.098 0.15 53% higher 50% increase Telangana – this non-availability of electricity had to be compensated by electricity generated through inhouse diesel generators. * Values restated with respect to previous year’s reported data: GHG emissions due to energy consumed in integrated township deducted while estimating specific GHG emissions (tCO2e per metric tonne of production) 90 Environmental Performance Impacts in the Value Chain To set organisational boundaries for consolidated GHG emissions, ITC has ITC’s efforts in ITC’s accounting of Scope 3 GHG emissions utilised the operational control approach energy reduction included monitoring and reporting of for the various entities covered under across various emissions from sources as depicted below: the Report. ITC’s accounting of Scope Units have helped Scope 3 GHG Emissions control GHG emissions in 201415. In 2014-15, Exclusive Third Party 25,845 tonnes of Manufacturers (TPMs) GHG emissions catering to notebooks (Scope 1 & 2) were Pick-up segment of Education Inbound Outbound and Stationery Products avoided transportation and drop transportation Employee Business; of products of guests of raw commuting and wastes in ITC materials 2 exclusive TPMs of Hotels Cigarettes Business; ATC Limited – an associate company ITC’s efforts to optimise distribution logistics 1, 2 & 3 GHG emissions is based on the of finished goods for its FMCG Businesses ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and have helped control GHG emissions in Reporting Standard’ and the ‘GHG Protocol 2014-15. Specific Scope 3 emissions due to Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting transportation of FMCG products (Cigarettes, and Reporting Standard’ issued by the Personal Care and Foods) in 2014-15 have World Resources Institute (WRI) and the decreased by around 5% (tonnes of CO2e World Business Council for Sustainable emission/tonne of product transported) as Development (WBCSD). compared to the previous year for the same product categories. This has been achieved The standards, methodologies, tools and by improvement in vehicle utilisation capacity assumptions used for quantification of the across the supply chain and extensive network GHG emissions and removals by various de-layering in order to increase direct sources, have been explained at length in shipments to destination warehouses, thereby the Annexure – Quantification Methodology: avoiding intermediate movements. Energy and GHG Emissions. 91 Sustainable Livelihoods ITC’s Performance on Other Significant Air Emissions All ITC Units monitor significant air emission parameters, such as Particulate Matter (PM), Nitrogen Oxides (NOX) and Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) on a regular basis to ensure compliance with internal norms that are more stringent than regulatory requirements. 1000 883 867 781 776 800 704 592 600 400 200 0 Particulate Matter in NOX in tonnes SO2 in tonnes tonnes 2013-14 2014-15 The decrease in the total emissions over last Snapshot of Bhadrachalam year was primarily due to the continuous Unit’s performance interventions undertaken in Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business (which Owing to the continuous initiatives contributed 82% of the total air emissions in undertaken, there has been a consistent ITC during 2014-15) towards improvement in decrease in specific air emissions in terms fuel combustion efficiencies and air emission of particulate matter, NOX and SO2 emissions control measures. for the Bhadrachalam unit. Particulate Matter 2 1.5 1.54 1.32 kg per BDMT 1 1.00 0.96 0.97 0.5 0.66 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Particulate Matter (kg/BDMT of Production) # BDMT Bone Dry Metric Tonne 92 Environmental Performance Particulate matter emission for (Source: All About Paper – The life cycle of Bhadrachalam has reduced by 57% from Indian Pulp and Paper Industry, Green Rating 1.54 kg/BDMT of production in 2009-10 to Project, 2004), the average particulate 0.66 kg/BDMT of production in 2014-15. As matter emission by large scale Indian Mills is per the Centre for Science & Environment 3.8 kg/BDMT. NOX and SO2 Emissions 0.9 0.79 0.74 0.8 0.61 0.7 0.53 0.6 0.51 kg/tonne 0.5 0.6 0.58 0.36 0.4 0.46 0.3 0.35 0.2 0.33 0.1 0.16 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Specific NOX Emissions Specific SO2 Emissions (kg/tonne) (kg/tonne) Standards for NOX Standards for SO2 (kg/tonne) (kg/tonne) Sweden 1.2-2.4 0.5-1.4 EU 1.0-1.8 0.1-0.5 EU-BAT* 1.0-1.5 0.2-0.4 Reported Values CEPI** 0.73 0.157 Sources 1. Comprehensive Industry Document for Large-Scale Pulp & Paper Mills study by CPPRI, published by CPCB, 2007 *EU-BAT: EU Norm Best Available Technology 2. ** CEPI – Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) Sustainability Report 2005 reported the average specific SO2 and specific NOX values for European Paper Industries in 2002; CEPI Sustainability Report 2013 indicated the reduction in specific SO2 and NOX values for European Paper Industries from 2002 to 2012. 93 Sustainable Livelihoods Hydrogen Sulphide Emissions 12 The primary source of hydrogen sulphide 10 emissions in the integrated pulp and paper mill at Bhadrachalam is the soda recovery 8 boilers in which black liquor is used to produce steam and recover chemicals. In 6 10 mg/nM3 2014-15, hydrogen sulphide emissions for the Unit have marginally increased 4 in comparison to 2013-14 since the unit utilised an increased quantity of domestic 2 3.72 4.21 wood resulting in higher generation of virgin pulp and in turn higher volumes of black 0 liquor being combusted in the soda recovery Hydrogen Sulphide boilers. However, the emission level is well below the regulatory norm. Regulatory Norm 2013-14 2014-15 Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) In 2014-15, the total consumption of ODS by all ITC Units was 108.7 kg of CFC-11 equivalent. ITC’s ODS Phase-out Plan Procurement of Replacement of Recovery of new equipment Monitoring all the existing all the ODS from which are free of and reducing equipment using the equipment Chlorofluorocarbons consumption ODS well before being replaced for (CFC), Halons and of ODS the stipulated recycling or safe Methyl Chloroform phase-out period disposal (MCF) 94 Environmental Performance Responsible Management of of uncontrolled spills or leakage, ITC has Chemicals, Oils and Fuels instituted safe work practices on handling and storage, procedures for leak detection All ITC Units manage chemicals, oils and fuels & spill control and preventive maintenance. as per norms defined by the Company, which The effectiveness of these measures is take into account all statutory requirements checked on a regular basis. and international best practices. These norms are taken into consideration right We also continuously evaluate the feasibility from the design stage and include measures of substituting hazardous chemicals with for leakage/spillage prevention, provisions for containment, impervious flooring, leak less or non-hazardous materials. In 2014detection system as well as all requirements 15, there was no significant spillage of any as per Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for chemical, oil, fuel or hazardous waste in any hazardous chemicals. To avoid any incidence of ITC’s Units. The Road Ahead Reduction in GHG Emissions Reduction in Other Air Emissions Impacts within Boundary For GHG Emissions Moving towards 50% renewable energy share by 2020 by continuing with the strategy of: l Energy audits, benchmarking and target setting for progressively reducing specific energy consumption (energy per unit of product/service). l Investment in renewable energy assets based on techno-commercial feasibility. l Continuous monitoring and review of performance. For Other Air Emissions Continue to focus on: l Improvement of combustion efficiencies of fuels. l State-of-the-art pollution control equipment. Impacts in Value Chain For GHG Emissions 1. Reduction of GHG emissions in transportation of raw materials, finished goods and wastes. 2. Enhancing GHG sequestration through afforestation programmes, details on which are provided in “Social Investments – Mission Sunehra Kal” section. 3. Ensuring the sustainability of agri-inputs through integrated watershed development and soil and moisture conservation projects in catchment areas. 4. Encouraging supply chain partners for reduction of GHG emissions. For Other Air Emissions To work towards evaluation of other air emissions from the transport fleets involved in ITC’s distribution logistics and to draw a roadmap for addressing the impacts. u Life cycle assessment studies for evaluation of the hotspots in the value chain of products/services and taking necessary corrective actions. u Development of internal capacities and use of LCA as a tool for product design and development by each business. 95 Water Management Management technical issues related to water. ITC has also actively supported the development of the Approach India Water Tool as a working group member, an activity coordinated by the WBCSD. This Global water requirements are projected to tool permits a first level analysis of water exceed available sustainable water supplies risks across the country, an issue that is by 40% by 20301. The issue of water crisis becoming increasingly real in the Indian plagues large parts of the world including context. ITC, through its deep and longAfrica, parts of North America and Asia. standing relationship with rural India has India is particularly vulnerable to water first-hand insights of what water scarcity stress given the rapid urbanisation and and climate change means to the marginal industrialisation at a time when rainfall farmers of India. patterns are seeing disruption and snow fed rivers are being threatened both by retreating As a proactive and responsible Corporate glaciers and geopolitical pressures on citizen, ITC has invested significantly in diversion of headwaters of rivers originating integrated watershed and soil management in the Tibetan Plateau. ITC has sought to programmes that focus on institution engage actively with multilateral agencies building and participative management of like the World Business Council for water resources by farmers. As a next step Sustainable Development (WBCSD), World ITC is in the process of fine tuning a long Resources Institute (WRI), International term strategy for ensuring water security Water Management Institute (IWMI) etc. at the localised watershed level for all to share experiences and also improve stakeholders and for all operating units understanding of the complex social and located at identified high water risk areas. 1 Source: Charting our Water Future, Report by 2030 Water Resources Group, 2009 97 Sustainable Livelihoods ITC’s Sustainability Challenges Policies ITC from Water Addressing these Strategy Stress Challenges l With continuous decline in ground water l Conducting water audits, benchmarking and uneven supply of surface water, it and implementation of best practices for may become even more challenging for reducing water intake. businesses to meet their requirements. l Target setting for progressively reducing l Additional regulatory limits on water specific water intake (water per unit of withdrawal owing to challenges from product/service). decrease in water availability. l Continuous monitoring of performance and l Largely rain-fed farming in India, with management review through Integrated around 55% of net sown area meeting its Sustainability Data Management System (ISDMS). water requirements from rainwater alone and agriculture providing employment to l Treating effluent so as to ensure that over 50% of the workforce. discharge quality is better than statutory requirements and progressing towards l Due to absence of adequate infrastructure Policy on recycling/reusing of all treated effluent support, any significant disruption in Environment, within or outside ITC premises. rainfall patterns resulting from climate Health and change may lead to considerable adverse Safety l Evaluation of water availability/stress at impacts on agricultural yields. ITC Units on the basis of data available with Policy on Government agencies. Life-cycle l Water availability especially critical for Sustainability l Engagement with external stakeholders ITC, as most of its businesses depend significantly on agri-inputs. Policy on for assessment and mitigation of water Responsible related risks at the local watershed level. l Impact on water quality owing to Sourcing disruptions in rainfall patterns. l Life cycle based approach for understanding impacts across the value chain. l Increased ground water mining is exacerbating an issue that has already l Ensuring the sustainability of agriculture assumed critical dimensions due to through integrated watershed development contamination as well as inadequate including rainwater harvesting and soil recharge. and moisture conservation projects particularly in regions where ITC sources l Poor water quality requiring additional its raw materials from. treatment and additional expenses before it can become usable. l Grassroots capacity building for proper governance in agricultural water usage. l Risk of localised contamination like arsenic, fluoride, etc., already prevalent l Enhancing ITC’s water positive footprint in some of the states, which is expected to through rainwater harvesting, both within ITC’s increase leading to severe potential health Units and across different watershed areas. hazards. l Responsible water stewardship actions – working towards meeting the water security needs of all stakeholders at the local watershed level. Within Boundary Beyond Boundary 98 Environmental Performance ITC’s Performance The increase in total water intake can be attributed primarily to the inclusion of the ITC has actively Water Withdrawal following Units/activities into the reporting supported the boundary – Snacks and Noodles Unit of development of the In 2014-15, ITC Units withdrew 34.48 million Foods Business at Malur (Karnataka), kilolitres (kl) of water, an increase of only India Water Tool clonal plantation development activities of 2% over the previous year (33.73 million kl Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business that permits a first in 2013-14) despite expansion in reporting at Bhadrachalam, ITC Grand Bharat in level analysis of boundary. This performance is attributable to Gurgaon and My Fortune Bengaluru of water risks across the ongoing initiatives undertaken towards the Hotels Business, together with Classic the country water conservation across ITC Units. Golf Resort in Gurgaon, ITC Kakatiya in Hyderabad and Fortune Resort Bay Island in Of the 34.48 million kl of total water Andaman and Nicobar Islands being units of withdrawn, 76.1% of water resources were subsidiary companies. sourced from rivers, 21.3% from ground water sources and only 2.6% from municipal Although with the reporting boundary and other water sources. expansion, there has been an increase in total water withdrawal by ITC, focused efforts Sources of 34.48 million kl of Total Water by all Units to reduce intake by conducting Withdrawn by ITC in 2014-15 water audits, benchmarking and adopting leading practices facilitated the reduction of specific water intake as illustrated in the 21.3% following sections. In order to maintain its performance, ITC 2.6% Businesses have set voluntary specific water intake reduction targets at the Unit/ 76.1% Business level. Considering the fact that Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business Units together accounted for around 89% of total water Surface Water intake of ITC as demonstrated below, it is logical that significant efforts have been Municipal Water & Others focused on the performance of the Units Ground Water under this Business. Total Water Intake of Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business and the Rest of ITC (million kl) 25.24 Total Water Withdrawal in million kl 3.66 4.37 1.18 0.03 Bhadrachalam Tribeni Kovai Bollaram + 30.82 Divisional Head Office PSPD Rest of ITC 99 Sustainable Livelihoods Paperboards Unit at primarily due to various water conservation Bhadrachalam initiatives undertaken by the Unit e.g. pipeline modification for increasing usage India’s largest integrated paper and of paper machine back water, optimisation paperboards mill accounted for 73.2% of the of water needed for pulp dilution etc. The total freshwater intake in ITC. In 2014-15, persistent efforts of the Unit towards water the Bhadrachalam Unit’s freshwater intake conservation are evident in the consistently was 42.6 kl per tonne of product, a reduction decreasing trend of specific water intake as of 5% over the previous year’s 45.1 kl/tonne, depicted below. Proposed NPC Benchmark Standard of 63 kl/tonne for large scale integrated pulp and paper mills (Reference: Final Report on Development of Guidelines for Water Conservation in Pulp and Paper Sector by NPC, New Delhi, March 2006.) 70 Specific Water Intake (kl/tonne) 60 54.67 50.47 48.22 45.07 50 46.39 43.30 42.63 40 30 20 10 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Target for 2014-15 2014-15 ITC has invested significantly in integrated watershed and soil management programmes that focus on institution building and participative management of water resources by farmers 100 Environmental Performance Specialty Papers Unit at Tribeni ITC’s Unit at Tribeni manufactures specialty paper, which is a water intensive process. The Unit has achieved around 6% reduction of specific water intake per tonne of product during the reporting period over the previous year primarily due to the initiatives undertaken to achieve reduction in specific water intake like increase in recovery of paper machine back water and reuse in the machine, removal of additional perforated showers for wire section of paper machine etc. 130 125 Specific Water Intake 120 124.24 115 116.59 (kl/tonne) 115.88 *114.55 110 107.76 110.00 107.76 105 100 95 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Target for 2014-15 2014-15 *Increase of 6.3% in 2013-14 over the previous year was primarily due to the commissioning activities of the new power plant at Tribeni. Note: There is no specific NPC benchmark standard for Tribeni Paperboards Unit at Kovai Cast Coating Unit at Bollaram Water conservation measures including The target of 0.48 kl/tonne for 2014-15 could increased recycling of treated effluent and not be achieved as decrease in production use in process, installation of new cooling resulted in specific water intake of 0.53 kl/ tower in board machine etc. undertaken by tonne (actual performance was 0.52 kl/tonne the Unit led to the reduction in specific water in 2013-14). intake from 13.75 kl/tonne in 2013-14 to 11.60 kl/tonne in 2014-15. Proposed NPC Benchmark Standard of 19 kl/tonne for recycled fibre based paper mills 20 Specific Water Intake in Kovai 18 16 14 16.65 13.97 15.94 12 10 13.09 13.75 13.20 11.60 (kl/tonne) 8 6 4 2 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Target for 2014-15 2014-15 101 Sustainable Livelihoods Effluent Treated Effluent Discharged by Destination Common Municipal Effluent Sewers Treatment 0.5% Plant 0.2% Total volume of 24.24 million kl of treated effluent was discharged outside the Irrigation Surface premises by ITC outside Water units premises Bodies 67.5% 31.8% Effluent Discharge Bhadrachalam Unit has been reaping the benefits of initiatives undertaken towards The two Paperboards and Specialty Papers recycling of treated effluent as is evident from Units at Bhadrachalam and Tribeni accounted the continually decreasing trend of specific for 98.9% of total wastewater discharged treated effluent discharged. For Tribeni Unit, outside Unit premises in ITC and 67.8% of the specific treated effluent discharged has the water discharged outside from these increased from 59.2 kl/tonne to 66.7 kl/tonne. two Units was utilised for irrigation purpose. This is due to the installation of a new boiler, Therefore specific focus has been accorded which required additional treatment to meet to the performance of these 2 Units in terms specified water quality standards and resulted of treated effluent discharge volume as well in increased discharge of treated effluent in as quality. 2014-15 with respect to 2013-14. Specific Treated Eﬄuent Discharge in ITC Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units (kl/tonne) NPC benchmark standard** of 50 kl/tonne for NPC benchmark standard absent for Specialty integrated pulp and paper industry Papers Industry 80 74.4 72.5 71.1 68.5 66.7 70 63.9 63 63.7 59.1 59.6 59.8 59.2 60 48 44.9 45 50 43.4 41.8 40.4 40 30 20 10 0 Bhadrachalam Tribeni 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 **Reference: National Productivity Council (NPC)’s Final Report on Development of Guidelines for Water Conservation in Pulp and Paper Sector by NPC, New Delhi, March 2006. 102 Environmental Performance Specific Treated Eﬄuent Discharged (kl/tonne) for Kovai Unit NPC benchmark standard of 15 kl/tonne for wastepaper-based pulp and paper mills 18 16 14 12 11.3 kl/tonne 10 9.3 8.1 8 6.9 6 4 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Since 2010-11, the wastepaper-based pulp and paper mill at Kovai has not discharged any treated effluent outside its premises. The quality of the treated effluent from Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units was far better than the stipulated standards in India: Treated Eﬄuent Quality: Annual Average (2014-15) Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units 300 Treated Effluent Quality (mg/l) 250 250 200 166 150 110 100 100 86 63 30 32 50 22 14 8 6 0 BOD COD TSS Bhadrachalam Tribeni Kovai National Standard In addition, the quality of the treated effluent from Bhadrachalam Unit was comparable with European standards: Bhadrachalam European Paper Industries# Parameters (kg/tonne of finished product) (kg/tonne of finished product) BOD 0.90 0.816 COD 6.69 5.713 #Reference: Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) Sustainability Report 2005 reported the average specific BOD and specific COD values for European Paper Industries in 2002; CEPI Sustainability Report 2013 indicated the reduction in specific AOX value for European Paper Industries from 2002 to 2012. 103 Sustainable Livelihoods Specific AOX Level in Kg/ Unit Reference tonne of finished product Bhadrachalam 0.0097 Unit Benchmarks 1 MoEFCC standard Average as per Comprehensive Industry Document Indian Paper/ for Large-Scale Paper Mills, study conducted by 0.46-0.8 Paperboard mills Central Pulp and Paper Research Institute, 2007 Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) Sustainability Report 2005 reported the European Paper average specific AOX value for European Paper 0.019 Industries Industries in 2002; CEPI Sustainability Report 2013 mentioned the reduction in specific AOX value for European Paper Industries from 2002 to 2012 World Bank World Bank Guideline for New Paper Mills (2007) 0.25 Standard Another critical parameter applicable only and Climate Change (MoEFCC) as well as to ITC’s Bhadrachalam Unit is the level of national and international benchmarks. adsorbable organic halides (AOX) generated during the bleaching process. These ITC is committed to achieving zero effluent compounds are formed as a result of reaction discharge through treating and recycling of between residual lignin from wood fibres all wastewater and harvesting of rainwater and chlorine compounds used for bleaching. on its properties. This not only reduces water Depicted above is the specific AOX level for intake but also maximises groundwater Bhadrachalam Unit for the year 2014-15 recharge, reduces run-off etc. In 2014-15, showing that the level is well below the norm the following Units achieved the goal of zero stipulated by Ministry of Environment, Forest effluent discharge: Cigarette Factories at Bengaluru, Saharanpur & Pune, Leaf Processing Units at Anaparti, Chirala & Mysuru, Packaging & Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur, Snacks and Noodles Unit at Malur, Life Sciences & Technology Centre at Bengaluru, Research Centre at Rajahmundry, Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business Units at Kovai and Bollaram, Personal Care Products Business Unit at Manpura, Lifestyle Retailing Business Unit at Manesar, Hotel Units ITC Maratha in Mumbai, ITC Rajputana at Jaipur, ITC Grand Bharat and ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon. 104 Environmental Performance With the intent of progressing towards water ii. De-silting of cascading storage tank beds stewardship, ITC has started carrying out and repairing damaged infrastructure of appropriate studies at identified Units to small tanks should also be considered a develop a comprehensive understanding of priority investment, not only to enhance issues involved. A pilot project to this effect water storage and financial benefits to has been initiated at one of ITC’s surface local communities, but also to augment water intensive Units: river flows in non-monsoon seasons. The study focused on the following: iii. As far as waste water is concerned, the industries should address perceived a) Conducting a water accounting exercise water quality issues that have been raised over the entire river basin in general by some stakeholders. While direct water and in the local catchment in particular to understand current water availability, withdrawals from the river, especially water use patterns, return flows, re-use during the non-monsoon months are vital and future demand; for sustainable operations of industries, the access to acceptable quality return b) Assessment of environmental flows flows can be a viable financial source for requirement of the river basin to irrigation users. understand the implications of maintaining environmental flows as a iv. A potential location to start intervention policy on other water users and water use in the local catchment could be a in the local catchment; tributary which is a seasonal river c) Evaluation of potential surface and flow with sufficient monsoon run-off. sub-surface interventions, including Capturing 10 to 20% of the monsoon runmanagement of aquifer recharge and off in surface and sub-surface storage cascading storage tank rejuvenation will not only enhance water storage of the to augment water supply in the local communities there, but also proliferate catchment, as well as cost-benefit river flow in low flow months without analysis of the identified interventions. undue effect on environmental flows in the monsoon months. Key recommendations included: i. Management of aquifer recharge should v. Improvement in agricultural practices be implemented in high and moderate should be focused upon to reduce potential zones, either through private or agricultural water consumption in the public partnership or both for increasing local catchment since it contributes to water availability for all sectors. the bulk of withdrawal from the river. 105 Sustainable Livelihoods Impacts in the Value Chain and to draw up an action plan for addressing the key impact areas, in 2010, ITC initiated the In line with the Board approved Policies on life cycle assessment (LCA) for its products Life-cycle Sustainability and Responsible and till date 3 LCAs have been completed. Sourcing, in 2014-15, ITC has initiated the In 2014-15, as part of the LCA for one of process of accounting for water intake of its products, ITC specifically conducted a supply chain members. The total water water footprint study for a product of the intake for ATC Limited (an associate Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business Company), HDC Hyderabad and RCTI Bhopal as per the latest Standard (ISO 14046). (exclusive third party manufacturers for Details of the results of this study are the Cigarettes Business) together was available for reference in the “Supply Chain” 30,451 kl. Furthermore with an objective of section of this Report. Going forward, ITC understanding the impacts in the value chain intends to undertake more LCA studies for evaluating opportunities for improvement in the value chains of its products and services and take necessary corrective actions. Enlarging Water Positive Footprint The Company’s continued interventions in rainwater harvesting both in the Company premises and socially relevant watershed areas have enlarged ITC’s water positive footprint. Details on these interventions are available in the “Social Investments – Mission Sunehra Kal” section of this Report. As on March 31, 2015, ITC’s Integrated Watershed Development Projects, covering nearly 2,00,186 hectares of land, support the Water Positive status of the Company for the 13th year in a row. The total rainwater harvesting potential created by the Company so far is over two times the net water consumption by ITC’s manufacturing operations. Water Balance 25.84 25.63 30 23.59 23.27 19.6 19.93 20.6 19.89 21.05 21.47 25 16.06 16.86 Million kl 20 12.74 15 10 9.49 8.44 8.54 8.2 9.26 9.83 10.24 5 5.43 4.62 6.21 6.55 7.15 6.22 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 -03 -04 -05 -06 -07 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 -15 Net water consumption (=Fresh Total RWH potential created for the year (= RWH potential Water Intake Treated Effluents created within ITC Units + RWH potential created through Discharged) watershed projects cumulative for that year) 106 Environmental Performance For the watershed structures outside ITC Units, the ‘RWH potential’ figures from The Road Ahead 2008-09 account for silt deposits the While continuing its integrated watershed adjustments are based on actual sample management programme, ITC will be guided by the principles of water stewardship to measurement & the extent of silt deposit ensure water security for all stakeholders depends on the age & location of a structure. across all ITC operating Units. Ensuring that responsible Mitigation of Addressing water stewardship actions water risks to shared water are taken to minimise own operations challenges in the negative impacts and catchment maximise positive impacts 1. Identification of key 1. Identification of water 1. Addressing water security performance indicators security issues at the issues in regions where (KPIs) and setting local watershed level. ITC sources its agritargets for continual commodities from. improvement based 2. Measures initiated to on internal as well as achieve water security 2. Integrated watershed external benchmarking. for all stakeholders development and soil and with review and moisture conservation 2. Monitoring and review public reporting of projects in those regions. of performance against performance. KPIs and targets set 3. Capacity building of through integrated farmers to ensure selfsustainability data sustenance of the management system. watershed development programmes. Life-cycle assessment studies for evaluation of the opportunities for improvement in the value chain of products/services and taking necessary corrective actions. 107 Recycling and Waste Management Management its way to landfills, causing a severe strain on the ecology. Heaps of unattended waste, Approach foraged by cattle and rag-pickers alike, have become a common sight both in urban and The issue of waste management has assumed rural areas of the country. critical significance for the country today. Over the last few decades, the amount of Apart from the increasing pressures on waste generated has gone up considerably natural resources, the issue of burgeoning as a direct consequence of increasing waste also contributes to soil and ground population, rapid and unplanned urbanisation, water contamination and Greenhouse Gas higher consumption levels and inadequate (GHG) emissions, which are threatening the infrastructure. However as a country, quality of life throughout India. appropriate waste management mechanisms have not received adequate focus. As a result, As a responsible Corporate Citizen, ITC’s approach most of the waste being generated today finds on this important aspect is depicted below. ITC’s Challenges Sustainability ITC of Waste Policies Strategy Management Addressing these Challenges l Waste generation from processes CREATING A affecting overall efficiency and product POSITIVE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT competitiveness. l Resource Conservation l Inadequate waste segregation at source, Reducing specific waste generation at leading to inefficient recoveries and more all ITC units through constant monitoring waste diverted to landfills. and improvement of efficiencies in Policy on material utilisation. l Inadequate infrastructure and unorganised Environment, waste collection processes. Health and l Segregation at Source l Inadequate awareness and absence of Safety Ensuring maximum reuse and recycling of wastes incentives/penalties necessary to change by following ‘segregation at source’ approach. behaviour of people to promote reducePolicy on l Towards 100% Recycling reuse-recycle of waste. Life-cycle Sustainability Tracking of each category of waste to ensure that it can be reused wherever possible, and if not, recycled. This ensures Policy on that almost no waste from ITC’s businesses Responsible Sourcing lands up in municipal or private landfills. l Use of Waste as Raw Materials Corporate Social ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Responsibility Units are encouraged to increase the Policy utilisation of post-consumer waste as a source of fibre instead of virgin fibre. “WOW”: Well-being Out of Waste Promote a clean and green environment and create sustainable livelihoods for rag-pickers and waste collectors, by developing a scalable business model for post-consumer waste recycling in collaboration with local municipal corporations. Within Boundary Beyond Boundary 109 Sustainable Livelihoods Our Performance at Gurgaon and My Fortune at Bengaluru of the Hotels Business, clonal plantation Waste Generation development activities of Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business at Bhadrachalam, In 2014-15, ITC Units generated 7,91,227 together with Classic Golf Resort in Gurgaon, tonnes of waste (7,11,887 tonnes in 2013ITC Kakatiya in Hyderabad and Fortune 14). This 11.1% rise in total waste generated Resort Bay Island in Andaman and Nicobar over last year was primarily due to nonIslands, being units of subsidiary companies. availability of low ash content coal and augmentation of virgin pulp production In order to continually improve performance in Bhadrachalam Unit of the Paperboards on resource conservation, all ITC Units have and Specialty Papers Division. This Unit, developed systems to track and monitor the which accounted for 79.8% of the total specific waste generation (waste generated waste generated in ITC during 2014-15, per unit of product/service). Considering reported an increase of 16.3% in waste the significant share of Paperboards and generation as compared to previous year. Specialty Papers Business in the total Business-wise break-up of wastes generated in ITC (2014-15): Tonnes % Paperboards and Specialty Papers 7,21,211 91.15 Leaf Tobacco 22,198 2.81 Packaging and Printing 19,455 2.46 Foods 12,035 1.52 Cigarettes 9,417 1.19 Hotels 5,315 0.67 Personal Care Products 1,335 0.17 Others 263 0.03 (Offices, ITC Infotech, Lifestyle Retailing) Total 7,91,227 In addition, there has been an expansion waste generated by ITC (as demonstrated in the reporting boundary. The following in the above table), specific focus has been business units/activities have been included laid on monitoring the performance of the in the Sustainability Report for 2014-15: Units under this Business. Specific waste Snacks and Noodles Unit of Foods Business generation of these Units are as follows: at Malur (Karnataka), ITC Grand Bharat Specific Waste Generation (kg/tonne) Percentage Increase/ Unit Primary factors Deviation Decrease 2013-14 2014-15 Non availability of low ash content coal, Bhadrachalam 1044.3 1171.1 12.1% Increase and rise in virgin pulp production (avoiding use of imported pulp). Process improvement and waste reduction Bollaram 75.7 71.0 6.2% Decrease programmes Increased use of lignite and de-oiled bran Kovai 209.5 210.2 0.3% Increase (higher ash content as compared to coal) Replacement of old boilers with a new Tribeni 2517.0 2055.6 18.3% Decrease efficient boiler 110 Environmental Performance Specific Waste Generation of Bhadrachalam (kg/tonne of paper and paperboard) Average generation of 1200 kg of solid waste per tonne of product for similar integrated pulp and paper mills** 1400 1116 1127 1111 1171 1200 1030 1044 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Specific Waste Generation (kg/tonne of paper and paperboard) ITC’s Paperboards **Reference: Centre for Science and Environment Report, ‘All About Paper’ (2004) and Specialty Papers Units Historically, due to limited options for recycling of lime sludge (a waste generated are encouraged from chemical recovery process in Bhadrachalam Unit), some amount was being to increase the utilised by cement plants, with the bulk stored in lagoons within the premises, incorporating adequate precautions to prevent adverse impacts on soil and ground utilisation of postwater. In 2014-15, the Unit tied up with more cement plants and around 14,000 tonnes consumer waste of waste was recycled through this arrangement. The accumulated quantity of lime as a source of fibre sludge in these lagoons is estimated to be around 2.5 lac tonnes and it is expected that instead of virgin the entire amount of accumulated lime sludge will be utilised within the next 3 years. fibre 111 Sustainable Livelihoods ITC strives to maximise resource efficiency in all its Units so as to reduce waste generation Segregation of Waste The table below depicts the final and its Destination destinations of the total hazardous wastes generated during 2014-15: Of the total waste generated by ITC in 2014Total hazardous waste and its Destination 15, only 3.2% by weight can be categorised (2014-15) as hazardous waste as per Indian statutes. 94.5% of this hazardous waste was recycled Total hazardous waste 25,111 by authorised external agencies, and the generated balance 5.5% was disposed off or stored Hazardous waste carried completely in accordance with applicable over from previous year and 40 statutes. All ITC Units have established disposed in 2014-15 systems and procedures to verify the Recycled 23,771 relevant authorisations and licenses of external agencies for transporting, recycling Incineration + Landfill 1,314 or disposing the hazardous wastes, in On-site storage 66 compliance with applicable regulations and norms. Further, Corporate EHS periodically (All values in Tonnes) verifies the compliance in each of the ITC During 2014-15, out of the total non-hazardous Units. During 2014-15, apart from hazardous waste generated in ITC Units, 99.97% waste wastes transported to external treatment was reused/recycled. The details of the sites by authorised transport agencies as destination for the major waste categories, applicable, no other hazardous wastes were which contributed to more than 85% of the transported between locations owned or total non-hazardous waste generated in ITC managed by the organisation. units in 2014-15, are given below: Quantity Non-hazardous Generated by of Waste destination waste category generation (Tonnes) Fly ash generated from Units of Paperboards & Specialty Papers Used by cement and brick 3,98,369 coal-fired boilers and Leaf Tobacco Businesses manufacturers Bhadrachalam and Tribeni Units of Utilised in-house as well as by Lime sludge 2,07,466 Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business external cement manufactures Bottom ash from Units of Paperboards & Specialty Papers Used for brick manufacturing 51,091 coal-fired boilers and Leaf Tobacco Businesses and filling of low-lying areas Wood waste from Bhadrachalam Unit of Paperboards & Used as a fuel in an 24,517 chipping operation Specialty Papers Business in-house boiler 112 Environmental Performance Waste Recycling waste. Approach of ‘segregation at source’ along with focused attention on identifying ITC strives to maximise resource efficiency in and tracking of all waste streams till its all its Units so as to reduce waste generation final disposal have helped to enhance the to the extent possible. Since generation of performance in waste recycling across waste cannot be completely eliminated due all Units. During 2014-15, 99.8% of the to limitations in processes and technology, total waste generated within the units was all ITC Businesses/Units endeavour to recycled. work towards 100% recycling of generated Progress on Waste Recycling 900 100.0% 99.8 99.8 99.9 99.8 99.9 99.8 800 99.8% 700 99.6% 600 99.4% 500 99.2% 400 99.0% 98.9 99.8 300 98.8% 200 98.6% 353 490 579 638 663 682 712 791 100 98.4% 0 98.2% 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Total Waste Generation (kilo tonnes) Waste Recycling % Units that recycled more than 99% of generated waste: Cigarette factories at Bengaluru, Leaf Tobacco processing Units at Munger, Saharanpur, Kolkata and Pune. Anaparti, Chirala and Mysuru. Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units at Bhadrachalam, Kovai and ILTD Divisional Head Office in Guntur. Bollaram. Personal Care Business Unit at Haridwar. ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon. Foods Business Units at Haridwar Hotels: ITC Maurya, ITC Maratha, (Snacks and Biscuits) and Pune ITC Grand Central, ITC Windsor, ITC (Snacks). Mughal, ITC Gardenia, ITC Grand Chola, ITC Sonar, ITC Rajputana, ITC Kakatiya, My Fortune Chennai and ITC Life Sciences and Technology WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi. Centre at Bengaluru. 113 Sustainable Livelihoods Waste Used as Raw Materials programme with scope enhanced to “Wellbeing out of Waste” focused on creating Use of post-consumer waste as raw materials scalable solutions for spreading awareness by the Paperboards and Specialty Paper Units about recycling, encouraging people to at Kovai and Bhadrachalam has enabled segregate & dispose waste responsibly and the Company to further expand its waste creating sustainable livelihoods for people recycling footprint. Efforts at ITC Units to working as rag-pickers. recycle the entire waste generated along with utilisation of externally generated As part of ITC’s ongoing efforts towards waste paper as a source of fibre in the above maximising value capture from postmentioned Paperboards and Specialty Paper consumer waste, a pilot project on recycled Units, have helped the company to maintain compact boards made out of packaging its solid waste recycling positive status for the waste has led to the development of school 8th consecutive year (refer the table below). furniture which have been deployed in schools supported by ITC. Applications for “Wealth Out of Waste” (WOW), a recycling these boards within ITC facilities are also programme initiated in April 2007 by the being explored. In addition, studies are being Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business carried out to explore viability of converting of ITC, has evolved into a corporate level waste plastic to fuel. 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 # Total waste generated (tonnes) 3,52,970 4,90,180 5,78,865 6,38,405 6,63,796 6,82,405 7,11,887 7,91,227 Waste recycled (tonnes)® 3,49,264 4,84,287 5,77,766 6,37,452 6,62,978 6,81,129 7,11,033 7,89,720 % Recycled 98.90 98.80 99.80 99.80 99.90 99.80 99.90 99.80 Un-recycled waste (tonnes) 3,706 5,893 1,099 953 818 1,276 854 1,592 External wastes used as raw 1,63,245 1,25,337 1,25,931 1,19,002 1,15,414 1,18,462 1,09,998 1,14,563 materials (tonnes) Waste recycling footprint (%)* 145 124 122 119 117 117 115 114 # 85 Tonnes of waste, carried over from previous year was disposed in 2014-15 but not included in ‘total waste generated’ * Waste Recycling footprint (%) = (Waste recycled + external waste used as raw material)*100/Total waste generated in ITC ® Waste recycled include 8,891 tonnes of waste composted 114 Environmental Performance Waste from Supply Chain In 2013-14, ITC started accounting for the waste generated from the operations of exclusive third party manufacturing (TPM) Units catering to the notebook segment of ITC’s Education and Stationery Product Business as well as ATC Limited, ITC’s associate company. To expand this coverage, this year TPM Units for Cigarette Business have also been included in the reporting boundary. Performance of these Units is detailed below. ITC will continue to progressively extend this coverage. Quality of data continues to be a challenge in the TPM facilities. Capacity building and regular review of performance data will be continued so as to improve the data quality in the coming years. Total Waste Generated Supply Chain Members % Recycled (tonnes) Exclusive TPM Units for 3,879 95.3 Notebook segment Exclusive TPM Units for 1,201 99.3 Cigarette Business ATC Limited 752 99.9 The Road Ahead Continue to focus on reducing the waste generation in the Units and work towards 100% reuse/recycle of the generated waste with regular monitoring of key performance indicators against set targets. LCA studies for identified products/services to evaluate the opportunities for improvement and enhance the resource efficiency in value chain. A pilot project on recycled compact Expansion of Well-being out of Waste (WOW) programme to promote reduceboards made reuse-recycle approach at households as well as develop formal structures to out of packaging encourage sustainable livelihoods for the rag-pickers. waste has led to the development Analysis of techno-commercial feasibility of in-house use of post-consumer of school furniture waste collected through WOW programme. which have been l Fuel for energy generation. deployed in schools l Compact boards, made of packaging waste, to be used for construction purpose. supported by ITC 115 Raw Materials Management For addressing the impacts outside the boundary of operations, life cycle assessment Approach study of ITC’s products are progressively being taken up with the objective of making All ITC Units continue to pursue efficient use such studies an integral part of product of natural resources through extensive process design and development. In addition, Board management initiatives focused on waste approved policies of ITC supplemented elimination/reduction. Moreover, as most of by a ‘Code of Conduct for Vendors and ITC’s businesses are vertically integrated, this provides the Company unique opportunities Service providers’ provide the direction for for exercising greater control over waste sustainable sourcing of raw materials to minimisation. Such integration facilitates ensure their long-term availability. Please optimum utilisation of raw materials, recycling/ refer to “Supply Chain” section of this Report reuse of wastes as well as efficient logistics. for further details. 117 Sustainable Livelihoods ITC’s Challenges Sustainability Policies ITC from Materials Strategy Sustainability Addressing these Challenges l Increased competition for resources, l Maximise resource use efficiency through technology barriers, need for capital rigorous process controls. investments and maintaining cost competitiveness. l Life cycle assessment studies for identifying broad areas for improvements l Due to absence of adequate infrastructural as well as building internal competencies support, any significant disruption in and expand these studies to all other rainfall patterns resulting from climate products and services (Please refer to change may lead to considerable adverse “Supply Chain” section of this Report for impacts on agricultural yields. further details). l Climate change aggravates the risks of low Policy on l Ensuring the sustainability of agriculture productivity of agricultural sector of India, Environment, through integrated watershed development impacting sustainability of agri based Health and Safety projects including rainwater harvesting businesses. and soil and moisture conservation Policy on projects particularly in regions where ITC l Focusing on long term sustainability goals Life-cycle sources its raw materials from. while operating in an environment where Sustainability both market dynamics as well as regulatory l Grassroots capacity building for proper framework is focused on the short term. Policy on governance in agricultural water usage, Responsible self-sustenance of integrated watershed l Low productivity as an outcome of Sourcing development programmes, infrastructure increasingly small farm-plot holdings, improvement etc. (Please refer to “Social inadequate access of farmers to knowledge Investments – Mission Sunehra Kal” of this and technology. Report for further details). l Agricultural procurement and sourcing l ITC, through industry associations, and policies in India come from a controlled market other appropriate forums engages with philosophy shaped by circumstances of postpolicy makers to discuss these issues. independence in India. For a new India, where agri-productivity has to be maximised while also ensuring social equity, a new framework of laws and regulations is necessary. l Furthermore, absence of crop and weather insurance reduce the risk-taking capability of the small farmers for investment in infrastructure improvement. Within Boundary Beyond Boundary 118 Environmental Performance ITC’s Performance materials was sourced by Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business (ITC’s initiatives ITC’s products and services can be broadly in promoting sustainable social and farm classified into the following categories: forestry plantations have been detailed in “Social Investments: Mission Sunehra Kal” 1. FMCG (B to C) Products section). Another 34% of the renewable raw Cigarettes, Branded Packaged Foods, materials was procured by the Foods and Personal Care Products, Education Agri Businesses. Sustainability aspects in the and Stationery Products, Matches and supply chain of these businesses have been Agarbattis. detailed in the “Supply Chain” and “Product Responsibility” sections of this Report. 2. INDUSTRIAL SUPPLIES AND Green leaf tobacco which constitutes around EXPORTS 8% of the total renewable raw materials is Paper, Paperboards, Packaging, Leaf procured by the Leaf Tobacco Division of ITC Tobacco, etc. from tobacco auction platforms. This Division also works on the social and environmental 3. SERVICES performance of its leaf tobacco supply Hoteliering and Information Technology. chain through the Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production (SRTP) programme, A very significant proportion of raw performance of which is monitored by AB materials in ITC businesses are sourced from Sustain, an independent third party reviewer. agricultural farms and plantations. In 201415, ITC processed over 27,50,000 tonnes The uniqueness of this programme is that of materials, out of which 97% were from it covers all aspects of the tobacco leaf agricultural farms and plantations which value chain which ensures best practices in are renewable. 58% of this renewable raw tobacco farming and processing. 119 Sustainable Livelihoods Responsible Sourcing of area under social and farm forestry by 29,933 hectares in 2014-15. Wood Fibre Apart from the obvious benefits of increasing Wood is a major source of fibre for the paper the green cover, plantation on degradable and paperboards industry. Availability of wastelands under the social forestry wood remains a critical challenge and is a programme, also directly contributes to in serious sustainability concern, especially in situ moisture conservation, ground water a country with limited natural resources and recharge and significant reduction in topsoil acute income inequities. losses caused by wind and water erosion. In Approximately 48% of the total fibre addition, as a result of the leaf litter from requirements of ITC’s Paperboards and multi-species plantations and the promotion Specialty Papers Division is met by the pulp of leguminous intercrops, soils are constantly manufactured at Bhadrachalam, another 22% enriched. comes from recycled fibre, processed at Kovai and Bhadrachalam, and the balance Forest Stewardship Council 30% is imported pulp used at Bhadrachalam Certifications and Tribeni Units. Approximately 74% of Further consolidating ITC’s Triple Bottom fibre manufactured in Bhadrachalam is from Line performance, the four units of ITC’s wood sourced from ITC’s social and farm Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division forestry initiatives. Majority of fibre used for i.e. Bhadrachalam, Bollaram, Kovai and As most of ITC’s operations at the Kovai Unit is from recycled Tribeni, received the prestigious ‘Forest businesses fibre and ITC confirms that 100% of wood Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody’ are vertically and recycled fibre used by ITC’s Paperboards Certification in 2009 and have retained integrated, this and Specialty Papers Business is of known the same during the current year also. To provides the and legal origin. In-house R&D has developed ensure responsible wood all domestic wood high yielding, site specific, disease resistant procurement sources have been certified as Company unique eucalyptus and subabul clones on the per standards of FSC-Controlled Wood. opportunities for back of extensive knowledge of plantation exercising greater management practices. ITC distributed The FSC is an independent, noncontrol over waste 167.18 million high quality saplings to governmental, not-for-profit organisation minimisation farmers which resulted in increasing the established to promote the responsible 120 Environmental Performance management of the world’s forests and is organisation’s continued commitment to recognised as the gold standard in wood sustainable business practices and to the All four units of certification for ethical and legal sourcing. building of an inclusive and secure future for ITC’s Paperboards The FSC is represented in more than 107 both its stakeholders and society at large. countries around the world, and is the most and Specialty widely accepted and respected amongst Papers Division forest product certification schemes. The Road Ahead (Bhadrachalam, Bollaram, Kovai and FSC endorsement implies that an In the coming years, ITC plans to carry Tribeni) received organisation complies with its principles out more life cycle assessment studies the prestigious and criteria in the different areas of its functioning. ITC’s Paper and Paperboards of products/services to evaluate the ‘Forest Stewardship Division can supply FSC certified paper/ environmental impact at various life cycle Council (FSC) paperboards from all its four manufacturing stages, which would help in identifying Chain of Custody’ Units under the categories of ‘FSC Mixed’ or opportunities for further improving their Certification in ‘FSC Recycled’. FSC logo on products assures environmental attributes. In line with the 2009 and have customers that the products/packaging is Board approved Policies on Life Cycle from legal, sustainable and well managed retained the same Sustainability and Responsible Sourcing, sources. during the current formal systems and procedures will be year also The FSC certification for ITC’s Paperboards progressively implemented across ITC and Specialty Papers Units exemplifies the Businesses. 121 Biodiversity Management reputed international organisations like EarthWatch Institute, UK to implement Approach the Biodiversity Risk and Opportunity Given the essential eco-system services Assessment Tool (BROA) in its crop growing that biodiversity areas provide, especially regions. This tool identifies impacts and to rural households, ITC recognises that its dependencies of business operations on preservation and nurture is crucial for the longthe biodiversity of identified agricultural term sustainability of farming communities. landscapes, and in the assessment of ITC has, accordingly, implemented several various risks and opportunities. The BROA initiatives in its operational areas for the in tool has been implemented in Karnataka situ revival and nurture of native flora and (Mysuru District) and Andhra Pradesh (West fauna. This will not only preserve the nation’s Godavari, Nellore, Prakasam and Guntur rich biodiversity, but also ensure a sustainable Districts) covering 5 landscapes till date. future for communities residing in the An article on this initiative was published Company’s catchment areas. in the International Journal of Biodiversity Biodiversity & Endangered Species, Spain 2014. The article also featured as a case study in Conservation in the India Business & Biodiversity Initiative Agriculture (IBBI) report published by the CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development For the second consecutive year, ITC’s and the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Agri Business Division has partnered with Climate Change. 123 Sustainable Livelihoods Biodioversity Parks and introducing biodiversity indexing. This partnership has led to FSC certification of in Social Forestry KBR National Park. The objective of this initiative is to revive and enhance native floral and faunal biodiversity Revival of and in the process, promote livelihood and employment generation for poor tribal Commons as households. In the past two years, ITC has developed a mosaic of 11 biodiversity plots Biodiversity involving farmers and community members Conservation Plots covering a total area of 22 hectares in Khammam district of Telangana and East The maintenance and regeneration of Godavari, West Godavari and Visakhapatnam common pasturelands assume critical districts of Andhra Pradesh. In Karnataka, 2 significance for rural communities. Livestock biodiversity plots were promoted in Mysuru is not only a means to a secondary income, where 523 native species were planted but also a safety net, especially in times of on 3 hectares. The plots were established hardship like drought or floods. However in collaboration with Tank User Groups. changes in land use and the ‘Tragedy of the Preference was given to native species in the Commons’, have put these pasturelands implementation of this initiative. in constant threat of encroachment and degradation, thereby adversely affecting In a unique collaboration, ITC is providing the communities dependant on them. ITC’s assistance to the Telangana Government watershed development programme in to strengthen and benchmark biodiversity Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra conservation in Kasu Brahmananda Reddy has led to the revival of biodiversity in such (KBR) National Park, which covers an area commons. This initiative was scaled up to 57 of 140 hectares in Hyderabad. Activities plots covering 504 hectares during 2014-15 include identification of high conservation with the objective of protecting native flora value forests (HCVF) and of rare, threatened and fauna and providing other eco-system and endangered species; initiating specific services. Cumulatively, the area under conservation measures for flagship species biodiversity now stands at 3,191 hectares. Cumulatively, the area under biodiversity now stands at 3,191 hectares 124 Environmental Performance The Road Ahead for its replication in other project areas predominantly irrigated by tanks. In ITC’s efforts to spearhead biodiversity l Discussions are on with several expert conservation, the Company will continue agencies, including the International to develop local stewardship through Union for Conservation of Nature awareness programmes, sustainable (IUCN) to establish baselines, undertake practices in agriculture, afforestation, impact assessment and prepare pisciculture, apiculture, medicinal plants management plans in some of ITC’s agri and creating sustainable livelihood for business areas. Working plans based tribal farmers. on these assessments will be ready by December 2015. Going forward, some of the specific plans include the following: l Mapping of wastelands of panchayat, individual farmers and foreshores of l Based on the results of the BROA study seasonal streams was taken up in 16 in agricultural landscapes, ITC will villages of Sehore district (Madhya progressively delineate a biodiversity Pradesh) to develop a template for strategy by combining biodiversity biodiversity conservation through conservation and improvement with afforestation. The exercise identified prevention, management and remediation an average area of 11 hectares of of damage to natural habitats (if any). wasteland in each village for biodiversity development, which will be taken up in a l Tank cascade-based biodiversity phased manner in the coming years. assessment was taken up in Ravndoor l To develop plans for revival of commons village of Mysuru district with technical like village pastures and revenue support of Kalpataruvu, a non-profit wastelands in Mandsaur district (Madhya organisation, and Forestry College, ITC has Pradesh), Foundation for Ecological Ponnampet (Karnataka). A cascade implemented Security (FES), a non-profit organisation, system is formed by interlinked tanks was engaged as a resource agency for several initiatives where the surplus run-off of upper tanks is collection of baseline and impact data. in its operational a source of water for the lower tanks. The FES is also undertaking a similar baseline areas for the in situ final report is under preparation, which survey of biodiversity plots in Jhalawar will form the basis for an implementation revival and nurture district (Rajasthan). These studies will be plan across the entire tank cascade in able to help ITC in tracking progress on of native flora and the project area and provide a template revival of native flora and fauna. fauna 125 Social Performance Labour Practices & Decent Work and Human Rights Occupational Health & Safety Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal Product Responsibility Labour Practices & Decent Work and Human Rights Management l All ITC’s business partners and supply chain members will follow and adhere Approach to the Human Rights policies that the Company upholds. ITC operates in a diversified, ever-changing, highly competitive global landscape. This Accordingly, the Company has put in place in turn necessitates the development of a Board approved policies covering crucial strong, customer responsive world-class aspects of employee engagement and enterprise premised on a commitment to human rights. employee well-being that goes beyond just conforming with relevant local laws to Implementation complying with global standards. All ITC Units have appropriate systems and ITC is committed to conducting business processes in place to ensure compliance in a manner that reflects its high ethical with these Policies and with statutory standards. It expects its employees and provisions, including processes to redress business partners to subscribe and adhere to grievances. The implementation of these this philosophy, which honours all pertinent policies is ensured by Divisional/SBU laws and upholds the spirit of human rights as Chief Executives, through members of enshrined in existing international standards. the respective Management Committees. Objectives Compliance is regularly monitored and evaluated by the Sustainability Compliance The Company’s primary objectives in this area Review Committee (SCRC). The report of for the next five years are to ensure that: the SCRC is reviewed by the Corporate l All ITC’s operational units are and will Management Committee every quarter. remain fully compliant with the Company’s policies, premised on a zero tolerance Outcomes guiding principle towards such violations. ITC’s commitment to its employees and their l All investment decisions will integrate well-being is reflected in its compliance Human Rights and Decent Labour with all its stated policies, evident from Practices considerations into the decisionthe data on performance presented later in making process. the report. 129 Sustainable Livelihoods Leadership Human Resource Building Business development Strategy Leaders is considered In order to sustain its position amongst The talent management programme of the integral to talent India’s most valuable corporations, ITC Company strives to deliver its unique talent management. remains relentlessly customer-focused, promise of ‘Building Winning Businesses. The ‘strategy of competition-differentiated, performanceBuilding Business Leaders. Creating organisation’ driven and future-capable. Preparing ITC Value for India.’ ITC is guided by a holistic serves as an for the future requires, amongst several approach, centred on the multiple elements steps, building today’s capabilities to enable of talent sourcing, work design, performance excellent platform the best response to tomorrow’s market management and remuneration, individual to build distributed opportunities. Five capability platforms growth and development related to talent business leadership have been identified – Strategic, Value management, rather than individual Chain, Leadership, Innovation and Human elements that impact talent. Leadership Resources Development – that are relevant development is considered integral to talent to make businesses future ready. In addition, management. The ‘strategy of organisation’ these platforms are designed to strengthen serves as an excellent platform to build organisational systems to facilitate speedy distributed business leadership. Another and competitively superior responses to important dimension of building leadership market opportunities. is the organisation’s strategic learning and ITC follows two approaches to build critical development agenda. capabilities in the identified areas. One is energising the organisation for change Renewed investments have been made by building capability in people through to enhance ITC’s skills in recruitment and information, knowledge and skills to exhibit selection and performance management appropriate behaviours. The second approach is processes. These investments will have a to guide learning and continuous performance positive impact on the Company’s talent improvement in functions and businesses. management programme. 130 Social Performance Performance During the year, employee relations were handled well and there was no stoppage of Awareness & Sensitisation work for any reason whatsoever in any of ITC’s units. Specific actions were undertaken during the year to ensure compliance with policies on human rights and labour practices. These include: l Sensitisation training on ITC’s approach to Human Rights and on Prevention of sexual harassment was done to cover 728 employees across businesses. l Training of the Internal Complaints Committee members (38 employees) took place under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Act, 2013. l Roll-out of the Grievance Redressal Procedure for all managers and office associates in ITC’s businesses and Corporate Head Office. l Awareness building amongst vendors and service providers, through the introduction of a Code of Conduct on this aspect, which has been accepted by identified vendors/ service providers. Employee Well Being Employees Nurturing quality talent and caring for the During the year under report, the number well-being of employees are an integral part of full-time direct employees was 32,115 of of ITC’s work culture. This approach focuses which 2,202 employees in the Leaf Tobacco on creating a conducive work environment business were engaged on a seasonal basis that helps deliver winning performance. due to the nature of the business. Of the total number of employees, 3,414 were Benefits such as periodic preventive health women. The number of new appointees for check-ups, medical assistance (including the reporting period was 5,225 of which hospitalisation), group accident insurance 21% were women. scheme, annual leave along with leave encashment and retirement benefits, In addition, 19,963 employees of service amongst others, are provided to permanent providers were engaged during the period. employees of ITC. 12,658 direct employees are members of During the year under review, 135 employees various unions. The Company continued to applied and were given maternity leave, invest in progressive employee relations of whom 111 have returned to work while characterised by the core principles 24 are still on leave. of trusteeship, fairness and equity, industrial democracy and partnership with ITC’s businesses have promoted various enlightened trade unions, which has stood interventions comprising (a) employee the test of time. ITC continued to set a fine contests to generate innovative ideas; and record of industrial harmony, highlighted (b) communication and “connect” processes, not merely by the absence of strife, but like town-hall meetings, local intranets, by the more positive outcome of effective fun@work events and business specific performance in terms of high productivity rewards and recognition programmes to and superior quality. drive employee engagement and well-being. 131 Sustainable Livelihoods Attrition The intent is to ensure that there is no discrimination in compensation, training and ITC has ensured attraction and retention employee benefits, based on caste, religion, of quality employees, a result of its talent disability, gender, sexual orientation, race, management strategy of offering diverse colour, ancestry, marital status or affiliation experiences and challenges across varied with a political, religious or union organisation business contexts, investments in the or majority/minority group. Given the sociodevelopment and growth of employees, as cultural diversity of our country, ITC’s well as a market driven and competitive recruitment and selection processes are remuneration philosophy. The overall attrition geared towards enabling representation from (comprising voluntary separation, retirement, across regions, ethnicities, religions and termination and abandonment of services) different social strata. in the Company, including ITC Infotech, across management and non-management The culture of the Company ensures that employees for 2014-15 was 16%. The attrition aspects of work-life balance for employees, for management level employees was 18%, especially for women, are suitably addressed. wherein ITC Infotech accounted for 11% ITC demands, demonstrates and promotes (largely due to the nature of the industry), professional behaviour and treats all while the rest of ITC accounted for 7%. The employees with equal respect. In this regard, attrition for non-management employees ITC has put in place suitable processes was 15%, of which ITC Hotels accounted for and mechanisms to ensure issues such as 9% of the total. Gender-wise attrition was at sexual harassment, if any, are effectively 15% and 32% for male and female employees addressed. During the year, five complaints respectively. Efforts are being made to identify of sexual harassment were received, all of the key dissonance factors leading to high which have since been resolved. attrition of female employees in ITC Infotech ITC encourages local employment in its and ITC Hotels. manufacturing units and hotels, depending Diversity and Equal on the availability of requisite skills. In some Opportunity of its Units, ITC also partners with local Industrial Training Institutes to provide ITC believes that diversity at the workplace vital inputs to the management of these positively impacts work performance institutions. ITC has also partnered with and work environment through superior National Skill Development Corporation consumer-centricity, innovative ideas and (NSDC) empanelled agencies to impart better employee engagement. ITC’s policy market linked vocational training on skills on Diversity and Equal opportunity (please including sales & distribution, hospitality, refer to Policies on ITC’s Corporate website electrical maintenance, automobile repairs, www.itcportal.com) and its implementation beautician and garment manufacturing with is focused on fostering meritocracy in the the objective of enhancing employability organisation, which promotes diversity and of youth from disadvantaged sections of offers equal opportunity to all employees. society. During 2014-15, over 13,000 students were enrolled in Company promoted vocational training programmes of which 36% were women and 40% were SC/ST candidates. A large number of youth is also provided with apprentice training opportunities at ITC manufacturing units. Although ITC is committed to employing youth from disadvantaged communities, it has enlarged its impact by increasing the talent pool of youth from these communities by equipping them with the necessary skills or qualifications to 132 Social Performance make them more employable in the formal to better skill development, the programmes sectors of the economy. ITC also lays equal stress less on classroom learning and more emphasis on strengthening the economic on work place projects and demonstrated portfolio of poor households belonging to leadership behaviours on the job. The marginalised groups through initiatives programmes are thus long term journeys aimed at natural resource management rather than short term events. and creation of off-farm opportunities to Multiple forums for learning include create sustainable livelihoods. classroom training, on-the-job training, The affirmative action initiatives of the inclusion in taskforces and projects, Company have had a direct and tangible mentoring and deploying of organisationimpact on the lives of 55,061 Scheduled wide portals to enable sharing of best Caste/Scheduled Tribe beneficiaries spread practices. over 14 states of the country during the year. Employee training at the factory level Learning and Development focusses on continuous skill upgradation on the basis of skill-gap assessment and ITC’s Capability Development Agenda flows planned technology induction. In 2014-15, from its Vision, Mission, Strategic Agenda and 1,42,547 person-days of formal training the 3-Horizon Growth strategy. All Learning were organised for employees at various and Development initiatives offered during levels. In addition, on-the-job learning 2014-15 were aligned to this agenda. opportunities were provided to a cross section of employees supported by inputs ITC’s Capability ITC has a multi-pronged approach to from peers and superiors. Development learning, with focussed interventions in core Agenda flows from and functional areas, customised businessITC’s Performance Management System specific and organisation-wide strategic also plays a pivotal role in charting out the its Vision, Mission, interventions, as well as three-tiered development agenda of employees in the Strategic Agenda leadership development programmes. Based management cadre. In 2014-15 all eligible and the 3-Horizon on the premise that action learning will lead managers underwent performance reviews. Growth strategy 133 Sustainable Livelihoods Human Rights and internationally, ITC recognises its responsibility to proactively encourage high Human Rights Significant standards of ‘Human Rights’ across its supply Investments chain. The Company’s approach to managing Human Rights in the following distinct During 2014-15, nearly `892 crores out of categories is described below: a total capex cash-flow of `3,008 crores l ITC’s businesses are vertically integrated was incurred on machinery and technology, across several Divisions, all of which ensure sourced from reputed global suppliers/vendors. adherence to ITC Human Rights policies. Approximately `699 crores were invested on new factories, hotels and modernisations. l ITC procures inputs for the Company’s agri-based businesses entirely from state All large contracts in ITC for the construction controlled trading platforms and the open of hotels, factories, and significant upgrades, market. The process is designed to ensure have incorporated environment, health, transparency and best prices for even small safety and human rights clauses covering and marginal farmers. decent place of work and beyond compliance l ITC ensures adherence to its Policy on labour practices. Human Rights, Labour Practices and Decent All large projects were managed and Work Environment for all its employees and supervised by ITC managers, who also for all service providers operating within its ensured compliance to relevant laws. establishments. ITC has zero tolerance for non-compliance in this area. Systems have been established to ensure l In order to ensure a high degree of compliance of ITC’s Policies and Standards, awareness and to reiterate ITC’s focus on through audits by Corporate Internal Audit Human Rights and EHS in its extended and Corporate EHS. supply chain, as a first step, the ITC code of Human Rights: Supply Chain conduct for vendors and service providers has been shared with supply chain partners As a large multi-business enterprise with and accepted by identified vendors/ products that are benchmarked nationally service providers. 134 Social Performance During 2014-15, the total number of service systems to educate, mandate and thereafter providers was 2,092 of which 1,635 operated track adherence to ITC’s Policy on Human within the Company’s premises and 457 Rights in the Supply Chain has started with the worked off-site. 100% of these service sharing of the ITC Code of Conduct for vendors providers include Human Rights Policies and and service providers. This process should be EHS guidelines in their service contracts. well established over the next five years with the inclusion of random social audits of a few No contracts were cancelled during the year ITC supply chain members every year. as a result of non-compliance with ITC’s Human Rights Policy. Grievance Redressal Process Freedom of Association A Grievance Redressal Procedure for nonunionised employees has been implemented During 2014-15, no incidents of violation to address concerns of internal stakeholders of Freedom of Association were reported pertaining to Labour Practices and Human ITC ensures either at the concerned units or to statutory Rights violations. Aspects of employment adherence to its authorities. Within ITC’s operations, there including compensation, working hours, Policy on Human are no areas that present risks to the right disciplinary practices, maternity protection, to exercise Freedom of Association and Rights, Labour occupational health & safety, training & Collective Bargaining. education, diversity & equal opportunity, Practices and equal remuneration for men and women as Decent Work Prohibiting Child Labour and well as concerns in the area of Human Rights, Environment for Preventing Forced Labour at if any will be addressed with this mechanism. all its employees Workplace and for all During the year, 197 grievances were received During 2014-15, there were no incidents from workmen on matters pertaining to service providers of child labour or forced labour within ITC welfare, facilities and administration and operating within its establishments. The process of strengthening 173 of them have since been resolved. establishments 135 Occupational Health and Safety ITC believes its workforce is a key asset systems have been procured and installed in contributing to the Company’s long term conformance with agreed standards and a standing as one of India’s most admired formal clearance is required to be provided organisations. The Company believes that before the project can be operationalised. a safe and healthy work environment is a basic requirement for ensuring employee At the operational stage, all ITC factories, well-being and that best practices in hotels, warehouses and offices have occupational health & safety enhance the established EHS management systems Company’s overall performance. This helps with designated roles and responsibilities in attracting and retaining quality talent, and competent resources to comply with and enhances the equity of the Company as Corporate EHS Guidelines. These guidelines a responsible Corporate. also require raising of awareness amongst employees, their families and surrounding The ITC Approach communities regarding off-the-job safety aspects such as home safety, safe use of ITC’s approach towards best-in-class LPG in kitchen, HIV/AIDs, hepatitis, dengue, occupational health and safety standards is malaria and road safety. As part of ITC’s articulated in the Board approved EHS Policy preventive medical programme, various that emphasises on continual improvement categories of employees based on their and is based on an environment, health age and exposure to occupational hazards, and safety (EHS) management system undergo periodic medical check-ups. developed in accordance with internationally recognised standards, supported by continued investments in state-of-the-art technology and quality human resources. As a first step, EHS requirements are integrated at the design stage itself for all new investments in the built environment. The design reviews cover building & structural stability, fire & life safety measures, electrical systems, segregation of man-material movements, work place lighting, ventilation & hygiene requirements, Compliance is monitored through internal noise & dust controls, water and energy use audits by CEHS across ITC establishments optimisation, traffic safety, etc. The process on a periodic basis and forms part of the of incorporating EHS at the design stage not report back to CMC (monthly) and the only helps in eliminating/reducing hazards Board (quarterly), together with accident but also optimises the overall infrastructure statistics, their investigation and subsequent as well as operational costs. closure. In addition, Business units adhere to international standards such as OHSAS As a next step, compliance with EHS 18001 and ISO 14001. standards during the construction phase is ensured by implementing appropriate The EHS resources of the Divisions provide project EHS management systems. This the support necessary to ensure proper includes adequate training of all employees implementation of the ITC EHS policy, including service providers’ employees, while the Unit Heads and the Divisional enforcement of the use of safe equipment/ Management Committees are responsible tools/tackles, development of and adherence and accountable for ensuring compliance. to safe work procedures/method statements, The CEHS function is responsible for observance of good housekeeping & storage reviewing and updating standards and practices and usage of personal protective guidelines on EHS policies, for providing equipment. Pre-commissioning audits of all guidance and support to all concerned large projects are carried out by Corporate and for monitoring compliance at the EHS (CEHS) to ensure that all equipment and corporate level. 137 Sustainable Livelihoods On-site Safety reduction (81%) in LTA although the number of Units and manpower engaged, Performance have gone up manifold. This is attributable to a sound engineering approach and ITC Employees strong management ownership coupled with targeted interventions like behaviour In 2014-15 the number of on-site Lost Time based safety initiatives and tailor made risk Accidents (LTA) for ITC employees was 7 (against assessment programmes at select units. 10 in 2013-14), as depicted below. Since These have contributed towards 2014-15 2004-05, there has been a significant being a zero fatality year. Lost Time Accidents (LTA) 40 37 35 30 25 23 20 20 16 15 16 15 14 12 10 10 7 7 5 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 -05 -06 -07 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 -15 LTA An accident where the injured does not return to work in the next scheduled shift. Lost day rate, defined as the number of days lost due to accidents for every 2,00,000 person hours worked, over the years is depicted below: Lost Day Rate ITC Employees 28.4* 25.3* 30 25 20 15 6.5 5.53** 10 3.5 2.2 3.1 2.2 1.9 1.1 5 EHS requirements 0 are integrated at 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 the design stage * Increase in lost day rate in 2009-10 & 2011-12 attributable to one fatal accident in each of the years, wherein itself for all new a loss of 6000 man-days is required to be accounted for as per IS 3786:1983. investments in the ** Increase in comparison to 2013-14, due to an accident wherein the injured suffered amputation of the right built environment thumb for which a loss of 1800 man-days is required to be accounted for as per IS 3786:1983. 138 Social Performance Injury rate, defined as the frequency of injuries in relation to total time worked also shows a significant improvement. Since 2004-05, there has been a substantial reduction in the injury rate from 0.21 to 0.02 in 2014-15 (an improvement of 90.5%). Injury Rate (IR) 0.21 0.25 0.2 0.15 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.06 0.05 0.06 0.1 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.05 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 -05 -06 -07 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 -15 All vendors and Employees of Service Providers been made an integral part of ITC’s safety service providers management system. In addition, service within ITC All vendors and service providers within ITC providers’ employees are also an integral premises are premises are required to follow the same part of the customised risk assessment training programme, rolled out at several required to follow EHS systems applicable to the Company’s employees. All employees of service providers Units, to enhance their understanding of risk the same EHS also undergo adequate generic as well as jobidentification & mitigation. systems applicable specific training for safe work procedures Since 2012-13, ITC has started reporting to the Company’s and regular briefings and tool box talks have on the safety performance of its service employees 139 Sustainable Livelihoods providers’ employees within ITC premises. was 4 an improvement of 76%, despite a The total onsite lost time accidents for 48% increase in number of service providers’ service providers’ employees for the year employees since 2012-13, as depicted below. On site lost time accidents Employees of Service Providers 16 16 15 14 12 10 8 6 4 4 2 0 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 140 Social Performance Zero Accident Units The following units at ITC attained the goal of ‘Zero Accidents’ in 2014-15: Manufacturing Units Hotels Offices l Cigarette Units at l ITC Maurya l ITC Head Office, Kolkata Munger, Kidderpore, Saharanpur and Pune l ITC Mughal l Research Centre at Rajahmundry l Leaf Threshing Units at l ITC Grand Central Chirala and Mysuru l ITC Green Centre, l ITC Rajputana Gurgaon l Packaging & Printing l ITC Maratha Units at Tiruvottiyur, l Divisional Head Quarters Haridwar and Munger l ITC Sonar of Cigarettes Business, Agri Business, Leaf l Paperboards and l ITC Windsor Tobacco Business, Specialty Papers Units at Paperboards & Specialty Bollaram and Tribeni l ITC Grand Chola Papers Business, l ITC Gardenia Packaging & Printing l Foods Units at Haridwar Business, Foods and Pune l ITC Grand Bharat Business, Matches & l Personal Care Products Agarbattis and Education l My Fortune, Chennai Units at Haridwar and and Stationery Products Manpura l My Fortune, Bengaluru Business l WelcomHotel Sheraton, l Central Projects New Delhi Organisation, Bengaluru l ITC Kakatiya l ITC Infotech Bengaluru and Kolkata l Fortune Resort Bay Island l Classic Golf Resort, Gurgaon Over the years, the number of Units performance. Out of the above 45 units, delivering “zero on-site lost time accidents” 26 Units have been consistently achieving performance has progressively increased “zero lost time accidents” status for the and more importantly, have held on to their last 3 years. 141 Sustainable Livelihoods Road Accidents Trend All Units maintain a conducive work 25 environment 25 meeting Indian/ 20 International 20 standards on 15 17 hygiene, lighting, 13 ventilation and 10 10 effective controls 5 on noise and dust 0 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Off-site Safety Occupational Performance Health In line with its commitment to ensure the A healthy workforce is an important safety of employees, ITC has also initiated contributor to ITC’s competitiveness adequate measures to ensure safety of its and sustainability. All Units maintain a employees working off-site. In ITC, off-site is conducive work environment meeting defined as all places other than the premises Indian/International standards on hygiene, where posted, while on official duty, lighting, ventilation and effective controls including commuting to and from residence on noise and dust. Units are provided with to place of work. Since over the years the occupational health centres with adequate majority of the road accidents have involved medical staff to monitor occupational health 2-wheeler riders, a user interactive 2-wheeler and provide immediate relief, when required. rider’s safety programme was developed and In addition, at least 2% of total employees rolled out in 2011-12, which has now been are professionally trained as first aiders. translated into Hindi for increasing reach. Identified medical examinations are It is likely that this has been a contributory conducted at specified intervals for factor in bringing down the number of road various categories of employees based on accidents to 13 (20 in 2013-14). During 2015age as well as exposure to occupational 16, ITC plans to translate this programme into hazards. Accordingly in 2014-15, 15,535 Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam so as employees underwent preventive medical to further extend its reach. This programme examinations and there were no occupation is now also being rolled out amongst supply related illnesses identified in any of ITC’s chain stakeholders, by imparting this training Business Units. to wholesale dealer personnel connected to ITC’s Trade Marketing & Distribution vertical. HIV/AIDS and In addition, ITC is in the process of developing a similar user interactive training module Other Serious specifically for four-wheeler users. The Diseases target population would include managers/ employees who use four-wheelers for ITC remains committed to protecting its commuting to/from residence to place of employees from the threat posed by various work, as well as official trips. This 4-wheeler serious diseases including HIV/AIDS. defensive driving training module will be During 2014-15, the awareness/counselling rolled out in 2015-16. sessions conducted for the employees and 142 Social Performance communities around ITC’s Units covered a are relevant and take into account the total of 20,258 people, out of which 16,386 local socio-economic context to ensure the In line with were employees of the Company, while the transition from “awareness developed” to the Company’s remaining were local community members. “changed behaviour”. EHS policy, the approach is to The Road Ahead While ITC will continue to focus on strengthening the engineering control institutionalise measures through ‘design for safety’, safety as a valueBased on the root-cause analysis of accidents over the years, the approach to safety has been pre-commissioning/operational audits led concept redefined with the focus now on fostering a and training interventions, based on the with focus on culture of safety and the use of behavioural encouraging results achieved, ITC plans to inculcating a sense architecture techniques. In line with the expand the coverage of behavioural based of ownership at all Company’s EHS policy, the approach is to safety and custom-made risk based training levels institutionalise safety as a value-led concept programmes to other units. This approach with focus on inculcating a sense of ownership which combines empowerment and at all levels, leading to the creation of a safety ownership with targeted interventions and culture. Periodic reviews are undertaken to strict accountability should help ITC in its ensure that training and other communications journey to achieve the “Zero Accidents” goal. 143 Social Investments– Mission Sunehra Kal Management strengthen the existing productive base as well as provide alternate sources Approach Society of incomes, which help minimise the dependence of farmers on rain-fed crops ITC believes that the performance of for economic survival. business enterprises must be measured in terms of the value they create for society. l To nurture and develop social capital Enterprises that embed sustainability in their to create a more level playing field for business strategies can deliver substantial skill-related vocations and to meet stakeholder value through innovative the competitive demands for higher development models that simultaneously productivity. Both, in turn, generate higher create sustainable livelihood opportunities incomes and help in alleviating poverty. and a positive environmental footprint. l To explore a wider canvas of social The Company firmly believes that such initiatives in the interest of the Nation. an approach unleashes strong drivers for ITC is committed to pursuing excellence achieving development with social equity. in sustainability and preserving India’s unique cultural heritage. Commitment to The Board of the Company has approved Creating Larger a CSR Policy that covers the programmes, Societal Value projects and activities that the Company plans to undertake. These programmes fall As part of its Triple Bottom Line commitment, within the purview of Schedule VII of the ITC is committed to make growth more provisions of Section 135 of the Companies inclusive by focusing on the needs of three Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate identified stakeholders: Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. l Rural communities in the Company’s operational areas. Implementation l The communities residing in close proximity The Board CSR Committee tables for the to the Company’s production units. Board’s approval, a CSR Plan outlining the CSR Programmes to be carried out during l The central and state governments, the financial year and the specified budgets which encourage Public Private therein. The Board deliberates and approves Partnerships (PPPs). the CSR Plan with modifications that may be deemed necessary. The Company’s Constructive Corporate Management Committee (CMC) Stakeholder reviews the implementation of the CSR Programmes and issues necessary directions Engagement from time to time to ensure orderly and efficient execution of CSR Programmes in The overarching aim of the Company’s accordance with this Policy. In addition, the social sector engagement is to empower CMC provides a status update to the CSR and stakeholder communities to conserve, Sustainability Committee on the progress augment and manage their social and in implementation of the approved CSR environmental capital in order to promote Programmes. The CSR and Sustainability sustainable livelihoods or employability on Committee reviews such reports and keeps a significant scale. Within this, the three the Board apprised of the implementation specific objectives, pertaining to the two sets status of the same. of stakeholders, are: l To promote climate-smart rural development by broad-basing farm and off-farm livelihoods portfolio of the poor and marginalised. Such interventions 145 Sustainable Livelihoods Outcomes their power of entrepreneurial vitality, innovation and creativity. In line with this Innovative interventions have been designed belief, ITC continues to craft unique models and implemented that: to generate livelihoods and environmental capital. Such Corporate Social Responsibility l Create sustainable livelihoods for some (CSR) projects are far more replicable, of the most disadvantaged sections of scalable and sustainable, with a significant the society. multiplier impact on sustainable livelihood l Nurture the environment by promoting creation and environmental replenishment. sustainability practices through industry associations. Preserve and promote Indian heritage ITC’s Mission Sunehra Kal for l and culture. Recognising that business enterprises are Sustainable & economic organs of society and draw on societal resources, it is ITC’s belief that a Inclusive Growth company’s performance must be measured ITC believes that in the strategic context of by its Triple Bottom Line contribution to business, enterprises possess, beyond mere building economic, social and environmental financial resources, the transformational capital towards enhancing societal capacity to create game-changing sustainability. ITC believes that enterprises development models by unleashing their possess, beyond mere financial resources, power of entrepreneurial vitality, innovation the transformational capacity to create gameand creativity. In line with this belief, ITC changing development models by unleashing continues to craft unique models to generate livelihoods and environmental capital. Such Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects are far more replicable, scalable and sustainable, with a significant multiplier impact on sustainable livelihood creation and environmental replenishment. In line with ITC’s CSR Policy, the key stakeholders and the thrust areas of its CSR programmes comprise: l The Rural communities in the Company’s operational area. These communities are mainly located in drought-prone regions and therefore most vulnerable to the adverse impacts of seasonality and environmental degradation. Almost entirely dependent on common property resources, they are among the most disadvantaged sections of rural communities. l The communities residing in close proximity of ITC’s production units, whose full potential cannot be realised due to poor social infrastructure in the areas of education, skill enhancement, health and sanitation. l The central and state governments, which encourage PPPs to demonstrate scaleable and replicable models of development. 146 Social Performance ITC’s Responses to Stakeholder Needs Key Strategic Desired Objectives Stakeholders Interventions Outcomes l Biomass cover of 33% of Natural Resource project areas Sustainable Rural Management, & accelerated households in l Progress towards ‘safe Integrated Animal growth in ITC’s operational groundwater zone’ status Husbandry, livelihoods and areas Sustainable l Achieve 0.75-1% soil farm incomes Agriculture organic carbon l Poor women to have access to credit or supplementary income Sustainable Dignity of Communities l Every child in school and Livelihoods life through ITC continues residing around learning well Creation, Social economic to craft unique ITC’s factories Infrastructure, & social l Appropriate skills for all Skilling empowerment models to generate unemployed youth livelihoods and l No open defecation environmental capital. Such Initiatives MultiCorporate Social Innovate and pilot promoting national stakeholder State & Central development models of goals of poverty partnership Responsibility Governments excellence for replication, alleviation and to maximise (CSR) projects are scale and efficient execution environmental development protection impact replicable, scalable and sustainable 147 Sustainable Livelihoods With a judicious ITC e-Choupal farmers, in their own local language. Realtime information on weather forecasts blend of click & The ITC e-Choupal initiative is a powerful and market prices, customised knowledge mortar capabilities, example of a business model that delivers on scientific farm practices and risk large-scale societal value by co-creating rural management are supplemented by the ITC e-Choupal markets with local communities. Recognising availability of quality farm inputs and price has triggered a the various challenges faced by farmers like discovery of farm produce within the village. virtuous cycle of fragmented farms, weak infrastructure and higher productivity, A cluster of e-Choupals are supported by the involvement of numerous intermediaries, higher incomes integrated rural services hubs called Choupal ITC designed e-Choupal as a more efficient Saagars, which serve as procurement and enlarged supply chain aimed at delivering enhanced centres, warehouses, and retail outlets. A capacity for farmer value to all participants in the value chain, process of engagement with rural consumers risk management, including farmers, consumers and ITC. was also launched in the form of Choupal larger investments With a judicious blend of click & mortar Haats, built along the lines of village fairs. and higher quality capabilities, ITC e-Choupal has triggered a The e-Choupal network also provides on-farm and productivity virtuous cycle of higher productivity, higher agri extension services. Reaching the fruits of incomes and enlarged capacity for farmer scientific and technological research to the risk management, larger investments and farmer, demonstration farms called Choupal higher quality and productivity. Pradarshan Khets have been set up to The initiative has enhanced the propagate best practices, while field schools competitiveness of Indian agriculture enable transfer and adoption of knowledge. by leveraging the power of Information The programme offers other services like Technology to empower small and marginal consultation and supervision by experts, soil farmers. Village internet-kiosks managed testing, balanced fertilisation, foundation by farmers themselves, called “sanchalaks”, seeds and seed treatment, water, weed, pest facilitate access to information to other and post-harvest crops management and 148 Social Performance supply of quality inputs like drought-resistant Internet-based interventions in rural India. seeds to improve farm competencies. Its services reach out to more than 4 million farmers in over 40,000 villages through 6,500 ITC e-Choupal benefits all participants in kiosks spread across 11 states. the value chain. It enhances the ability of farmers to take informed decisions, aligns The intervention is an important component their farm output with market demand and of ITC’s multi-dimensional Integrated Rural ensures higher quality and productivity. Development Programme that has evolved The aggregation of demand for farm inputs from its deep understanding of the challenges from individual farmers gives them access and opportunities inherent in the farm to high quality inputs from established sector. The strategy of this programme, apart manufacturers at fair prices. from empowering farmers and raising rural incomes through ITC e-Choupal, also aims Traditional intermediaries, who are inducted at generation of supplementary income and into the e-Choupal system as “samyojaks” natural resource augmentation. Initiatives handle aggregation of the farm produce, and such as Livestock Development and ITC e-Choupal earn incomes through the logistical service Women Empowerment create avenues for they provide at the ITC procurement hubs. benefits all supplementary non-farm incomes to protect For the customers of farm produce, ITC’s Agri against agri-income volatility as well as build participants in Business leverages the depth and width of capacities for investment. The Watershed the value chain. the e-Choupal network to offer tailor-made Development as well as Afforestation It enhances the solutions like multi-origin sourcing and Programmes augment natural resources to ability of farmers need-specific supply chains. enable higher productivity, create a green to take informed cover and restore soil health. The Swasthya decisions, aligns ITC itself benefits from an efficient supply Choupal initiative focuses on enhancing chain, agri raw material at lower net cost their farm output awareness of maternal & child care through and supply of identity-preserved produce, with market a network of Village Health Champions. which in turn give a competitive edge to its demand and Taken together, these initiatives under the packaged foods business. Integrated Rural Development Programme ensures higher Launched in June 2000, ITC e-Choupal of ITC have had a transformational impact in quality and is today the largest initiative among all many areas of rural India. productivity 149 Sustainable Livelihoods ITC’s Social chemical fertilisers, falling incomes and the growing effects of climate change. Dwindling Investment bio-mass has created pressure on fodder and energy needs for these households. Programmes Livelihood security is further constrained by limited off-farm employment options, poor ITC has put in place a mutually reinforcing infrastructure and inadequate marketing CSR Programme, which has been designed channels. These factors all combine to to liberate even the most underprivileged perpetuate a cycle of endemic poverty. and marginalised among these stakeholder groups, from the shackles of poverty and Given the geographical diversity of its underdevelopment through economic stakeholder communities, ITC’s main challenge empowerment based on grassroots capacity is to develop models that could be replicated building. ITC is ideally positioned to respond across locations with the flexibility to be to these challenges, given its core objective tailored to individual community needs. These of empowering its stakeholder communities twin concerns are addressed by a faithful to promote sustainable livelihoods, which, adherence to four fundamental tenets: in turn, is strategically aligned to the national goals of poverty eradication and l Enhance the ecological resource base environmental regeneration. of the rural economy by strengthening community-based governance of natural Rural Households resources that protects, preserves, nurtures and expands such resources; Given the geographical – Climate Smart Employ a bottom-up participatory Agriculture l diversity of its approach that ensures an in-built flexibility stakeholder to address diverse needs – aiming to create Already water-stressed and facing empowered village institutions and enable communities, ITC’s widespread environmental degradation, communities to co-operatively conserve main challenge approximately two-third of the country’s and manage their resources; is to develop population is rural and dependent on agriculture and allied activities for their l Encourage collaborative processes and social investment livelihoods. The overwhelming majority are multi-stakeholder partnerships to enable models that could small/marginal farmers whose only option identification of the best strategies to be replicated is rain-fed agriculture. With a direct and address community needs and expand the across locations symbiotic dependence on climate sensitive development footprint of each project; with the flexibility sectors, they naturally have low adaptive capacities. Stagnating productivity is l Put in place end-to-end solutions that to be tailored exacerbated by the fragile natural resource address the spectrum of needs of these to individual base, fragmented land-holdings, unscientific communities instead of focusing solely on community needs land management practices, overuse of a single issue. 150 Social Performance Coverage Activity 2013 2014 Cum to -14 -15 2014-15 The projects promoted under the Social Investments programme, numbering 132, are Coverage spread over 14 states covering 71 districts. No. of new 719 1,284 3,720 The interventions reach out to nearly 7 lakh villages households in more than 10,600 villages. No. of new Of the total projects implemented, 71% are 12,827 17,397 70,067 beneficiaries designed for rural stakeholder households, while the balance 29% address stakeholders Plantation Area residing around the Company’s factories. Pulpwood (ha) 12,649 10,109 54,714 ITC’s CSR programmes are spread across the states of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Energy (ha) 1,083 10,246 12,823 Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Saplings Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Planted 888 1,078 4,014 Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Uttar (Lakhs) Pradesh and West Bengal. Agro Forestry 3,848 9,241 13,911 Area (ha) Particulars 2013-14 2014-15 Projects (No.) 110 132 greened over 2,00,000 hectares of area that States (No.) 13 14 generated over 90 million person-days of Districts (No.) 61 71 employment. Since its introduction in 201112, the area under agro-forestry has increased Villages (No.) 9,176 10,621 rapidly covering more than four-fifths of the Beneficiaries total eucalyptus plantations today. 6.42 6.70 (Hh-lakhs) Agro-forestry Area as % of EC (%) 85% 88% Social Forestry 64% Targeted at small and marginal landholders from economically weaker sections of the society, the Social Forestry programme is 28% designed to promote livelihoods through plantations by providing financial, technical and marketing support. 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Performance Pulpwood plantations are being promoted in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in the districts of Khammam, Warangal, Nalgonda, Krishna, West Godavari, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam. Energy plantations, to meet the fuel and fodder needs of farmers, were promoted in the districts of Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore of AP and Chamarajanagar, Mysore, Mandya, Hassan and Chikkaballapur districts of Karnataka. Commencing in 2001-02, the programme currently has nearly 54,714 hectares under pulpwood plantation and 12,823 hectares under energy plantation. To date, both the Farm and Social Forestry programmes have 151 Sustainable Livelihoods The Company’s Watershed Development Programme promotes local management of water resources by facilitating community-based participation in planning Total wood harvested during 2014-15 was representing earnings from a previously and executing 75,266 metric tonnes of which 10,629 metric unproductive asset. watershed projects tonnes were FSC 100% category wood, generating a total wealth of nearly `61 crores In order to increase productivity, to give for poor and marginal farmers. A recent study a further boost to incomes, S&MC (Soil & showed that plantation incomes contributed Moisture Conservation) measures were nearly half of the total household income, introduced in the Social Forestry areas. Water absorption trenches and field trench Activity 2013-14 2014-15 cum bunds were constructed to increase soil moisture while composting units were Harvest promoted for improving soil fertility. Nearly Area (Ha.) 1,623 2,000 1,900 hectares were treated in Khammam, Warangal, Nalgonda, East Godavari, Krishna Farmers (No.) 2,321 3,533 and Nellore districts. 13 tanks were desilted Volume harvested (MT) 60,519 75,266 and the silt excavated was applied on farmers’ Total Income (`Lakhs) 2,949 6,078 fields to enhance soil fertility. Repayment to To meet the increasing demand of saplings committee/NGO 20 13 during the planting season, women-owned (`Lakhs) subabul nurseries were established this year, Earnings/Household (`) 1,27,067 1,72,036 which raised 30 lakh saplings for the Social Earnings/Hectare (`) 1,81,724 3,03,902 Forestry programme. Training was also given to the women members on bamboo nursery raising. Trend in Farm Income 3,50,000 2014-15 3,00,000 2013-14 2,50,000 2,00,000 2012-13 1,50,000 2011-12 1,00,000 50,000 2010-11 Income Per Household (`/HH) Income Per Hectare (`/ha.) 152 Social Performance Soil and Moisture Conservation the 2 lakh hectares mark. Cumulatively 6,464 water-harvesting structures have The Company’s Watershed Development been constructed, thus creating fresh water Programme promotes local management of storage capacity of 24.97 Million Kl. water resources by facilitating communitybased participation in planning and As part of Company’s objective to create executing watershed projects for the small empowered village institutions that can and marginal farmers who are almost entirely function autonomously and play an active role dependent on common property resources, in collective community action, 1,483 new including water. Water User Groups (WUGs) have been formed Performance till date. These groups have undergone Commencing in 2000-01, the programme intensive training in watershed management techniques, structure maintenance, water use is currently spread across 1,182 villages in regulation and formulation of user charges. Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, In order to improve the watershed Tamil Nadu and Telangana. During 2014development programme, hydro-geology 15, 51,397 hectares were brought under was introduced as an additional feature watershed development, the highest ever of watershed planning in order to ensure since the inception of the programme. With maximum groundwater recharge based on this the total area covered to date has crossed technical and scientific assessments. Activity 2013-14 2014-15 Cum to 2014-15 Water-harvesting Minor Structures (No.) 533 1,159 4,135 Major Structures (No.) 300 331 2,329 Total Structures 833 1,490 6,464 Watershed Area Area Treated (Ha) 19,664 32,644 1,30,969 Critical Irrigation Area (Ha) 12,998 18,753 69,218 Total Watershed Area 32,662 51,397 2,00,186 Water Storage Capacity (Million KI) 2.43 3.22 24.97 Direct Beneficiaries (No.) 19,426 32,960 1,60,354 Empl mandays (lakhs) 4.94 7.15 47.33 153 Sustainable Livelihoods Progress in PPP Projects by Sources IWDP/IWMP 12,406 34,285 MGNREGA 27,020 41,095 NABARD 34,500 8,950 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Actual Balance The total area to be brought under soil Rajasthan, has been selected by NABARD to and moisture conservation through PPP implement the Climate Change Adaptation projects currently stands at 1.58 lakh Programme funded by UNFCC. hectares. By the end of 2014-15, 79% of the total target area under the NABARD Animal Husbandry and Dairy projects had been completed in Madhya Development Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, ITC’s Livestock Development Programme Rajasthan and Bihar. 34% of the target area aims to genetically upgrade low-yielding under the IWMP/MGNREGA collaborations indigenous stock through artificial in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and insemination to produce cross-bred Rajasthan has been completed so far. In a progeny with much higher milk yields. The major recognition of the quality of our work, programme enables the most marginalised the watershed development programme, – small-holders, the landless, womenbeing implemented in Jhalawar district of headed households and migrant groups – to Coverage Area in PPP Projects by Source convert an existing asset into a substantial supplementary income with the potential of IWDP/ IWMP 23% NABARD 27% growing into a profitable new livelihood. MGNREGA 43% Partner MoU Area (Ha) Nabard 43,450 Rajasthan Government 43,117 Madhya Pradesh 23,944 Government Maharashtra 47,744 Government Grand Total 1,58,255 154 Social Performance Performance bred progeny have been born and animal husbandry services were provided to over Cum 11.70 lakh breedable cattle. Activity 20132014to 14 15 201415 CSR initiatives aimed at enhancing milk production, increasing dairy farm productivity CDC Centres 261 256 256 and ensuring remunerative prices to farmers (Functional Nos.) in multiple locations continued to make good Breed Improvement progress. The Dairy Development programme No. of Ais (lakhs) 2.55 2.24 15.61 is currently sourcing an average of 32,000 lpd (Litres Per Day) of milk, with a peak of 57,000 No. of lpd, in Munger and Saharanpur from 6,470 pregnancies 1.40 1.04 7.28 farmers. As part of this initiative, during the (lakhs) year ITC also piloted an end-to-end mobile No. of calfing enabled farm automation and IT solution 0.91 0.80 4.79 (lakhs) for productivity enhancement, real-time Vaccination & management of cattle herds’ health, fertility, 0.14 0.43 5.46 Health (lakhs) milk quality, productivity and providing farm management inputs to farmers, which currently covers 1,000 animals. Odisha AP 10 27 Improved Agricultural UP 46 Tel 8 Practices Intrinsically linked to ITC’s watershed Kar 38 development programme, the core purpose of this intervention is to promote a combination of MP bio-mechanical solutions for optimising water 82 Mah 45 management and enhancing land productivity to create a stable agricultural regime. Initiated in 2003-04, there are currently Performance 256 Cattle Development Centres (CDCs) in 521 Farmer Field Schools were functional Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Madhya and played a pivotal role in disseminating Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh advanced agri-practices to over 21,000 and Telangana. To date, 4.79 lakh crossfarmers through 7,736 demonstration plots 155 Sustainable Livelihoods Activity 2013-14 2014-15 Cum to 2014-15 Minor Irrigation Group Irrigation (No.) 115 58 670 Sprinklers (No.) 385 879 2,068 Sustainable Agriculture IPNM/Varietal Demo plots (Nos.) 14,695 7,736 34,078 IPNM/Varietal Demo Area (Ha.) 6,194 2,717 11,843 Compost Units (Nos.) 5,440 3,668 23,554 Farmer Field Schools (Functional Nos.) 284 521 521 Farmer Field Students (Functional Nos.) 5,562 21,064 21,064 Agri Business Centres No. of ABCs (Functional Nos.) 88 137 137 Farmers Serviced (No.) 2,447 15,454 15,454 covering over 18,000 hectares under different pressure of an increasing population base, crops. 137 Agri-Business Centres rendered drawn to such regions in the hope of gainful extension services and technical knowhow employment. Sanitary facilities are almost on advanced package of practices to over non-existent creating unhygienic conditions 15,000 farmers. Promotion of sprinklers which have a direct bearing on high morbidity received special focus, especially in Madhya rates, especially among women, a distinctive Pradesh, with 499 units established during trait in such settlements. the year. In pursuit of ITC’s long term The primary focus in the catchment of our sustainability objective of increasing soil factories is to create the necessary and organic carbon, 3,668 compost units were enabling pre-conditions for future growth constructed during the year thus taking the and prosperity of households living below the cumulative total to 23,554. poverty line (BPL). A few of the fundamental In addition, Choupal Pradarshan Khets causes for people feeling disempowered promoted field demonstrations of seed and apathetic towards their future are lack varieties and production practices for of employment opportunities. These are improved yield and quality in soybean, wheat, aggravated by illiteracy and ill-health, which rice, summer pulses and horticultural crops prevents them from seizing opportunities in more than 1,200 villages covering around that the labour market offers because they 21,000 hectares and more than 60,000 are either unqualified or energy-deficient. farmers. The focus of these demonstrations was on sustainable farm practices like Women’s Economic moisture conservation, promotion of bioEmpowerment The primary focus in the catchment fertilisers, zero-tillage, prophylactic pest Targeting the most marginalised, BPL and management, etc. SC/ST women the programme operates in of ITC’s factories the rural hinterlands of factory catchments is to create the necessary and Factory to mobilise them to act collectively through enabling preCatchments – empowered micro-credit groups and/or micro-enterprises that provide them with an conditions for future growth Creating Social array of earning opportunities. and prosperity of Capital Performance households living Habitats around industrial clusters are Self Help Groups (SHGs): Commencing in below the poverty typically overcrowded and congested. the year 2000, the programme currently line (BPL) Infrastructure is poor or creaking under the supports 2,057 operational SHGs with over 156 Social Performance 23,000 members. A major thrust was given Education to financial inclusion of women members by opening bank accounts for 1,335 of them in ITC’s Education programme is designed 2014-15. Cumulatively, over 40,000 women to provide children from weaker sections were gainfully employed either through access to education with special focus on quality and retention. micro-enterprises or assisted with loans to pursue income generating activities. Performance Micro Enterprises: Agarbatti production, During 2014-15, 36,000 children as a micro-enterprise was operational in were covered through the Read India Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Programme and 34,000 children through Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana Supplementary Learning Centres (SLCs), engaging over 4,000 women in hand rolling, taking the cumulative total to 4.06 lakhs. pedal rolling and scenting operations. By 147 government primary schools (including the end of 2014-15, raw batti production Anganwadis) were provided infrastructure was 2,457 MT while the despatch of scented support comprising boundary walls, battis was 751 million sticks. additional classrooms, sanitation units, Production Trends Raw Battis (MT) SLC spread 2,457 WB AP 66 68 Karnataka Telangana 20 35 1,445 834 336 Bihar 195 182 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 -11 -12 -13 -14 -15 157 Sustainable Livelihoods Cum marginalised youth enabling them to align better 20132014to with the emerging needs of the job market. The Activity 14 15 2014programme focuses on building market relevant 15 skills so as to make potential job seekers industryEducation ready and employable in the manufacturing, construction or service sectors. Govt Schools Infra support 47 147 1,158 Performance (Nos.) Commencing in 2001, to date the programme Children has covered over 19,000 youth under covered (Read 0.30 0.70 4.06 different trades in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, India & SLC) Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Children Telangana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and covered through Read 0.23 0.36 0.60 West Bengal. In 2014-15, enrolment attained India Plus (Nos.) Female % Against Total Enrolment Vocational Training Students 13,180 14,000 enrolled 2,443 13,180 19,495 12,000 (Nos.) 10,000 8,000 Students 6,000 279 3,280 4,477 placed (Nos.) 3,872 2,443 4,000 2,000 furniture and electrical fittings, thus taking 35% 26% 36% the total number of government primary 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 schools covered till date to 1,158. an all-time high figure of 13,180 students in Vocational Training different trades, of which 10,378 completed ITC’s Vocational Training programme plays an training (79% of the total). The balance are active role in building and upgrading skills of in the process of completion of their training ITC’s Vocational Training programme plays an active role in building and upgrading skills of marginalised youth enabling them to align better with the emerging needs of the job market 158 Social Performance during 2015-16. Female students comprised 15 were the highest compared to all 36% of the total enrolment and SC-ST formed previous years. Household contribution 41% of the total enrolment. for increased ownership, community mobilisation and awareness campaigns The Company continues to work with the instilled behaviour change among the Welcomgroup Graduate School of Hotel users, which will continue to be the Administration together with Dr TMA Pai Foundation to cater to the ever growing need IHHT 14-15 for professionally trained human resources in the hospitality industry. In addition, a UP Uttarakhand 125 AP Culinary Institute was opened in Chhindwara 494 675 Telangana during 2014, to impart cooking skills to 150 youth from the lower economic strata. TN Leveraging its core competencies in the 354 FMCG sector, an employability programme to skill unemployed youth on FMCG sales and distribution was launched across various locations of the country. Candidates who successfully completed the programme were Karnataka Bihar certified by the National Skill Development 569 1,211 Corporation (NSDC) and have been gainfully employed in the FMCG sector. IHHT Trends In order to promote Sanitation 3,578 overall health and In order to promote overall health and hygiene through hygiene through prevention of open prevention of defecation and to reduce incidence of open defecation water-borne diseases, 8,254 individual and to reduce household toilets have been constructed 829 incidence of waterto date. ITC has followed a methodology of community mobilisation and 352 borne diseases, 283 275 contribution around factory locations of 8,254 individual Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 household Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and -11 -12 -13 -14 -15 toilets have been Karnataka. The achievements in 2014Note: IHHT – Individual Household Toilets constructed to date 159 Sustainable Livelihoods driving force to encourage greater usage of toilets and contribute to a cleaner environment. In areas with problems of water quality, 19 plants have been installed to provide safe drinking water to about 28,000 rural households in Andhra Pradesh. Swasthya Choupal, the Company’s e-Choupal Rural Health initiative was consolidated in seven districts of Uttar Pradesh and expanded to three new districts in Madhya Pradesh with a coverage of over 450 villages. Solid Waste Management wards of Bengaluru with the support of Bruhat ITC’s Solid Waste Management programme, Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). A ‘WOW – Well Being Out of Waste’, inculcates similar pilot programme was also launched the habit of source segregation and recycling in 30 wards of Coimbatore. The pilot aims to among school children, housewives and create sustainable livelihoods for rag pickers general public as well as industries and and waste collectors by propagating source business enterprises. The WOW movement segregation at each of the households and today extends to Hyderabad, Chennai, facilitating effective collection mechanisms Bengaluru, Coimbatore and some towns in collaboration with Municipal corporations. of Telangana, with the support of over 3 This programme is aimed at promoting a million citizens, 5,00,000 school children, clean and green environment and providing 350 corporates, more than 1,000 commercial a sustainable source of livelihood for ragestablishments and around 200 industrial pickers and waste collectors. plants. On the occasion of the 3rd anniversary of National Recycling Day, a novel pilot A similar programme is currently active near programme was launched in twelve selected ITC’s operations in Saharanpur, Tribeni and Solid Waste Management 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Households 8,189 9,613 9,702 27,164 Covered Total Waste 1,076 1,498 2,201 2,717 Collected (MT) Revenue 38.33 43.91 53.29 67.07 (` lakhs) Municipal 175 284 305 418 Dump Municipal 16% 19% 14% 15% Dump (%) Waste Handled per month 90 125 183 226 (MT) Revenue per month 3.19 3.66 4.44 5.59 (` lakhs) 160 Social Performance Munger, with focus on door-to-door collection l Improved Agricultural Practices: Promote of household waste and segregation at site Sustainable Agriculture in the core project in order to re-cycle and compost so as to areas to increase productivity by 20% and minimise the load at municipal dump sites. By reduce cost of cultivation by 20%. end of 2014-15, the programme had covered over 27,000 households and handled 226 l Women Empowerment: Focus on Women tonnes of waste per month, on an average. Headed Households and very Poor Only 15% of the total waste collected is being Households in all our catchments in order dumped untreated. The projects earned nearly to drive financial inclusion, maternal `5.58 lakhs per month as revenue which went and child health awareness, and microtowards meeting part of the administration enterprise/self-employment. and overhead costs. l Education: Benchmark performance The Road Ahead against the state Annual Status of Education Reports (ASER) and ensure l Social Forestry: While area will be increased superior impact through deeper by 20,000 hectares every year, equal focus penetration in current catchments, will be given to increase productivity from strengthening school infrastructure and 41 tons/hectare today to 55 tons/hectare by special coaching for weaker children. 2017-18, and 65 tons by 2020. l Vocational Training: Continue to provide l Soil and Moisture Conservation: training in skills to over 10,000 youth every Introduce groundwater based planning in year in vocations that are in great demand a phase-wise manner in order to convert in the market. all core project locations to “safe groundwater zone”. l Health & Hygiene: Strive to achieve alll Bio Diversity Conservation: Conserve round improvement in critical health available trees/groves to improve indicators by ensuring open-defecationgreen cover and species diversity in free zones in our project areas, promoting the conservation plots by 50% against source segregation of waste and supply of baseline by 2020. potable drinking water. 161 Sustainable Livelihoods The CII-ITC Centre Responsible Creating Enduring of Excellence Advocacy Institutions for Sustainable ITC believes that it is necessary to represent CII-ITC Centre of Excellence Development to and engage with authorities on matters for Sustainable Development interacts with the concerning the various sectors in which The CII–ITC Centre of Excellence for Government and it operates. The Board approved Policy on Responsible Advocacy provides the framework Sustainable Development, established policy makers for the necessary interface with Government/ by ITC in 2006 in collaboration with the to promote Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Regulatory Authorities. ITC works with apex sustainable continues its endeavours to promote industry institutions that are engaged in policy development and advocacy, like the Confederation of Indian sustainable business practices among Indian inclusive growth Industry, Federation of Indian Chambers enterprises. The Centre is steered by its through corporate of Commerce and Industry, Associated Advisory Council, led by Mr Y C Deveshwar, action Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India Chairman, ITC Limited, and comprises and various other forums including regional members from industry, government, civil Chambers of Commerce. ITC’s engagement society and institutions, which provides with the relevant authorities is guided by the strategic direction to the organisation. values of commitment, integrity, transparency During the year the Centre, in partnership and the need to balance interests of diverse with the International Integrated Reporting stakeholders. Council (IIRC), has set up a country-level The Company, for its social development network, the IR Lab India, to promote projects, organises meetings with the local Integrated Reporting (IR). The objective of administration and state governments to seek IR Lab is to build capacities of companies in their participation and involvement. Their India on integrated reporting and to represent expert advice and counsel are also sought concerns of Indian business to the IIRC. and approvals obtained, where required, for The Centre also hosted the India Business & the planned interventions. The Company also Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI) with the support engages in public-private-partnerships (PPP) of German International Cooperation (GIZ). with the state governments for such projects. Launched on the occasion of International The CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Day for Biological Diversity on May 22, 2014, Sustainable Development also interacts with the IBBI serves as a national platform of the Government and policy makers to promote business and its stakeholders for dialogue, sustainable development and inclusive growth sharing and learning, ultimately leading to through corporate action. mainstreaming sustainable management of biological diversity in businesses. The Centre and GIZ have partnered also with CREM, the Netherlands, to build capacity of member companies in biodiversity management. In addition, at the request of the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change (MoEFCC), the Centre has drafted a single window clearance form for environment, forests and wildlife clearances with inputs from members of the CII National Committee on Environment as well as top government officials. The Centre also has been engaged with the Cabinet Secretariat’s Project Management Group to suggest ways to increase transparency and accountability in the project appraisal process. 162 Social Performance The 9th Annual Sustainability Solutions Summit continued its legacy of bringing together thought-and-action leaders from across the globe to discuss and propagate innovative and actionable solutions towards building a more sustainable future. The Centre recognises and rewards the most significant contributions to sustainable development in the country through the CII-ITC Sustainability Awards. In 2014, the Awards were presented to 27 companies. The Centre has been building capacities of companies on the new CSR legislation as per the Companies Act 2013. In 2014, the Centre conducted seven open workshops in Delhi, Mumbai, Lucknow, Bhubaneshwar, Chennai, of preserving, propagating and promoting Vishakapatnam and Goa. The Centre is also Hindustani Classical Music. offering services to companies in baseline While relentlessly focusing on Hindustani studies, measurement of human development Classical Music, the Academy has also indictors, and social return on investments. expanded the range of its offerings to include ITC Sangeet Research Carnatic concerts as well. The Academy is Academy currently engaged in carrying the message of Hindustani Classical Music across the The ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC-SRA) country from the metros to rural India. The is an embodiment of sustained corporate Academy also constantly endeavours to commitment to a priceless national heritage. work with other music organisations and It is a unique institution – the only gurukul institutions of repute. of its kind that has been at the forefront of promoting the ancient tradition of Hindustani The Academy continued with its traditional programmes as well as broke new ground with Classical Music. Blending modern-day fresh initiatives such as the Malhar festival in research methods with the purity of the age old August and the Arpan soiree in September, Guru-Shishya tradition, ITC-SRA is recognised culminating in the ITC Sangeet Sammelan in as the finest repository of Hindustani Classical December last year. In addition, collaboration Music in terms of musical talent, music with the India Habitat Centre at Delhi on the education and archives. Producing musicians Morning Ragas series launched in October last of stature, it has been a catalyst in ensuring year was extremely well received with Vidushi the popularity of Hindustani Classical Music. Girija Devi performing at the inaugural event. Its list of illustrious Gurus includes Vidushi The Academy’s thrust on a collaborative effort Girija Devi, Ustad Abdul Rashid Khan, to revisit Kolkata’s magnificent heritage Pandit Buddhadev Das Gupta, Pandit continued with programmes co-sponsored Ulhas Kashalkar, Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty, by the All Bengal Music Conference, the Pandit Arun Bhaduri, Ustad Mashkoor Ali Bhowanipore Sangeet Sammelani, the Blending modernKhan, Pandit Partha Chatterjee, Vidushi Dover Lane Music Conference and other day research Subhra Guha and Pandit Uday Bhawalkar. organisations. Efforts to showcase the Musician Tutors Omkar Dadarkar, Abir methods with the Academy’s talent across the country Hossain, Brajeswar Mukherjee, Aniruddha continued with several performances in purity of the age Bhattacharya, Arshad Ali Khan, Kumar Mardur old Guru-Shishya Mumbai, Bengaluru, Lucknow and Varanasi. and Waseem Ahmed Khan are rising stars in tradition, ITC-SRA the firmament of Hindustani Classical Music. These performances served the purpose is recognised as the With 53 gifted Scholars carefully selected of showcasing the exceptional talent of from all over the country and a dedicated our Scholars, Gurus and the Academy’s finest repository team of Gurus and Musician Tutors, ITC-SRA commitment to the cause of Indian of Hindustani continues to passionately pursue its mission Classical Music. Classical Music 163 Product Responsibility Management Approach Customer Health and Safety As a Company engaged in the FMCG and Hospitality sectors, ITC’s products and services reach out to a large number of consumers. The Company has stringent processes and systems to ensure that all supported by comprehensive research and products and services are in compliance testing facilities at the ITC Life Sciences with relevant regulatory requirements. In & Technology Centre, whose laboratories addition, product and service attributes are conform to ISO/IEC 17025 and are certified constantly evaluated against international by National Accreditation Board for Testing standards and best practices. and Calibration (NABL). Manufacturing units ITC’s commitment towards ensuring and hotels have state-of-the-art facilities compliance with relevant standards of health and technology as well as internationally and safety commences at the design stage. benchmarked quality management systems. Appropriate health and safety elements These are constantly reviewed to keep them across procurement, manufacturing and contemporary and relevant. The quality delivery are identified and evaluated, based performance of third party manufacturing on which control measures are implemented facilities is also monitored on a daily basis. as necessary. Global developments in health The summary of systems and initiatives and safety are also reviewed constantly across some of ITC’s businesses is presented to provide appropriate insights. This is below: Initiatives for improvement of health and safety Business impacts of products/services Agri Business The Business primarily engages in sourcing of agricommodities like Wheat, Coffee, Potato, Shrimps, Soya and Processed Fruits. These commodities are sourced and supplied based on customer requirements of quality, quantity and packaging. Stringent process control and quality inspection norms have been established to ensure compliance with customer requirements. Systems and processes are in place to ensure the hygiene of the stored stocks. Products are shipped after meticulous testing either in-house, or at accredited labs or agencies, if required by the customers. For organic and sustainable farm practices in the processed fruits business catering to specific customer segments, the Business has received the following international certifications: l Fairtrade certification endorsing that its products meet certain environmental, labour, and developmental standards. l Demeter Certification for Biodynamic Farming, a holistic method of agriculture. l USDA Organic Certification for Organic Farming. l Bio-Suisse Certification for Organic Farming. 165 Sustainable Livelihoods Initiatives for improvement of health and safety Business impacts of products/services Branded Packaged Foods 61 out of 69 manufacturing locations, including third party manufacturing units, are Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)/ISO 22000 certified, ensuring that products use the best quality ingredients and utilise the highest quality processes. The objective is to continuously provide consumers with products that not only “Taste Good” but also “Do Good”. Consequently, large investments have been made in R&D to deliver relevant functionalities based upon specific formulations for identified health needs, like reducing salt, sugar and oil across all products. These investments are likely to show results over the medium to long term. Products like ‘Sunfeast Oats Marie’ and ‘Sunfeast Farmlite’ attempt to seamlessly integrate healthy ingredients like oats and fibre into consumer snacking preferences. Market surveys for determining customer preference for products with specific functionalities were completed in 2014-15 and the market release for such products will be determined based on production viability. As on date, 90% by volume of ITC’s biscuits are trans-fat free. In 2014-15, daily staple food products like multigrain atta and fortified atta started reaching larger areas of the country. Smaller packs of these products also helped in gaining access to a wider section of society. Cigarettes The Business uses proprietary software to regularly monitor and review product specifications of all raw materials. With consistent focus on product innovation, new product development in the Business involves consideration of global developments and is supported by comprehensive research and testing facilities at the ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre. 61 out of 69 manufacturing Leaf Tobacco Product hygiene standards in tobacco cultivation are locations, including accorded the highest importance. Accordingly, awareness third party among tobacco farmers on the importance of sustainably manufacturing producing residue-free quality tobacco is constantly reinforced during field-level trainings and seminars in units of the Foods ITC’s operating regions. For frequent assessment on Business, are product integrity, farm-level and packed-level toxicant Hazard Analysis audit studies are undertaken wherein all leaf samples from and Critical Control farmlands and packed cases of finished products are closely monitored for toxic residues. Several additional measures Point (HACCP)/ISO were implemented across the value chain during the year 22000 certified, towards minimisation of Non Tobacco Related Matter. ensuring that products use the best quality Personal Care Products The Business follows a comprehensive approach for improving the health and safety impacts of its products in ingredients and each of the lifecycle stages including R&D, certification as utilise the highest well as manufacturing and production. quality processes 166 Social Performance Initiatives for improvement of health and safety Business impacts of products/services Personal Care Products All safety tests from prototype development to final product (contd.) are conducted in accordance with standard international guidelines. Ingredients used in products undergo rigorous analysis, based on existing scientific literature, for their toxicity and skin sensitisation prior to clearance for use in product development. Product safety and efficacy is certified through external accredited laboratories. Products are manufactured in a highly automated environment under strict hygienic conditions. Documented Quality Management System, including procured material checks, in-process checks and finished goods quality checks, ensures that the manufactured products are consistent and of high quality. Hotels ITC Hotels have established food safety management systems certified as per HACCP/ISO 22000. In addition, ITC Hotels R&D endeavours to adhere to GHP & GMP (Good Hygiene Practices & Good Manufacturing Practices). The Hotels Business also conforms to relevant applications of PAS 220 (Prerequisite programmes on food safety for food manufacturing). ITC has elaborate fire safety guidelines which all hotels comply with. These guidelines are based on National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Codes and other international best practices. They supplement the general EHS Guidelines applicable to all ITC Businesses, the compliance of which is audited by the Corporate EHS Department on a regular basis. Education and Stationery The Business uses only approved non-hazardous materials Products like ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) paper, ink, dyes, etc. Since the primary consumers of these products are children, stringent processes and quality control measures are in place to ensure their safety. Lifestyle Retailing All raw materials and garments are tested at the in-house laboratory for post usage experience and conformance to quality standards. The standards and product specifications All safety tests are periodically validated by international testing agencies. from prototype Quality is monitored through an internal Product Quality development Rating System (PQRS) together with the external Acceptable to final product Quality Level (AQL) norm that is followed internationally by are conducted apparel businesses. The Wills Lifestyle range (excluding in accordance the Wills Signature garments) has received the “Oeko-Tex” certification (w.e.f. January 2012), becoming the first brand with standard international guidelines 167 Sustainable Livelihoods Initiatives for improvement of health and safety Business impacts of products/services Lifestyle Retailing in the domestic apparel retail segment in India to obtain (contd.) such a recognition. The certification has been conferred by Hohenstein Textile Testing Institute GmbH & Co. KG, Germany. It guarantees that the products are free from more than 100 harmful substances and ensures that Wills Lifestyle garments are completely safe for consumers, without compromising on relevant style quotient of its products. Packaging and Printing Various initiatives have been undertaken in developing packaging solutions that use environment friendly raw materials such as water-based varnishes and reduced material usage in terms of mass and thickness of products. The Business engages with customers on a continuous basis to provide solutions that help protect functional needs like product integrity and visual imagery, whilst providing scope for use of alternate materials. The bulk of board packaging is already being done with non-toluene based inks. In the area of flexibles packaging, joint projects with customers have been undertaken to promote sustainable flexibles and printing with non-toluene and non-ketone based inks. In order to strengthen the health & safety requirement of products (Quality and Hygiene), all key operations at Haridwar and Tiruvottiyur factories have been certified as per British Retail Consortium (BRC) Global Standard for Packaging and Packaging Material. Packaging solutions are being developed that use environment friendly raw materials such as water-based varnishes and reduced material usage in terms of mass and thickness of products 168 Social Performance Initiatives for improvement of health and safety Business impacts of products/services Paperboards and ITC has been the pioneer in manufacturing Elemental Specialty Papers Chlorine Free (ECF) pulp in India. This ensures that the levels of dioxins and furans in the pulp are less than 1 PPT (Parts Per Trillion). The global migration test is conducted periodically on all food-grade paper and paperboards for compliance with the US FDA standards and to adhere to prescribed limits for presence of heavy metals. All manufacturing ingredients for applications involving direct/ indirect food contact are procured from reputed suppliers and conform to US FDA and equivalent standards. The Business ensures that the components of food allergens listed in the EC directive 2003/89/EC and the US FDA Act are not used in any virgin grade boards and papers. The Bollaram Unit, which manufactures food grade board for direct food contact, is ‘third party’ certified in accordance with BRC/IoP (British Retail Consortium/Institute of Packaging) standards. Smithers Pira, a renowned testing and consultancy firm, certifies ITC’s ‘Indobarr’ and ‘Cyber Propac’ brands to be compliant with German BFR standards for Food Packaging. Matches and Agarbatti Chemicals approved by IFRA (International Fragrance Resource Association, Geneva) are used to prepare fragrances, which are required in the manufacture of dipped Mangaldeep agarbattis. The manufacturing processes of the Matches and Agarbatti Business are designed to ensure product safety and consistency. 169 Sustainable Livelihoods Product like email, telephone number, website address and feedback forms to enable Information and them to contact the relevant Business. Labelling Processes are laid down to ensure that consumers are provided with responses on As an organisation committed to high their feedback in a timely manner. For food standards of transparency and good products, all information about ingredients governance, ITC’s Business operations and nutrition of products is published on the comply with every relevant law of the Nation. product packaging as per relevant statutory Systems have also been put in place to requirements. ensure compliance before the launch of any In the Information Technology Business, new category or product. formal mechanisms are in place to measure A regular customer feedback system forms customer experience. The Customer Service an integral part of ITC’s Businesses where Satisfaction Survey is an annual check on the there is direct interface with customers. The robustness of the engagement, culminating process followed by ITC’s Hotels Business in a Customer Experience Index. The survey with respect to consumer feedback is is conducted amongst Chief Executives illustrated on the next page. and Senior Management, and is based on a structured questionnaire customised for In the case of FMCG products, consumers are the stakeholder. Multiple parameters and provided several communication channels business outcomes are measured including 170 Social Performance Improvements Reports Monitored Identified and Analysed and Verified Implemented Scores are monitored Scores are generated to ensure that for the hotel and corrective action has the individual Data is analysed been effective departments to identify areas of improvement Audits are conducted Scores are to check efficacy of compared against the changes targets set satisfaction, loyalty, advocacy and value continuously improving the product quality for money. The outcomes and insights from and service delivery, based on the insights the survey drive customer engagement and from interactions with customers and service delivery improvement initiatives at independent surveys. the organisation, geography, Business, Unit and account level. Traceability in the Foods Supply Chain Customer feedback for B2B businesses like In Foods Business, wheat constitutes around Agri Business and Packaging and Printing, 40% of the total raw material procurement is obtained through different activities. value and is sourced through the e-Choupal For example, Agri Business has pre-season platform of ITC’s Agri Business thereby engagement with customers, client visits and ensuring 100% traceability to the origin. engagement of the Divisional Management For vendors of other raw materials including Committees with major customers. Given generic and actively traded commodities like In Foods Business, the nature of the Business, claims due to maida, sugar, oil etc. sourced outside the rejections on account of quality are a valuable wheat constitutes aforesaid platform, ITC has a robust system indicator of customer dissatisfaction. During around 40% of the of due diligence. In addition Board approved the year under review, no such claims were total raw material policies of ITC supplemented by a ‘Code of made to the Business. Conduct for Vendors and Service providers’ procurement value In addition, an independent survey “Nielsen provide the structure for addressing and is sourced Corporate Image monitor 2014-15”, traceability within the supply chain and also through the which tracks the reputation of 42 leading the sustainability aspects therein, which e-Choupal platform Indian companies, rated ITC well ahead of are detailed in the “Supply Chain” section of ITC’s Agri competition in various product parameters of this Report. Monitoring of compliance against the above mentioned Code and also Business thereby like “products or services – high quality & reliable” and “customer service levels/ performance of Foods Business’s supply ensuring 100% Customer Relationship Management”. This is chain partners based on identified material traceability to the an outcome of our dedicated efforts towards aspects will be done in a phased manner. origin 171 Sustainable Livelihoods Marketing Customer Privacy Communications Maintenance of customer privacy is relevant primarily for ITC’s Information Technology All Businesses/Divisions of ITC have and Hotels Businesses, both of which have established rigorous systems, procedures well established systems and procedures and review mechanisms to identify and for ensuring zero non-compliance. comply with the laws and regulations concerning marketing communications. In Network Architecture and Information addition, ITC has put in place a dedicated security controls of the Company’s consumer response cell in order to answer Information Technology Business under any queries on products. ITC Infotech Limited are driven by industry best practices. The Business has drafted a ITC follows standard operating procedures privacy policy in line with the IT Act, 2000, to ensure that its marketing communications that covers all aspects of data privacy are in accordance with voluntary codes with respect to sensitive information. The adopted by each business as well as Business has also formulated an Information applicable statutes. These are vetted by Management policy, which caters to the the internal legal team and compliance is ITC follows IT security aspects of the ISO 27001 ISMS ensured by the internal audit department. standard operating framework. The IT operations arm of ITC Marketing and Advertising Communications Infotech Limited is ISO 27001 certified for procedures to of all ITC’s Businesses are subjected to its business processes to deliver IT services ensure that stringent internal checks by the Legal and projects. Documented procedures are its marketing Department. The Company’s consumer available and practised to grant physical communications goods Businesses adhere to voluntary and access to information, e.g. the defined are in accordance legal codes of conduct and follow the ASCI and restricted access rights to IT Room/ with voluntary (Advertising Standards Council of India) Server Room and User Access Management Code for all marketing communications. based on ISO 27001 and as agreed with codes adopted by Marketing communications for ITC’s Hotels customers. The Business has also put in each business as Business is governed by self-regulation and place measures at various control areas in well as applicable guided by the Indian Society of Advertisers order to meet customers’ requirements for statutes (ISA) rules and guidelines. data security. These include desktop access, 172 Social Performance server access, network access, operating each reporting Unit/Business/function system, application security, data transfer, as well as monitoring and controlling A convergence of penetration testing, etc. Clear guidelines are systems that the Business/Corporate R&D capabilities provided for data backup, retention periods, function must have in place. is being leveraged the media on which backups have to be maintained and storage at remote location. As per this system, no incidents of nonto deliver future compliance were reported during 2014-15. products aimed at In addition, stringent risk assessments are nutrition, health carried out to identify vulnerabilities and threats to assets and the controls that need The Road Ahead and well-being. to be put in place. Recognising the unique construct of ITC in In this context, terms of its strong presence in agriculture, Life Sciences & ITC’s Hotels and Information Technology Branded Packaged Foods and Personal Technology Centre Businesses received no complaints regarding breach of customer privacy or loss Care Products Businesses, a convergence (LSTC) has created of customer data in 2014-15. For the year of R&D capabilities is being leveraged to a Biosciences R&D deliver future products aimed at nutrition, the average WoW Ratio (Guest Satisfaction team Index) for the Hotels Business was 91.5%. health and well-being. In this context, Life Sciences & Technology Centre (LSTC) has Compliance created a Biosciences R&D team to design and develop several long-term research All Businesses/Divisions of ITC have well platforms evolving multi-generation established systems, procedures and review product concepts and associated claims that mechanisms to identify and comply with are fully backed by scientific evidence for the laws and regulations concerning its the Branded Packaged Foods and Personal products and services. Particular care is Care Products Businesses. Multiple value accorded to tobacco products, taking into propositions have been identified in the account the regulatory framework. area of functional foods, which are being progressed to products of the future with ITC has established systems wherein strong scientifically validated claims via every Business and Corporate Department clinical trials. Similar advances have been has to submit a periodic statutory made in the area of personal care products. compliance report to the CMC/Board on In addition, LSTC has evolved a strategy in all business, regulatory, product specific, building a new value chain called, ‘Nutrition’ finance/revenue related, personnel with a special focus on ‘Indianness’ and related, technical/process related and ‘health and well-being’ founded on the environment related statutes and other basis of Value Added Agriculture (VAA) applicable laws and regulations. This is and Medicinal and Aromatic Plants. The done on the basis of updated checklists initial activities related to VAA have already that have to be mandatorily maintained by commenced with a focus on soya. 173 Sustainable Livelihoods GRI -G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation of Explanation Section Indicator Description Principles Reference Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the Statement of G4-1 relevance of sustainability 04-09 continuing support to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability Description of key impacts, risks, G4-2 * 38-45 and opportunities Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of the organisation * 12 Primary brands, products, and G4-4 * 14-23 services Location of the organisation’s G4-5 * 49 headquarters Number of countries where the G4-6 * 12 organisation operates Nature of ownership and legal Report and Accounts G4-7 * form 2015 G4-8 Markets served * 12 G4-9 Scale of the organisation * 12 Details on workforce broken Outcomes from G4-10 down by gender, employment implementation of 131 contract, employment type etc. Principle 6 Percentage of total employees Outcomes from G4-11 covered by collective bargaining implementation of 131 agreements Principle 3 Description of the organisation’s G4-12 * 24-29 supply chain 174 GRI -G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Omissions Assurance/ Implementation of Explanation Section Indicator Description Principles Reference Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the G4-13 * 12-23 organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain How the precautionary approach Actions taken to G4-14 or principle is addressed by the implement 61 organisation Principle 7 United Nations Global Compact Externally developed economic, (UNGC) This environmental and social Sustainability charters, principles, or other G4-15 Report is used 04 initiatives to which the to communicate organisation subscribes or which progress on it endorses implementation of UNGC Principles Memberships of associations and national/ international advocacy organisations in which G4-16 the organisation holds a position * 198-199 on the governance body and participates in projects or committees Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Entities included in the Yes/ organisation’s consolidated Independent G4-17 financial statements with * 49-53 Assurance indication of coverage Statement in the report Yes/ Process for defining the Independent G4-18 report content and the * 46 Assurance Aspect Boundaries Statement Yes/ Material Aspects identified Independent G4-19 in the process for defining * 46-47 Assurance report content Statement Yes/ Description of Aspect Boundary Independent G4-20 within the organisation for each * 49-51 Assurance material aspect Statement 175 Sustainable Livelihoods UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation of Explanation Section Indicator Description Principles Reference 25-26, 35-38, Yes/ Description of Aspect Boundary 49, 83, Independent G4-21 outside the organisation for each * 87-88, Assurance material aspect 91, 95, Statement 115 Yes/ Explanation of the effect of any Independent G4-22 re-instatement of information * 90 Assurance provided in the earlier Reports Statement Yes/ Significant changes from Independent G4-23 previous reporting periods in the * 49-51 Assurance Scope and Aspect Boundaries Statement Stakeholder Engagement Yes/ List of stakeholder groups Sharing COP with Independent G4-24 36-37 engaged by the organisation Stakeholders Assurance Statement Yes/ Basis for identification and Sharing COP with Independent G4-25 selection of stakeholders with 35 Stakeholders Assurance whom to engage Statement Yes/ Organisation’s approach to Sharing COP with Independent G4-26 35-37 stakeholder engagement Stakeholders Assurance Statement 176 GRI -G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation of Explanation Section Indicator Description Principles Reference Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Yes/ stakeholder engagement, Sharing COP with Independent G4-27 36-37, 47 and how the organisation has Stakeholders Assurance responded to those key topics Statement and concerns Report Profile G4-28 Reporting Period * 49 Date of most recent previous G4-29 * 49 Report G4-30 Reporting cycle * 49 Contact point for questions G4-31 regarding the report or its * 49 contents G4-32 GRI Content Index * 174-194 Organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report; relationship with the G4-33 assurance providers; the highest * 49 governance body's involvement in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report Governance Governance structure of the Yes/ organisation; committees Actions taken Independent G4-34 responsible for decision-making to implement 55-58 Assurance on economic, environmental and principles 1-10 Statement social impacts Process for delegating authority Yes/ for economic, environmental and Actions taken Independent G4-35 social topics from the highest to implement 57 Assurance governance body to senior principles 1-10 Statement executives and other employees 177 Sustainable Livelihoods UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation of Explanation Section Indicator Description Principles Reference Yes/ Executive-level positions with Actions taken Independent G4-36 responsibility for economic, to implement 55-57 Assurance environmental and social topics principles 1-10 Statement Processes for consultation Yes/ between stakeholders and the Actions taken Independent G4-37 highest governance body on to implement 57 Assurance economic, environmental and principles 1-10 Statement social topics Yes/ Composition of the highest Actions taken Independent G4-38 governance body and its to implement 56-58 Assurance committees principles 1-10 Statement Function of the Chair of the highest governance body within Yes/ Actions taken the organisation's management Independent G4-39 to implement 58 and the reasons for his Assurance principles 1-10 arrangement as an executive Statement officer Nomination and selection processes for the highest Yes/ governance body and its Actions taken Independent G4-40 committees; the criteria used to implement 55-58 Assurance for nominating and selecting principles 1-10 Statement highest governance body members Processes for the highest governance body to ensure Yes/ Actions taken conflicts of interest are avoided Independent G4-41 to implement 58-59 and managed; disclosure Assurance principles 1 -10 of conflicts of interest to Statement stakeholders Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and Yes/ updating of the organisation’s Actions taken Independent G4-42 purpose, value or mission to implement 57 Assurance statements, strategies, policies, principles 1-10 Statement and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Measures taken to develop and Yes/ enhance the highest governance Actions taken Independent G4-43 body’s collective knowledge of to implement 59 Assurance economic, environmental and principles 1-10 Statement social topics 178 GRI -G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation of Explanation Section Indicator Description Principles Reference Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s Yes/ performance with respect Actions taken Independent G4-44 to governance of economic, to implement 59 Assurance environmental and social topics; principles 1-10 Statement actions taken in response to evaluation results Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of Yes/ Actions taken economic, environmental Independent G4-45 to implement 61 and social impacts, risks, and Assurance principles 1-10 opportunities; use of stakeholder Statement consultation for supporting the process Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness Yes/ Actions taken of the organisation’s risk Independent G4-46 to implement 57, 61 management processes for Assurance principles 1-10 economic, environmental and Statement social topics Frequency of the highest Yes/ governance body’s review Actions taken Independent G4-47 of economic, environmental to implement Once in a quarter Assurance and social impacts, risks, and principles 1-10 Statement opportunities Highest committee or position that formally reviews and Yes/ Actions taken approves the organisation’s Independent G4-48 to implement 46, 57 sustainability report and ensures Assurance principles 1-10 that all material Aspects are Statement covered Yes/ Process for communicating Actions taken Independent G4-49 critical concerns to the highest to implement 46 Assurance governance body principles 1-10 Statement Nature and total number of critical concerns that were Actions taken communicated to the highest G4-50 to implement 36-45 governance body and the principles 1-10 mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them 179 Sustainable Livelihoods UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation of Explanation Section Indicator Description Principles Reference Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives; how Yes/ performance criteria in the Actions taken Independent G4-51 remuneration policy relate to to implement 59-60 Assurance the highest governance body’s principles 1-10 Statement and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives Process for determining G4-52 * 59-60 remuneration How stakeholders’ views are Report and Accounts G4-53 sought and taken into account * 2015 regarding remuneration Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s highest-paid G4-54 individual to the median * 60 annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organisation’s highestpaid individual to the median G4-55 * 60 percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) Ethics and Integrity Organisation’s values, principles, Yes/ Actions taken standards and norms of behavior Independent G4-56 to implement 60-61, 196 such as codes of conduct and Assurance principles 10 codes of ethics Statement Internal and external Yes/ mechanisms for seeking Actions taken Independent G4-57 advice on ethical and lawful to implement 60-61 Assurance behavior, and matters related to principles 10 Statement organisational integrity Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Actions taken concerns about unethical or G4-58 to implement 60-61 unlawful behavior, and matters principles 10 related to organisational integrity 180 GRI -G4 Content Index GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance Category: Economic Material Aspect: Economic Performance Generic Disclosures on G4-DMA Management Approach * 64 (DMA) Direct economic value G4-EC1 * 65-69 generated and distributed We have not disclosed the information on this indicator owing to unavailability of appropriate framework and reliable information Financial implications and needed for other risks and opportunities Action taken on representative G4-EC2 for the organisation's Principle 7 estimation of the activities due to climate financial implications change of the risk or opportunity. We will evaluate appropriate framework for complete disclosure on this indicator within next 3-4 years. Coverage of the G4-EC3 organisation's defined * 71 benefit plan obligations Financial assistance received G4-EC4 * 70 from government Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 72-73 Development and impact of G4-EC7 infrastructure investments * 73 and services supported 181 Sustainable Livelihoods GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance Significant indirect economic G4-EC8 impacts, including the extent * 146-161 of impacts Material Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 69-70 Proportion of spending on G4-EC9 * 69 local suppliers Category: Environmental Generic Disclosures on Actions taken G4-DMA Management Approach to implement 76-77 (DMA) principles 7, 8, 9 Material Aspect: Materials Actions taken 117-118, G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 121 principles 7, 8 Outcomes from Yes/ Materials used by weight or Independent G4-EN1 implementing 119-121 volume Assurance Principle 7, 8 Statement Percentage of materials Outcomes from Yes/ Independent G4-EN2 used that are recycled input implementing 119-120 Assurance materials Principle 8 Statement Material Aspect: Energy Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 79, 83 principles 7, 8, 9 Yes/ Outcomes from Energy consumption within Independent G4-EN3 implementing 80-82 the organisation Assurance Principle 7, 8 Statement Outcomes from Energy consumption outside G4-EN4 implementing 83 of the organisation Principle 8 Outcomes from Yes/ Independent G4-EN5 Energy intensity implementing 82 Assurance Principle 8 Statement 182 GRI -G4 Content Index GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance Yes/ Outcomes from Reduction of energy Independent G4-EN6 implementing 82 consumption Assurance Principle 8, 9 Statement Reductions in energy Outcomes from G4-EN7 requirements of products and implementing 82 services Principle 8,9 Material Aspect: Water Actions taken 97-98, G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 107 principles 7, 8 Yes/ Outcomes from Total water withdrawal by Independent G4-EN8 implementing 99 source Assurance Principle 7, 8 Statement Water sources significantly Outcomes from G4-EN9 affected by withdrawal of implementing 107 water Principle 8 Yes/ Outcomes from Percentage and total volume Independent G4-EN10 implementing 102, 106 of water recycled and reused Assurance Principle 8 Statement Material Aspect: Biodiversity Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 123, 125 principles 8 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or G4-EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas None of ITC's Description of significant operational sites impacts of activities, are owned, leased, products, and services on managed in, or are G4-EN12 biodiversity in protected areas adjacent to, protected and areas of high biodiversity areas and areas of value outside protected areas high diversity value, G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored therefore, these standard disclosures Total number of IUCN Red are not applicable List species and national conservation list species with G4-EN14 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk 183 Sustainable Livelihoods GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance Material Aspect: Emissions Actions taken 85-86, G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 95 principles 7, 8, 9 Yes/ Independent Assurance Outcomes from Statement; Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-EN15 implementing 87 Independent emissions (Scope 1) Principle 7, 8 Assurance Statement on GHG Inventory Yes/ Independent Assurance Energy indirect greenhouse Outcomes from Statement; G4-EN16 gas (GHG) emissions (Scope implementing 87 Independent 2) Principle 7, 8 Assurance Statement on GHG Inventory Yes/ Independent Assurance Other indirect greenhouse Outcomes from Statement; G4-EN17 gas (GHG) emissions (Scope implementing 87, 91 Independent 3) Principle 7, 8 Assurance Statement on GHG Inventory Yes/ Independent Assurance Statement; Greenhouse gas (GHG) Outcomes on G4-EN18 90 Independent emissions intensity Principle 7, 8, 9 Assurance Statement on GHG Inventory Reduction of greenhouse gas Outcomes on G4-EN19 88 (GHG) emissions Principle 7, 8, 9 Emissions of ozone-depleting Outcomes on G4-EN20 94 substances (ODS) Principle 7, 8 184 GRI -G4 Content Index GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance NOX, SOX, and other Outcomes on G4-EN21 92-94 significant air emissions Principle 7, 8 Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste 97-98, Actions taken 107, G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 109, principles 8 115 Yes/ Outcomes from Total water discharge by Independent G4-EN22 implementing 102-104 quality and destination Assurance principle 8 Statement Yes/ Outcomes from Total weight of waste by type Independent G4-EN23 implementing 110, 112 and disposal method Assurance principle 8 Statement Outcomes from Total number and volume of G4-EN24 implementing 95 significant spills principle 8 This Standard Weight of transported, Disclosure is not imported, exported, or treated applicable as there waste deemed hazardous was no transport, Outcomes from under the terms of the Basel import, export, or G4-EN25 implementing Convention Annex I, II, III, treatment of waste principle 8 and VIII, and percentage of deemed hazardous transported waste shipped under the terms of internationally the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and IV. 185 Sustainable Livelihoods GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and Outcomes from G4-EN26 related habitats signifcantly implementing 107 affected by the organisation's principle 8 discharges of water and runoff Material Aspect: Products and Services Extent of impact mitigation Outcomes from G4-EN27 of environmental impacts of implementing 82 products and services Principles 7, 8, 9 We are using 1,14,563 tonnes of post consumer waste paper/ paperboard which contribues to 22% of total fibre demand of our Percentage of products Paperboards and Outcomes from Specialty Papers sold and their packaging G4-EN28 implementing Business. However materials that are reclaimed we are not able to Principle 8 by category correlate the post consumer waste coming from the consumers of our products. For further details, please refer to Raw Materials section of this Report. Material Aspect: Sustainable Forest Management Actions taken 117-118, 121, DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 123, 125 principles 7, 8, 9 Material Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Yes/ Outcomes from non-monetary sanctions Independent G4-EN29 implementing 173 for non-compliance with Assurance Principle 8 environmental laws and Statement regulations Material Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Outcomes from G4-EN30 and materials for the implementing 87-88, 91 organisation's operations, Principles 7, 8 and transporting members of the workforce 186 GRI -G4 Content Index GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practices And Decent Work Material Aspect: Employment Actions taken to implement 129-130, G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA Principle 134-135 3, 4, 5, 6 Total number and rates of Yes/ Outcomes from new employee hires and Independent G4-LA1 implementation 131-132 employee turnover by age Assurance of Principle 6 group, gender and region Statement Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not provided to temporary G4-LA2 132-133 or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Return to work and retention Outcomes from G4-LA3 rates after parental leave, by implementation 131 gender of Principle 6 Material Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice Minimum notice periods periods regarding regarding operational Outcomes from operational G4-LA4 changes, including whether implementation changes form these are specified in of Principle 3 part of long term collective agreements agreements with employees. Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA 137, 143 187 Sustainable Livelihoods GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance As per ITC's Corporate guidelines, every Unit is required to have EHS Percentage of total workforce committees to represented in formal joint promote active management-worker health participation of G4-LA5 and safety committees that * employees help monitor and advise on and service occupational health and providers in EHS saftey programs management. The committees have equal representation from workers and management. Type of injury and rates of Yes/ injury, occupational diseases, Independent G4-LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, * 138-142 Assurance and total number of workStatement related fatalities Workers with high incidence G4-LA7 or high risk of diseases * 142 related to their occupation During the reporting year, 5 long term agreements were Health and safety topics signed with trade G4-LA8 covered in formal agreements * unions. Health with trade unions and safety topics were covered in each of these agreements. Material Aspect: Training and Education Yes/ Average hours of training per Outcomes from Independent G4-LA9 year per employee by gender, implementation 133 Assurance and by employee category of Principle 6 Statement Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the G4-LA10 * 133 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 188 GRI -G4 Content Index GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance Percentage of employees receiving regular Outcomes from performance and career G4-LA11 implementation 133 development reviews, by of Principle 6 gender and by employee category Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Outcomes from G4-LA12 category according to gender, implementation 56, 131 age group, minority group of Principle 6 membership, and other indicators of diversity Sub-Category: Human Rights Actions taken to implement G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA 129, 134-135 Principles 1, 24, 5 Material Aspect: Non-Discrimination Yes/ Total number of incidents of Outcomes from Independent G4-HR3 discrimination and corrective implementation 135 Assurance actions taken of Principle 6 Statement Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA 129, 134-135 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Outcomes from association and collective G4-HR4 bargaining may be violated implementation 135 of Principle 3 or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights 189 Sustainable Livelihoods GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance Material Aspect: Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Outcomes from G4-HR5 of child labor, and measures implementation 135 taken to contribute to the of Principle 5 effective abolition of child labor Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Outcomes from G4-HR6 of forced or compulsory labor, implementation 135 and measures to contribute of Principle 4 to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Sub-Category: Society Material Aspect: Local Communities Actions to G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA implement 145-147, 161 Principles 1, 2 Percentage of operations Yes/ with implemented local Outcomes of Independent G4-SO1 community engagement, implementation 147-160 Assurance impact assessments, and of Principle 1, 2 Statement development programs Yes/ Operations with significant Outcomes of Independent G4-SO2 actual and potential negative implementation 147-160 Assurance impacts on local communities of Principle 1, 2 Statement Material Aspect: Anti-Corruption Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 60-61 Principle 10 Total number and percentage of operations asessed for Outcomes of G4-SO3 risks related to corruption implementation 60-61 and the significant risks of Principle 10 identified Communication and training Outcomes of G4-SO4 on anti-corruption policies implementation 60-61 and procedures of Principle 10 190 GRI -G4 Content Index GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance Outcomes of Confirmed incidents of G4-SO5 implementation 60-61 corruption and actions taken of Principle 10 Material Aspect: Public Policy Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 162 Principle 10 Total value of political Outcomes of G4-SO6 contributions by country and implementation Nil recipient/beneficiary of Principle 10 Material Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions Yes/ for anti-competitive behavior, Independent G4-SO7 * 173 anti-trust, and monopoly Assurance practices and their outcomes Statement Material Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant Yes/ fines and total number of Independent G4-SO8 non-monetary sanctions for * 173 Assurance non-compliance with laws Statement and regulations Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 165, 173 Percentage of significant Yes/ product and service Independent G4-PR1 categories for which health * 165-169 Assurance and safety impacts are Statement assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the G4-PR2 health and safety impacts of * 173 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 191 Sustainable Livelihoods GRI G4 Disclosures UNGC COP# Elements Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number/ External Description Omissions Indicators Explanation Assurance Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 170 Type of product and service information required by the organisation's procedures for product and service G4-PR3 information and labeling, * 170 and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4-PR4 * 173 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Yes/ Results of surveys measuring Independent G4-PR5 * 170-171 customer satisfaction Assurance Statement Material Aspect: Marketing Communications Sale of banned or disputed G4-PR6 * 172-173 products Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Yes/ codes concerning marketing Independent G4-PR7 * 173 communications, including Assurance advertising, promotion, Statement and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Material Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding G4-PR8 * 172-173 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Material Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance G4-PR9 with laws and regulations * 173 concerning the provision and use of products and services * No direct requirement by UNGC COP # UNGC COP United Nations Global Compact Communication of progress 192 GRI-G4 Food Processing Sector Supplement GRI-G4 Food Processing Sector Supplement (FPSS) Material Aspects Reasons for External Description Page Number/ Explanation DMAs and Indicators Omissions Assurance Aspect: Procurement/Sourcing Practices Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) DMA Protecting Natural 76-77 Resources DMA Minimising Toxicity 117-121, 165-169 DMA Fair Trade All of ITC’s trading partnerships are conducted in compliance with applicable legislations DMA Fair Compensation for Labor 132 DMA Traceability 171 Aspect: Procurement/Sourcing Practices Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) DMA Genetically Modified ITC Foods business does Organisms (GMOs) not use any GMOs in manufacturing its products DMA Biofuels 79, 83 Aspect: Procurement/Sourcing Practices Indicators FP1 Percentage of purchased Partially reported Reporting on energy, volume from suppliers 25, 171 GHG emissions, compliant with company’s water and waste sourcing policy performance of Foods business third party FP2 Percentage of purchased Partially reported manufacturing units volume which is verified as 25, 171 (TPMs) is intended being in accordance with to be done in a credible, internationally progressive manner. recognised responsible Joint venture North production standards, Eastern Nutrients broken down by standard Private Limited is proposed to be included in ITC Sustainability Report 2016. Aspect: Labor/Management Relations DMA 129-130 193 Sustainable Livelihoods Material Aspects Reasons for External Description Page Number/ Explanation DMAs and Indicators Omissions Assurance FP3 Percentage of working 131 time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs by country Aspect: Healthy and Affordable Food DMA Nature, scope and 165 effectiveness of any programs and practices that promote access to healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; access to healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need Aspect: Customer Health and Safety DMA 165 FP5 Percentage of production 166 volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party according to internationally recognised food safety management system standards FP6 Percentage of total sales 166 volume of consumer products, by product category, that are lowered in saturated fat, transfats, sodium and sugars FP7 Percentage of total sales 166 volume of consumer products, by product category sold, that contain increased fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives Aspect: Product and Service Labelling DMA Policies and practices 170 on communication to consumers about ingredients and nutritional information beyond legal requirements Aspect: Animal Welfare Not material as none of our businesses are involved in activities related to animal welfare 194 Business Responsibility Report Principles Alignment to Business Responsibility Report Principles Linking Sustainability Report 2015 to Business Responsibility Report Principles to assess compliance with Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) norms. Business Responsibility Report Principles to Coverage in Section of Sustainability Principle assess compliance with ESG norms Report 2015 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves l Governance Structure with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability 2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are l Energy safe and contribute to sustainability throughout l Air Emissions their life cycle l Water Management l Recycling and Waste Management l Raw Materials l Supply Chain l Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal l Product Responsibility 3 Businesses should promote the well-being l Labour Practices & Decent Work and of all employees Human Rights l Occupational Health and Safety 4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and l Economic Performance be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially l Stakeholder Engagement, Risks & those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable Opportunities and Materiality Analysis and marginalised l Labour Practices & Decent Work and Human Rights l Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal 5 Businesses should respect and promote l Labour Practices & Decent Work and human rights Human Rights 6 Business should respect, protect, and make l Energy efforts to restore the environment l Air Emissions l Water Management l Recycling and Waste Management l Raw Materials l Biodiversity l Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing l Responsible Policy Advocacy public and regulatory policy, should do so in a l Stakeholder Engagement, Risks & responsible manner Opportunities and Materiality Analysis l Memberships and Affiliations 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and l Economic Performance equitable development l Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal 9 Businesses should engage with and provide l Stakeholder Engagement, Risks & value to their customers and consumers in a Opportunities and Materiality Analysis responsible manner l Product Responsibility 195 Sustainable Livelihoods Annexure ITC’s Vision, Mission, Core Values and Policies & Guidelines ITC’s Vision Sustain ITC’s position as one of India’s most valuable corporations through world-class performance, creating growing value for the Indian economy and the Company’s stakeholders. ITC’s Mission To enhance the wealth generating capability of the enterprise in a globalising environment, delivering superior and sustainable stakeholder value. ITC’s Core Values ITC’s Core Values are aimed at developing a customer-focussed, high-performance organisation which creates values for all its stakeholders. ITC’s Core Values encompass the principles of Trusteeship, Customer Focus, Respect for People, Excellence, Innovation and Nation Orientation. Please check the following link for details: http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/values/core-values.aspx Corporate Governance at ITC http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/values/corporate-governance.aspx ITC’s Code of Conduct and Policies are available at the Company’s corporate website www.itcportal.com. Please check the following links for details: ITC’s Code of Conduct http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/values/code-of-conduct.aspx ITC’s Sustainability Policies http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/sustainability-policy.aspx ITC’s CSR Policy http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/corporate-social-responsibility-policy.aspx ITC’s Food Products Policy http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/itc-food-product-policy.aspx ITC’s E-Waste Policy http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/itc-it-e-waste-policy.aspx 196 Annexure Annexure GHG Inventory: Quantification Methodologies-Energy and GHG Emissions 1. Stationary Combustion Rail – Emission factors are calculated based on the information available from the Indian Emission factors provided in the IPCC Guideline Railways Annual report 2013-14, Indian Railways for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories of 2006 Statistics 2013-14. were used to calculate GHG emissions from stationary combustion sources. Air/Ship – “Guidelines to DEFRA/DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting Activity data (quantity of fuel consumed) is – Freight Transport 2011” developed by the multiplied with the respective default energy Department of Energy and Climate Change factor or actual measured Net Calorific Value (DECC) and the Department for Environment, (NCVs) to arrive at the energy consumption Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), U.K. values, which is multiplied by the emission factor to quantify the direct emission from stationary 4. GHG Removals combustion sources. GHG removals from plantations have been 2. Purchased Energy calculated based on the approved methodology used in ITC’s UNFCCC registered CDM project The quantification of indirect GHG emission ‘2241: Reforestation of severely degraded due to purchased electricity is based on landmass in Khammam District of Andhra activity data (Electricity consumption in kWh) Pradesh, India under ITC Social Forestry multiplied by emission factors specified in the Project.’ ‘CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector User Guide’, (version 10.0, December The quantification of GHG emissions from 2014) issued by Central Electricity Authority, minor* sources is based on a robust process Government of India. of data collection at Unit/Division level and emission factors taken from recognised The quantification of indirect GHG emissions global sources, such as IPCC guidelines and for purchased steam is based on activity data assessment reports; GHG Protocol HFC Tool (energy consumption in GJ) multiplied by the v10 developed by GHG Protocol initiative, WRI applicable emission factors provided in the & WBCSD; Pulp and Paper Tool-2005; UNFCCC IPCC Guideline for National Greenhouse Gas approved methodologies. The sources that Inventories of 2006. have a minor contribution to ITC’s overall GHG 3. Transportation emissions are listed below: The energy consumption outside of the 1. Air-conditioning organisation due to road transportation is 2. Process Emissions quantified by using energy conversion factors based on the Report by World Bank on Road 3. Company owned vehicles Transport Service Efficiency Study (India)–2005. 4. SF6 release from power distribution system The modes of transportation used in ITC, for raw materials, finished goods & wastes, and sources 5. CO2 release from fire protection system for calculation of emission factors are as follows: 6. Gas cutting/welding Road – Emission factors for trucks are calculated 7. Waste water treatment based on the Report by World Bank on Road 8. GHG emissions from composting of waste Transport Service Efficiency Study (India)–2005. inside the unit premises Emission factors for employee commuting by 9. GHG emissions from fertiliser application in means of company owned/hired vehicles and forestry project transportation due to guest pick-up in ITC Hotels are based on a report by Automotive Research Association of India. * The Frequency of quantification of GHG emissions from minor sources is once in three years 197 Sustainable Livelihoods Memberships & Affiliations – 2015 l Andhra Pradesh Forest Development l Fairtrade International (FLO), Germany Corporation of India Limited l Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers l Agricultural & Processed Foods Export of Commerce and Industry Development Authority l Federation of Biscuits Manufacturers l All India Food Processors Association Association of India l All India Management Association l Federation of Hotels & Restaurants Association of India l Andhra Chamber of Commerce l Federation of Indian Export Organisations l Asian Packaging Federation l Federation of Indian Chambers of l Associated Chambers of Commerce Commerce and Industry & Industry l Federation of Industries and Commerce of l Associated Chambers of Commerce and North Eastern Region Industry of Uttar Pradesh l Federation of Jharkhand Chambers of l Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce & Industry Commerce l Federation of Karnataka Chambers of l Bihar Chamber of Commerce Commerce & Industry l Bihar Industries Association l Gujarat Chamber of Commerce & Industry l Bihar State Productivity Council l Guwahati Management Association l Bombay Management Association l Hotel Association of India l Bureau of Indian Standards l International Market Assessment l Central Food Technology Research India Limited Institute l Indian Association of Tour Operators l Central Institute of Plastics Engineering & l Indian Beauty and Hygiene Association Technology l Indian Chamber of Commerce Calcutta l Chemicals & Plastics Export Council of India l Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore l Coal Consumers Association l Indian Coffee Trade Association l Cochin Chamber of Commerce & Industry l India Convention Promotion Bureau l Coffee Board l Indian Flexible Packaging & Folding l Coffee Exporters Association Carton Manufacturers Association l Cooperation Centre for Scientific l Indian Green Building Council Research Relative to Tobacco l Indian Institute of Packaging l Confederation of Indian Industry l Indian Merchants’ Chamber l Ecotourism Society of India l Indian Paper Manufacturers Association l Employee Federation of South India l Indian Printing Packaging and Allied l Employers’ Association of Northern India Machinery Manufacturers Association l Export Inspection Council of India l Indian Pulp & Paper Technical Association 198 Memberships & Affiliations 2015 l Indian Tobacco Association l Tamil Nadu Electricity Consumers Association l Indian Wind Power Association l The All India Association of Industries l Indo American Chamber of Commerce l The Bengal Chamber of Commerce & l Indo Australian Chamber of Commerce Industry l Indo German Chamber of Commerce l The Central Organisation for Oil Industry l Industrial Waste Management Association and Trade l Institute of Directors l The Clothing Manufacturers Association of India l International Chamber of Commerce l The Energy and Research Institute l International Flexible Packaging Network l The Food Safety and Standards Authority l International Life Science Institute of India l International Packaging Group l The Indian Chamber of Commerce, Guntur l Karnataka Planters Association l The Indian Society of Advertisers l Leatherhead Food International, UK l (ABD) The Utkal Chamber of Commerce & l Madras Chamber of Commerce & Industry Industry l Madras Management Association l The Visakhapatnam Chamber of Commerce & Industry l Madras Printers and Lithographers Association l Travel Agents Association of India l Maharashtra Economic Development l United States Tour Operators Association Council l US Food and Drug Administration l Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry l Western UP Chamber of Commerce & & Agriculture Industry l Marine Products Export Development l World Business Council for Sustainable Authority Development l Multi Commodity Exchange of India l World Travel & Tourism Council India Limited Initiative l National Commodity & Derivatives l World Wide Fund Global Forest and Trade Exchange Limited Network l National Council of Applied Economic Research l National Safety Council l Oil Technologists’ Association of India l Pacific Asia Travel Association l PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry l Protein Food and Nutrition Development Association of India l Ranjangaon Industries Association l Retailers Association of India l Seafood Exporters Association of India l Solvent Extractors Association of India l Soyabean Processors Association of India 199 Sustainable Livelihoods 200 Independent Assurance Statement 201 Sustainable Livelihoods 202 Independent Assurance Statement 203 Sustainable Livelihoods 204 Independent Assurance Statement 205 Figures in this section are as on June 2015.
