TOWARD A SOLUTION-ORIENTED BUSINESS FOR TAINABLE R SUST E GR ROWTH H ALWAYS EVOLVING FOR VALUE CREATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Year ended March 31, 2015 Enhancing the Quality of Life Endeavoring to Provide New Solutions That Contribute to Enhancing the Quality of Life for All The Teijin Group upholds its brand statement “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions” as its promise to society and its customers. Under the statement, we are globally expanding our wide range of businesses that include advanced fibers and composites, electric materials and performance polymer products, healthcare, products converting and IT. In line with our corporate philosophy, we continue striving to enhance the quality of life of people everywhere. With advanced technologies at the core of operations, we will continue to create new solutions in response to various global issues and needs. In doing so, the Teijin Group is aiming to be a prominent, globally admired corporate group. Teijin Group Corporate Philosophy Enhancing the Quality of Life The Teijin Group’s purpose is to enhance the quality of life through In Harmony With Society a deep insight into human nature and Empowering Our People needs, together with the application of our creative abilities. Brand Statement Human Chemistry, Human Solutions Our promise is to keep delivering real value through the development of chemical technologies that are friendly to both people and the global environment, and through the provision of solutions that society and our customers expect. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 1 Enhancing the Quality of Life Teijin’s Challenge ➀ Environment and Energy Conservation STURDY, LIGHTWEIGHT ECO-FRIENDLY CARS OF THE FUTURE Teijin’s thermoplastic CFRP will make this breakthrough possible. Carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP) is a composite material made of carbon fiber, which is about ten times stronger and three-quarters lighter than steel, and synthetic plastics. By adopting CFRP for use in the body and parts of automobiles, Teijin is working to reduce vehicle weight, and thereby enable reductions in CO2 emissions from automobiles and higher energy efficiency. Teijin’s thermoplastic CFRP features a molding time that is approximately 10 times faster than that of conventional CFRP. At present, Teijin is making progress on joint projects with General Motors of the U.S. targeting mass-production vehicles. We may soon see sturdy, lightweight eco-friendly vehicles made of Teijin’s thermoplastic CFRP driving on roads around the world. Tomorrow’s eco-friendly vehicles may very well be just around the corner. ✳ Calculations were made under the conditions shown below. Body weight: 1,380 kg (gasoline-fueled, 4-door, FF; source: Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association Inc.), actual-driving fuel efficiency: 9.8 km/L (source: Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc.), total mileage: 94,000 km Thermoplastic CFRP Sereebo (average for vehicles in use for 10 years; source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan) 2 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 CO2 emission reductions by using thermoplastic CFRP vehicles: 5 tons/vehicle✳ Final stages of joint development with General Motors on thermoplastic CFRP parts for mass production vehicles Registered on General Motor’s materials list TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 3 Enhancing the Quality of Life Teijin’s Challenge ➁ Safety, Security and Disaster Mitigation PROTECTING LIFE FROM HAZARDS AND DISASTERS Teijin’s high performance materials are helping to achieve a safe and secure society. Para-aramid fibers are tough, lightweight and tear-resistant. Leveraging these properties, para-aramid fibers are used in ballistic protection and stab-resistant products such as protective clothing, vests, and helmets, and thereby help to keep people safe. Para-aramid fibers also offer advantages such as superior structural strength and dimensional stability. For this reason, this material is proving effective in earthquake mitigation and disaster prevention work. Notably, it is being used in repairing and reinforcing degraded concrete structures. Meta-aramid fibers are resistant to heat and combustion, and do not melt and adhere to the skin. Based on these properties, meta-aramid fibers are expected to find greater use in disaster readiness and heat-resistant clothing, such as firefighter uniforms. Moreover, Teijin has also combined IT with the Teijin Group’s wide range of advanced, high performance materials in the development of smart wearables and other devices. Para-aram fiberss Para-aramid Meta-aram Meta-aramid fibers Twaron, Technora Te Teijinconex 4 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Para-aramid fibers About 50% share of the global market Meta-aramid fibers World-class, superior heat resistance TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 5 Enhancing the Quality of Life Teijin’s Challenge ➂ Demographic Change and Increased Health Consciousness FOR HEALTHY LIFESTYLES In the healthcare domain, Teijin conducts activities ranging from providing pharmaceuticals and home medical device services to developing advanced medical materials. Teijin is working to satisfy people’s desire for good health not only by developing pharmaceuticals, but also by developing medical devices for home oxygen therapy (HOT) and the home treatment of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) along with providing related services. Based on its knowledge in the field of pharmaceuticals development and its track record in home healthcare services, Teijin is expanding services that fully address the needs of both medical professionals and patients. Teijin is also developing IT-driven home monitoring services and a sheet-type sealant for surgical operations that integrates materials science and healthcare. In these and other ways, Teijin will take full advantage of its strengths to contribute to healthy lifestyles of people everywhere. The Hi-Sanso™ 3S therapeutic oxygen concentrator for home oxygen therapy (HOT) 6 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Therapeutic oxygen concentrators Positive pressure ventilator for sufferers of SAS No.1 share in Japan Provision of home healthcare services Over 400,000 people (worldwide) TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 7 CONTENTS Editorial Policy The 2015 Teijin Group Integrated Report was prepared as an integrated report to ensure that all stakeholders, including share10 ABOUT US holders and other investors, are able to obtain and understand the Teijin Group’s financial information, such as business results and strategies, as well as non-financial information about the social and environmental aspects of the Group. Reporting Period This report covers the period from April 2014 to March 2015. However, some activities in or after April 2015 are also included. 16 STRATEGY Reporting Organizations The report covers the entire Teijin Group (Teijin Limited and 58 domestic Group companies, and 94 overseas Group companies). Materiality and Comprehensiveness The 2015 Teijin Group Integrated Report provides reporting on highly material issues for the Teijin Group and society as a whole. For more comprehensive and detailed information, please refer to 30 CORPORATE Teijin’s corporate website in conjunction with this report. GOVERNANCE Large Corporate Profile 36 CSR Targeted Integrated ACTIVITIES reader Report base Te Teijin website Databook Small 48 OPERATING SEGMENTS Outline and image Details and data Content Guidelines for reference as regards disclosing non-financial information: Environmental Report Guidelines 2012 (Japan’s Ministry of the Environment) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 (Global Reporting Initiative) Disclaimer Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 60 DATA SECTION Any statements in this Integrated Report, other than those of historical fact, are forward-looking statements about the future performance of Teijin and its Group companies, which are based on management’s assumptions and beliefs in light of information currently available and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from these forecasts. 8 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Desired Communication Points in CONTENTS Each Chapter Teijin Group Corporate Philosophy Cover Feature—Enhancing the Quality of Life An easy-to-grasp overview of Teijin’s businesses, 10 Financial and Non-Financial Information financial and non-financial data, and global 12 The Teijin Group’s Businesses ABOUT US business network. 14 The Teijin Group’s Global Business Network A message from Jun Suzuki, President and CEO 16 Top Management Perspectives on Teijin’s Evolution and Ambition of Teijin Limited. Based on the theme of Teijin 20 The Teijin Group’s Strides in Value Creation STRATEGY Group’s Transformation and Ambitions, Dr. Suzuki 28 The Teijin Group’s Value Creation Model retraces the Group’s steps and discusses the principles behind the revised medium-term management plan. An outline of the Teijin Group’s management team 30 Management Team Responsible for Implementation of Strategies and CORPORATE and the Group’s corporate governance system. for Supervision 32 Corporate Governance GOVERNANCE An introduction to the process for identifying 36 CSR Basic Policy CSR ACTIVITIES material CSR issues initiated in 2014, along with a 38 Identify Material CSR Issues description of activities based on material issues. 42 Environmental Issues 44 Social Issues An introduction to the activities of each business 48 Advanced Fibers and Composites 54 Trading and Retail Business Group group based on the revised medium-term manBusiness Group OPERATING 55 IT Business Group agement plan, as well as a look at strengths in 50 Electronics Materials and 56 New Business Development Performance Polymer Products SEGMENTS each business and annual business performance. Business Unit Business Group 57 Research and Development 52 Healthcare Business Group Financial analysis and business performance 60 Financial Highlights and Consolidated 11-Year Summary DATA SECTION data for fiscal 2014, as well as 11-year financial 62 Management’s Discussion and Analysis highlights. 70 Consolidated Financial Statements 112 Independent Auditor’s Report 113 Independent Assurance Report 114 Corporate Data TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 9 ABOUT US Financial and Non-Financial Information Financial Information Operating Income (Billions of yen) Net Income (Billions of yen) Net Sales (Billions of yen) Operating Margin (%) Return on Equity (ROE)*1 (%) 1,000 50 8 60 15 800 40 40 10 6 600 30 20 5 4 400 20 0 0 2 200 10 –20 –5 0 0 0 –40 –10 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) (Left scale) (Right scale) (Left scale) (Right scale) Operating income (Billions of yen) Operating margin (%) Net income (Billions of yen) ROE (%) Total Assets (Billions of yen) Return on Assets (ROA)*2 (%) Free Cash Flow (Billions of yen) Net Income per Share (Yen) 1,000 10 50 30 800 8 40 20 30 10 600 6 20 0 400 4 10 –10 200 2 0 –20 0 0 –10 –30 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) (Left scale) (Right scale) Total assets (Billions of yen) ROA (%) Capital Expenditure and Depreciation and Amortization (Billions of yen) Debt-to-Equity Ratio (Times) R&D Expenses (Billions of yen) 60 2.0 40 1.5 30 ４0 1.0 20 ２0 0.5 10 0 0 0 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) Capital expenditure Depreciation and amortization *1 Net income / Average total shareholders’ equity *2 Operating income / Average total assets 10 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Non-Financial Information ABOUT US Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Manufacturing Freshwater Consumption and Operations*1 (Total) (Million tons-CO2) Chemical Substance Emissions*2 (Tons) Total Water Discharged*3 (Millions of Tons) 3 4,000 200 160 3,000 2 120 2,000 80 1 1,000 40 0 0 0 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) Domestic Overseas Freshwater consumption Total water discharged Usage of the Counseling and Waste with No Effective Use*4 (Tons) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates*5 Reporting System (Number of Cases) 6,000 1.25 75 1.00 4,000 50 0.75 0.50 2,000 25 0.25 0 0 0 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) Teijin Group companies Average domestic manufacturing Number and Ratio of Newly Recruited Number of Employees Taking Career-oriented Female University Graduates*6 Childcare Leave*6 (People) Number of Employees (Total) (People) 100 50 200 20,000 80 40 160 16,000 60 30 120 12,000 40 20 80 8,000 20 10 40 4,000 0 0 0 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) (Left scale) (Right scale) Domestic Overseas Female Male Percentage of female employees (%) *1 Includes CO2, methane and nitrous oxide. Calorific values and CO2 emissions are calculated accord*3 Freshwater consumption amount includes industrial water, groundwater and tap water. Water ing to the coefficient specified in the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global discharged includes seawater used for cooling. Warming (an emissions factor for electricity of 0.555 kg CO2/kWh is used for every fiscal year). For *4 Waste with no effective use refers to waste incinerated without heat recovery and waste for landfill. power purchased overseas, where known, the relevant emissions factor is used for the calculations. *5 The lost time injury frequency rate is the number of lost time injuries per one million hours worked. *2 Emissions of Class 1 chemical substances listed in the Chemical Substances Management Law and It thus represents the frequency of occupational injuries. (Figures are calculated based on chemical substances designated by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. The figures shown are calendar years.) the total of emissions into the atmosphere, soil and water, and landfill amount within business sites. Source: Survey on Industrial Accidents, Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare The Chemical Substances Management Law: law concerning reporting, etc., of releases to the *6 At the five core Group companies in Japan. environment of specific chemical substances and promoting improvements in their management. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 11 The Teijin Group’s Businesses ● Breakdown of Consolidated Net Sales (in Fiscal 2014) IT and Others IT Business We provide various IT services, along with net services such as digital content distribution and e-commerce. ▪ 8.2% IT Services IT services for healthcare domains (64.8 billion yen) GRANDIT, a fully web-based enterprise resource planning software package ▪ Digital content management services Net Services ▪ Content distribution services via mobile phones and smartphones (e-books and music) ▪ e-commerce services Consolidated New Business net sales We aim to create new businesses as early as possible in fields such as battery components, bioplastics, materials for printable electronics, and healthcare. 33.0% (259.4 billion yen) Trading and Retail We provide a wide range of solutions from materials development to products, to meet a variety of needs in markets spanning apparel to industrial textiles and materials. 18.0% (141.7 billion yen) Principal products and services ▪ Sale and international trading of fiber materials, textiles and apparel, industrial textiles and materials, and films and plastics ▪ Polyester and recycled polyester fabrics and textiles ▪ Closed-loop recycling of polyester products Healthcare We provide unique, groundbreaking medical solutions by leveraging our Pharmaceuticals AEROSHELTER, ▪ Bone and joint disease: treatment for osteoporosis, etc. REFTEL, transparent ultralight large-scale tent heat-insulating film ▪ Respiratory disease: expectorant and treatment for bronchial asthma, etc. ▪ Cardiovascular and metabolic disease: treatments for hyperuricemia and gout, and hyperlipidemia, etc. ▪ Others: treatment for severe infectious diseases, laxatives, etc. 12 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Advanced Fibers and Composites As a leading global company in advanced fibers such as aramid and carbon ABOUT US fibers as well as in composites, we are working to expand our business further. Principal products Principal applications ▪ Aramid fibers ▪ Para-aramid fibers ▪ Carbon fibers 17.2% Friction products, tires, rubber reinforcements (hoses, belts) Protective clothing, optical Aircraft (structural and interior components) Pressure vessels, sports and (135.5 billion yen) fiber reinforcements, civil leisure equipment engineering materials ▪ Carbon fibers ▪ Polyester fibers 786.2 billion yen ▪ ▪ Polyethylene naphthalate (PEN) fibers ▪ Polyester fibers Artificial leather Bullet-resistant vest Automotive interior materials, rubber reinforcements ▪ Meta-aramid fibers Seat belts, mats, cushions 23.5% Firefighting uniforms, heat-resistant filters (184.8 billion yen) Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products We are expanding globally, with a focus on polyester film, where we hold one of the largest shares of the global market, and polycarbonate resin, where we have a leading share of the growing Asian market. Principal products Principal applications ▪ Polycarbonate resin ▪ Polycarbonate resin ▪ Polyester film Electrical and electronics Display materials components, audiovisual (AV) (Liquid crystal display (LCD) strengths in both the pharmaceuticals and home healthcare fields. and office automation (OA) materials, organic electroluequipment, personal comminescent displays (OLEDs), puter casings, smartphone etc.) Home healthcare camera lenses, automotive Release film for various components (headlamps, processes ▪ Respiratory disease: therapeutic oxygen concentrators, door handles, etc.) Laminating film for beverage noninvasive positive pressure ventilator (NPPV) for Sheets (Automotive instruand food cans sufferers of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), positive ▪ Polyester film ment panels, dummy cans pressure ventilators for sufferers of SAS for vending machines) ▪ Bone and joint disease: Sonic Accelerated Fracture Healing System OA equipment LCD television TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 13 The Teijin Group’s Global Business Network The Teijin Group currently sells products in 80 countries around the world from a global network of 152 Group companies. The overseas sales ratio has reached 40.8%. Europe Europe hosts aramid and carbon fiber business sites in advanced fibers, among other sites. Asia We are developing business in the growing Asian market, where we have resin, polyester fiber, film and other business sites. Teijin Polycarbonate China Ltd. Teijin Aramid B.V. (Netherlands) Toho Tenax Europe GmbH Teijin Polyester (Thailand) Limited PT. Indonesia Teijin DuPont Films 14 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Group companies Products sold in Overseas sales ratio 152 companies 80 countries 40.8 % ABOUT US (As of March 31, 2015) Americas The Americas region hosts carbon fiber, film, home healthcare and other business sites. Japan Japan hosts carbon fiber, polyester fiber, film and other business sites, and also provides a solid foundation for the healthcare business. Europe/Other Americas 8.2% 6.6% Americas Europe 7.2% 11.2% Net Sales by Location Group Employees Asia of Customers 15,780 25.5% Asia Japan 23.5% Japan 59.2% 58.7% TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 15 STRATEGY Top Management Perspectives on Teijin’s Evolution and Ambition 16 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Teijin group must now drive its evolution forward through dramatic transformation. To this end, we are executing restructuring initiatives and transformation and growth STRATEGY strategies to evolve toward a solutionsoriented business model that delivers value to customers and society at large. In November 2014, the Teijin Group drew up and announced its revised medium-term management plan. The plan rests on two pillars: restructuring initiatives and transformation and growth strategies. It was formulated in line with Teijin’s long-term vision for evolving toward a solutions-oriented business model—one that will provide value needed by society and thereby achieve sustained profitable growth. This vision embodies our future aspirations for Teijin. Under the revised plan, we have set targets through fiscal 2016, along with drastic business restructuring initiatives and numerous actions and measures designed to systematically execute transformation and growth projects eyeing the future. In this section, Teijin President and CEO Jun Suzuki outlines Teijin’s evolution and ambition. Jun Suzuki, President and CEO Born in Tokyo in 1958. Joined Teijin Limited in 1983 after graduating with a Master’s Degree from the University of Tokyo Graduate School of Science. Worked at Teijin in pharmaceuticals development. Appointed Corporate Officer, Teijin Limited and Chief Marketing Officer in April 2012, after serving as President of Teijin Holdings Netherlands B.V. in 2011. Assumed the post of Executive Officer, Teijin Limited and General Manager, Advanced Fibers and Composites Business Group in April 2013 and Director, Executive Officer in June 2013. Appointed President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in April 2014. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 17 THE TEIJIN GROUP’S CURRENT STANDING In fiscal 2014, the Teijin Group posted consolidated net sales of ¥786.2 billion. This was Fiscal 2014 Performance mostly unchanged from the previous fiscal year, as higher sales in our core businesses mostly offset the impact of certain discontinued operations. Operating income more than doubled from fiscal 2013 to ¥39.1 billion, underpinned by a recovery in the Advanced Net sales Fibers and Composites business and the positive impact of restructuring initiatives, primarily in the Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products business. Operating ¥786.2 billion income was also buoyed by the yen’s depreciation and declining prices for raw materials and fuel. Meanwhile, we recorded extraordinary losses of ¥50.3 billion on restructuring Up 0.2% YoY and other initiatives. Consequently, we posted a net loss of ¥8.1 billion, a change of ¥16.4 billion from net income of ¥8.4 billion in fiscal 2013. Operating income Following the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, Teijin has repeatedly conducted restructuring initiatives, and has had to post several net losses as a result. Currently, we are restoring ¥39.1 billion our core earnings power through massive restructuring and cost-cutting initiatives. That said, I believe that the entire management team must take another hard and honest look at why Teijin has had to post repeated losses. In this light, we must now reexamine our Up 116.2% YoY aspirations for Teijin’s future. Net loss Under the revised medium-term management plan announced in November 2014, Teijin is targeting operating income of ¥50 billion, net income of ¥25 billion and ROE of ¥(8.1) billion over 8% in fiscal 2016. During the two years through 2016, we must first take steps to restore our core earnings power by driving steady growth in our existing businesses. In Down 16.4 billion YoY parallel, we must lay strong foundations for future growth and advancement through restructuring initiatives. However, these objectives are merely milestones and we must accomplish more if we are to reach our ultimate goals. To achieve sustained, long-term growth, we will also need to dynamically drive forward the evolution of our business model. ■ Fiscal 2016 Revised Medium-Term Management Plan Targets Net sales Operating income Net income ROE ¥800 ¥50 ¥25 8% billion billion billion or more 18 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 TAKING STEADY STRIDES TOWARD EVOLUTION FROM A NEW STARTING POINT Society is in a constant state of flux, and is changing at an ever increasing pace. Why have we fallen short of our targets, despite the steps we have taken in the past? One of the reasons is that we have been unable to respond fast enough to changes in the STRATEGY markets and in society as a whole. No business is guaranteed profits forever. What actions, then, should we take to generate sustained profits? The key is to constantly evolve. We are only here today because we have never lost sight of Teijin’s evolution and ambition since its founding. In the course of Teijin’s long history, we now find ourselves in a period of profound evolution. In these times of rapid change and increasingly tumultuous upheaval, maintaining the status quo will only lead to obsolescence and decline. Therefore, I believe that we will have no future unless we constantly transform ourselves and create innovative business models and new markets. At times, this means we may have to flatly reject the way that has been handed to us from the past. We must now begin taking steady strides from a new starting point. Companies do not change overnight. However, I would like to transform Teijin into an enterprise that applauds employees who embrace new ambitions based on the belief that preserving the status quo is inherently risky in these times. Become an enterprise that applauds employees who embrace new ambitions. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 19 The Teijin Group’s Strides in Value Creation THE TEIJIN GROUP’S CEASELESS EVOLUTION AND AMBITION 1958 Production began after choosing 1957 the trademark Tetoron for the Teijin and Toray Industries, Inc. polyester fiber 1918– are licensed to introduce production technologies for polyester Evolution from 1918 Born as Japan’s first rayon fibers and films from ICI of a Rayon Fibers the United Kingdom manufacturer to a Synthetic 1971 Fibers Began production of Manufacturer 1960 polyester films Began production of 1972– polycarbonate resins Evolution as a High-Performance Materials and Composites Manufacturer 1952 1980 1980– Established Teijin Shoji Co., Ltd. Teijin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. began operations (launching the Business Diversification for sale of Venilon, a treatment for Nurturing the Healthcare and IT severe infectious diseases) Fields as Business Domains 20 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 The Teijin Group’s history has been a history of evolution. When founded, Teijin was the equivalent of a modern-day venture business, spawned from university research. The Company was born in the process of commercializing the development of Japan’s first technology for manufacturing semi-synthetic rayon fibers. In the ensuing years before and after World War II, Teijin’s main operations underwent an evolution from rayon to polyester, and business continued to diversify and globalize as we ambitiously pursued chemical technologies and cutting-edge R&D to remain in stride with the changing times. Our Group today was shaped by ceaseless evolution and an undying ambition, inherited in our genes since founding, to change the world for the better in amazing ways. 2002 STRATEGY Began developing the ECO CIRCLE 1973– closed-loop recycling system for polyester Starting with Indonesia, established global manufacturing bases for Tetoron 1971 Rayon production discontinued 2000 Acquired a Twaron products para-aramid fibers business 1972 Began operations for the 1999 production of Teijinconex 1987 Acquired an equity stake in Toho Rayon Co., Ltd. meta-aramid fibers Launched operations for the (to launch the carbon fiber business) production of Technora high2012 strength para-aramid fibers Established Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd. 2011 1983 Teijin Pharma Limited commenced the sales Launched the IT business of FEBURIC (Febuxostat), a hyperuricemia and gout treatment, in Japan 2002 Listed the stocks of 1982 Infocom Corporation Launched the Home Healthcare 2012 business (home oxygen therapy 2003 Restructured (HOT)) Transitioned to a holding the organization 1999 company system 1993 Established Advisory Board Introduced outside Established the Teijin Group Started Female Employee 1993– Corporate Philosophy, Advancement Committee directors Standards of Conduct, and Strengthening Corporate Code of Conduct the Management Base TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 21 CREATING NEW VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS THROUGH CEASELESS EVOLUTION AND AMBITION How, then, should we drive evolution and create new businesses? The answer lies in considering our customers today and our customers in the future. We must think through who are our true customers, clearly define what value means to our customers, and develop a business model that delivers that value. That is what we mean by fulfilling our mission of Quality of Life, as championed by the Teijin Group Corporate Philosophy. This philosophy is the bedrock of the Teijin Group’s existence. It also embodies our social mission and is positioned as a value of the highest importance to management. We must consider in earnest what kinds of issues society will face in the future, and what types of roles we can fulfill to address those issues. The key lies in providing solutions that solve issues faced by customers. In this sense, the revised medium-term management plan unveiled in November 2014 represents our first step to becoming an enterprise that delivers new value to society. It is important that we think hard about what we can do to solve issues faced by our customers. 22 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 A NEW GROWTH SCENARIO BASED ON RESTRUCTURING INITIATIVES AND TRANSFORMATION AND GROWTH STRATEGIES In the course of drawing up a new growth scenario under the revised medium-term management plan, we have set forth restructuring initiatives and transformation and growth strategies. Aims of restructuring Restructuring Initiatives STRATEGY initiatives Concentrate Resources on Growth Fields to Maximize Teijin’s Strengths Our restructuring initiatives seek to build a solid foundation for future growth and advancement by accurately grasping the strengths that the Teijin Group has developed 1 over the years and refining each of these strengths. To this end, we will rigorously narrow Narrow down business fields by down our businesses based on the criteria of market growth potential, competitive edge and profitability, as we concentrate resources on growth fields. selecting fields essential to Specifically, we will first downsize commodity businesses through the integration and future growth and advancement closure of production facilities in the Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products business. In the Advanced Fibers and Composites business, we will bolster competitiveness in polyester fibers by upgrading and enhancing our production facility in Thailand, and centralizing domestic production and development facilities. In the raw materials and polymerization 2 business, we will significantly reshape our production model for polyester products by disconDirectly reshape methodologies tinuing DMT (dimethyl terephthalate) production and centralizing polymerization facilities. Meanwhile, in the Healthcare business, Teijin will advance drastic restructuring initiatives in the and business models for U.S. home healthcare business. By executing these initiatives, we expected to improve opergenerating earnings ating income by ¥13.0 billion in fiscal 2016 compared with fiscal 2014. Operating income will be improved by ¥17.5 billion when the positive impact of these initiatives is fully realized. ■ Projected Impact of Restructuring Initiatives (Billions of yen) Impact (operating income) Business Principal initiatives 2015 2016 2017– Fully realized Electronics Materials and Plastics: Withdraw from Singapore subsidiary (December 2015) 3.0 4.5 3.0 10.5 Performance Polymer Products Films: Centralize production facilities in Japan (September 2016) Reorganize the U.S. home healthcare business Healthcare 1.0 3.0 0.0 4.0 (Complete in fiscal 2016) Partially suspend production at the Iwakuni and Mihara plants Advanced Fibers and Composites Close the Tokuyama Plant (Discontinue certain production through fiscal 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2016, close plant by fiscal 2017) Cease production at DMT plant; centralize polymerization facilities Raw materials and polymerization at Matsuyama Plant 0.5 0.5 0.5 1.5 (Complete by end of fiscal 2015) Total impact 4.5 8.5 4.5 17.5 Cumulative for 2015–2016 ¥13.0 billion TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 23 These initiatives do not mean that we will merely downsize Teijin’s operations. The main thrust of our restructuring initiatives is to carefully consider where in our supply chain we will generate earnings, rather than just perpetuating our existing business models, and to directly transform our methodologies and business models for generating earnings. This is to ensure that we generate sustainable earnings eyeing the future. And to lay the foundation for further growth, we will need to act on another key priority—our transformation and growth strategies. Aims of Transformation Transformation and Growth Strategies and Growth Strategies Creating New, Unique Businesses That Can Only Be Developed by Teijin We are a unique entity with three core business domains: materials, healthcare and Three business domains IT. Until now, we have worked to grow each of these business domains independently. Going forward, we seek to create entirely new value for customers by combining and integrating the strengths and competitive advantages of each of these business domains. HealthWhen considering the future of society, we believe that society will face a great number Materials of urgent issues that must be solved in various fields. From among these fields, we have care identified three business domains that will fully leverage Teijin’s strengths by harnessing the knowledge and technologies it has amassed to date. They are (1) Environment and IT energy conservation, (2) Safety, security and disaster mitigation, and (3) Demographic change and increased health consciousness. We believe that these fields harbor significant growth potential, and will allow Teijin to help solve issues faced by society. Combine and integrate Specifically, in each of these fields, we intend to develop the following four areas by strengths in the following actions: each business domain Materials Healthcare IT 1 Offer high-performance composite materials that realize new value for customers —Automotive devices and battery components Materials X Materials Create entirely new customer value 2 Expand the scope of our monitoring services —Smart wearables and super-tough structural materials Materials X IT 3 Broaden our home healthcare services model and create new markets —Open healthcare platforms and community healthcare support services Healthcare X IT 4 Commercialize biocompatible medical materials —Materials for tissue repair and artificial replacement materials Materials X Healthcare By boldly realizing our ambitions in these new fields, we aim to create new, unique businesses that can only be developed by Teijin. 24 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 ■ Growth and Transformation Strategy Pipeline ® 2020 Thermoplastic CFRP Super-tough 2016 for automotive structural High-performance Open Present Heat-resistant applications materials Sheet-type AFRW plastics and healthcare plastics for automotive sealant for films platforms applications; surgical Environment and energy conservation Smart Aramid fibers battery components operations Carbon fibers wearables Offer high-performance composite for use in Support for for use in materials that realize new value for customers aircraft, etc. protective clothing community NemLink, healthcare HOT monitoring STRATEGY Physical Safety, security and disaster mitigation services rehabilitationArtificial Expand the scope of related replacement Technology Integrated our monitoring services CPAP/ materials Pharmaceutics Center HOT/ASV Demographic change and increased health consciousness Broaden our home healthcare services model and create new markets Commercialize biocompatible medical materials Piezoelectric fabrics Artificial joints ■ Vision for Teijin’s Future An Enterprise With Two Principal Businesses: Healthcare and Composites and High-performance Materials Teijin will continue to drive further transformation to evolve into an enterprise with two principal businesses, namely the high-performance composite materials business and the healthcare business, both of which will serve as core strategic businesses. This will be achieved by centrally integrating the materials businesses by around 2020. The aforementioned two key strategic businesses will be underpinned by the Trading and Retail business and the IT business, which will continue to serve as stable-profit business. 2014 2016 Near 2020 IT IT IT Advanced Fibers and Composites Composites and Healthcare Advanced high-performance Healthcare Fibers and materials Composites Healthcare Electronics Electronics Trading Materials and Materials and and Retail Trading Performance Performance Trading and Retail and Retail Polymer Polymer ROE target: ROE target: Products Products 8% or more 10% or more −20% 0% 20% 40% 60% −20% 0% 20% 40% 60% −20% 0% 20% 40% 60% (Horizontal scale) Return on invested capital (Vertical scale) Growth rate (Circle size) Operating income scale TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 25 EYEING SUSTAINED GROWTH OVER THE MEDIUM AND LONG TERMS AND ENHANCED CORPORATE VALUE Measures to improve We must work to enhance our corporate value by honing our strengths through the corporate value restructuring initiatives that are currently under way, and by creating new value through our transformation and growth strategies. To this end, it is crucial that we formulate strategies and take action with a view to achieving sustained growth over the medium and ▪ Identify material long terms. We will also need to enhance our value to society as an enterprise. CSR issues P38 To put Teijin on a clearer path to growth in this sense, we are working to identify materiality from a CSR viewpoint. Materiality generally refers to the important themes that a company should address in the course of its social and environmental activities. It ▪ Corporate governance encompasses the key issues that could impact the company’s financial position and P30 business management over the long term, namely, the factors that could have a bearing on its future corporate value. In our first fiscal year of defining materiality, we are at the ▪ Diversity P44 stage of exploring various measures. We believe that these measures will play a pivotal role in determining our corporate value in the future. Strengthening corporate governance is also essential. From the past, Teijin has had a well-established governance structure in place to ensure a high degree of transparency and rapid decision-making. Looking ahead, we also intend to fulfill our accountability to shareholders and other investors, and to increase their understanding through dialogue, as we execute bold strategies eyeing future growth. Another theme that will be vital to our future is to strengthen our personnel and attain diversity. Diversity has already become the norm around the world. We must target sustainable growth by pooling the strengths of people from all walks of life, regardless of gender or nationality, including the talents of the elderly and people with disabilities. In parallel, we must also convey Teijin’s DNA to the present and future generations. Guided by this thinking, Teijin has endorsed and become a member of the United Nations Global Compact, which sets forth ten universally accepted principles related to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Going forward, we will continue to harness the Teijin Group’s collective capabilities with the goal of becoming an enterprise with a strong presence that is admired around the world. 26 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 BECOMING AN ENTERPRISE THAT IS ESSENTIAL TO TOMORROW’S SOCIETY In fiscal 2015, the global economy continues to face numerous uncertainties, including the monetary policies of various countries, along with foreign exchange and crude oil price movements and other factors. In this operating environment, the Teijin Group will strive to STRATEGY restore its core earnings power and make it resilient to changes in the external environment, by continuing to implement restructuring initiatives and transformation and growth strategies. In the process, the Group will work to achieve the targets of its revised medium-term management plan as early as possible. Meanwhile, the Group will intensively allocate resources to core strategic businesses and new businesses. We will proactively invest in growth and advancement projects designed to create new value for customers. As stated earlier, we intend to become an enterprise that is essential to society by meeting customer expectations in anticipation of the future. Doing so will allow us to establish our superiority as a socially responsible enterprise and attain sustainable growth. That is why we must create new businesses that redraw boundaries both within and outside the Teijin Group’s businesses and organization. Our true restructuring initiatives are still in progress at this time. Nonetheless, we will continue working to reshape the Teijin Group and to pull together its collective capabilities to achieve a lasting transformation. We ask for your continued understanding and support as we endeavor to reach this goal. Jun Suzuki, President and CEO TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 27 The Teijin Group’s Value Creation Model Environment Reduction of environmental burdens Preservation of biodiversity Society Diversity Product liability and quality assurance Tackle CSR issues and reinforce Governance Corporate governance the management base Corporate Philosophy and compliance Source of value creation [The Teijin Group’s Strengths] In Harmony with Materials Healthcare Society domain domain Mass-production technologies for Healthcare knowhow high-performance materials and infrastructure Enhancing the Quality of Corporate that balance the need for high quality and low Life Philosophy production costs Empowering Combining IT domain our People and Efficient IT service integrating development capabilities 28 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 The basic goals underlying the Teijin Group’s value creation activities are articulated by the phrases “Enhancing the Quality of Life,” “In Harmony with Society” and “Empowering our People.” To achieve these basic goals, Teijin relies on the chemical technologies and customer base it has nurtured to leverage and integrate strengths in the three domains of materials, healthcare, and IT to provide much needed solutions to social issues. Moreover, to realize sustainable growth, Teijin is endeavoring to transform its business model and provide customers with new value. At the same time, the Group is working ceaselessly to tackle CSR issues and reinforce its management base, while staying focused on social issues as they unfold. Business opportunities STRATEGY Value provided Greater energy / Environment resource efficiency Energy conservation Clean energy Safety, security, and disaster prevention Safety Provide value Security Disaster Comfort mitigations Increasingly sophisticated services Demographic change and Collection and timely increased health use of information consciousness Business model transformation and new value for customers Strengthen the technology base Restructure and bolster the research organization Innovation projects Open innovation Strengthen the base for human resources Marketing education (Material Business Academy) Technological succession (Teijin Techno College) TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management Team Responsible for Implementation of Strategies and for Supervision (As of July 2015) Board of Directors Chairman, Member of the Board President and CEO, Representative Director of the Board Shigeo Ohyagi Jun Suzuki 1971 Joined Teijin Limited 1983 Joined Teijin Limited 2003 General manager of Medical and Pharmaceutical 2011 President of Teijin Holdings Netherlands B.V. Business Group 2012 Chief Marketing Officer, Director of BRICs Business 2005 Chief Information Officer (CIO) 2013 Director of Tejin Limited, and general manager of Advanced 2007 Chief Strategy Officer (CSO) Fibers and Composites Business Group 2008 President and CEO, representative director of the 2014 President and CEO, representative director of the board of board of Teijin Limited Teijin Limited (incumbent) 2014 Chairman, member of the board of Teijin Limited (incumbent) Senior Executive Officer, Senior Executive Officer, Executive Officer, Corporate Officer, Representative Director of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Yo Goto Hiroshi Uno Kazuhiro Yamamoto Yoshihisa Sonobe 1977 Joined Teijin Limited 1981 Joined Teijin Limited 1975 Joined Teijin Limited 1980 Joined Teijin Limited 2012 General manager of Engineering Center 2011 General manager of Pharmaceutical 2011 General manager of 2010 Deputy Chief Financial Officer (CFO), 2014 General manager of Technology Center Business Unit, Teijin Pharma Limited IT Business Group general manager of Accounting and (incumbent) 2013 General manager of Healthcare 2012 General manager of Corporate Finance Office 2015 Representative director of the board of Business Group (incumbent) Strategy Office 2011 Chief Financial Officer (CFO), general Teijin Limited (incumbent) 2015 Member of the board of Teijin Limited 2014 Chief financial officer (CFO), general manager, Accounting and Finance (incumbent) manager of Accounting, Finance & Division Procurement Division 2014 Member of the board, general manager 2015 Member of the board of of Corporate Strategy Office (incumbent) Teijin Limited (incumbent) Independent Outside Director Independent Outside Director Independent Outside Director Independent Outside Director Hajime Sawabe Yutaka Iimura Nobuo Seki Kenichiro Senoh 1964 Joined Tokyo Denki Kagaku Kogyo K.K. 1969 Joined Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan 1970 Joined Chiyoda Corporation 1976 Joined Fuji Photo Film Co., Ltd. (now TDK Corporation) 2002 Ambassador of Japan in Indonesia 2001 President & CEO of Chiyoda Corporation (now FUJIFILM Corporation) 1998 President & Representative Director of 2006 Ambassador of Japan in France 2007 Chairman of the board of 2001 Professor, Graduate School of Keio TDK Corporation Chiyoda Corporation University Media and Government 2009 Special Envoy of the Government of 2006 Chairman & Representative Director of Japan (Middle East, Europe) 2012 Member of the board of Teijin Limited 2004 President and Chairperson, The TDK Corporation (incumbent) Industry-Academic Collaboration 2011 Member of the board of Teijin Limited Initiative (NPO) (incumbent) 2008 Member of the board of Teijin Limited (incumbent) (incumbent) 2012 Member of the board of Teijin Limited (incumbent) 30 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Statutory Auditors Full-Time Statutory Auditor Full-Time Statutory Auditor Toshiaki Yatabe Atsushi Mugitani 1974 Joined Teijin Limited 1980 Joined Teijin Limited 2006 General manager of New Business Development 2007 General manager of New Business Development Group Department 2010 Chief Technology Officer (CTO) 2013 General manager of Corporate Audit Department 2012 Statutory auditor (incumbent) 2015 Statutory auditor (incumbent) Independent Outside Statutory Auditor Independent Outside Statutory Auditor Independent Outside Statutory Auditor CORPORATE Noriko Hayashi Nobuo Tanaka Gen Ikegami GOVERNANCE 1968 Registered as a lawyer (Tokyo Bar Association) 1973 Joined Ministry of International Trade and Industry 1980 Joined Showa Accounting 2000 Representative of Hayashi Law Office (incumbent) (now Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) (now Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) 2009 Statutory auditor of Teijin Limited (incumbent) 2002 General manager of International Trade Policy Bureau, 1983 Registered as a Certified Public Accountant Trade and Industry Organization Division METI 1992 Registered as CPA the state of California, USA 2010 Chairperson of Committee on Labor Law Legislation, Japan Federation of Bar Associations (incumbent) 2007 Director-General of International 2000 Representative partner of Audit Corporation Energy Agency Ota Showa Century (now Senior Partner, Ernst & 2012 Statutory auditor of Teijin Limited (incumbent) Young ShinNihon LLC) 2015 President of the Sasakawa Peace Foundation 2015 Statutory auditor of Teijin Limited (incumbent) (incumbent) Advisory Board Chief Officers Business Group General Managers Shigeo Ohyagi (Board chairman) Corporate Strategy Officer Advanced Fibers and Composites Yoshihisa Sonobe Masaya Endo John Himes General Manager, Technology Center Electronics Materials and Performance Hajime Sawabe Yo Goto Polymer Products Yasumichi Takesue Yutaka Iimura Chief Marketing Officer Kentaro Arao Healthcare Hiroshi Uno Nobuo Seki Chief Social Responsibility Officer Trading and Retail Shinji Nikko Kenichiro Senoh Noriaki Endo IT Norihiro Takehara Alexander Rinnooy Kan Chief Financial Officer, General Manager— New Business Development Business Unit Accounting, Finance & Procurement Division Jun Suzuki Kentaro Arao Kazuhiro Yamamoto Chief Human Resources Officer Yasuhiro Hayakawa TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 31 Corporate Governance Basic Philosophy The Teijin Group realizes that its basic mission as a company is to fairness and objectivity, accelerating decision-making, and ensuring ensure sustainable growth in shareholder value. On this basis, to fulfill independence. These reforms include establishing the Advisory our responsibilities to other various stakeholders, we have strived to Board, appointing independent outside directors, and separating strengthen corporate governance. business execution and monitoring/auditing functions. The Teijin Since the late 1990s, we have implemented a series of groundGroup Corporate Governance Guide was published to specify breaking management reforms relating to basic elements of corpoguidelines regarding corporate governance. rate governance with the aim of enhancing transparency, ensuring ■ Overview of the Corporate Governance System Organization form Company that employs Board of Auditors system Directors No. stipulated in Articles of Incorporation ................................................................................................................................. 10 No. of Directors (included number of outside directors) .........................................10 members (of whom 4 are outside directors) Term .................................................................................................................................................................................. 1 Year Chairman of the Board of Directors............Chairman (or, in the absence of a chairman, the senior advisor or an outside director) Statutory Auditors No. stipulated in Articles of Incorporation ................................................Upper limit on the number of members is not stipulated No. of Statutory Auditors 5 members (included number of outside statutory auditors)............................................................(of whom 3 are outside statutory auditors) No. of independent outside individuals ........................................... 7 members (of whom 4 are outside directors and 3 are outside statutory auditors) Others Established Advisory Board (advisory body to the Board of Directors with nomination and remuneration committee functions) ■ Initiatives for Strengthening Governance 1999 2003 2012 Chairman of Chairman is chair, president is CEO the Board of Directors Separation of management From 1999: 2009: 24 directors and execution Reduced to 9 directors 10 directors From 1999: Introduced the corporate officer system (to accelerate decision-making for execution of business and clarify the system of responsibility) Advisory Board 1999 Advisory Board established (to enhance management transparency) 2012: Outside directors 2003 Introduced 3 outside directors 4 members 1999 3 outside statutory auditors (majority) Corporate philosophy Formulated in 1993 Standards of Conduct and Corporate Corporate Ethics Committee established and Corporate Standards of Compliance Code of Conduct formulated in 1993 Conduct formulated in 1998 Teijin Group Corporate Formulated Revised Revised Governance Guide in 2003 in 2007 in 2009 32 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 The Teijin Group’s Corporate Governance System Corporate Governance System Advisory Board Majority of members are external Nomination and Remuneration Advanced Fibers and Shareholders’ Board of Directors Composites Business Group Meeting Ten members (of whom four are outside) CEO Electronics Materials and Performance Group Strategy Polymer Products Business Group TRM Committee Committee Healthcare Business Group Chief Officers Board of Statutory Auditors Trading and Retail Business Group Group Management Five members (of whom three are outside) Committee Heads of Business Groups IT Business Group Group Statutory and Chief Officers Auditors’ Committee New Business CORPORATE Development Business Unit Advisory Board operating risk, while the CEO is directly in charge of management GOVERNANCE The Advisory Board is a consultative body to the Board of Directors. strategy risk. The CEO chairs the TRM Committee, whose members It is comprised of five to seven Japanese and non-Japanese outside are the CSRO and other chief officers assigned by the CEO. The experts, the chairman or a senior advisor, and the CEO of Teijin Board of Directors deliberates and determines TRM basic policies Limited. Its role is to give advice and make proposals regarding corand annual plans that are proposed by the TRM Committee, as well porate strategy and results, and function as the Nomination and as managing significant risks for the Teijin Group, supporting Compensation Committee in deliberating on matters such as a business continuity. change of CEO and the successor as well as the performance Statutory Auditors and the Statutory Auditors’ Committee evaluation and standards of remuneration for directors. The Board of Statutory Auditors comprises five statutory auditors, Board of Directors and a majority of three are outside statutory auditors who maintain The Board of Directors is comprised of 10 directors of whom 4 are independence to enhance the efficacy of monitoring and auditing, outside directors that maintain independence. The Board of Directors and secure transparency of the Board. The Board of Statutory Auditors is chaired by the chairman, to ensure the appropriate separation of is in charge of monitoring and auditing the management. All of the responsibility for frontline management and monitoring/supervising. statutory auditors attend the Board of Directors meeting and any The main goal of the Board of Directors is to maximize shareholder other important internal meetings, where they express their opinions value each fiscal year and over the medium and long-term. At the and make recommendations. The Statutory Auditors’ Committee is same time, it must pay close attention to the position of stakeholders responsible for surveying and auditing the entire Teijin Group, a role other than the shareholders. The Board of Directors must also delibthat corresponds to Group management and financial consolidation erate, determine, and approve any management policies, and the management. The Committee of Teijin Group Statutory Auditors’ overall plans of the entire Teijin Group, and any other items required activities include deliberating and ensuring the inclusion of the basic by law or other regulations. Furthermore, the Board of Directors is policy and plan for auditing and the selection of key auditing items of responsible for ensuring accountability. It must also clarify its policies each business. These deliberations are based on the Teijin Group’s on compliance and how to manage risks surrounding the Company, basic auditing policy and plans decided by the Board of Statutory and supervise those implementations. Auditors of the Company. TRM Committee Group Strategy Committee and Group Management Committee The Company has established the Total Risk Management (TRM) The Group Strategy Committee and Group Management Committee Committee beneath the Board of Directors, as a preventive measure are bodies for deliberating on the decision-making of the CEO, who is to handle any risks the Company may face. The TRM categorizes the responsible for execution of duties. Attended by full-time corporate risks into management strategy or business operating risks. The Chief auditors, the committees ensure a rapid and highly transparent Social Responsibility Officer (CSRO) is assigned in charge of business decision-making process. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 33 Outside Directors and Outside Statutory Auditors Teijin Limited (the Company) has prescribed “Requirements for ■ Independent Director and Independent Statutory Auditor Independent Directors” for outside directors, including candidates. Requirements (Overview) These conditions for appointment are designed to increase the level of (1) Persons having no significant special interests in the Teijin Group. precision and ensure the transparency of the management supervisory (2) Persons to whom items (a) through (e) below do not apply are deemed function of the Board of Directors. In the same way, the Company has to be Independent Directors or Independent Statutory Auditors having also prescribed “Requirements for Independent Statutory Auditors,” no significant special interest in the Teijin Group. which cover outside statutory auditors, including candidates. These (a) Internal officers or employees and former internal officers or are designed to increase the level of precision and ensure the transemployees of the Teijin Group parency of the auditing function of the execution of duties of the (b) Providers of specialized services to the Teijin Group internal directors and the management. (c) Persons having customer or business partner relations with the With regard to independent director and independent statutory Teijin Group auditor requirements, the Company has formulated and operates its (d) Persons having “inter-directorship” relations with the Teijin Group own regulations concerning independent directors and independent (e) Persons having other special interests in the Teijin Group statutory auditors. Attendance at meetings of the Independent Name Reason for selection Board of Directors and Board of director Statutory Auditors in Fiscal 2014 Appointed for his considerable business experience and deep insight developed as the president Attended 12 of 12 Board of Hajime Sawabe and chairman of a listed company, which the Company plans to utilize in its business operations □㾎 Directors meetings Appointed for his considerable knowledge and experience as a diplomat and his global perspective Attended 12 of 12 Board of Yutaka Iimura on business management, which the Company plans to utilize in its business operations □㾎 Directors meetings Outside Directors Appointed for his considerable business experience and deep insight developed as the president Attended 12 of 12 Board of Nobuo Seki and chairman of a listed company, which the Company plans to utilize in its business operations □㾎 Directors meetings Appointed for his deep insight developed as a director and committee member for many organizaAttended 12 of 12 Board of Kenichiro Senoh tions, mainly in the industry and business fields, which the Company expects him to utilize in offering □㾎 Directors meetings guidance and proposals regarding its business operations Attended 12 of 12 Board of Appointed for her deep insight and abundant experience developed as a lawyer having served on Directors meetings Noriko Hayashi policy boards and so forth, which the Company expects her to utilize in maintaining and enhancing □㾎 Attended 9 of 9 Board of compliance Statutory Auditors meetings Outside Appointed for his deep insight and abundant experience developed in national government positions Attended 12 of 12 Board of Statutory including within the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, as well as international institutions such as Directors meetings Auditors Nobuo Tanaka the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, which the Company expects him to □㾎 Attended 9 of 9 Board of utilize in maintaining and enhancing corporate governance Statutory Auditors meetings Appointed for his deep insight and abundant experience developed as a certified public accountant, Gen Ikegami which the Company expects him to utilize in maintaining and enhancing compliance □㾎 Assumed the post in July 2015 Director Compensation Compensation for directors is based on consolidated ROA, with Compensation for directors in fiscal 2014 (Millions of yen) consideration also given to consolidated ROE and operating Position No. of people Compensation amount income—specifically to whether targets have been met and improvements seen—as well as to a qualitative assessment of each individual Director 12 341 director’s execution of duties. The Advisory Board deliberates systems Of which, outside directors 4 52 and standards governing remuneration for Teijin Group directors, Statutory auditor 5 94 statutory auditors and corporate officers and evaluates the performance Of which, outside statutory auditors 3 28 of the CEO and representative directors. 34 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Corporate Ethics and Compliance The Teijin Group believes that compliance and risk management are contract and temporary employees, receive training in corporate ethics. necessary conditions for realizing corporate governance. Moreover, a relevant CEO message is given in seven languages, and With regard to compliance, individuals employed by the Teijin campaign posters are displayed announcing the Corporate Ethics Group are required not only to comply with relevant laws and regulaMonth. By these and other means, Teijin works to raise the awareness tions, but also to act with good faith as businesspeople and members of the entire Group about corporate ethics. of society in accordance with ethical and social norms. In line with In the case that a legally or ethically inappropriate issue occurs this conviction, we formulated the Corporate Code of Conduct and within the Teijin Group, Teijin will activate its counseling and reporting the Corporate Standards of Conduct, which set forth consistent system, involving input from both inside and outside Teijin and based guidelines for the entire Teijin Group, and work diligently to reinforce on the decisions of the Chief Social Responsibility Officer, with the aim awareness of compliance issues among executives and employees. of solving the matter within the organization by setting in motion an Teijin holds its Corporate Ethics Month campaign every year in organizational self-purification mechanism. In fiscal 2014, there were a October. At this time, all executives and employees, including total of 62 cases (★) of this counseling and reporting system being used. Investor Relations The Teijin Group behaves as a company that takes requests from in and outside Japan simultaneously. In addition to disclosing legally shareholders and society into consideration to achieve a higher stipulated financial information, the Company proactively discloses CORPORATE degree of accountability. The Chief Financial Officer is in charge of corporate information from the perspective of good CSR. General GOVERNANCE investor relations functions including information disclosure and meetings of shareholders are “open meetings,” wherein communicating communication with shareholders and others. In disclosing informawith shareholders is our first priority. tion, the Company’s basic policy is to disclose the same content both Advisory Board (As of July 2015) Teijin established the Advisory Board, which is comprised mainly of outside experts, in 1999 with the objective of advising and making proposals to the Board of Directors and raising the degree of management transparency. In addition to leading experts from Japan, the Advisory Board’s original members included leading global authorities on governance John A. Krol, former chairman of global chemicals giant DuPont, and Sir Ronald Hampel, previously chairman of ICI. Since its establishment, the board has held two ordinary meetings each year, in the spring and autumn, and has played a substantial role in such ways as making proposals to management, assessing directors, and deliberating presidential succession plans. The Advisory Board is intended to have two or three members who are not Japanese. In May 2015, Prof. Alexander H.G. Rinnooy Kan of the Faculty of Economics and Business Studies, University of Amsterdam was welcomed onto the Board. The Advisory Board will continue to engage in lively debate and make proposals to enhance value to establish even stronger corporate governance across the Teijin Group. Advisory Board members Advisory Board Meeting Agenda Shigeo Ohyagi, Chairman, Member of the Board, Teijin Limited, (Board chairman) May 2015 December 2014 John W. Himes, Former Senior Vice President, DuPont · Report on operating results for · Report on operating results for the fiscal 2014 first half of fiscal 2014 Hajime Sawabe, Executive Advisor, TDK Corporation · Presentation on business plan for · Presentation on outlook for the Yutaka Iimura, Special Assistant to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Special Envoy fiscal 2015 second half of fiscal 2014 for Cooperation for Southeast Asia · Deliberation of succession plan · Deliberation of succession plan Nobuo Seki, Former President/Chairman, Chiyoda Corporation · Evaluation of CEO’s performance in Kenichiro Senoh, President & Chairperson, The Industry-Academic Collaboration previous fiscal year and discussion to Initiative (NPO) determine amount of remuneration Alexander H.G. Rinnooy Kan, Professor, Faculty of Economics and Business · Deliberation of CEO’s targets for Studies, University of Amsterdam, Netherlands the new fiscal year Jun Suzuki, President and CEO, Representative Director of the Board, Teijin Limited TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 35 CSR ACTIVITIES The basic goals of the Teijin Group’s CSR activities are articulated by our corporate philosophy of “Enhancing the Quality of Life,” “In Harmony with Society,” and “Empowering Our People.” In order to achieve the goals of our CSR activities, we have formulated the CSR Basic Policy and are advancing overall group CSR activities under the leadership of the Chief Social Responsibility Officer. CSR Basic Policy (FY2012-FY2016) 1. To advance a CSR management that is integrated into the Teijin Group’s business strategy, aiming to achieve the sustainable development of both business and society. 2. To continue to respond rapidly to changes in the socio-economic environment by obtaining and maintaining global recognition as “CSR champion” in Teijin’s way. 3. To realize “co-existence with the global environment” by actively promoting environmental management. 4. To help realize improvement of “Quality of Life,” by providing safe and reliable products and services. 5. To be recognized as a benchmark of Basic CSR activities such as compliance and risk management by their thorough implementation. 6. To build “Win-Win” relationships with stakeholders in and outside the Teijin Group by two-way dialogues and active involvement in their development and to enhance their satisfaction. The Evolution of Teijin’s CSR Management The basic goals of the Teijin Group’s CSR are articulated by “Enhancing the Quality of Life,” “In Harmony with Society,” and “Empowering our People,” which comprise the Teijin Group Corporate Philosophy set forth in 1993. To achieve the goals entailed in this philosophy, we have formulated the CSR basic policy and have continued to implement systematic, well-planned CSR activities over many years. In April 2005, we inaugurated the role of Chief Social Responsibility Officer, and created an internal framework to advance all aspects of our CSR program, including corporate ethics, compliance, risk management, environment preservation, safety, disaster prevention and health (ESH), quality assurance, and social contribution. We have also developed and have been advancing a basic policy, targets and strategies. In fiscal 2011, in order to further promote CSR management, we joined the United Nations Global Compact, committing ourselves to a set of voluntary action principles related to “the protection of human rights,” “the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor,” “initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility,” and “anti-corruption.” Advancing CSR Management The Teijin Group divides its CSR initiatives into three fields: “basic,” “expansive” and “selective” issues. In response to these fields, we have clarified our direction and medium-term goals for these initiatives, and are carrying out effective activities. We have established a Group CSR Committee, which discusses and drives the implementation of responses to important CSR issues for the entire Teijin Group. There are seven subcommittees and a conference operating under the committee. Of these, the Group ESH Subcommittee, the Group Compliance and Risk Management Subcommittee, the Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance Subcommittee and the Group Security Export Control Conference, and the Group Information Security Subcommittee (newly established in April 2015) deliberate on and advance specific “basic” CSR issues which the Teijin Group view as particularly important. “Expansive” and “selective” issues are discussed and promoted by the Group CSR Promotion Subcommittee. 36 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 ■ CSR Management System (as of April 1, 2015) ■ CSR Pyramid Chief Social Responsibility Officer CSR and Compliance Department TRM Group ESH Group Selective Compliance Group CSR Social contribution CSR Group activities Group CSR Committee Compliance and Risk Management Subcommittee Expansive CSR Committee members ESH* Subcommittee Human resources/Labor; General Manager, Technology Center Purchasing/Procurement Chief Marketing Officer Product Liability/Quality Assurance Subcommittee General Manager, Human Resources and Administration Division Basic CSR CFO, General Manager, Accounting, CSR Promotion Subcommittee Compliance; Risk management; Finance and Procurement Division Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, General Manager, Corporate Strategy Division Business Group General Managers Environmental Management Promotion Subcommittee and Health; Product liability/Quality assurance General Manager, New Business Development Business Unit Security Export Control Conference Business Unit General Managers Deputy Chief Social Responsibility Officer Information Security Subcommittee (newly established) * ESH: Environment, Safety and Health CSR ACTIVITIES External Evaluations As of July 2015, the Teijin Group is included in the following international socially responsible investment (SRI) indices: ▪ The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (criteria for inclusion: economic, environmental and social performance); ▪ The FTSE4Good Index Series, which measures the performance of companies that meet globally recognized CSR standards (criteria for inclusion: efforts to ensure environmental sustainability, development of positive relationships with stakeholders and support for universal human rights); ▪ The Ethibel Investment Register (criteria for inclusion: ethical economic policy, environmental policy, internal and external social policies); ▪ MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 37 Identify Material CSR Issues Shareholders, institutional investors and various other stakeholders have requested the Company disclose ever increasing amounts of financial and non-financial information in recent years. Nowadays, disclosing non-financial information appropriately, as it pertains to corporate social responsibility (CSR) encompassing the environment, society, and governance (ESG), requires identifying the material CSR issues to be disclosed, along with explaining the reasons for their materiality. The Teijin Group advances CSR management that is integrated with business strategies, and upholds a basic philosophy of CSR of contributing to the sustainable development of its business and society. The Group is implementing a variety of initiatives, but has identified the CSR issues of materiality after establishing a new methodology in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2015, the year ended March 31, 2016, the Group will make progress with activities aimed at addressing the issues it identified. Going forward, the activities will be improved by applying the PDCA cycle to review the content, as well as being integrated into the process of formulating Teijin’s next new medium-term management plan. ■ Process of Identifying Material CSR Issues STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 Grasp and screen Analyze materiality Select CSR issues Consult outside Identify material experts CSR issues Review Grasp and screen STEP Teijin grasped a wide range of CSR issues and screened them into 1 groups for materiality analysis. Currently, the Teijin Group has positioned as fundamental the CSR issues disclosed in its CSR report and also the creating shared value (CSV) issues that were identified as business opportunities arising from macroeconomic trends in Teijin’s revised medium-term management plan. These issues were then screened against external evaluations such as the ISO 26000 guidance on social responsibility, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines, the UN Global Compact, social issues delineated in the UN’s proposed sustainable development goals (SDGs), and major socially responsible investment (SRI) indices. Issues identified by the external evaluations that were yet to be addressed by the Teijin Group were then added into the respective groupings for materiality analysis. The Teijin Group’s CSR issues External evaluations Screening results ▪ Basic CSR (Compliance, Risk management, ▪ The CSR issues the Teijin Group is tackling curEnvironmental preservation, Safety and ISO 26000 rently overlap for the most part with the issues disaster prevention, and Health (ESH), raised by external evaluations. Product liability/Quality assurance) ▪ Expansive CSR (Human resources/Labor, GRI Guidelines Purchasing/Procurement) ▪ Selective CSR (Social contribution activities) UN Global Issues pertaining to CSV in Compact Items Subject to Materiality Analysis Screen the revised medium-term All Teijin CSR activities and CSV issues management plan ▪ UN SDGs + Environment and energy conservation ▪ Safety, security and disaster mitigation Socially important issues yet ▪ Demographic change and increased to be addressed Major SRI indices health consciousness 38 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Analyze materiality STEP The CSR issues grasped and screened into groupings were put through 2 a materiality analysis. The screened CSR issues were mapped two-dimensionally, with materiality to the Teijin Group in ascending order along the horizontal axis, and impact on stakeholders in ascending order along the vertical axis. The material issues are what fall into the dark red squares in the diagram below. Method for determining High impact on stakeholders (vertical axis) Stakeholders were categorized into Impact on stakeholders (1) shareholders and investors, (2) employees, (3) customers, Material issues to the Teijin (4) suppliers, and (5) local residents. Group were identified based on The ascending order of degree of the ascending order of materiality impact on stakeholders was deterto the Teijin Group and impact on stakeholders mined by whether a CSR issue was or wasn’t of particular interest to each stakeholder category and then tallying the score. Low Materiality to the Teijin Group High CSR ACTIVITIES Positive impact on business development Positive Method for determining Strong impact materiality to Teijin Group (horizontal axis) Impact on businesses Medium Materiality to the Teijin Group High Materiality of each issue to the Weak Teijin Group was determined by plotting impact on businesses along Low Medium High the vertical axis (with the acuteness Weak Prospect and likelihood of the issue materializing ascending for positive impact and descending for negative impact), and Medium Materiality to the in ascending order. The materiality Teijin Group High Negative to the Teijin Group is then Strong impact determined from both. Negative impact on business continuity STEP Select CSR issues 3 The material issues were selected from the issue groupings determined by the analytical method above. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 39 Consult outside experts STEP The Chief Social Responsibility Officer (CSRO) then consulted external 4 experts for their input concerning the Teijin Group’s selection process for material CSR issues, and the selected issues. ■ Input from the experts An Effective Means of Simultaneously Broadening the Perspective and Breaking Down the Components of CSR Issues The framework is very logical and I give it high marks for having identified the positive impacts, also. It would be nice if Teijin could approach this framework not only from the perspective of its ongoing activities but from that of prevalent social issues as well. Breaking down the issues is an effective means of linking them with KPIs, and makes them easier to use in improving management. I think the important point now is to get more of the related departments involved and to raise the precision of the analytical framework. Hidemi Tomita, General Manager, Business Development Division, LRQA Japan The Need for a Clear Expression of Teijin’s Worldview and Vision of CSR What is Teijin’s corporate view of the CSR issues it screened and analyzed? I think that this report also needs to include Teijin’s worldview and vision of CSR in writing as a message to stakeholders. The report also needs to have a storyline of the future envisioned by Teijin together with the CSR activities it will be promoting in getting there. This could entail Teijin looking at CSR from the standpoint of adding happiness to the world. It would be nice if Teijin could add more transparency to the oftentimes blurry world of CSR. Ken Shibusawa, Chairman, Commons Asset Management, Inc. The Need to Hammer Out Long-Term Principles and Commitments from the Perspective of Creating Global Value I thought the identification process was really wonderful and in fact impeccable at addressing the “what” aspect of prioritizing CSR issues. With regard to climate change and biodiversity, which are two major global issues right now, global companies and the private sector are playing an increasingly important role in enforcing soft law, or non-abiding international compacts. Ideally, companies should link business growth with paying serious consideration to such risks. Hammering out principles and management directions identifying long-term goals is good for raising employee morale. Toshihiko Goto, Representative Director, Sustainability Forum Japan, and Member, Global Compact Board Japan 40 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Identify material CSR issues STEP Teijin’s Group Management Committee deliberated and confirmed 5 the Teijin Group’s material CSR issues for fiscal 2015 as follows. Governance Environmental Social Issues Issues Issues ■ Corporate governance (➝P30) ■ Environmental value solutions ■ Safety, security and disaster ■ Corporate philosophy and (➝P2) mitigation solutions (➝P4) compliance (➝P35) ■ Reduction of environmental ■ Demographic change and ■ CSR communication impacts (➝P42) increased health consiousness ■ Conservation of biodiversity solutions (➝P6) (➝P43) ■ Diversity (➝P44) ■ Information security (➝P45) ■ Product liability/Quality CSR ACTIVITIES assurance (➝P46) ■ Disaster prevention activities (➝P46) ■ Occupational safety and hygiene (➝P47) Message from the CSRO Each business group of Teijin is moving ahead with the identified material CSR issues, and going forward we will reflect these issues in the business strategies we formulate for the Group as a whole. The Teijin Group is advancing CSR management that is integrated with our business strategies, with the aim of achieving sustainable growth for both the companies and society. In this context, in fiscal 2014 we worked to identify the materiality of a variety of CSR issues. CSR issues need not be viewed simply as risks—they can become opportunities for companies to achieve sustainable growth and development by implementing initiatives strategically. For the Teijin Group, it is important to identify materiality and then to reflect these in our business strategies through the formulation of our medium-term Noriaki Endo, management plan and long-term vision. We are advancing initiatives in each business as regards the identified Chief Social Responsibility Officer material issues, and going forward, we will reflect these in the business strategies of the Teijin Group. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 41 Environmental Issues Basic Stance The Teijin Group is globally expanding its wide range of businesses, including synthetic fibers, chemicals, and pharmaceuticals and healthcare products to name just a few, and these business activities have an impact on the earth’s environment. Consequently, the Teijin Group will recognize its environmental impacts and work towards finding a variety of solutions. While making the guarantee of safety a basic foundation, the Teijin Group will strive to achieve a society manifesting “low carbon,” “effective materials circulation,” and “existence in harmony with nature,” and to work towards the sustainable development of both society and the Company. Environmental Management Climate Change Initiatives The Teijin Group has been proactively advancing its environmental Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Manufacturing Operations*1 ★ management in order to realize to exist in harmony with the natural Targets for FY2012–FY2020 environment and to cherish nature and life, as called for by its corpoAchieve a CO2 emissions reduction ratio of 1% or more per year rate philosophy. Our environmental management refers to reducing (compared to the level in the base year in fiscal 2011) environmental impact over the entire life cycle of products including all processes from material procurement to production, use and disposal. Centered on the Group Environmental Management Promotion Fiscal 2014: 1.79 million tons-CO 2 (9% reduction compared to fiscal 2013) Subcommittee, we are working to integrate this with the Teijin Group’s The Teijin Group is working to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions overall management strategy, provide environmental value solutions, released during manufacturing, both in Japan and overseas. In fiscal reduce environmental impacts, conserve biodiversity, and promote 2014, the Teijin Group’s CO2 emissions released during manufacturing environmental education and communication. were 1.79 million tons, representing a 9% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to fiscal 2013. Reducing Environmental Impact from In logistics, we are curbing CO2 emissions by expanding the use of Material Procurement to Disposal domestic vessels and rail transport, as well as by transporting in bulk We are working to conserve energy, to use various resources effecto stock points in order to increase load efficiency and reduce the tively, to minimize emissions of chemical substances into the environnumber of trips in which small volumes of materials are transported. ment, to manage and reduce waste materials, to prevent soil and *1 Includes CO2, methane and nitrous oxide. Calorific values and CO2 emissions are calculated according to the coefficient specified in the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to underground water pollution, and to conserve biodiversity. Cope with Global Warming (an emissions factor for electricity of 0.555 kg CO2/kWh is used for every fiscal year). For power purchased overseas, where known, the relevant emissions factor is used for the calculations. ■ Environmental Impact during Manufacturing in FY2014 by Input/Output ★ INPUT Intermediate products OUTPUT Energy CO2 26.9×10 1.79 Manufacturing and processing Products 6 million tons GJ Chemical substances Chemical substances handled 2,029 0.787 tons Raw materials Use million tons Waste with no effective use Freshwater consumption 3.1 81 kilotons million tons Water discharged Seawater consumption Recycling 116 46 million tons million tons Recovery Disposal 42 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Reducing Chemical Substance Emissions Design for Environment Emissions of Chemical Substances into the Environment*2 ★ Targets for FY2012–FY2020 The Teijin Group defines Design for Environment as “product design that aims to reduce the environmental impact of each By fiscal 2020, reduce by 80% or more compared to fiscal 1998 level product through evaluating the overall environmental impact Fiscal 2014: 2,029 tons (reduced by 77% compared to throughout the product life cycle, including procurement, production, use and disposal” and we are taking measures fiscal 1998 level, down 23% from fiscal 2013) for the reduction of environmental impact. We are actively commited reducing emissions into the environment, covering the 575 chemical substances. These 575 chemical subProducts certified as Design for Environment stances include the Class 1 designated chemical substances pursuant to the Law Concerning Reporting, etc., of Release to the Environment of Specific Chemical Substances and Promoting Improvements in their Management (462 substances: revised in April 2010) and the chemical substances designated by the Japan Chemical Industry Association (433 substances). (Some substances are designated in both, hence the numerical discrepancy.) *2 The total amount of chemical substances released into the atmosphere, water and soil, and forming landfill inside business sites. Artificial leather CORDLEY Aramid fiber recycled pulp (use of recycled polyester) Reducing Environmental Burdens by Water Consumed and Water Discharged Freshwater Consumption*3 ★ Becoming a WIPO GREEN Partner Fiscal 2014: 81million tons (increased by 2% compared to fiscal 2013) WIPO GREEN is a framework built by the World Intellectual Property Organization (an expert body of the United Nations) Water Discharged* ★ 3 which promotes the transfer of environmental technologies to Fiscal 2014: 116 million tons (reduced by 4% compared to fiscal 2013) emerging countries. Teijin was the first private Japanese CSR ACTIVITIES company to become a WIPO GREEN partner, and in addition The Teijin Group uses freshwater (industrial water, groundwater, and to providing the environmental and technological information tap water) as well as seawater primarily used for cooling, and is workthat we possess, we are involved in running the framework itself. ing to reduce the impact from the group’s overall use and discharge of water. In fiscal 2014, some businesses switched to using freshwater instead of seawater for some of their needs. As a result, freshwater consumption increased by 2% compared to fiscal 2013, which Conservation of Biodiversity was a level on par with the amount consumed in fiscal 2012. *3 Freshwater consumption amount includes industrial water, groundwater and tap water. To visualize the effect that factors such as chemical substances, Water discharged includes seawater used for cooling. greenhouse gases and waste resulting from business activities have on biodiversity, the Teijin Group has clarified the risks relating to loss Management and Reduction of Waste of biodiversity due to business activities and activities to conserve biodiversity. As a result, this will facilitate Teijin Group employees Waste with No Effective Use*4 ★ having a clear awareness of the impact of business activities on Target for FY2020 biodiversity, helping to propel conservation activities forward. Reduce “waste with no effective use” by 85% or more compared In addition, both the Matsuyama business site and the Iwakuni to the fiscal 1998 level by fiscal 2020 business site utilize the Japanese Business Initiative for Biodiversity Fiscal 2014: 3,086 tons (reduced by 93% compared to (JBIB)’s “Plants & Wildlife Monitoring Sheet” for employees and outside experts to conduct surveys of plant, bird and insect life and fiscal 1998 level, down 14% from fiscal 2013) check the level of contribution to biodiversity at each business site. The Teijin Group is committed to reducing the amount of waste it generates, as well as to reducing “waste with no effective use” through promoting a shift to reuse and recycling based on material, chemical or thermal processing. *4 Waste with no effective use refers to waste incinerated without heat recovery and waste for landfill. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 43 Social Issues Diversity ▪ SLP (SLP: Strategic Leader Development Program) Basic Stance Aimed at employees in mid-level positions, the SLP seeks to To strongly promote our business activities globally, it is essential develop candidates for core human resources. to make full use of the abilities of diverse human resources who ▪ Leadership Program, EaGLES differ in nationality, race, gender, sense of values, ideas and experience. The Teijin Group upholds parts of its corporate philosophy, “Empowering Our People,” and accordingly put in Developing Global Human Resources place a work environment in which every Group member can EaGLES is a training program that develops leaders capable fully harness their individuality and attractiveness to make the of responding to the globalization of human resources and most of their abilities. our businesses. The training program is positioned as an opportunity for all employees in managerial positions in the Teijin Group to acquire leadership experience and learn the Promotion of Diversity Teijin Group sense of values, management policies and hisTo utilize diversity of human resources as a driving force for enhancing tory. All employees in Japan and overseas requiring these competitiveness, the Teijin Group promotes diversity as part of its skills and knowledge are successively taking this training management strategy. We have stepped up efforts to promote diverprogram. In fiscal 2014, the training program was held in the sity in recruitment/discovery, faster development and suitable global two regions of Japan and China, with 66 participants. placement of human resources. Initiatives to Discover and Develop Global Human Resources Recruitment The five core group companies in Japan* have set targets to achieve a 10% or higher ratio of foreign nationals to the total number of newly recruited career-oriented university graduates, and a 20% or higher Training in Japan ratio of personnel with experience living abroad. Working to achieve these targets, the companies hold information Training in China sessions for foreign students in Japan and participate in overseas job fairs (company information session for students) in the U.S., China, and elsewhere. * At the five core Group companies in Japan: Teijin Limited, Toho Tenax Co., Ltd., Accelerating Female Career Development Teijin Pharma Limited, Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd., Infocom Corporation The Number and Ratio of Newly Recruited Career-oriented Faster Development of Global Human Resources Female University Graduates*5 ★ We hold the following programs designed to develop core human Target: The ratio of female recruits at 30% or more resources for the future. ▪ STRETCH I and II Fiscal 2015: 26 people (30%) (STRETCH: Strategic Executive Team Challenge) Since 1999, the Teijin Group has been engaged in efforts to promote STRETCH I and II are Group-wide core human resources developand support female employees to work to the best of their abilities, ment programs used to develop human resources who can work including setting the target of improving the ratio of newly recruited actively on the global stage. The programs target employees at all career-oriented female university graduates and the number of Group companies including overseas. STRETCH I is a program for females in managerial positions. The five core Group companies in department manager level employees; STRETCH II is a program for Japan have set the goal of maintaining the ratio of newly recruited section manager level employees. career-oriented female university graduates at 30% or more. In fiscal 2015, we achieved a ratio of 30% with 26 people. In fiscal 2014, the number of female managers*5 was 88 (3.8%)(★). *5 At the five core Group companies in Japan 44 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Career Building Support for Female MRs Information Security The Healthcare Business Group has a relatively high ratio Basic Stance of female career-oriented sales staff—mainly medical The Teijin Group views information assets as important managerepresentatives (MRs)—and there is an increasing number of ment resources, and is working to enhance corporate value female employees who continue to work as sales representathrough their active utilization, while also striving to maintain and tives after giving birth. Having employees with time constraint enhance information security. As regards information security issues such as childcare engaged in MR duty with unfixed management, especially the protection of customers’ information working hours is a big challenge for both employees themthat includes personal information entrusted to us, we are selves and the workplace. However, a smooth return to the advancing proactive initiatives in both the compliance and risk workplace and support after returning are ensured through management fields from the viewpoint of ensuring the continuity interviews with human resource managers, superiors, and the and stability of business. Diversity Development Section. Strengthening Our Management System and Educating Employees Re-employment Systems The Teijin Group has put in place measures to prevent leaks of busiTeijin Limited and Teijin Pharma Limited have established the ness secrets, technological information, personal information, and Hello-Again system for employees who left the companies for reaother data, and maintains and improves its information security by sons including marriage, pregnancy, child-rearing, nursing care, or taking the utmost care in managing its information systems. work transfer of their spouses. Employees in this situation who wish These information systems are used to decide upon the people to return to the Teijin Group due to the reason for leaving no longer responsible for IT and the IT managers in each of the Company’s applying will be rehired as full-time employees on the condition that it divisions, and to check every year the management of such informais not more than 10 years since they left and if the need exists. We tion assets as these information systems, networks, facilities, perhave also established a system by which employees at all domestic sonal information and business secrets. Group companies may continue to work after retirement. This system Moreover, the Corporate Audit Department conducts yearly enables the knowledge and technical skills they have developed at audits of information security and personal information protection at CSR ACTIVITIES Teijin to be passed on to the next generation of employees. all Group companies. In particular, the department conducts regular audits of personal information protection at the Group companies that handle highly secret personal information. Review of Work-Life Balance Systems Employees attend training lectures that aim to raise their awareNumber of Employees Taking Childcare Leave*6 ★ ness and impart knowledge about the necessity of complying with the laws and regulations concerning information security. From fiscal Fiscal 2014: 193 people (Number of male employees: 29) 2012, employees of all Group companies have been required to attend regular lectures about information security e-learning. With the intention of enhancing work-life balance, in fiscal 2013, we Furthermore, in fiscal 2015 we newly established the Group reviewed the systems used in Japan, incorporating the perspective of Information Security Subcommittee (➝page 37) as the secretariat of “raising motivation.” Four systems were targeted for review: Childcare the CSR and Compliance Department, under the Group CSR Part-time Work, Work at Home, Childcare Leave and Nursing Care Committee. This will enable us to manage the Group’s information Leave. Each was made easier for employees to participate in and use leakage risks in a unified manner, and to strengthen the management flexibly depending on the situation. of information security throughout the entire Group. In fiscal 2014, at the five core group companies in Japan, 193 employees, including 29 males, took childcare leave. In October 2014, we introduced a system under which the spouses of employees who are transferred overseas for work, may also take leave from work to be with their spouses. They may take leave for three years, and in the first six months of the system up to April 2015, six employees used the system. *6 At the five core Group companies in Japan TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 45 Product Liability/Quality Assurance Disaster Prevention Activities Basic Stance Basic Stance The Teijin Group conducts product liability/quality assurance To prevent accidents and disasters such as explosions, fires, activities under an original management system that ensures and leaks/spills of hazardous substances, we adhere strictly to safe products are provided to our customers and enables quick disaster prevention management standards, and we are comresponse to needs in the ever-diversifying social environment. mitted to preventative action/recurrence prevention as well as earthquake/tsunami countermeasures. Product Liability/ Quality Assurance Management System System to Promote Disaster Prevention The Teijin Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance Regulations Management apply to all Teijin Group products and services, and are the base of The Teijin Group is engaged in disaster prevention management and our product liability/quality assurance activities. Based on these has established Group-wide Disaster Prevention Guidelines. For each regulations, the Group CSR Committee and the Group Product fiscal year, we design plans based on these guidelines relating to Liability/Quality Assurance Subcommittee decide the basic policies preventative measures such as disaster prevention diagnoses, fire and associated targets for all product liability/quality assurance issues prevention and earthquake countermeasures as well as disaster of the Teijin Group, and reflect them in the product liability/quality prevention training, drills and upgrading of fire prevention equipment, assurance activities conducted by business groups. and conduct the PDCA cycle. Product Liability/Quality Assurance Initiatives Disaster Prevention Initiatives Implementation of Product Liability/Quality Assurance Audits Implementing Disaster Prevention Diagnoses Product liability/quality assurance activities are conducted as the The Teijin Group conducts disaster prevention diagnoses and mini responsibility of each respective product liability/quality assurance unit disaster prevention diagnoses based on its voluntary standards. (six business groups and seven directly managed companies as of March 2015). The CSR and Compliance Department, which is in TCAP Disaster Prevention Activities charge of supervising Group-wide quality, audits these activities and The Teijin Group has set-up a team consisting of current/former checks that quality assurance mechanisms are operating employees and external experts who have vast knowledge and expeappropriately. rience in disaster prevention. This team, known as TCAP (Teijin Group Chemical Accident Preventions Specialist Team), provides technical Enhancing the Product Liability/Quality Assurance System support for voluntary disaster prevention activities at our chemical In fiscal 2014, the Teijin Group started judging risks in relation to plants and in-house power generation plants. bringing products to market and the 4M* change items by using checklists, and prioritized assessments for high-risk items. For prodTeijin Group Fire Prevention Day uct liability, we have established Group product liability regulations Since 2008, November 10 has been the Teijin Group Fire Prevention and are strengthening our stance regarding them. Day. On this day, each Group company conducts its own fire preven*4M: Stands for man, machine, material and method, which are four management resources tion activities as well as common activities for the whole Teijin Group affecting quality. such as the periodical fire prevention check. Secure Export Control The Teijin Group has established the Group Secure Export Control Regulations governing the corresponding Secure Export Control Regulations and Detailed Implementation Rules, which apply to each Group company that conducts exports. We implement this via a dual-level control system, placing specialist back-office staff at the head office and business groups to ensure a highly reliable level of secure export control. Disaster prevention training in Nighttime firefighting training at Thailand by TCAP the Matsuyama business site 46 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Current Status of OHSAS 18001 Certification Occupational Safety and Hygiene To reduce risk in the workplace, the Teijin Group encourages its manufacturing and processing sites to comply with OHSAS 18001 Basic Stance occupational health and safety management system standards. A company cannot attain sustainable growth without ensuring As of the end of March 2015, 18 Group companies and 29 busithe occupational safety and health and hygiene of its employees. ness sites and factories in Japan, and 10 Group companies and 13 To provide workplace environments created considering safety business sites and factories overseas, had acquired approval. and health, we are taking steps to realize zero occupational accidents, redress long working hours and support the mental health of employees. Health and Sanitary Measures In Japan, the Health Care Administration Office is responsible for planning/promoting Group-wide health management measures. We Occupational Safety have established a system of health management for employees, Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates*7 ★ resulting in the invigoration of workplaces and improvements in work Target: 0.30 or less (midand long-term), 0.25 or less (2014) efficiency and in stability and productivity. 2014: 0.18 The Teijin Group has established three pillars of safety activities: the Health and Hygiene Initiatives “5S” initiative (five Japanese words [seiri, seiton, seisou, seiketsu and Mental Health Care Measures through Close Cooperation shitsuke] that correspond to organization, tidiness, cleaning, hygiene We conduct individual consultations with employees who are working and discipline), the “Hiyari-Hatto” (meaning close call or near miss) long hours, in addition to providing relevant training, and mental initiative and safety patrols. health care education via an Intranet. To examine mental health care As a method of preventing the occurrence of occupational more efficiently and effectively, we are reviewing our method of indiaccidents, we make full use of the information gained from these vidual consultations and working to promote our employees’ mental activities, and work to improve each individual’s degree of sensitivity and physical health. to danger and to improve communication in the workplace, with the aim of achieving zero occupational accidents in the Teijin Group. Diagnosis of Stress Levels at All Workplaces The lost time injury frequency rate for 2014 (January–December) CSR ACTIVITIES In June 2014, the Industrial Safety and Health Law was revised, and in relation to our target of 0.25 or less, was 0.18 (Japan: 0.25; as a result, employees in workplaces with 50 or more personnel are overseas: 0.07). obliged to have stress checks in Japan. In fact, the Teijin Group has *7 Lost time injury frequency rate: The number of lost time injuries per one million hours worked (calculated based on calendar years). been diagnosing stress levels at all workplaces since 2001. In fiscal 2014, we increased the number of diagnostic items from 12 to 33 to understand workplace stress levels in detail by means of objective Occupational Safety Initiatives indicators. We implement improvement activities in accordance with the circumstances of the workplace at all workplaces where the Group-wide Sharing of Occupational Accident Information and measured health hazard level exceeds a certain criteria. Responses at the Time of an Accident Information relating to all occupational accidents resulting in lost time due to injury that occur at Teijin Group companies is distributed via an Intranet, to help prevent the recurrence of similar accidents. In particular, in case that the circumstances and the cause of the accident satisfy the requirements for a “special audit“ prescribed by the ESH Audit Regulations, a special audit shall be conducted by head office or a business unit, depending on the nature of the occurrence. The audit shall determine the cause and circumstances at the site, confirm progress in re-occurrence prevention measures and whether improvements have been made adequately. Training to preserve mental health Awareness-raising reference materials for employees TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 47 OPERATING SEGMENTS Advanced Fibers and Composites Business Group As a leading global company in advanced fibers such h as aramid fibers and carbon fibers as well as in composites, tes, we are working to expand our business further. Masaya Endo General Manager, Advanced Fibers and Composites Businesss Group FINANCIAL DATA Results and Forecasts PRODUCTION SITES Net sales Segment income (loss) Para-aramid fibers (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) The Netherlands Japan 135.5 140.0 18.5 123.6 14.4 111.2 Meta-aramid fibers 5.7 Japan Thailand (new) Carbon fibers (4.7) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) Japan Germany (Forecast) (Forecast) Polyester fibers Japan Thailand OUR VALUE Market Value ● Para-aramid fibers: Top global market shares, including in automotive applications, protective clothing applications, infrastructure-related applications ● Meta-aramid fibers: World-class heat-resistance ● Carbon fibers and composites: Sharply increasing demand as environmentally friendly materials that help conserve energy and reduce CO2 emissions STRATEGY Medium and Long-Term Strategy Teijin aims to expand its business further by advancing the the market in Asia for our meta-aramid fibers, which have superior development of new technologies and strengthening its competiheat resistance (world-class level) and excellent dyeability, the tiveness, in order to provide new value and solutions using latter traditionally an issue with aramid fibers. high-performance materials. In carbon fiber, we are focusing on further expanding our range The market for para-aramid fibers is expected to grow at an of high-value-added products for aircraft parts and pressure vessels, annual rate of 4–5%, centered on automotive and infrastructurewhich are markets likely to see sharp expansion. Amid tightening related applications. Teijin is developing new applications for environmental regulations, we expect carbon fiber to be increaspara-aramid fibers through joint development with customers while ingly used in auto parts and materials. We have been developing tapping into demand in emerging economies by leveraging its thermoplastic carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP) with the aim position with the highest market share in the world, its excellent of having carbon fiber adopted for the structural components of product specifications and reliable quality, and its ability to offer a mass-produced automobiles. variety of solutions from a broad product lineup. We are expanding 48 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 RESULTS Results for Fiscal 2014 Sales of para-aramid fibers increased steadily for automotive appliprofits improved as a result of cost reductions. cations in Europe, and for infrastructure-related applications, while Sales of carbon fiber were robust for aircraft applications with sales recovered in Asia and the Middle East as demand strengthsolid orders from aircraft manufacturers, and sales also expanded ened for ballistic protection products. Sales were also brisk for for use in pressure vessels, supported by increased usage of meta-aramid fibers for protective clothing and industrial materials. applications in North America for natural gas. Sales were steady in In polyester fibers, sales stagnated for automotive applications Asia for sports and leisure products, as well as for civil engineering in Japan and Thailand, but sales increased for applications including reinforcement projects. hygiene materials, infrastructure and civil engineering. In addition, PRESENT ACTION Issues and Initiatives for Fiscal 2015 Teijin plans to enhance its global marketing structure for in Thailand. At the same time, Teijin aims to reinforce its cost para-aramid fiber in a bid to take advantage of growing demand competitiveness by reorganizing its production bases in Japan. mainly in emerging economies. The Company also aims to create In carbon fibers, we aim to apply our thermoplastic CFRP new solutions in tune with the needs of its customers in China and Sereebo for use in the structural components of mass-produced other Asian countries at its Technical Center Asia in Shanghai. automobiles, and have been advancing several development With an eye to expand markets in Asia for protective clothing, projects through collaboration between the Teijin Composites Teijin plans to open a new plant in Thailand for the Teijinconex neo Innovation Center in Matsuyama, Ehime Prefecture and our Teijin meta-aramid fiber and launch production in the summer of 2015. Composites Application Center in Michigan, U.S. We have entered In polyester fibers, the Company aims to build and strengthen its the final stages of development before commercialization through supply chain throughout Asia through cooperation across the trading joint efforts with General Motors. In addition, Teijin has started to and retail business, and by establishing a new tire cords company examine the construction of a new plant in the U.S. TOPICS Thermoplastic CFRP (carbon fiber reinforced plastic) Our newly developed thermoplastic carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP), which is marketed under the name Sereebo, represents an important accomplishment in our drive to expand the focus of our Advanced Fibers and Composites segment to include downstream solutions. In addition to a molding time that is approximately OPERATING 10 times faster than that of conventional CFRP, Sereebo contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions by automobiles—a key concern in both the automobile market and society at large—by reducing vehicle weight, underscoring the SEGMENTS outstanding promise of this innovative material. Going forward, we will continue to promote Sereebo’s use in structural components for automobiles, which we see as a significant latent market. We are currently promoting multiple projects tarBody structure of a concept car that uses CFRP geted at developing specific components for automobiles and establishing mass production procedures. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 49 Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products Business ess Group Grou With polycarbonate resins and polyester films as s core products, we are developing business across a broad range of markets, centered on the electronics field. ld. Yasumichi Takesue General Manager, Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products Business Group FINANCIAL DATA Results and Forecasts PRODUCTION SITES Net sales Segment income (loss) Polycarbonate resins (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Japan China 175.5 179.4 184.8 13.0 170.0 * Company plans to 3.4 (Singapore)* withdraw in December 2015 (1.9) Polyester films (7.2) Japan Indonesia ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) (Forecast) (Forecast) OUR VALUE Market Value ● Polycarbonate resins: Materials technologies = compounds with other resins, specialty polymer development capabilities Processing technologies = large-scale molding technologies, coating technologies ● Films: Materials technologies = Teijin’s proprietary materials (PEN resin) Processing technologies = multi-layer film formation technologies, surface processing, secondary processing technologies STRATEGY Medium and Long-Term Strategy Teijin aims to reduce its scale in commodity businesses while subsidiary in Singapore and concentrate production at our specializing further in fields where it can leverage its strengths and cost-competitive subsidiary in China and at the Matsuyama expand new high-value-added applications for high-performance Plant, which is well equipped for the development and production resins and films. of high-performance products. We are also expanding our lineup In the plastics field, the Company is shifting to products and of resins other than polycarbonate resins and developing new fields with higher added value by leveraging its compound techcompound materials. nologies and processing technologies. We aim to focus more on In films, Teijin aims to optimize its production structures in Japan the automotive, housing equipment, infrastructure-related, and and Asia by streamlining its production bases in Japan. The high-function optical fields while lowering our dependence on the Company is also accelerating the development of new applications electronics field. To right-size our production capacity while lowerfor high-performance films in the fields of high-performance glass, ing reliance on commodity businesses, we decided to dissolve our batteries and sensors. 50 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 RESULTS Results for Fiscal 2014 In plastics, earnings improved for mainstay polycarbonate resins polycarbonate resins used in smartphone camera lenses. owing to a decline in prices for key raw materials since the second In films, sales were brisk for release films used in manufacturing half of the fiscal year, and the emergence of restructuring benefits. processes for multilayer ceramic capacitors (MLCC) and polarizers, In processed plastics products, sales were firm for transparent parts used in smartphones and other devices. Sales of reflective conductive film for car navigation systems and sheets for automofilm for LCD TVs, however, were weak amid tough market conditive instrument panels. Demand was also healthy for specialty tions as Chinese rivals gained ground. PRESENT ACTION Issues and Initiatives for Fiscal 2015 Teijin continues to transform its business fields while pushing Company is also working to expand applications for polyethylene ahead with restructuring. naphthalate (PEN) resins, a strategic material. We aim to expand As a part of its sweeping measures for restructuring, the the plastic glazing business by taking advantage of our large-scale Company plans to shut down its resin production base in Singapore machining fabrication technologies and coating technologies. in December 2015 and halt the production of films at the Gifu In films, Teijin aims to expand the range of new applications by Factory in September 2016, and has been making steady proginvesting management resources in the development of highress consolidating and transferring production to other production performance films other than polyester films, such as piezoelectric bases in both of these business fields. film made from polylactic acid (PLA), while at the same time In resins, Teijin is making preparations for the launch of full-scale moving to foster markets for newly developed products such as mass production in autumn 2015 at INITZ Co., Ltd., its joint venflame retardant films. Teijin aims to push through the integration of ture with SK Chemicals Ltd. of South Korea, to add polyphenylene the Teijin Group’s businesses while proposing to customers a new sulfide (PPS) resins, a super engineering plastic, to its lineup of way to create value that leverages our integral strengths. In addiresins. The Company is aggressively working to develop new tion, Teijin intends to accelerate the transformation of its business compound materials through combinations with high-performance structure by acquiring technologies and outsourcing production fibers and to capitalize on copolymerized polycarbonates. The through strategic external alliances. TOPICS Polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) resins Excelling at heat resistance and dimensional stability, our PPS resins are mainly found in peripheral parts for automobile engines and motors, as well as electronic parts such as connectors and sockets. We expect demand to grow for PPS resins. Teijin established a joint venture with SK Chemicals Ltd. in South Korea for the proOPERATING duction and sale of PPS resins and their compounds (composites). SK Chemicals Ltd. has technologies for producing PPS resins that do not contain chlorine or sodium, which SEGMENTS induce corrosion in metal molds and emit harmful environmental substances when incinerated. We aim to combine these technologies with our own compound technologies and know-how to accelerate the development of new applications for PPS resins in Plant facilities at our joint venture automobiles, electronic materials, and others. INITZ Co., Ltd. (Ulsan City, South Korea) TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 51 Healthcare Business Group We provide unique, groundbreaking medical solutions by leveraging our strengths in both the pharmaceuticals and home healthcare fields. Hiroshi Uno General Manager, Healthcare Business Group FINANCIAL DATA Results and Forecasts BUSINESS SITES Net sales Segment income Pharmaceuticals (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 150.0 70 sales offices in Japan 138.3 138.4 141.7 27.0 24.8 24.5 24.8 Home Healthcare 65 sales offices in Japan ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) (Forecast) (Forecast) OUR VALUE Market Value ● Hyperuricemia and gout treatments: Top market share in Japan, sold around the world ● Provision of home healthcare services to over 400,000 patients inside and outside Japan ● Home oxygen therapy (HOT) services: A pioneer in Japan, Teijin maintains its position a domestic market leader ● Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) ventilators for the treatment of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS): Rapid market expansion, and Teijin is Japan’s top provider STRATEGY Medium and Long-Term Strategy Teijin aims to provide healthcare solutions that maximize synergies including advanced medical materials that combine our pharmain its pharmaceuticals and home healthcare services businesses, ceuticals technologies and materials technologies. with a particular focus on bone and joint disease, respiratory In home healthcare services, Teijin’s strengths are its customer disease and cardiovascular and metabolic disease. base, the largest in the sector, and its extensive domestic service In pharmaceuticals, the Company is working to increase worldstructure, which can support patients 24 hours a day, 365 days a wide sales of hyperuricemia and gout treatment, Teijin’s first novel year. We aim for continued growth by focusing on expanding the treatment in 40 years. This treatment is already sold in more than sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) treatment business, and also by 40 countries, and we continue to focus on expanding sales around strengthening our competitiveness by introducing the latest the world. At the same time, Teijin aims to expand its product models of devices and leveraging our call centers. We also aim to lineup on its own by actively developing new drugs or by acquiring expand operations into other domains, such as community healththem by in-licensing, and managing them throughout their life care support and rehabilitation services, through the horizontal cycle. We are also redoubling our efforts in new business fields development of the home healthcare business model. 52 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 RESULTS Results for Fiscal 2014 In pharmaceuticals, sales increased strongly in Japan for hyperurihigh level, and Teijin introduced a new model with a backup power cemia and gout treatment FEBURIC. For other long-listed drugs, supply in case of natural disasters and blackouts. We successfully amid persistently challenging business conditions with downward launched NemLink, a monitoring system that uses mobile phone revisions to NHI drug reimbursement prices and growth in genernetworks for CPAP ventilators used in the treatment of SAS, and ics, Teijin worked to shore up sales by expanding its lineup of the number of rented units increased steadily. Overseas, however, existing drugs with additional dosage forms. Overseas sales of Teijin continued to consolidate its service centers and reduce hyperuricemia and gout treatments increased firmly. personnel as a part of measures to improve earnings amid a In home healthcare services, the number of rented home oxygen persistently harsh operating environment. therapy (HOT) therapeutic oxygen concentrators remained at a PRESENT ACTION Issues and Initiatives for Fiscal 2015 In pharmaceuticals, Teijin is focusing efforts on enhancing awareness KTF-374, an innovative sheet-type sealant for surgical operations. of hyperuricemia in a bid to maximize profits on its hyperuricemia and In home healthcare services, Teijin is targeting the market repregout treatment, sales of which have been growing steadily around sented by privately practicing physicians, aiming to expand CPAP the world. In the first half of fiscal 2015, Teijin plans to introduce ventilators and the number of rented home oxygen therapy (HOT) Mucosolvan L, a sustained release respiratory tract lubricant expectherapeutic oxygen concentrators. We are also developing our torant tablet (45 mg), as an additional dosage form in a small package business with WalkAide, a neuromuscular electrical stimulation that is easy to administer, and a single dosage is effective for the entire device for the treatment of gait impairment resulting from stroke day. At the newly constructed Technology Integrated Pharmaceutics and other causes, by steadily broadening marketing efforts beyond Center at the Iwakuni Factory, we have embarked on the developmerely focusing on medical institutions in the Tokyo metropolitan ment of groundbreaking, advanced medical materials that combine area. The Company is also going to reorganize its operations in the our pharmaceuticals and materials technologies, beginning with U.S. by implementing bold measures as early as possible. PIPELINE Pharmaceuticals Development Pipeline Area Code No. Target Disease Phase of Clinical Trials Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Filed Approved/New Launch Bone and joint ITM-058 Osteoporosis disease KTP-001 Lumbar disc hernia Respiratory PTR-36 Bronchial asthma Dec. 2014 disease NA872ET Expectorant Feb. 2015 TMG-123 Type 2 diabetes ITM-014N Neuroendocrine tumors Cardiovascular TMX-67XR Hyperuricemia and gout Jun. 2014 and metabolic disease TMX-67TLS Tumor lysis syndrome OPERATING TMX-67 (China) Hyperuricemia and gout TMX-049 Hyperuricemia and gout Apr. 2015 SEGMENTS GGS-ON, -MPA, Optic neuritis, microscopic polyangiitis, Other -CIDP chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy TOPICS An innovative sheet-type sealant for surgical operations (KTF-374) Teijin Pharma Limited has been jointly developing KTF-374 with Kaketsuken (The Chemo-Sero-Therapeutic Research Institute). KTF-374 is an innovative sheet-type sealant for surgical operations created from the application of the Teijin Group’s high-performance fiber and pharmaceutical production technologies to the recombinant human proteins developed by Kaketsuken. Since the sheet-type formulation uses thin and elastic nonwoven fabric, it can form a tight seal on uneven lesions. KTF-374 has strong hemostatic effectiveness in a short period of time, and does not have to be removed after the bleeding is stopped because the sheet affixed to the lesion is absorbed by the body. The Teijin Group aims to provide new solutions in fields that combine its pharmaceuticals and materials technologies. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 53 Trading and Retail Business Group We provide a wide range of solutions from materials als develevelopment to products, to meet a variety of needs in markets spanning apparel to industrial textiles and materials. als. Shinji Nikko General Manager, Trading and Retail Business Group OUR VALUE Market Value ● Product development that use processing functions, from materials development to procurement, dyeing and sewing ● Global network of production and sales bases STRATEGY Medium and Long-Term Strategy One of our strengths in this business is our integrated global business, especially high-performance fibers. Teijin aims to reinforce production and sales structure, from materials development and its production capabilities through proactive M&A and alliances in procurement to dyeing, sewing and sales. To further advance our pursuit of a globally optimized procurement, production and sales solutions-oriented business model, where we studiously incorpoframework. We aim to increase sales and position as strategic rate customer requirements, we must enhance our ability to proproducts our innovative materials brands SOLOTEX, DELTA and pose solutions to customers that are integrated from upstream to SUNBURNER. downstream operations, and fortify collaboration with the materials RESULTS Results for Fiscal 2014 In apparel textiles, Teijin rapidly expanded collaboration with major orders received for apparel, reflecting unfavorable weather in Japan. overseas sports apparel makers, focusing in particular on the In industrial textiles and materials, sales were brisk for automoDELTA series of strategic materials, while promoting its brands of tive parts such as tire cords, belts and hoses, and demand grew in functional materials for sportswear and outdoor apparel. China and Asia for airbag fabric. Sales were also robust for products However, profitability on sales of imported goods and in the used in civil engineering applications and for water treatment filters OEM business overseas was squeezed by higher costs as a result in China. We also saw a partial rebound in sales of performance of yen depreciation. Earnings growth was sluggish due to a lull in polymer products for electronics applications. PRESENT ACTION Issues and Initiatives for Fiscal 2015 Key issues to tackle include expanding alliances in core strategic overseas sportswear makers and globally optimize its production businesses, such as high-performance textiles and healthcare bases in line with these efforts. In industrial textiles and materials, services, as well as expanding targeted business domains. In Teijin plans to establish and start operations at a joint venture in apparel textiles, Teijin aims to expand collaboration with major the production of tire cords during 2015 in Thailand. 54 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 IT Business Group Teijin provides a variety of IT services and engages in e-book distribution, e-commerce and other Internet businesses. Norihiro Takehara General Manager, IT Business Group OUR VALUE Market Value ● Involvement in both IT services for corporate, healthcare-related and public sector customers (B2B) as well as the Internet business for general consumers (B2C) ● Achievement of speed of IT service development in line with rapidly changing Internet businesses and diverse hospital systems ● Creation of new services through synergies with other Teijin Group businesses STRATEGY Medium and Long-Term Strategy Teijin’s IT business is spearheaded by Infocom Corporation, which To achieve stable growth, we aim to expand the scale of core has a medium-term business plan that emphasizes efforts on business domains by focusing resources in the net services busithree fronts under the banner “united innovation.” These three ness, healthcare business and the enterprise resource planning efforts are to develop and market value-added services in a timely (ERP) software package business. manner, expand the scale of core businesses and establish busiWe also aim to create new markets by developing business in ness processes that reflect customer perspectives and service domains that overlap the materials and healthcare businesses of quality concerns, thereby enhancing our presence as a provider the Teijin Group. of cutting-edge services. RESULTS Results for Fiscal 2014 In net services, sales of e-books were firm. In IT services, sales of and greater collaboration with development and sales partners. OPERATING SEGMENTS some products declined due to weaker demand after the conInfocom jointly established EverySense, Inc., in partnership with sumption tax was hiked, but overall sales increased as a result of two other companies, with the aim of developing and offering new enhancements to GRANDIT, a web-based ERP software package, services in the Internet of Things (IoT) market. PRESENT ACTION Issues and Initiatives for Fiscal 2015 In the e-book business, Teijin aims to expand and enhance entrepreneurs, and the medical and healthcare industry. As a part content through a partnership with SHUEISHA Inc. We are also of this initiative, in March 2015, we introduced the Sleep Styles advancing an IT healthcare project through collaboration with the sleep assistance service that offers information over the web and a healthcare business. Teijin also launched Digital Health Connect, smartphone app for keeping track of sleeping patterns. Japan’s first IT tool designed to facilitate collaboration between TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 55 New Business Development Business Unit We aim for the early stage commercialization of new businesses in the fields of battery components, ts, materials for printable electronics, and healthcare.. Kentaro Arao General Manager, New Business Development Business Unit ABOUT THE GROUP New Business Development Business Unit ● This business unit was created through organizational restructuring in April 2014 to bring together the technologies of the Teijin Group and promptly create new businesses. STRATEGY Medium and Long-Term Strategy Teijin aims to create new businesses by harnessing its three of the Teijin Group. We are currently focusing on discovering strengths in materials, healthcare and IT, in order to innovate its new business potential in the fields of the environment/energy, business portfolio and further the business development strategies electronics materials, and healthcare. RESULTS Results for Fiscal 2014 Sales of LIELSORT lithium-ion battery (LiB) separators continued In the area of advanced medical materials, we reorganized ourto expand favorably. With the aim of further expanding this busiselves and are developing a patch to replace damaged cardiac ness, we installed a new line, which commenced operation in tissue for long-term use. This project is a joint effort with Osaka December 2014. We also developed NanoGram silicon paste for Medical College and FUKUI WARP KNITTING Co., Ltd. On another use in the production of high conversion-efficiency solar cells, as front, we acquired a stake in Nakashima Medical Co., Ltd., with well as a new processing technology that maximizes this product’s the aim of establishing a new joint venture, Teijin Nakashima performance features, and promoted marketing to solar cell manuMedical Co., Ltd. The joint venture will capitalize on Nakashima facturers. In collaboration with Kansai University, we developed Medical’s metalworking technologies and expertise in joint prosthe world’s first polylactic acid (PLA) piezoelectric fabrics for use theses with the Teijin Group’s materials technologies and sales in wearable devices that sense human movement and transforms capabilities. In addition to establishing itself as a leading manufacit into data. turer of domestically produced joint prostheses, the joint venture will lay a foundation for its eventual expansion into global markets. PRESENT ACTION Issues and Initiatives for Fiscal 2015 Together with focusing on expanding sales of LIELSORT, Teijin communication sheet CELL FORM, we will expand the business to will continue the full-fledged development of high-performance physical-items management systems that include medical equipmembranes that use polyethylene and were developed by Tejin ment in addition to books and confidential documents, making use from formation technologies for microporous membranes, as the of its capabilities to accurately and efficiently manage storage and product brand MIRAIM. Furthermore, with our RecoPick informaretrieval, and inventory stock. tion management system that employs the two-dimensional 56 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Research and Development Technological innovation is vital to ensuring sustainable corporate growth. We intend to deliver new value grounded in innovative technology to customers and markets, and thereby enrich people’s daily lives and contribute to the advancement of society. Doing so is inseparable from enhancing the quality of life, as set forth in our Corporate Philosophy. With this in mind, we are working to sharpen our ability to develop technologies and rapidly commercialize research achievements. This is being done by formulating a Group-wide R&D strategy, including basic research, in tandem with strengthening coordination between Group companies. The Teijin Group currently has more than 1,600 researchers who are undertaking research activities around the clock at eight R&D sites in Japan and seven sites overseas. United Kingdom Seven overseas sites China United States DuPont Teijin Films Teijin Product Development UK Limited China Co., Ltd. (Fibers and others) Teijin Advanced Composites America Inc. (Carbon fiber composite materials) Teijin Chemicals Plastic NanoGram Corporation (New businesses) Compounds Shanghai Ltd. (Plastic) Germany Toho Tenax GmbH (Carbon fibers) The Netherlands Teijin Aramid B.V. Shizuoka Eight sites in Japan (Aramid fibers) Toho Tenax Co., Ltd. Tokyo (Carbon fiber) Tokyo Research Center (Healthcare and new businesses) Okayama Teijin Nakashima Medical Co., Ltd. (New healthcare) Chiba Plastics Technical Mihara Center (Plastic) (Plastic) Gifu Teijin DuPont Films Japan Limited Yamaguchi Iwakuni R&D Center Matsuyama (Healthcare and Technology Development Center new businesses) (Advanced fibers and composite materials, plastic) R&D Aspirations OPERATING Our key R&D theme is to realize solutions that integrate key capabilities In existing businesses, we are seeking to improve our competitiveSEGMENTS of existing businesses, as laid out in the revised medium-term ness. To this end, we are expanding our product pipeline and reviewmanagement plan. This means we will combine and integrate the ing our technology road map, in conjunction with honing in on priority strengths of our three core businesses, namely materials, healthcare, research themes and optimally allocating resources. Mindful of the and IT, to create customer-oriented business models that focus on need to transform our supply chains and business models, we will providing solutions around competitive materials. Eyeing the creation also actively work to create new forms of value that will expand the of new businesses, we will fortify core technologies that will pave the horizons of our existing business models. For example, rather than way for business expansion. Furthermore, we will push ahead with merely supply materials and other primary products, we will strive to new product development by enhancing the basic technologies produce and deliver value-added components and devices. Efforts that underpin those core technologies. will also be focused on providing entirely new IT-driven services in the healthcare field. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 57 Allocating Resources to R&D Teijin’s policy is to continuously allocate 4–5% of net sales to R&D. Fiscal 2016 Allocation Plan Under this policy, we intend to effectively allocate resources to R&D with an emphasis on growth. Moreover, Teijin will direct around 80% ■ Healthcare of R&D expenses to core strategic business, namely the Healthcare ■ Advanced Fibers and Composites and Advanced Fibers and Composites segments, as well as to new ■ New Businesses and business domains. Corporate R&D ■ Others Innovation Projects Eyeing the development of new business fields, Teijin has set up a (2) Project must create business opportunities in overlapping domains project certification system and is forming task forces to drive projthat leverage Teijin’s strengths ects forward, including organizations reporting directly to the CEO. Certified Projects (Examples) Efforts are under way to secure development support budgets and Composite materials: Super-tough lightweight structural materials personnel, along with providing backup at the corporate level for various functions. IT and healthcare: Open healthcare platform Project certification requirements High-performance materials and IT: Expand businesses related to (1) Project must offer prospects for business model transformation super-tough lightweight structural materials and the two-dimensional and sustainable earnings communication sheet CELL FORM Promote planning and assessment of additional projects Fostering R&D Personnel Teijin is putting its full weight behind fostering R&D personnel through ▪ Teijin Techno College a variety of programs. Teijin Techno College is staffed with former Teijin employees who serve as instructors and share their frontline expertise, skill and technological knowledge ▪ Teijin 21st Century Forum with current R&D personnel. Teijin holds this forum to build networks linking researchers in the polymer science and biotechnology fields, and to foster young researchers in these fields. We are also fortunate to have Dr. Ei-ichi Negishi, a Noble Prize in ▪ Teijin Technology Advisory Council Chemistry 2010 laureate and a former Teijin employee (currently a With guest members such as university professors and researchers representprofessor at Purdue University in the U.S.), on staff as a Teijin Group ing various specialized fields, this council provides a forum for discussing a host Distinguished Fellow. In this capacity, Dr. Negishi offers invaluable of topics with young researchers, including future technologies, innovation research guidance that is helping to foster outstanding R&D personnel processes, and technology trends. at Teijin. ▪ Sending Young Researchers on Assignment Teijin sends its young researchers on assignment to leading research institutions both in Japan and overseas. Open Innovation Teijin has embraced an open innovation strategy to strengthen partpersonnel by forming networks in an expansive range of fields nerships with researchers both within and outside the Company, in an spanning industry, government and academia. By doing so, we effort to spur R&D activities aimed at creating new businesses. We aim to provide sophisticated solutions required by customers in a are undertaking joint research and exchanging information and timely manner. 58 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Intellectual Property Strategy Teijin is strengthening its execution of intellectual property activities applications. At the same time, we will work to reshape our intellectual from a strategic perspective, with a view to advance integrated manproperty portfolio in line with our restructuring initiatives and transforagement of business, technology and intellectual property strategies. mation and growth strategies. Besides protecting and utilizing patents, In response to our shift from quantity to quality and further globalization trademarks and other intellectual property, we are enhancing activities of our operations, we will continue to push ahead with initiatives to to protect knowledge and trade secrets throughout the company. increase overseas patent applications as a percentage of total Patent Applications in Japan in Fiscal 2014 Overseas Patent Applications as a Percentage of Total Applications (%) ■ Advanced Fibers and Composites 76 30 ■ Electronics Materials and 20 Performance Polymer Products 86 ■ Healthcare 28 10 ■ New Businesses and Others 78 Total 268 0 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) FISCAL 2014 TOPICS Upgrading and Expanding R&D Sites Reorganization of Teijin’s R&D Structure We established Teijin Product Development China Co., Ltd. in Nantong, Teijin is implementing several reorganizations aimed at honing its solutions Jiangsu Province, China to serve as a product development hub that will development capabilities based on the approaches of upgrading and undertake a full range of operations encompassing yarns and textiles to expanding R&D functions and executing exit strategies. final products. The Center has sophisticated analysis facilities in terms of From fiscal 2015, Teijin has made the Matsuyama Plant its core R&D consumer science, including a weather-simulation laboratory and an site. To ensure that this facility serves as a central hub for solutions develexperimental production facility, enabling the Center to conduct a full range opment functions that span different businesses, we have established a of R&D operations within China, covering materials to finished products. Technology Development Center on the premises of the Matsuyama Plant. One-stop operations spanning development to mass production will now The functions of the Osaka Research Center have also been integrated be possible at a single location. Therefore, the Center will enable the Teijin into this new site. Group to respond to customer needs more rapidly than ever. Eyeing the development of new products that leverage Teijin’s overlapDriving the Development of Carbon Fiber Reinforced Plastic (CFRP) ping strengths in the materials and healthcare businesses, we have decided We achieved several breakthroughs in the development of CFRP, which is to build a Technology Integrated Pharmaceutics Center at our Iwakuni a major theme of our transformation and growth strategies. In products for Factory in Iwakuni City, Yamaguchi Prefecture. Efforts will be focused on aircraft applications, TENAX thermoplastic consolidated laminate (TPCL) OPERATING developing and upgrading our system for developing new products in was qualified for use in Airbus S.A.S.s’ A350 XWB all-new, extra-wide overlapping domains. One such integrative undertaking is the development midsize jetliner, and subsequently adopted for use in the A350 XWB family. of KTF-374, an advanced sheet-type fibrin sealant offering high-performance In the development of production technologies for thermosetting CFRP, we SEGMENTS hemostatic and tissue-sealing properties for surgical operations. This successfully developed super-heat-resistant varieties of prepeg that can be groundbreaking medical product will integrate Teijin’s advanced fabric used in super-high temperatures over 320°C, and a rapid-curing variety of manufacturing technology and pharmaceutical manufacturing technology. prepreg that increases production efficiency several ten times higher than Teijin’s conventional prepreg varieties. Moreover, Teijin developed Part via Preform (PvP), an automated manufacturing process that reduces parts manufacturing costs by minimizing carbon fiber waste. This was achieved by using binder yarn, which is essentially carbon fiber pre-coated with a thermoset resin, in the process of preforming carbon fiber sheets to conform to the shape of molds. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 59 DATA SECTION Financial Highlights and Consolidated 11-Year Summary Operationg Margin ■ Net Sales Operating Income ■ (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) 1,200 120 12 1,000 100 10 800 80 8 600 60 6 400 40 4 200 20 2 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 0 (Years ended March 31) Years ended /as of March 31 2005 2006 2007 2008 Operating Results Net sales ¥908,389 ¥938,082 ¥1,009,586 ¥1,036,624 Operating income 51,865 76,757 75,061 65,162 Net income (loss) 9,159 24,853 34,125 12,613 Financial Position Total assets ¥852,029 ¥943,991 ¥ 999,917 ¥1,015,991 Interest-bearing debt 277,032 298,298 295,480 325,245 Shareholders’ equity 290,586 338,609 366,753 391,010 Cash Flows Cash flows from operating activities ¥ 73,313 ¥ 75,491 ¥ 96,456 ¥ 53,740 Cash flows from investing activities 12,708 (74,062) (87,065) (79,218) Free cash flow 86,021 1,429 9,391 (25,478) Cash flows from financing activities (79,643) 1,511 (19,074) 16,080 Per Share Data Net income (loss) ¥ 9.7 ¥ 26.6 ¥ 36.8 ¥ 13.2 Shareholders’ equity 313.3 364.8 395.2 397.3 Cash dividends 6.5 7.5 10.0 8.0 Other Data Capital expenditure ¥ 54,135 ¥ 66,777 ¥ 75,698 ¥ 84,641 Depreciation and amortization 52,287 50,389 54,009 62,668 R&D expenses 30,024 31,196 35,097 36,282 Number of employees 18,960 18,819 19,053 19,125 Notes: 1. The U.S. dollar amounts represent translations of Japanese yen, for convenience only, at the rate of ¥120.17 to U.S.$1.00, the prevailing exchange rate at March 31, 2015. 60 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Debt-to-Equity ROA ■ Net Income (Loss) ROE ━ ■ Total Assets ■ Interest-Bearing Debt Ratio ━ ━ (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Times) (%) 45 15 1,200 3.0 12 30 10 1,000 2.5 10 15 5 800 2.0 8 0 0 600 1.5 6 –15 –5 400 1.0 4 –30 –10 200 0.5 2 –45 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 –15 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 0 (Years ended March 31) (At March 31) Percentage Thousands of Millions of yen change U.S. dollars 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 ¥ 943,410 ¥765,840 ¥815,656 ¥854,371 ¥745,713 ¥784,425 ¥786,171 +0.2% $6,542,157 17,966 13,436 48,560 34,044 12,358 18,078 39,086 +116.2% 325,256 (42,963) (35,684) 25,182 11,979 (29,131) 8,356 (8,086) — (67,288) ¥ 874,157 ¥823,071 ¥761,535 ¥762,118 ¥762,399 ¥768,411 ¥823,695 +7.2% $6,854,415 361,342 320,285 267,400 261,034 270,765 281,524 308,246 +9.5% 2,565,083 305,577 271,306 284,236 292,030 271,252 281,680 287,074 +1.9% 2,388,899 ¥ 40,392 ¥ 80,433 ¥ 77,132 ¥ 53,669 ¥ 64,305 ¥ 38,587 ¥ 76,030 $ 632,687 (116,304) (33,437) (27,745) (35,165) (37,868) (47,279) (49,624) (412,948) (75,912) 46,996 49,387 18,504 26,437 (8,692) 26,406 219,739 79,178 (42,949) (42,063) (14,123) (12,606) (7,902) 10,394 86,494 Yen U.S. dollars ¥ (43.7) ¥ (36.3) ¥ 25.6 ¥ 12.2 ¥ (29.6) ¥ 8.5 ¥ (8.2) $ (0.07) 310.5 276.2 288.8 296.7 276.0 286.6 292.1 2.43 5.0 2.0 5.0 6.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 0.03 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars ¥ 75,806 ¥ 36,314 ¥ 29,249 ¥ 32,294 ¥ 36,261 ¥ 30,182 ¥ 28,098 $ 233,819 67,364 61,879 56,410 52,304 46,877 45,664 43,030 358,076 37,630 33,356 31,483 31,845 33,184 32,234 32,366 269,335 DATA SECTION 19,453 18,778 17,542 16,819 16,637 15,756 15,780 2. Throughout this integrated report, return on equity (ROE) is calculated as net income divided by average shareholders’ equity, and return on assets (ROA) is calculated as operating income divided by average total assets. Shareholders’ equity = Total net assets at year-end – Subscription rights to shares at year-end – Minority interests at year-end. 3. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as interest-bearing debt at year-end divided by shareholders’ equity at year-end. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 61 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Despite the increase in operating income, we recorded extraordinary Summary losses of ¥50.3 billion on restructuring and other initiatives, leading to a net loss of ¥8.1 billion. Operating Environment The global economy was comparatively stable in fiscal 2014, ended Billions of yen March 31, 2015, supported by firm conditions in the United States, As of March 31 2014 2015 Change although growth in China and a number of emerging economies Total Assets ¥768.4 ¥823.7 7.2% decelerated noticeably. The second half of the period saw significant fluctuations in currency rates and crude oil prices, the impact of The weaker yen enhanced the value of assets denominated in other which varied in different countries and territories. currencies. In terms of individual asset items, there was a decline in The Japanese economy slumped following the April 2014 confixed assets attributable to the application of impairment accounting, sumption tax hike, and although signs of a rally were seen in the while higher stock purchases pushed up investment securities. second half of the period, the pace of recovery remained sluggish. Billions of yen Years ended March 31 2014 2015 Strategies in Action In the period under review, we continued to put our principal emphasis Free Cash Flow ¥(8.7) ¥26.4 on implementing measures aimed at achieving a self-driven recovery Free cash flow was positive as net cash and cash equivalents provided in profitability and at improving our ability to generate cash without by operating activities exceeded net cash and cash equivalents used relying on a favorable turn in the general operating environment. in investing activities, mainly for the purchase of investment securities. Accordingly, we pushed ahead with restructuring initiatives centered on the Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products Years ended March 31 2014 2015 segment, in addition to making a Groupwide effort to implement Key Indicators cost-cutting and other measures. Furthermore, we intensively alloROA 2.4% 4.9% cated resources, primarily to the Advanced Fibers and Composites ROE 3.0% –2.8% segment and the Healthcare segment, which are positioned as core strategic businesses. D/E Ratio 1.00 times 1.07 times Return on assets (ROA) improved due to the higher operating income, Operating Results while ROE turned negative due to the recording of a net loss. The Billions of yen debt-to-equity ratio stood at 1.07 times, as a weaker yen pushed up Years ended March 31 2014 2015 Change the yen value of interest-bearing debt denominated in other currencies, Net Sales ¥784.4 ¥786.2 0.2% despite an increase in total shareholders’ equity. Net sales were ¥786.2 billion, remaining essentially level from the previous fiscal year, as higher sales in principal segments outweighed Tasks Ahead a drop in sales following the discontinuation of in-house production In fiscal 2015, we will continue to implement a variety of measures— and sales of paraxylene. balancing our two key priorities, namely, restructuring initiatives and transformation and growth strategies—with the aim of achieving Billions of yen sustainable growth. Years ended March 31 2014 2015 Change In November 2014, we announced our revised medium-term Operating Income ¥18.1 ¥39.1 116.2% management plan, and clarified the measures and targets we will implement and achieve by the end of fiscal 2016. This is to accelerate Operating income rose ¥21.0 billion from the previous fiscal year to our efforts to build an earnings base that is resilient to changes in the ¥39.1 billion, underpinned by solid results in our materials businesses— external environment, as we evolve toward a solutions-oriented busispecifically, a recovery in the Advanced Fibers and Composites segness model that lies beyond the future trajectory of our existing ment and the positive impact of restructuring initiatives, primarily in the businesses. Electronic Materials and Performance Polymer Products segment— We will put a framework in place to execute business restructuring and by yen depreciation and declining prices for raw materials and fuel. initiatives and transformation and growth strategies, with the aim of Billions of yen laying a solid business foundation to drive future growth and evolution. Years ended March 31 2014 2015 Change Net Income (Loss) ¥8.4 ¥(8.1) — 62 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased Results of Operations 0.8%, or ¥1.2 billion, to ¥145.2 billion, partly due to upfront cost outlays, despite measures to streamline head office staff. SG&A Net Sales expenses represented 18.5% of net sales. With economic conditions in Japan and other developed countries R&D expenses increased 0.4%, or ¥0.1 billion, to ¥32.4 billion. We recovering gradually, sales were generally favorable in principal segcontinued to intensively allocate resources to healthcare and other ments. This, combined with the positive impact of yen depreciation, core strategic businesses, as well as to promising new businesses. helped to push up sales on the whole. Meanwhile, sales were negatively impacted by the discontinuation of in-house production and sales of paraxylene. Consequently, net sales were held to an increase Operating Income Operating income climbed sharply by 116.2%, or ¥21.0 billion, to of 0.2%, or ¥1.7 billion, to ¥786.2 billion. ¥39.1 billion, underpinned by solid results in our materials business— In terms of business segments, following on from the previous specifically, a recovery in the Advanced Fibers and Composites fiscal year, we once again saw a large increase in sales in the segment and the positive impact of restructuring initiatives, primarily Advanced Fibers and Composites segment, supported primarily by in the Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products firm demand for automotive applications. By region, higher sales in segment—and by yen depreciation and declining prices for raw emerging countries made a large contribution to overall sales, with materials and fuel. sales in China increasing 11.4% and sales in Asia, which excludes In the Advanced Fibers and Composites segment, sales of mainstay Japan and China, increasing 14.5%. In addition, sales in the Ameriaramid fibers rose steadily for automotive applications, along with cas increased 12.8% from the previous fiscal year. higher sales for use in infrastructure-related applications. In carbon Analysis of Net Sales fibers, sales were firm for use in aircraft. In the Electronics Materials (Years ended March 31) and Performance Polymer Products segment, profitability was restored partly due to declining prices of primary raw materials, as well as the 2014 Net Sales 784.4 positive impact of restructuring initiatives. In the Healthcare segment, Advanced Fibers and Composites +12.0 sales of hyperuricemia and gout treatment febuxostat increased Electronics Materials and +5.3 Performance Polymer Products worldwide. As a consequence of these and other factors, the Healthcare +3.3 operating margin on sales improved 2.7 percentage points to 5.0%. The ¥21.0 billion increase in operating income reflected the posiTrading and Retail +5.2 tive impact of structural reforms and cost reductions, as well as Others –24.1 higher sales volumes and differences in raw materials and fuel prices, 2015 Net Sales 786.2 estimated at approximately ¥26.5 billion in total, which countered the combined negative impact of changes in sales prices and product 0 700 750 800 850 mix, and advance development costs, estimated at approximately (Billions of yen) ¥5.5 billion. Costs and Expenses Analysis of Operating Income Cost of sales decreased 3.5%, or ¥20.6 billion, to ¥569.5 billion, mainly (Years ended March 31) due to falling prices for raw materials and fuel, as well as the positive impact of ongoing Groupwide efforts to reduce costs. As a percentage 2014 Operating Income 18.1 Structural reforms and +14.5 of net sales, cost of sales declined 2.8 percentage points to 72.4%. cost reductions Sales volume increase +7.0 Cost of Sales SG&A Expenses as a Percentage of Net Sales as a Percentage of Net Sales Differences in raw materials and fuel prices +5.0 (%) (%) Changes in sales prices and product mix –4.0 100 40 Advance development costs, others –1.5 75 30 2015 Operating Income 39.1 0 12 24 36 48 50 20 DATA SECTION (Billions of yen) 25 10 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 (Years ended March 31) TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 63 Other Income (Expenses) brisk domestic sales for automotive applications and exports for infraOther expenses, a net figure, amounted to ¥46.0 billion, an increase structure-related applications, as well as the weaker yen. Sales of of ¥42.4 billion from ¥3.6 billion in fiscal 2013. Principal factors conTeijinconex meta-aramid fibers for use in protective clothing and for tributing to this result included an increase in impairment loss to industrial applications remained solid. Under these circumstances, we ¥30.4 billion, from ¥8.8 billion in fiscal 2013, and an increase in busipressed forward with preparations to begin production of Teijinconex ness structure improvement expenses to ¥16.8 billion, from ¥2.4 neo, a new type of meta-aramid fiber, in Thailand in summer 2015. billion in the previous fiscal year. In line with these other expenses, we In polyester fibers, income at our subsidiaries in Thailand rose recorded an extraordinary loss of ¥50.3 billion. gradually—notwithstanding flagging sales for automotive applications— thanks to an increase in sales volume for use in personal hygiene Net Income (Loss) and general-purpose products, as well as to falling prices for raw We reported a net loss of ¥8.1 billion, compared with net income of materials and the reduction of costs. In Japan, sales volume for ¥8.4 billion in fiscal 2013. This was mainly owing to the recording of automotive applications slipped amid sagging demand. Nonetheless, an extraordinary loss associated with restructuring initiatives, despite profitability was buttressed by higher sales for infrastructureand civil the large increase in operating income. As a consequence, ROE engineering-related applications and for use in reverse osmosis declined to –2.8% from 3.0% in fiscal 2013. membrane support layers for water treatment applications, as well as by efforts to cut costs. Business Segment Results Carbon Fibers and Composites ■ Demand for use in aircraft and in pressure vessels advanced, Advanced Fibers and Composites and efforts to realize new technologies were accelerated. Sales of TENAX carbon fibers for use in aircraft remained favorable. Sales in the Advanced Fibers and Composites segment totaled Among other applications, sales for use in pressure vessels remained ¥135.5 billion, an increase of 9.7%, while operating income was steady, supported by favorable sales in North America for natural gas ¥14.4 billion, up 150.0%. storage and in Asia for use in sports and leisure equipment, as did sales for use in reinforcement materials for civil engineering-related applicaOperating Margin tions. Sales of Pyromex flame-resistant fibers were stable, supported Sales Operating Income (Loss) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) by higher demand for use in aircraft brake pads. The depreciation of the yen and declines in prices for raw materials and fuel, particularly 180 30 30 evident since the latter half of fiscal 2014, also helped boost profitability. Against this backdrop, in the area of products for aircraft applica120 20 20 tions TENAX thermoplastic consolidated laminate (TPCL) was qualified for use in Airbus S.A.S.’s A350 XWB all-new, extra-wide body midsize 60 10 10 jetliner and subsequently adopted for use in the A350 XWB family. On another front, we accelerated efforts to realize new production tech0 0 0 nologies and develop various other technologies for thermosetting carbon fiber-reinforced plastic (CFRP). 2012* 2013 2014 2015 –10 –10 We also pressed ahead with the development of structural compo(Years ended March 31) nents for mass-produced vehicles made with our innovative thermo* After elimination of the impact of changes to the accounting period plastic CFRP Sereebo. To this end, the Teijin Composites Innovation (12-month base) Center, situated within our Matsuyama Plant, which is in Ehime Prefecture, and the Teijin Composites Application Center, located in High-Performance Fibers Metro Detroit, in the United States, are implementing multiple projects ■ Demand remained firm for automotive applications and targeted at developing specific components and establishing expanded for infrastructure-related applications. mass-production procedures, and are making progress on both Sales of mainstay Twaron para-aramid fibers rose steadily for autofronts. Our joint development work with General Motors Company is motive applications, including for tires in Europe, and for use as entering the final stage of preparation for commercialization, and reinforcements for optical fibers and other infrastructure-related appliSereebo is now officially registered on General Motors’ materials list. cations. Sales for use in ballistic protection products showed signs of Considering these factors, we have begun looking into the establishment recovery, shored up by expanded demand in Asia and the Middle East. of a new carbon fibers production facility in the United States. The profitability of Technora para-aramid fibers improved, reflecting 64 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Among high-performance resins, sales of specialty polycarbonate Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products resin for use in smartphone camera lenses were healthy. We will press forward with the expansion of applications of polyethylene naphthalate Sales in the Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer (PEN) resin, a key strategic material. Products segment totaled ¥184.8 billion, an increase of 3.0%, while operating income was ¥3.4 billion, compared with an Films operating loss of ¥7.2 billion in fiscal 2013. ■ Sales of products for use in smartphones and other devices Operating Margin were solid, but products for other mainstay applications Sales Operating Income (Loss) struggled. (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) Overall operating conditions remained harsh. In the area of films for 240 24 15 use as reflective film for liquid crystal display (LCD) televisions, the emergence of manufacturers from China intensified pricing competi160 16 10 tion, while demand for PEN film for use in magnetic materials remained sluggish. Nonetheless, sales of Purex release films for 80 8 5 manufacturing processes remained firm for use in multilayer ceramic capacitors and polarizers for smartphones and other devices. 0 0 0 In this environment, we continued to promote efforts to reduce costs, particularly fixed costs, as a result of which segment operating 2012* 2013 2014 2015 –8 –5 income improved. Going forward, we will proceed with the integration (Years ended March 31) of our domestic production facilities, to reinforce our cost competi* After elimination of the impact of changes to the accounting period tiveness, as well as with efforts to foster new applications for products, (12-month base) thereby enhancing profitability. We will also allocate management resources to the development of non-polyester high-performance films. Resin and Plastics Processing Overseas, demand for packaging applications and for use in solar ■ Profitability soared, bolstered by a decline in prices for key raw cells, among others, flagged in the Americas and Europe. Nonetheless, materials and the positive impact of restructuring initiatives. we sought to maintain profitability by reducing costs. Profitability in Results for mainstay polycarbonate resin products rallied, bolstered by China remained encouraging, sustained by steady demand. falling prices for key raw materials in the latter half of fiscal 2014, and by the positive impact of restructuring initiatives. Nonetheless, with Healthcare competition expected to remain harsh over the medium term, owing to a global product glut, we will step up strategic efforts to strengthen The Healthcare segment yielded sales of ¥141.7 billion, our earnings foundation by taking advantage of our decision to halt an increase of 2.4%, and operating income of ¥24.8 billion, up 1.2%. production at our plant in Singapore, scheduled for December 2015, Operating Margin to optimize production capacity and shrink fixed costs. Concurrently, Sales Operating Income (Loss) we will promote the growth and expansion of our resin business by (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) capitalizing on copolymerized polycarbonate resin, as well as on 200 60 40 polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) polymer manufactured using innovative production processes at joint venture INITZ Co., Ltd.’s new produc150 45 30 tion facility, which is scheduled to begin commercial production in autumn 2015, and by developing innovative composite materials that 100 30 20 combine these resins with high-performance fibers. In processed plastics, sales of ELECLEAR transparent electrocon50 15 10 ductive polycarbonate film for use in capacitive touch screens for vehicle navigation systems and of Panlite Sheet polycarbonate resin sheet for use in automotive instrument panels and dummy cans for 0 2012* 2013 2014 2015 0 0 vending machines were firm. During the period, we stepped up efforts (Years ended March 31) DATA SECTION to market retardation film that leverages the unique optical properties * After elimination of the impact of changes to the accounting period of polycarbonate for use as antireflective film on wearable devices. (12-month base) We also sought to expand our plastic glazing business, which maximizes our large-scale molding and coating technologies. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 65 Pharmaceuticals remained firm, thanks to the release of new models. In June 2014, we also launched a new unit that helps resolve concerns and inconve■ Sales of our novel treatment for hyperuricemia and gout nience for HOT patients in the event of a disaster or a major power expanded favorably. failure. Rental volume for continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) Operating conditions for our domestic pharmaceuticals business ventilators for the treatment of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) continued remained harsh, owing to the April 2014 revision of reimbursement to increase favorably, augmented by the launch of NemLink, a moniprices for prescription pharmaceuticals under Japan’s National Health toring system for CPAP ventilators that uses mobile phone networks. Insurance (NHI) scheme and to higher sales of generic drugs. Under Rentals of our noninvasive positive pressure ventilators (NPPVs) (the these conditions, sales of hyperuricemia and gout treatment FEBURIC NIP NASAL series and AutoSet CS) also rose encouragingly. (febuxostat) rose steadily, further boosting our leading share of the WalkAide, which is a neuromuscular electrical stimulation device Japanese market for such treatments. Sales of Somatuline®*1, a for the treatment of gait impairment resulting from stroke and other treatment for acromegaly, also increased favorably. Drugs for which causes, was launched in fiscal 2014, with an initial focus on the Tokyo new formulations have been developed include osteoporosis treatmetropolitan area. Going forward, we will gradually expand WalkAide ment Bonalon®*2 , for which sales of an oral jelly and an intravenous to medical institutions in other areas of the country. drip are expanding. Overseas, we provide home healthcare services in the United Sales of febuxostat also continued to expand encouragingly overStates, Spain and the ROK. In the period under review, operating seas. As of March 2015, we have secured exclusive distributorship conditions in the United States remained harsh, a consequence of agreements for febuxostat covering 117 countries and territories. The healthcare system reform and sizeable ensuing declines in medical drug is currently sold in 42 of these countries and territories, including treatment fees, as well as other factors. We responded by taking Japan, and we intend to obtain regulatory approval to make it available steps to restore profitability, including integrating sales bases and in the others. reducing headcounts. In R&D, we signed an agreement in May 2014 with U.K. pharmaceuticals manufacturer Sigma-Tau Pharma Ltd., gaining exclusive development and distribution rights in Japan for EZN-2279, a theraTrading and Retail peutic agent for adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency developed by Sigma-Tau, and began preparing for domestic clinical trials. Eyeing Sales in the Trading and Retail segment edged up 2.0%, to ¥259.4 the development of KTF-374, an innovative sheet-type sealant for billion, while operating income was ¥4.2 billion, a decline of 18.1%. surgical operations that integrates pharmaceuticals and materials technologies, core segment subsidiary Teijin Pharma Limited and Operating Margin Sales Operating Income (Loss) Kaketsuken (The Chemo-Sero-Therapeutic Research Institute) are (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) preparing for the start of domestic clinical trials. In line with this, in 320 10.0 8 September 2014 we decided to build a new integrated pharmaceuticals development laboratory, the Technology Integrated Pharmaceutics 240 7.5 6 Center, in Iwakuni, Yamaguchi Prefecture. In December 2014, we embarked on Phase II clinical trials for bronchial asthma treatment 160 5.0 4 PTR-36, while in February 2015 we obtained approval from Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to manufacture and market Mucosolvan L Tablet 45 mg, a novel expectorant. Sales of the new 80 2.5 2 formulation began in July 2015. In March 2015, we concluded an agreement with Taisho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., granting us the 0 2012* 2013 2014 2015 0 0 distribution rights in Japan for TT-063, an anti-inflammatory analgesic (Years ended March 31) patch. This move was aimed at adding new drugs to our lineup in the * After elimination of the impact of changes to the accounting period bone/joint disease area. (12-month base) *1 Somatuline® is a registered trademark of Ipsen Pharma S.A.S., Paris, France. *2 Bonalon® is the registered trademark of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., ■ Collaboration with leading overseas sportswear manufacturers Whitehouse Station, NJ, U.S.A. in the area of strategic materials expanded dramatically. Overall sales of fiber materials and apparel were healthy, bolstered by Home Healthcare efforts to reinforce brand deployment for high-performance materials ■ Rental volumes remained high or increased. for use in sportswear and outdoor apparel. Of note, collaboration with We currently provide home healthcare services to more than 400,000 leading overseas sportswear manufacturers expanded dramatically, individuals in Japan and overseas. In Japan, rental volume for mainstay particularly for DELTAPEAK, which we have positioned as a key therapeutic oxygen concentrators for home oxygen therapy (HOT) strategic material. Meanwhile, in the uniforms business, margins were 66 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 lowered by the depreciation of the yen. In the fibers and yarn business, also continued to provide mental health support services for corporate sales of imported yarns also struggled. employees on overseas assignment. Moreover, in the healthcare field, In functional textiles and apparel, we pushed ahead with bolstering we launched Digital Health Connect, Japan’s first IT tool designed to our supply capabilities in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations facilitate collaboration between innovators in the healthcare field and (ASEAN) region. We fortified our original design manufacturer (ODM) IT service providers. We also took steps to establish a presence in business by maximizing our materials development capabilities. new areas of the IT services market. Of note, we launched Athlete Efforts included proposing innovative compound materials made Stories, a program designed to support the efforts of athletes seeking with SOLOTEX polytrimethylene terephthalate (PTT) fiber—another to reach the top ranks in their particular sport. strategically important material—and natural fibers. In new business development, sales of LIELSORT lithium-ion battery In industrial textiles and materials, sales were brisk for automotive (LiB) separators continued to expand favorably. Therefore, we installed parts such as tire cords, belts and hoses. Moreover, sales of filters a second line at our production facility in the ROK, which commenced for use in wastewater processing in China expanded. We also operation in December 2014. During the period, we also developed reported robust exports of high-performance materials to Europe and NanoGram silicon paste for use in the production of high conversionthe Americas, and of carbon materials to Asia. In the area of chemical efficiency solar cells, as well as a new processing technology for this products, domestic shipments of plastic films and related products product, and promoted marketing to solar cell manufacturers. In were firm, bolstered by a partial recovery in demand from the collaboration with Kansai University, we developed the world’s first semiconductor and electronics industries. polylactic acid (PLA) piezoelectric fabrics for use in wearable devices that sense human movement and transforms it into data. In the area of advanced medical materials, we are involved in a Others project to develop a groundbreaking patch to replace damaged cardiac Others, which does not qualify as a reportable operating segment, tissue. This project, which was selected for support under a program generated sales of ¥64.8 billion, down 27.1%, and operating launched by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to income of ¥4.0 billion, up 128.8%. promote collaboration between medical institutions and industry, is a joint effort with Osaka Medical College and FUKUI WARP KNITTING Co., Operating Margin Ltd. On another front, we acquired a stake in Nakashima Medical Co., Sales Operating Income (Loss) Ltd., with the aim of establishing a new joint venture, Teijin Nakashima (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) Medical Co., Ltd., thereby facilitating our entry into the market for joint 100 10.0 8 prostheses. In addition to establishing itself as a leading manufacturer of domestically produced joint prostheses, the joint venture will lay a 75 7.5 6 foundation for its eventual expansion into global markets. In March 2015, ongoing efforts to advance businesses that inte50 5.0 4 grate our capabilities in the IT and healthcare businesses resulted in the launch of Sleep Styles, a comprehensive sleep support service 25 2.5 2 that includes, among others, the provision of related information via the Internet and a sleeping app. 0 2012* 2013 2014 2015 0 0 * The IoT is a concept that describes the interconnection of a vast array of devices worldwide via the Internet. Such advanced connectivity will facilitate (Years ended March 31) the realization of a wide range of new services. * After elimination of the impact of changes to the accounting period (12-month base) Financial Position In the polyester raw materials and polymerization business, we discontinued in-house production and sales of paraxylene (PX) in March 2014. Analysis of Assets, Liabilities, Net Assets and Cash Flows This move was in response to a disruption of the supply-demand Interest-bearing debt, at ¥308.2 billion, was up ¥26.7 billion, a result balance, which significantly damaged profitability. Consequently, sales mainly of the issue of convertible bonds. Shareholders’ equity decreased sharply from the previous fiscal year, but earnings improved. increased ¥5.4 billion due to an increase in valuation difference on In the IT business, the favorable expansion of sales from the distriavailable-for-sale securities. As a consequence, the debt-to-equity bution of e-books contributed to firm sales in the net services cateDATA SECTION ratio was 1.07 times, increasing slightly from the previous fiscal year. gory. In the IT services category, we established EverySense, Inc., in The equity ratio was 34.9%, down 1.8 percentage points. partnership with two other companies, with the aim of developing Citing the need to monitor the positive impact of earnings improveand offering new services in the Internet of Things (IoT)* market. We ments going forward, Japan’s Rating and Investment Information, Inc. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 67 maintained its rating of our long-term debt at A– (stable), the same Free cash flow in fiscal 2014 was thus a positive as operating and rating as in the previous fiscal year. investing activities combined provided a net total of ¥26.4 billion. Additionally, our debt payback period decreased to 4.1 years, from Net cash and cash equivalents provided by financing activities 7.3 years in fiscal 2013, while our interest coverage ratio rose to 23.8 amounted to ¥10.4 billion. Among reasons behind this result were times, from 10.5 times in the previous period. the issue and redemption of bonds, the net result of proceeds from shortand long-term debt and the repayment thereof and the As of March 31, 2015 Rating Outlook payment of dividends. Rating and Investment Information, Inc. A– Stable After factoring in the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, operating, investing and financing activities in the period under review resulted in a net increase in cash and cash equivalents of ¥37.6 billion ■ Assets, Liabilities and Net Assets as of March 31, 2015. Total assets as of March 31, 2015, amounted to ¥823.7 billion, up ¥55.3 billion from the end of fiscal 2013, as the weaker yen enhanced the value of assets denominated in other currencies. While the impact of impairment accounting pushed down noncurrent assets, higher Outlook for Fiscal 2015 stock purchases and other factors pushed up investment securities. Forecast for Operating Results Total liabilities, at ¥520.1 billion, were up ¥51.8 billion from the Given expectations of a gradual economic recovery in developed fiscal 2013 year-end. Interest-bearing debt, which included loans countries and a slowdown in emerging economies, global economic payable and bonds, rose ¥26.7 billion to ¥308.2 billion, mainly a result growth in the foreseeable future is likely to be limited. A number of of efforts to secure stable long-term funds primarily through the issue factors continue to warrant caution, including the market implications of convertible bonds. of U.S. monetary policy normalization and wildly fluctuating currency Total net assets advanced ¥3.5 billion, to ¥303.6 billion. Shareholders’ rates and crude oil prices. equity and total accumulated other comprehensive income together In this environment, we will continue to emphasize two priorities, represented ¥287.1 billion of the total, up ¥5.4 billion. This increase namely, restructuring initiatives and transformation and growth was attributable to, among others, an increase in valuation difference strategies, guided by our revised medium-term management plan, on available-for-sale securities, which was partly offset by a decline announced in November 2014. In fiscal 2015, we will accelerate the due to the recording of a net loss for the period. implementation of such initiatives and strategies with the aim of rebuilding our earnings base in a manner that is not swayed by ■ Cash Flows changes in the general operating environment. We will also continue Net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities in fiscal to invest actively in promising strategic growth-oriented projects with 2014 amounted to ¥76.0 billion. This result reflected the large impact of the aim of creating new value for customers. non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization and impairment At present, we forecast consolidated net sales of ¥810.0 billion, loss, which outweighed the recording of a net loss for the period. up 3.0% from fiscal 2014. We also forecast operating income of Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities ¥53.0 billion and ordinary income of ¥53.0 billion, representing amounted to ¥49.6 billion. Contributing factors included outlays for increases of 35.6% and 25.1%, respectively, and profit attributable the purchase of property, plant and equipment and the purchase of to owners of parent of ¥30.0 billion, up ¥38.1 billion from fiscal investment securities. 2014. Accordingly, we forecast we will reach the target set forth in Debt Payback Period Equity Ratio our revised medium-term management plan one year ahead of (Years) (%) schedule. These forecasts assume exchange rates of ¥120 to 20 40 US$1.00 and ¥135 to €1.00 and an average Dubai crude oil price of US$64 per barrel. 15 30 Forecast for Financial Position 10 20 In fiscal 2015, we will press forward with efforts to first maintain, and then enhance, financial soundness. At the same time, we will actively 5 10 promote promising investments and projects with the potential to contribute to future growth, in line with our current mediumto long0 0 term management vision. Our forecasts for fiscal 2015 are for an ROA 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 of 6.3%, ROE of 10.0% and a debt-to-equity ratio of 1.0 times. (Years ended March 31) 68 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Risk Factors R&D-Related Risk The Teijin Group actively allocates management resources to R&D The Teijin Group recognizes certain risks as having the potential to with the aim of realizing sustainable growth through technology-driven affect its operating results and/or financial position. As of the date of innovation. However, the outcome of such R&D may diverge signifithis document, these risks included, but were not limited to, the risks cantly from the objectives thereof, a situation that has the potential to listed below. negatively affect, among others, the Group’s operating results. In particular, R&D in the pharmaceuticals business is characterized Market-Related Risk by significant investments of funds and time. Pharmaceuticals discovThe Teijin Group is working to transform itself into a corporate entity ery research has a high incidence of failure. In the initial stages, there that is not swayed by changes in the general operating environment. is a high risk that researchers will fail to discover a promising drug. Nonetheless, certain of the Group’s products are vulnerable to market Even if a promising drug is discovered, clinical trials may prove it not conditions, as a consequence of which the Group’s performance may to be as effective as anticipated, or to have unexpected adverse side be affected by market trends, as well as by competition with other effects, thereby forcing the abandonment of plans to apply for companies and sales price fluctuations arising thereof. approval. There is also a risk that a new drug candidate may not Businesses involving commoditized materials—notably polyester receive regulatory approval as a result of the examination process fibers, polyester films and polycarbonate resin—are particularly vulthat follows application, or that approval may be rescinded based on nerable to fluctuations in shipments, sales prices and procurement the outcome of research conducted subsequent to launch. costs for raw materials and fuel related to market conditions and competition with other companies. Because the cost of raw materials Risks Related to Overseas Operations and fuel accounts for a major portion of production costs in these The Teijin Group has operations in China, Southeast Asia (including businesses, fluctuations in the price of crude oil may have a significant Thailand and Singapore), Europe (including Germany and the impact on the Group’s income performance. Netherlands) and the United States. These operations are vulnerable The majority of products in the Teijin Group’s materials businesses to the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. are intermediates. Owing to inventory adjustments at each stage of Our operations in China and Southeast Asia, in particular, may also production and sales, the rate of expansion or contraction of endbe affected by such factors as the enforcement of new—or unexpected user demand for such products may exceed that of the real changes to existing—laws, regulations or tax systems that exert an economy. adverse impact on the Group; economic fluctuations; or by social The Teijin Group’s Healthcare segment is vulnerable to changes in unrest triggered by, among others, changes of government or acts of drug reimbursement prices under Japan’s National Health Insurance terror or war. The manifestation of such risks has the potential to (NHI) scheme, as well as to increasingly intense competition, both of adversely affect the Group’s operating results and/or financial position. which may have a negative impact on sales prices. Fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates also have Risks Related to Accidents and Disasters the potential to affect the Teijin Group’s operating results and/or The Teijin Group has prepared common disaster prevention guidefinancial position. lines for use by all Group companies and is an active proponent of efforts to prevent and/or alleviate the impact of disasters through Product Quality Risk disaster prevention diagnostics, earthquake response measures, fire Teijin and the principal companies of the Teijin Group, including Teijin prevention and other advance prevention strategies, disaster prevenPharma Limited, have established a dedicated product quality and tion education and training and post-disaster impact mitigation meareliability assurance function in the form of a division which functions sures. Nonetheless, in the event of a major natural disaster or independently of other divisions. The division, which adheres to strict unforeseen accident that results in damage to the Group’s production quality management standards, is charged with product quality and facilities or significantly impedes the Group’s supply chain, such reliability assurance for all Group businesses. However, there can be developments may have a negative impact on the Group’s operating no assurance that all products are free of unforeseen major quality results and/or financial position. issues. Product and service defects arising from such quality issues have the potential to negatively affect, among others, the Group’s operating results, financial position and public reputation. DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 69 Consolidated Balance Sheets TEIJIN LIMITED As of March 31, 2014 and 2015 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2014 2015 2015 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and time deposits (Notes 3 and 4) ¥ 33,135 ¥ 45,719 $ 380,453 Receivables: Notes and accounts receivable—trade (Note 4): Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 2,084 2,711 22,560 Other 163,156 169,429 1,409,911 Short-term loans receivable (Note 4): Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 17,544 15,182 126,338 Other 1,101 1,240 10,319 Other 14,673 13,451 111,933 Securities (Notes 4 and 5) — 25,000 208,039 Inventories (Note 7) 118,668 115,334 959,757 Deferred tax assets (Note 13) 7,269 7,123 59,274 Other current assets 9,965 11,924 99,226 Allowance for doubtful accounts (2,687) (1,108) (9,220) Total current assets 364,908 406,005 3,378,590 Property, plant and equipment (Note 11): Land 43,691 43,811 364,575 Buildings and structures 191,145 191,047 1,589,806 Machinery, equipment and vehicles 571,339 574,943 4,784,414 Tools 78,663 83,509 694,924 Construction in progress 9,298 10,246 85,263 Other 3,043 2,976 24,764 897,179 906,532 7,543,746 Accumulated depreciation (660,318) (697,649) (5,805,517) 236,861 208,883 1,738,229 Intangible assets 13,651 11,218 93,351 Deferred tax assets (Note 13) 2,272 3,875 32,246 Goodwill 15,806 9,409 78,297 31,729 24,502 203,894 Investments and other assets: Investment securities (Notes 4 and 5): Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 35,567 34,075 283,557 Other 55,664 99,058 824,316 Long-term loans receivable (Note 4): Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 1,336 1,492 12,416 Other 723 708 5,892 Net defined benefit asset (Note 9) 28,837 34,585 287,801 Other 15,871 17,316 144,095 Allowance for doubtful accounts (3,085) (2,929) (24,375) 134,913 184,305 1,533,702 ¥ 768,411 ¥ 823,695 $ 6,854,415 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 70 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2014 2015 2015 LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS Current liabilities: Short-term loans payable (Notes 4 and 8) ¥ 84,605 ¥ 56,427 $ 469,560 Current portion of long-term loans payable (Notes 4 and 8) 28,772 41,630 346,426 Payables: Notes and accounts payable—trade: Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 1,119 1,334 11,101 Other 78,884 74,161 617,134 Other 25,115 28,417 236,473 Income taxes payable 2,915 6,680 55,588 Accrued expenses 17,757 21,053 175,193 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 13) 60 34 283 Other current liabilities 9,436 11,820 98,361 Total current liabilities 248,663 241,556 2,010,119 Long-term loans payable (Notes 4 and 8) 166,402 208,705 1,736,748 Provision for business structure improvement — 14,683 122,185 Net defined benefit liability (Note 9) 30,204 30,407 253,033 Asset retirement obligations (Note 18) 1,246 6,861 57,094 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 13) 9,783 6,289 52,334 Other non-current liabilities 12,000 11,558 96,182 Contingent liabilities (Note 17) Net assets (Note 10) Shareholders’ equity: Common stock Authorized—3,000,000,000 shares in 2014 and 2015 Issued—984,758,665 shares in 2014 984,758,665 shares in 2015 70,817 70,817 589,307 Capital surplus 101,429 101,447 844,196 Retained earnings 111,754 101,202 842,157 Treasury stock, at cost: 1,995,089 shares in 2014 1,925,911 shares in 2015 (436) (427) (3,554) Total shareholders’ equity 283,564 273,039 2,272,106 Accumulated other comprehensive income: Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 10,759 24,227 201,606 Deferred gains (losses) on hedges 1,018 (2,569) (21,378) Foreign currency translation adjustments (13,026) (8,102) (67,421) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (Note 9) (635) 479 3,986 Total accumulated other comprehensive income (1,884) 14,035 116,793 Subscription rights to shares 738 845 7,031 Minority interests 17,695 15,717 130,790 DATA SECTION Total net assets 300,113 303,636 2,526,720 ¥768,411 ¥823,695 $6,854,415 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 71 Consolidated Statements of Operations TEIJIN LIMITED For the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2014 2015 2015 Net sales ¥784,425 ¥786,171 $6,542,157 Costs and expenses: Cost of sales 590,092 569,499 4,739,111 Selling, general and administrative expenses 144,021 145,220 1,208,455 Research and development expenses 32,234 32,366 269,335 Operating income 18,078 39,086 325,256 Other income (expenses): Interest and dividend income 1,465 1,931 16,069 Interest expenses (3,359) (3,067) (25,522) Gain on sales of investment securities 8,289 1 8 Gain on sales of noncurrent assets 152 749 6,233 Gain on valuation of derivatives 1,496 2,664 22,169 Loss on sales and retirement of noncurrent assets (1,676) (1,284) (10,685) Loss on valuation of investment securities (106) (4) (33) Impairment loss (Note 11) (8,781) (30,376) (252,775) Equity in earnings of affiliates 4,181 2,435 20,263 Business structure improvement expenses (2,386) (16,759) (139,461) Other, net (2,834) (2,303) (19,165) (3,559) (46,013) (382,899) Income (loss) before income taxes and minority interests 14,519 (6,927) (57,643) Income taxes (Note 13): Current 5,126 11,521 95,873 Deferred 2,781 (8,446) (70,284) 7,907 3,075 25,589 Minority interests in net loss 1,744 1,916 15,944 Net income (loss) ¥ 8,356 ¥ (8,086) $ (67,288) U.S. dollars Yen (Note 1) Net income (loss) per share (Note 2) ¥ 8.50 ¥ (8.23) $ (0.07) Net income per share—diluted 8.48 — — Cash dividends applicable to the year 4.00 4.00 0.03 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 72 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income TEIJIN LIMITED For the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2014 2015 2015 Income (loss) before minority interests ¥ 6,612 ¥(10,002) $ (83,232) Other comprehensive income (Note 12): Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (2,791) 13,468 112,075 Deferred losses on hedges (51) (3,587) (29,849) Foreign currency translation adjustments 7,957 3,996 33,252 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax — 1,738 14,463 Share of other comprehensive income of associates accounted for using the equity method 1,505 421 3,503 Total 6,620 16,036 133,444 Comprehensive income ¥13,232 ¥ 6,034 $ 50,212 Breakdown of comprehensive income: Comprehensive income attributable to shareholders of the parent ¥14,992 ¥ 7,833 $ 65,182 Comprehensive income attributable to minority interests ¥ (1,760) ¥ (1,799) $ (14,970) See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 73 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets TEIJIN LIMITED For the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 Millions of yen Shareholders’ equity Number of Total shares of Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ common stock stock surplus earnings stock, at cost equity Balance at March 31, 2013 984,758,665 ¥70,817 ¥101,408 ¥107,329 ¥(417) ¥279,137 Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (3,931) (3,931) Net income 8,356 8,356 Purchase of treasury stock (79) (79) Disposal of treasury stock 21 60 81 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity Total — 21 4,425 (19) 4,427 Balance at March 31, 2014 984,758,665 ¥70,817 ¥101,429 ¥111,754 ¥(436) ¥283,564 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies 1,465 1,465 Restated balance 70,817 101,429 113,219 (436) 285,029 Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (3,931) (3,931) Net loss (8,086) (8,086) Purchase of treasury stock (23) (23) Disposal of treasury stock 18 32 50 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity Total — 18 (12,017) 9 (11,990) Balance at March 31, 2015 984,758,665 ¥70,817 ¥101,447 ¥101,202 ¥(427) ¥273,039 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Shareholders’ equity Total Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ stock surplus earnings stock, at cost equity Balance at March 31, 2014 $589,307 $844,046 $ 929,966 $(3,628) $2,359,691 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies 12,191 12,191 Restated balance 589,307 844,046 942,157 (3,628) 2,371,882 Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (32,712) (32,712) Net loss (67,288) (67,288) Purchase of treasury stock (191) (191) Disposal of treasury stock 150 265 415 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity Total — 150 (100,000) 74 (99,776) Balance at March 31, 2015 $589,307 $844,196 $ 842,157 $(3,554) $2,272,106 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 74 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Millions of yen Accumulated other comprehensive income Valuation Deferred Foreign Remeasuredifference on gains currency ments of Subscription available-for-sale (losses) translation defined rights to Minority Total securities on hedges adjustments benefit plans Total shares interests net assets Balance at March 31, 2013 ¥13,551 ¥ 1,069 ¥(22,505) ¥ — ¥ (7,885) ¥650 ¥20,226 ¥292,128 Changes of items during the period Dividends from surplus (3,931) Net income 8,356 Purchase of treasury stock (79) Disposal of treasury stock 81 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity (2,792) (51) 9,479 (635) 6,001 88 (2,531) 3,558 Total (2,792) (51) 9,479 (635) 6,001 88 (2,531) 7,985 Balance at March 31, 2014 ¥10,759 ¥ 1,018 ¥(13,026) ¥ (635) ¥ (1,884) ¥738 ¥17,695 ¥300,113 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies 1,465 Restated balance 10,759 1,018 (13,026) (635) (1,884) 738 17,695 301,578 Changes of items during the period Dividends from surplus (3,931) Net loss (8,086) Purchase of treasury stock (23) Disposal of treasury stock 50 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity 13,468 (3,587) 4,924 1,114 15,919 107 (1,978) 14,048 Total 13,468 (3,587) 4,924 1,114 15,919 107 (1,978) 2,058 Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥24,227 ¥(2,569) ¥ (8,102) ¥ 479 ¥14,035 ¥845 ¥15,717 ¥303,636 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Accumulated other comprehensive income Valuation Deferred Foreign Remeasuredifference on gains currency ments of Subscription available-for-sale (losses) translation defined rights to Minority Total securities on hedges adjustments benefit plans Total shares interests net assets Balance at March 31, 2014 $ 89,531 $ 8,471 $(108,396) $(5,284) $ (15,678) $6,141 $147,250 $2,497,404 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies 12,191 Restated balance 89,531 8,471 (108,396) (5,284) (15,678) 6,141 147,250 2,509,595 Changes of items during the period Dividends from surplus (32,712) Net loss (67,288) Purchase of treasury stock (191) Disposal of treasury stock 415 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity 112,075 (29,849) 40,975 9,270 132,471 890 (16,460) 116,901 Total 112,075 (29,849) 40,975 9,270 132,471 890 (16,460) 17,125 Balance at March 31, 2015 $201,606 $(21,378) $ (67,421) $ 3,986 $116,793 $7,031 $130,790 $2,526,720 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 75 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows TEIJIN LIMITED For the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2014 2015 2015 Cash flows from operating activities: Income (loss) before income taxes and minority interests ¥ 14,519 ¥ (6,927) $ (57,643) Depreciation and amortization 45,664 43,030 358,076 Impairment loss 8,781 30,376 252,775 Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit liability 1,425 5,421 45,111 Decrease (increase) in net defined benefit asset 1,259 (2,782) (23,151) Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful accounts (382) (1,917) (15,952) Increase (decrease) in provision for business structure improvement — 14,683 122,185 Interest and dividend income (1,776) (1,931) (16,069) Interest expenses 3,359 3,067 25,522 Equity in earnings of affiliates (4,181) (2,435) (20,263) Loss (gain) on sales and retirement of noncurrent assets 1,524 535 4,452 Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities (8,289) 39 325 Loss (gain) on valuation of derivatives (1,496) (2,664) (22,169) Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 106 4 33 Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable—trade 8,592 1,051 8,746 Decrease (increase) in inventories (2,371) 6,767 56,312 Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable—trade (15,999) (9,627) (80,112) Increase (decrease) in accrued payments due to change in retirement benefits (2,421) (2,082) (17,325) Other, net (5,325) 2,802 23,318 Subtotal 42,989 77,410 644,171 Interest and dividend income received 5,404 7,068 58,817 Interest expenses paid (3,663) (3,190) (26,546) Income taxes paid (6,143) (5,258) (43,755) Net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities 38,587 76,030 632,687 Cash flows from investing activities: Purchase of property, plant and equipment (30,863) (26,528) (220,754) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 472 752 6,258 Purchase of intangible assets (2,209) (2,365) (19,680) Purchase of investment securities (21,203) (22,052) (183,507) Proceeds from sales of investment securities 10,847 1,576 13,115 Decrease (increase) in short-term loans receivable (2,981) 2,434 20,255 Payments of long-term loans receivable (56) (1,908) (15,878) Collection of long-term loans receivable 255 329 2,738 Other, net (1,541) (1,862) (15,495) Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities (47,279) (49,624) (412,948) Cash flows from financing activities: Net increase (decrease) in short-term loans payable 11,135 (36,296) (302,039) Proceeds from issuance of bonds 11,111 59,210 492,719 Redemption of bonds (21,632) (19,809) (164,841) Proceeds from long-term loans payable 51,730 37,535 312,349 Repayment of long-term loans payable (55,340) (25,805) (214,737) Cash dividends paid (3,932) (3,931) (32,712) Cash dividends paid to minority shareholders (554) (201) (1,673) Other, net (420) (309) (2,572) Net cash and cash equivalents used in financing activities (7,902) 10,394 86,494 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 869 786 6,541 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (15,725) 37,586 312,774 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 48,701 32,976 274,411 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (Note 3) ¥ 32,976 ¥ 70,562 $ 587,185 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 76 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements TEIJIN LIMITED Note 1 Basis of presenting consolidated financial statements The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Teijin Limited The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been (the “Company”) have been prepared in accordance with the provireformatted and translated into English with some expanded descripsions set forth in Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (the tions from the consolidated financial statements of the Company “Law”) and the related accounting regulations, and in conformity with prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP and filed with the approaccounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”), priate Local Finance Bureau of the Ministry of Finance as required by which are different in certain respects as to application and disclosure the Law. Certain supplementary information included in the statutory requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Japanese-language consolidated financial statements, but not required The Company adopted the “Practical Solution on Unification of for fair presentation, is not presented in the accompanying consoliAccounting Policies Applied to Foreign Subsidiaries for Consolidated dated financial statements. Financial Statements” (Practical Issues Task Force (“PITF”) No. 18, The translation of the Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar issued by the Accounting Standards Board of Japan (“ASBJ”) on amounts is included solely for the convenience of readers outside February 19, 2010). In principle, the Company has unified the accountJapan, using the prevailing exchange rate at March 31, 2015, which ing standards for overseas subsidiaries and makes necessary adjustwas ¥120.17 to U.S. $1.00. The convenience translations should not ments upon consolidation. There were no material effects as a result of be construed as representations that the Japanese yen amounts have the adoption of PITF No. 18 on the consolidated financial statements been, could have been or could in the future be converted into U.S. for the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015. dollars at this or any other rate of exchange. Note 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidation Statements of cash flows The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the In preparing the consolidated statements of cash flows, cash on hand, Company and 69 significant subsidiaries for the year ended March readily available deposits and short-term highly liquid investments with 31, 2015 and 2014. Investments made in 77 (78 in 2014) unconsolmaturities not exceeding three months at the time of purchase are idated subsidiaries and affiliates are, with minor exceptions, stated considered to be cash and cash equivalents. at cost, adjusted for equity in undistributed earnings and losses since acquisition. Allowance for doubtful accounts Companies which are 40% or more owned and substantially conThe allowance for doubtful accounts is provided in amounts sufficient trolled by the Company are considered subsidiaries for inclusion in to cover possible losses on collection. It is determined by adding the the consolidation. Equity method accounting is applied to unconsoliindividually estimated uncollectible amounts of certain accounts to an dated subsidiaries and affiliates which are substantially controlled or of amount calculated using the provision rate based on past experience. which operating and financial policies are significantly influenced by the Company. Securities In the elimination of investments in subsidiaries, the assets and Under the Japanese accounting standard for financial instruments, all liabilities of the subsidiaries, including the portion attributable to companies are required to classify securities as (a) securities held for minority shareholders, are evaluated using the fair value at the time trading purposes (“trading securities”), (b) debt securities intended to the Company acquired control of the respective subsidiaries. be held to maturity (“held-to-maturity debt securities”), (c) equity Goodwill is usually amortized using the straight-line method over the securities issued by subsidiaries and affiliated companies, and (d) all estimated useful life from five to 20 years. other securities that are not classified in any of the above categories Of the Company’s consolidated subsidiaries, 11 subsidiaries in (“available-for-sale securities”). 2015 and 2014 did not change their fiscal year-end of December 31. The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Companies”) These 11 subsidiaries prepared, for consolidation purposes, financial do not hold trading securities. Held-to-maturity debt securities are statements in the case of provisional close of books for the period that stated at amortized cost. correspond to the fiscal year of the Company. DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 77 Equity securities issued by subsidiaries and affiliated companies, devices as property, plant and equipment and to depreciate them which are not consolidated or accounted for using the equity method, using the straight-line method, which they use to depreciate its other are stated at moving-average cost. Available-for-sale securities with home healthcare devices. As a result of this change, consolidated available fair market values are stated at fair market value. Unrealized operating income and income before income taxes and minority intergains and losses on these securities are reported, net of applicable ests for the year ended March 31, 2014, were each ¥1,740 million income taxes, as a separate component of net assets. Realized higher than would have been the case had the previous method of gains and losses on sales of such securities are computed using depreciation been used. moving-average cost. Additionally, up to and including the year ended March 31, 2013, Debt securities with no available fair market value are stated at purchases of the aforementioned devices for rental, now recognized amortized cost, net of the amount considered not collectible. as property, plant and equipment, were accounted for in “Cash flows Other securities with no available fair market value are stated at from operating activities.” However, effective from the year ended moving-average cost. March 31, 2014, these outlays are accounted for in “Purchase of If the market value of held-to-maturity debt securities, equity property, plant and equipment” in “Cash flows from investing activities.” securities issued by unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated compaDepreciation of such equipment is now accounted for in “Depreciation nies and available-for-sale securities declines significantly, such securiand amortization” in “Cash flows from operating activities.” As a result ties are stated at fair market value and the difference between fair of this change, “Net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating market value and the carrying amount is recognized as a loss in the activities” and “Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing period of the decline. If the fair market value of equity securities issued activities” for the year ended March 31, 2014, were ¥2,139 million by unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies not accounted higher and ¥2,139 million lower, respectively, than would have been for using the equity method is not readily available, the securities will the case had the previous method of accounting been used. be written down to net asset value with a corresponding charge in the For information, on the impact of this change on segment results, consolidated statements of operations in the event net asset value see Note 16, “Segment information.” declines significantly. In these cases, the fair market value or the net asset value will be the carrying amount of the securities at the beginning Intangible assets of the following year. Goodwill, patents, trademarks and other intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of Inventories the asset. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or net realizable value. Software for internal use is amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life, i.e. five to 10 years. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are amortized using the straight-line Research and development expenses method over the estimated useful life of the asset. The Company charges research and development expenses to income as incurred. (Change in accounting treatment for rental home healthcare devices) Retirement benefits Up to and including the year ended March 31, 2013, certain of the (1) Employees home healthcare devices that the Companies rent were recognized in The Company has an unfunded lump-sum benefit plan and a funded expenses at the time of rental. However, effective from the year ended contributory pension plan, generally covering all employees. Certain March 31, 2014, the Companies have recognized these devices as consolidated subsidiaries have unfunded lump-sum benefit plans and fixed assets and have depreciated them using the straight-line method. non-contributory pension plans. Most overseas subsidiaries do not The Companies anticipate rapid growth in the market for Continuous have pension plans. Positive Airway Pressure (“CPAP”) ventilators for the treatment of Sleep Under the terms of the lump-sum benefit plans, eligible employees Apnea Syndrome (“SAS”) and have established a business configuraare upon mandatory retirement at age 60 or voluntary termination tion capable of responding to such growth. In light of these factors, before such age, entitled under most circumstances to a lump-sum having considered what accounting method would most appropriately payment based on their compensation at the time of severance and reflect the constant environment for use of its core CPAP ventilators years of service. at present and in the future, the Companies resolved to treat these 78 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 The liabilities and expenses for severance and retirement benefits weighted-average discount rate that reflects the estimated timing and are determined based on the amounts actuarially calculated using amount of benefit payment. certain assumptions. The Companies provided for employees’ severThe application of the new accounting standard and its accompanyance and retirement benefits at March 31, 2014 and 2015 based on ing guidance is subject to the transitional accounting treatment set the estimated amounts of projected benefit obligation and the fair value forth in Clause 37 of the standard. At the beginning of the period under of the plan assets at those dates. review, remeasurements of defined benefit plans were included in Prior service costs and actuarial gains and losses are recognized in retained earnings to reflect the impact of this change in method of expenses using the straight-line method over mainly 12 years, which is accounting. This change added ¥574 million ($4,777 thousand) to the within the average of the estimated remaining service years of the “other” component of investments and other assets, reduced net employees, commencing with the current and the following period, defined benefit liability by ¥1,589 ($13,223 thousand) million and respectively. increased retained earnings by ¥1,465 million ($12,191 thousand) in the period. The effect of this change on operating income, and loss (Application of Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits) before income taxes and minority interests was negligible. The effect of Effective March 31, 2014, the Company has applied the “Accounting this change on segment information was also negligible and has thus Standard for Retirement Benefits” (ASBJ Statement No. 26, issued on not been reported. May 17, 2012) and “Guidance on Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits” (ASBJ Guidance No. 25, issued on May 17, 2012), with the Liabilities arising from the application of the equity method exception of provisions set forth in Clause 35 of the standard and Liabilities arising from the application of the equity method have been Clause 67 of its accompanying guidance. provided with respect to losses that may arise from the Company’s Under the new accounting standard, the difference between projected portion of the capital deficits of unconsolidated subsidiaries and benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets is recognized as a net affiliates that are accounted for by the equity method, after giving defined benefit liability or, in the event that the fair value of plan assets consideration to the Company’s investments in, and guarantees for, exceeds the projected benefit obligation, as a net defined benefit asset. such companies. Unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs are recognized as a net defined benefit liability. Provision for business structure improvement The application of the new accounting standard and its accompanyThe provision is provided in amounts sufficient to cover possible losses ing guidance is subject to the transitional accounting treatment set for business structure improvement. forth in Clause 37 of the standard. In the year ended March 31, 2014, remeasurements of defined benefit plans were included in accumu(Change in accounting estimates) lated other comprehensive income to reflect the impact of this change In the first half of fiscal 2014, the Company resolved to withdraw in method of accounting. As a result, the Company recorded a net from the business of consolidated subsidiary of Teijin Polycarbonate defined benefit liability of ¥7,729 million and a net defined benefit asset Singapore Pte Ltd. As a consequence, the expected remaining conof ¥7,091 million, while comprehensive income decreased by ¥635 tract term for the real estate leased by the Company was shortened to million. Shareholders’ equity per share was reduced by ¥0.65. a more practical number of years, thus facilitating a more precise estimate of asset retirement obligations—namely, an obligation of (Application of Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits) restoration to original condition—associated therewith. Owing to the Effective from fiscal 2014, the Company has applied the accounting revision of this estimate, the balance of asset retirement obligations as rules stipulated in Clause 35 of the “Accounting Standard for Retirement of September 30, 2014, was ¥8,142 million ($67,754 thousand) higher Benefits” (Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ) Statement than would have been the case had the estimate not changed. In No. 26, issued on May 17, 2012) and the guidelines outlined in Clause addition, because the Company applied impairment accounting to the 67 of the “Guidance on Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits” accompanying tangible fixed assets, the effect of this change in (ASBJ Guidance No. 25, issued on March 26, 2015). Accordingly, the accounting estimate was to increase loss before income taxes in the method of attributing expected benefits to periods has been changed first half by an identical amount. from the straight-line basis to the benefit formula basis and the basis In light of newly available information as of March 31, 2015, includDATA SECTION for determining the discount rate has been amended from the ing that related to methods used for demolition and removal, the Comexpected average remaining working lives of employees and average pany subsequently revised its estimate of asset retirement obligations period up to the estimated timing of benefit payment to a single associated therewith. Owing to this revision, the balance of asset TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 79 retirement obligations as of March 31, 2015, was ¥4,450 ($37,031 Translation of foreign currency thousand) million lower than as of September 30, 2014. Concomitantly, Cash, receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are the Company also revised the amount of its impairment loss in the first translated into Japanese yen at year-end exchange rates. All revenues half. The effect of the aforementioned changes in fiscal 2014 was to and expenses in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange increase loss before income taxes and minority interests by ¥4,252 rates prevailing when such transactions are made. The resulting million ($35,383 thousand). exchange loss or gain is charged or credited to income. The balance sheet accounts of the overseas consolidated subsidiarDerivatives and hedge accounting ies and foreign investments accounted for by the equity method are The Companies state derivative financial instruments at fair value and translated at the rates of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date, recognize changes in the fair value as gain or loss unless the derivative except for capital accounts and assets and liabilities due to/from the financial instruments are used for hedging purposes. Company, which are translated at historical rates. Accounts in the If derivative financial instruments are used as hedges and meet consolidated statements of operations are translated at the average certain hedging criteria, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries rates of exchange for the year. Differences arising from translations are defer recognition of the gain or loss resulting from a change in fair presented as “Foreign currency translation adjustments” in the accomvalue of the derivative financial instrument until the related gain or loss panying consolidated financial statements. The Companies report on the hedged item is recognized. foreign currency translation adjustments in net assets. If a forward foreign exchange contract is executed to hedge a future transaction denominated in a foreign currency, the forecast transaction Net income (loss) per share will be recorded using the contracted forward rate on recognition, Computations of net income (loss) per share of common stock are and no gains or losses on the forward foreign exchange contract are based on the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during recognized (the “principle-based method”). each period. Diluted net income per share is calculated based on the If interest rate swap contracts of the Company are used as hedges assumption that all dilutive convertible debentures and stock warrants and meet certain hedging criteria, the net amount to be paid or were converted or exercised at the beginning of the year or at the time received under the interest rate swap contract is added to or deducted of issue. from the interest on the assets or liabilities for which the swap contract Net income (loss) per share for the years ended March 31, 2014 and was executed (the “conventional method”). 2015 is calculated based on the following factors: Income taxes Year ended March 31, 2014 The provision for income taxes is based on income for financial state(a) Net income: ¥8,356 million ment purposes. Income taxes comprise corporation tax, enterprise tax (b) Amount not attributable to common shareholders: ¥ — million and prefectural and municipal inhabitants’ taxes. The assets and (c) Bonuses to directors and statutory liabilities approach is used to recognize deferred tax assets and liabiliauditors included in (b): ¥ — million ties for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences (d) Net income allocated to common stock: ¥8,356 million between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial (e) Average number of shares outstanding reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. during the period: 982,860 thousand shares The Company and its wholly owned domestic consolidated sub(f) Increase in number of shares: 2,947 (g) Increase in number of subscription sidiaries have adopted consolidated tax return filing under Japanese rights to shares included in (f): 2,947 tax regulations. (h) Summary of outstanding potential shares excluded from the computation of diluted EPS, if calculated for the period, since such potential stocks do not have a dilutive effect: — 80 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Year ended March 31, 2015 (2) Accounting standards for business combinations (a) Net loss: ¥8,086 million ($67,288 thousand) “Revised Accounting Standard for Business Combinations” (b)Amount not attributable to (ASBJ Statement No. 21) common shareholders: ¥ — million ($ — thousand) “Revised Accounting Standard for Consolidated Financial Statements” (c) Bonuses to directors and statutory (ASBJ Statement No. 22) auditors included in (b): ¥ — million ($ — thousand) (d)Net loss allocated to common stock: ¥8,086 million ($67,288 thousand) “Revised Accounting Standard for Business Divestitures” (e) Average number of shares (ASBJ Statement No. 7) outstanding during the period: 982,749 thousand shares “Revised Accounting Standard for Earnings per Share” (f) Increase in number of shares: — (ASBJ Statement No. 2) (g)Increase in number of subscription “Revised Guidance on Accounting Standard for Business rights to shares included in (f): — Combinations and Accounting Standard for Business Divestitures” (h) Summary of outstanding potential shares excluded from the computation (ASBJ Guidance No. 10) of diluted EPS, if calculated for the “Revised Guidance on Accounting Standard for Earnings per Share” period, since such potential stocks (ASBJ Guidance No. 4) do not have a dilutive effect: — All of the above were issued on September 13, 2013. (Accounting standards issued but not yet effective) 1. Outline (1) Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits The accounting treatment for changes in a parent’s ownership “Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits” (ASBJ Statement No. 26, interest in a subsidiary when the parent retains control over the issued on May 17, 2012) subsidiary in the additional acquisition of shares therein and acquisi“Guidance on Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits” (ASBJ tion related costs was revised. In addition, besides the amendment Guidance No. 25, issued on May 17, 2012) of “minority interests” to “non-controlling interests,” the presentation method of net income was amended and transitional provisions for 1. Outline accounting treatments were defined. The new accounting standard contains amendments to, among 2. Timing of adoption others, formulas for amortizing unrecognized actuarial gains and The Company expects to apply these revised accounting standards losses and prior service costs, as well as formulas for computing and guidances from the beginning of the fiscal year ending March and standards for disclosing projected benefit obligation and 31, 2016. service costs. However, the transitional provisions for accounting treatments will 2. Timing of adoption be applied from business combinations performed on or after the The Company expects to adopt new methods for computing probeginning of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016. jected benefit obligation and service costs from the beginning of the 3. Impact of the adoption of the accounting standards year ending March 31, 2015. The effect of adoption of these revised accounting standards is now The new accounting standard and its accompanying guidance are under assessment at the time of preparation of the accompanying subject to transitional accounting treatment. Accordingly, it will not consolidated financial statements. be applied retroactively to consolidated financial statements from past years. (Reclassifications and restatements) 3. Impact of the adoption of the accounting standard Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified and restated to The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of conform to the current year’s presentation. These reclassifications the application of this new accounting standard on its consolidated and restatements have no impact on previously reported results of financial statements in the year ending March 31, 2015. operations or retained earnings. DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 81 Note 3 Statements of cash flows (1) The reconciliations of cash and time deposits in the consolidated balance sheets and cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statements of cash flows, as of March 31, 2014 and 2015 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2014 2015 2015 Cash and time deposits in the consolidated balance sheets ¥33,135 ¥45,719 $380,453 Securities — 25,000 208,039 Time deposits with maturities exceeding three months (159) (157) (1,307) Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statements of cash flows ¥32,976 ¥70,562 $587,185 (2) Important non-cash transactions The amounts recognized for important asset retirement obligations, as of March 31, 2014 and 2015 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2014 2015 2015 Important asset retirement obligations recognized ¥186 ¥5,420 $45,103 Note 4 Fair value of financial instruments (1) Qualitative information on financial instruments interest on some long-term loans payable is converted to a (a) Policies for using financial instruments fixed rate through interest rate swap transactions. The Companies’ fund management policy is to put money into The Companies use derivative transactions of, for example, short-term deposits only and to raise money through loans forward currency exchange and currency swaps that are used payable, commercial paper and corporate bonds. to hedge the risk of fluctuation in foreign currency exchange The Companies principally enter into derivative transactions rates with respect to monetary receivables and payables in connection with managing their market risk and not for denominated in foreign currencies resulting from import and speculation or trading purposes. export transactions. (b) Details of financial instruments used and the exposure to With respect to other derivative transactions, interest rate risk and how it arises swap transactions are used to hedge the risk of fluctuation in Notes and accounts receivable—trade are exposed to custominterest rates. The Companies evaluate hedge effectiveness by ers’ credit risk. To manage that risk, the Companies check the comparing the cumulative changes in cash flows from, or the balance of the accounts and confirm the collection of money at changes in fair value of, hedged items with the corresponding the due date. The Companies also review the credit risk of their changes in the hedging derivative instruments. main customers every six months in accordance with the The Companies report periodically to the Chief Financial Company’s credit management regulations. Officer and the Treasury Office on the actual results of derivative Marketable securities are negotiable certificates of deposit transactions. Furthermore, the Companies enter into contracts subject to settlement in the short term. Securities are exposed with banks and securities houses with high credit rating to to market price fluctuation risk; however, the Companies only minimize credit risk exposure. hold shares in firms with which they have business relations (c) Supplementary information on fair values and these are not held for speculation. The fair value of financial instruments is calculated based on The due dates of notes and accounts payable—trade are quoted market price or, in cases where there is no market mainly within one year. price, by making a reasonable estimation. Because the preconShort-term loans receivable are used mainly for operating ditions applied include a floating element, estimations of fair purposes, and funding through corporate bonds and long-term value may vary. The contracted amounts, as presented in Note loans payable is mainly for capital investment. Debts with a 6, “Derivative transactions,” do not reflect market risk. floating rate are exposed to interest rate fluctuation risk, but 82 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 (2) Fair values of financial instruments The following tables summarize fair value and book value of the financial instruments, and the difference between them, as of March 31, 2014 and 2015. Items for which fair value is difficult to estimate are not included in the following tables. Millions of yen 2014 Book value Fair value Difference (1) Cash and time deposits ¥ 33,135 ¥ 33,135 ¥ — (2) Receivables 165,240 165,240 — (3) Short-term loans receivable 18,600 18,600 — (4) Investment securities—other securities 51,485 51,485 — (5) Long-term loans receivable 2,104 — — Allowance for doubtful accounts* (537) — — 1,567 1,567 — Total ¥270,027 ¥270,027 ¥ — (1) Payables ¥ 80,003 ¥ 80,003 ¥ — (2) Short-term loans payable 84,605 84,605 — (3) Bonds 36,961 37,434 473 (4) Long-term loans payable 158,213 159,445 1,232 Total ¥359,782 ¥361,487 ¥1,705 Derivative transactions† (1) For which hedge accounting is not applied ¥ 4,395 ¥ 4,395 ¥ — (2) For which hedge accounting is applied 1,393 1,393 — Total ¥ 5,788 ¥ 5,788 ¥ — Millions of yen 2015 Book value Fair value Difference (1) Cash and time deposits ¥ 45,719 ¥ 45,719 ¥ — (2) Receivables 172,140 172,140 — (3) Short-term loans receivable 16,277 16,277 — (4) Marketable securities and investment securities 110,840 110,840 — (5) Long-term loans receivable 2,344 — — Allowance for doubtful accounts* (528) — — 1,816 1,816 — Total ¥346,792 ¥346,792 ¥ — (1) Payables ¥ 75,495 ¥ 75,495 ¥ — (2) Short-term loans payable 56,427 56,427 — (3) Bonds 76,248 83,094 6,846 (4) Long-term loans payable 174,087 175,291 1,204 Total ¥382,257 ¥390,307 ¥8,050 Derivative transactions† (1) For which hedge accounting is not applied ¥ 7,768 ¥ 7,768 ¥ — (2) For which hedge accounting is applied (3,355) (3,355) — Total ¥ 4,413 ¥ 4,413 ¥ — DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 83 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Book value Fair value Difference (1) Cash and time deposits $ 380,453 $ 380,453 $ — (2) Receivables 1,432,471 1,432,471 — (3) Short-term loans receivable 135,450 135,450 — (4) Marketable securities and investment securities 922,360 922,360 — (5) Long-term loans receivable 19,506 — — Allowance for doubtful accounts* (4,394) — — 15,112 15,112 — Total $2,885,846 $2,885,846 $ — (1) Payables $ 628,235 $ 628,235 $ — (2) Short-term loans payable 469,560 469,560 — (3) Bonds 634,501 691,470 56,969 (4) Long-term loans payable 1,448,673 1,458,692 10,019 Total $3,180,969 $3,247,957 $66,988 Derivative transactions† (1) For which hedge accounting is not applied $ 64,642 $ 64,642 $ — (2) For which hedge accounting is applied (27,919) (27,919) — Total $ 36,723 $ 36,723 $ — * Allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated for each category and is deducted from long-term loans receivable. † Derivative transactions are presented net of receivables and liabilities, and figures within parenthesis indicate net liabilities. (Note 1) The method of estimating the fair value for securities and derivative transactions is as follows: Assets (1) Cash and time deposits, (2) receivables and (3) short-term loans receivable The terms of all of the above are short term and the fair value thereof is nearly equal to book value, so the book value is used as fair value. (4) Marketable securities and investment securities The fair value of shares is the market price. The terms of negotiable certificates of deposit are short term and the fair value thereof is nearly equal to book value, so the book value is used as fair value. See Note 5, “Investment securities” for information on investment securities categorized by holding purpose. (5) Long-term loans receivable The fair value of long-term loans receivable, categorized by term, is discounted by the interest rate that is based on that of government bonds, to which a spread that reflects credit risk has been added. Moreover, the fair value of long-term loans receivable that are doubtful is estimated in the same way or is provided in an amount sufficient to cover possible losses on collection. Liabilities (1) Payables and (2) short-term loans payable The terms of all of the above are short term and the fair value thereof is nearly equal to book value, so the book value is used as fair value. (3) Bonds The fair value of corporate bonds is calculated based on market price. In cases where there is no market price, fair value is calculated by using the discounted cash flow based on the sum of the principal and total interest of the remaining period and credit risk. (4) Long-term loans payable The fair value of long-term loans payable is the sum of the principal and total interest discounted by the rate that is applied if a new loan is made. Certain long-term loans payable with floating rates are tied to interest rate swap transactions and subject to conventional treatment. 84 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Derivative transactions See Note 6, “Derivative transactions.” (Note 2) Financial instruments for which fair value is difficult to estimate: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2014 2015 2015 Unlisted shares ¥ 4,008 ¥ 4,379 $ 36,440 Shares in affiliated companies 26,576 29,696 247,117 Total ¥30,584 ¥34,075 $283,557 Market prices of the above shares are not available and the future cash flow cannot be estimated. Therefore, fair value is difficult to estimate. Accordingly, these are not included in Note 5, “Investment securities.” (Note 3) Expected repayment amounts of monetary assets and securities with maturity after the date of the accounting period are as follows: Millions of yen 2014 One year to Within one year five years Over five years Cash and time deposits ¥ 33,135 ¥ — ¥ — Receivables 165,240 — — Short-term loans receivable 18,600 — — Long-term loans receivable 45 1,559 500 Millions of yen 2015 One year to Within one year five years Over five years Cash and time deposits ¥ 45,719 ¥ — ¥ — Receivables 172,140 — — Short-term loans receivable 16,277 — — Long-term loans receivable 144 1,700 500 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 One year to Within one year five years Over five years Cash and time deposits $ 380,453 $ — $ — Receivables 1,432,471 — — Short-term loans receivable 135,450 — — Long-term loans receivable 1,198 14,147 4,161 (Note 4) Repayment schedule of bonds and long-term loans payable: See Note 8, “Loans payable.” DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 85 Note 5 Investment securities (1) Information on securities held by the Companies at March 31, 2014 is as follows: a) There were no held-to-maturity debt securities with fair values at March 31, 2014. b) The following table summarizes acquisition costs and book values (fair values) of available-for-sale securities with fair values as of March 31, 2014. Millions of yen 2014 Acquisition cost Book value Difference Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares ¥10,755 ¥31,408 ¥20,653 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares 24,832 20,077 (4,755) Total ¥35,587 ¥51,485 ¥15,898 c) Total sales of available-for-sale securities in the year ended March 31, 2014, and the related gains and losses amounted to ¥10,847 million, ¥8,296 million and ¥7 million, respectively. d) Available-for-sale securities with no fair values as of March 31, 2014, consisted mostly of non-listed equity securities, bonds and others amounting to ¥2,601 million, ¥1 million and ¥1,406 million, respectively. (2) Information on securities held by the Companies at March 31, 2015 is as follows: a) There were no held-to-maturity debt securities with fair values at March 31, 2015. b) The following table summarizes acquisition costs and book values (fair values) of available-for-sale securities with fair values as of March 31, 2015. Millions of yen 2015 Acquisition cost Book value Difference Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares ¥48,460 ¥ 83,696 ¥35,236 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares 2,364 2,144 (220) Negotiable certificates of deposit 25,000 25,000 — Total ¥75,824 ¥110,840 ¥35,016 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Acquisition cost Book value Difference Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares $403,262 $696,480 $293,218 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares 19,672 17,841 (1,831) Negotiable certificates of deposit 208,039 208,039 — Total $630,973 $922,360 $291,387 86 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 c) Total sales of available-for-sale securities in the year ended March 31, 2015, and the related gains and losses amounted to ¥1,576 million ($13,115 thousand), ¥95 million ($791 thousand) and ¥134 million ($1,115 thousand), respectively. d) Available-for-sale securities with no fair values as of March 31, 2015, consisted mostly of non-listed equity securities, bonds and others amounting to ¥3,132 million ($26,063 thousand), ¥2 million ($17 thousand) and ¥1,245 million ($10,360 thousand), respectively. Note 6 Derivative transactions (1) The following tables summarizes market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2014 for which hedge accounting is not applied. Outstanding positions, for which gains and losses were recognized in the consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2014, were as follows: Currency-related derivatives Millions of yen 2014 Amount of principal Recognized gain Contract amount due over one year Fair value (loss) Foreign currency swap transactions: Japanese yen received for Euro ¥ 6,981 ¥ — ¥ (20) ¥ (20) U.S. dollars received for Euro ¥ 3,541 ¥ — ¥ (66) ¥ (66) U.S. dollars received for Japanese yen ¥12,350 ¥12,350 ¥4,113 ¥4,113 Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars ¥ 3,584 ¥ — ¥ 136 ¥ 136 Sell: Euro ¥ 1,786 ¥ — ¥ (29) ¥ (29) Sell: Japanese yen ¥ 987 ¥ — ¥ 245 ¥ 245 Buy: U.S. dollars ¥ 1,351 ¥ — ¥ 11 ¥ 11 Buy: Euro ¥ 95 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: Renminbi ¥ 381 ¥ — ¥ 6 ¥ 6 Buy: British pounds ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: Japanese yen ¥ 10 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 (2) The following tables summarize market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2014 for which hedge accounting is applied. Currency-related derivatives: Principle-based method Millions of yens 2014 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars ¥10,680 ¥— ¥709 Sell: Euro ¥ 950 ¥— ¥ (11) Sell: Japanese yen ¥ 1,890 ¥— ¥573 Buy: U.S. dollars ¥16,257 ¥— ¥190 Buy: Euro ¥ 70 ¥— ¥ 0 Buy: CHF ¥ 3 ¥— ¥ 0 Buy: British pounds ¥ 0 ¥ 0 ¥ 0 DATA SECTION Buy: Renminbi ¥ 49 ¥— ¥ 0 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 87 Interest rate-related derivatives: Principle-based method Millions of yen 2014 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Euro, pay fixed rate in Euro ¥12,749 ¥4,250 ¥(65) Receive variable rate in Euro, pay variable rate in Euro ¥ 977 ¥ — ¥ (1) Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay variable rate in Euro ¥ 6,981 ¥ — ¥ 24 Receive variable rate in U.S. dollars, pay fixed rate in Euro ¥ 3,541 ¥3,541 ¥(26) Interest rate-related derivatives: Conventional method Millions of yen 2014 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay fixed rate in Japanese yen ¥87,650 ¥87,650 ¥— (3) The fair value of foreign currency forward contract transactions is based on the year-end forward rate. The fair value of foreign currency swap transactions and interest rate swap transactions is based on the prices presented by the counterpart financial institutions. (4) The recognized gain or loss is estimated by the counterpart financial institutions. (5) The following tables summarize market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2015 for which hedge accounting is not applied. Outstanding positions, for which gains and losses were recognized in the consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2015, were as follows: Currency-related derivatives Millions of yen 2015 Amount of principal Recognized gain Contract amount due over one year Fair value (loss) Foreign currency swap transactions: Japanese yen received for Euro ¥ 5,672 ¥ — ¥ 388 ¥ 388 U.S. dollars received for Euro ¥ 7,168 ¥ 3,910 ¥ 919 ¥ 919 U.S. dollars received for Japanese yen ¥12,350 ¥12,350 ¥6,776 ¥6,776 Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars ¥ 4,257 ¥ 1,281 ¥ (396) ¥ (396) Sell: Euro ¥ 1,769 ¥ — ¥ 91 ¥ 91 Sell: Renminbi ¥ 112 ¥ — ¥ (6) ¥ (6) Sell: Japanese yen ¥ 308 ¥ — ¥ (3) ¥ (3) Sell: Thai bahts ¥ 3 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: U.S. dollars ¥ 521 ¥ — ¥ 1 ¥ 1 Buy: Euro ¥ 175 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: Renminbi ¥ 4 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: British pounds ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: Japanese yen ¥ 1,828 ¥ — ¥ (2) ¥ (2) 88 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Amount of principal Recognized gain Contract amount due over one year Fair value (loss) Foreign currency swap transactions: Japanese yen received for Euro $ 47,200 $ — $ 3,229 $ 3,229 U.S. dollars received for Euro $ 59,649 $ 32,537 $ 7,647 $ 7,647 U.S. dollars received for Japanese yen $102,771 $102,771 $56,387 $56,387 Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars $ 35,425 $ 10,660 $ (3,295) $ (3,295) Sell: Euro $ 14,721 $ — $ 757 $ 757 Sell: Renminbi $ 932 $ — $ (50) $ (50) Sell: Japanese yen $ 2,563 $ — $ (25) $ (25) Sell: Thai bahts $ 25 $ — $ 0 $ 0 Buy: U.S. dollars $ 4,336 $ — $ 8 $ 8 Buy: Euro $ 1,456 $ — $ 0 $ 0 Buy: Renminbi $ 33 $ — $ 0 $ 0 Buy: British pounds $ 0 $ — $ 0 $ 0 Buy: Japanese yen $ 15,212 $ — $ (17) $ (17) (6) The following tables summarize market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2015 for which hedge accounting is applied. Currency-related derivatives: Principle-based method Millions of yen 2015 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars ¥28,716 ¥14,463 ¥(3,873) Sell: Euro ¥ 758 ¥ — ¥ 41 Sell: Renminbi ¥ 448 ¥ — ¥ (12) Buy: U.S. dollars ¥16,159 ¥ — ¥ 593 Buy: Euro ¥ 4 ¥ — ¥ 0 Buy: Renminbi ¥ 13 ¥ — ¥ 2 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars $238,961 $120,354 $(32,229) Sell: Euro $ 6,308 $ — $ 341 Sell: Renminbi $ 3,728 $ — $ (100) Buy: U.S. dollars $134,468 $ — $ 4,935 Buy: Euro $ 33 $ — $ 0 Buy: Renminbi $ 108 $ — $ 17 DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 89 Interest rate-related derivatives: Principle-based method Millions of yen 2015 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Euro, pay fixed rate in Euro ¥3,910 ¥3,910 ¥(54) Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay variable rate in Euro ¥5,672 ¥ — ¥ 14 Receive variable rate in U.S. dollars, pay fixed rate in Euro ¥7,168 ¥3,910 ¥(66) Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Euro, pay fixed rate in Euro $32,537 $32,537 $(449) Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay variable rate in Euro $47,200 $ — $ 117 Receive variable rate in U.S. dollars, pay fixed rate in Euro $59,649 $32,537 $(549) Interest rate-related derivatives: Conventional method Millions of yen 2015 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay fixed rate in Japanese yen ¥97,650 ¥97,650 ¥— Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay fixed rate in Japanese yen $812,599 $812,599 $— (7) The fair value of foreign currency forward contract transactions is based on the year-end forward rate. The fair value of foreign currency swap transactions and interest rate swap transactions is based on the prices presented by the counterpart financial institutions. (8) Interest rate swaps for which conventional methods have been applied are accounted for together with long-term items. Therefore, the fair value of interest rate swaps is included in the fair value of the hedged long-term debt. Note 7 Inventories Inventories at March 31, 2014 and 2015 consisted of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2014 2015 2015 Finished goods ¥ 79,014 ¥ 78,358 $652,059 Work in process 9,084 8,194 68,187 Raw materials 25,208 23,635 196,680 Supplies 5,362 5,147 42,831 Total ¥118,668 ¥115,334 $959,757 90 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Note 8 Loans payable Short-term loans payable were represented by bank overdrafts and short-term notes with average annual interest rates of approximately 1.1% and 1.2% in 2014 and 2015, respectively. Long-term loans payable at March 31, 2014 and 2015 consisted of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2014 2015 2015 Unsecured: Banks and insurance companies at 0.1–1.5%, maturing serially through 2024 ¥108,657 ¥123,650 $1,028,959 1.8% bonds, due 2015 15,000 15,000 124,823 0.7% bonds, due 2019 15,000 15,000 124,823 Zero coupon convertible bonds, due 2018 — 20,092 167,196 Zero coupon convertible bonds, due 2021 — 20,096 167,230 0.4% medium-term notes, due 2014 497 — — 0.5% medium-term notes, due 2014 6,463 — — 0.2% medium-term notes, due 2015 — 6,060 50,429 Loans denominated in foreign currencies (principally U.S. dollars) at 0.2–2.2%, maturing serially through 2020 49,557 50,437 419,714 Lease obligations at 8.5%, maturing serially through 2024 1,745 1,484 12,349 196,919 251,819 2,095,523 Less amounts due within one year 29,107 41,923 348,864 Total ¥167,812 ¥209,896 $1,746,659 The aggregate annual maturities of long-term loans payable at March 31, 2015 were as follows: Thousands of Year ending March 31 Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 ¥41,923 $348,864 2017 27,756 230,973 2018 48,584 404,294 2019 36,144 300,774 2020 and thereafter 97,224 809,054 Note 9 Employees’ retirement benefits (1) Funded contributory pension plan as of March 31, 2014 (a) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) Millions of yen 2014 Balance at April 1, 2013 ¥80,181 Service cost 2,269 Interest cost 597 Actuarial loss (gain) (437) Benefits paid (6,578) Other 16 DATA SECTION Balance at March 31, 2014 ¥76,048 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 91 (b) Fair value of plan assets at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) Millions of yen 2014 Balance at April 1, 2013 ¥74,309 Expected return on plan assets 1,315 Actuarial loss (gain) 4,791 Contributions paid by the employer 652 Benefits paid (5,140) Balance at March 31, 2014 ¥75,927 (c) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year of the companies to which the simplified method is applied Millions of yen 2014 Balance at April 1, 2013 ¥1,307 Retirement benefit costs 306 Benefits paid (127) Contributions paid by the employer (240) Balance at March 31, 2014 ¥1,246 (d) Adjustments to reconcile projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets at end of year with the difference between net defined benefit liability and net defined benefit asset recognized in the consolidated balance sheets Millions of yen 2014 Funded retirement benefit obligations ¥ 79,030 Plan assets (78,533) 497 Unfunded retirement benefit obligations 870 Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2014 ¥ 1,367 Liability for retirement benefits ¥ 30,204 Asset for retirement benefits (28,837) Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2014 ¥ 1,367 Note: This calculation includes benefits of companies to which the simplified valuation method is applied. (e) Severance and retirement benefits expenses Millions of yen 2014 Service cost ¥2,269 Interest cost 597 Expected return on plan assets (1,316) Net actuarial loss amortization 3,550 Past service costs amortization 301 Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 based on the simplified method 306 Other (Extra retirement payments, etc.) 1,677 Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 ¥7,384 92 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 (f) Accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans Components of accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans, excluding the impact of tax effect accounting, and the value thereof were as follows: Millions of yen 2014 Past service costs that are yet to be recognized ¥(628) Actuarial gains and losses that are yet to be recognized (10) Total balance at March 31, 2014 ¥(638) (g) Composition of plan assets The composition of plan assets was as follows: 2014 Equity securities 38% Debt securities 36% General accounts 18% Other 8% Total 100% (h) Determination of long-term expected rate of return on plan assets The long-term expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by considering the current and projected future allocation of plan assets and present and future estimates for long-term investment returns calculated based on the diverse range of assets comprising plan assets. (i) Actuarial assumptions Actuarial assumptions used at March 31, 2014 were as follows: 2014 Discount rate (funded contributory pension plan) Mainly 0.1% Debt securities (lump-sum benefit plan) Mainly 1.0% Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Mainly 2.7% (2) Defined contribution pension plans as of March 31, 2014 Contributions to the defined contribution pension plans of the Companies totaled ¥3,322 million. DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 93 (3) Multi-employer pension plans as of March 31, 2014 The Group’s contributions to multi-employer pension plans, for which contributions are negotiated, as well as contributions to defined contribution plans, totaled ¥1,754 million. The funded status of the multiemployer contributory funded pension plans at December 31, 2013 (based on information available as of March 31, 2014), for which contributions are recorded as net periodic retirement benefit costs by the Companies, is as follows: Millions of yen 2014 Fair value of plan assets ¥ 2,032,678 Benefit obligation in the calculation of pension financing (1,939,897) Difference ¥ 92,781 Companies’ contribution percentage for multiemployer contributory funded pension plans* 5.3% * This percentage shows the Companies’ portion of the total estimated annual contribution to the plans, which is not necessarily equal to the actual percentage of the Companies’ portion against the funded status in the above table. (4) Funded contributory pension plan as of March 31, 2015 (a) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2015 Balance at April 1, 2014 ¥76,048 $632,837 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies (2,164) (18,008) Restated balance 73,884 614,829 Service cost 2,334 19,422 Interest cost 591 4,918 Actuarial loss (gain) 1,704 14,180 Benefits paid (6,135) (51,053) Other (357) (2,970) Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥72,021 $599,326 (b) Fair value of plan assets at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2015 Balance at April 1, 2014 ¥75,927 $631,830 Expected return on plan assets 655 5,451 Actuarial loss (gain) 5,300 44,104 Contributions paid by the employer 578 4,810 Benefits paid (5,021) (41,782) Other (74) (617) Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥77,365 $643,796 94 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 (c) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year of the companies to which the simplified method is applied Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2015 Balance at April 1, 2014 ¥1,246 $10,369 Retirement benefit costs 292 2,430 Benefits paid (105) (874) Contributions paid by the employer (263) (2,189) Other (2) (16) Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥1,168 $ 9,720 (d) Adjustments to reconcile projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets at end of year with the difference between net defined benefit liability and net defined benefit asset recognized in the consolidated balance sheets Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2015 Funded retirement benefit obligations ¥ 75,208 $ 625,847 Plan assets (80,228) (667,621) (5,020) (41,774) Unfunded retirement benefit obligations 842 7,006 Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2015 ¥ (4,178) $ (34,768) Liability for retirement benefits ¥ 30,407 $ 253,033 Asset for retirement benefits (34,585) (287,801) Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2015 ¥ (4,178) $ (34,768) Note: This calculation includes benefits of companies to which the simplified valuation method is applied. (e) Severance and retirement benefits expenses Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2015 Service cost ¥ 2,334 $ 19,422 Interest cost 591 4,918 Expected return on plan assets (655) (5,451) Net actuarial loss amortization (1,385) (11,525) Past service costs amortization 314 2,613 Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 based on the simplified method 292 2,431 Other (Extra retirement payments, etc.) 3,220 26,795 Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 ¥ 4,711 $ 39,203 DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 95 (f) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Components of remeasurements of defined benefit plans, excluding the impact of tax effect accounting, and the value thereof were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2015 Past service costs ¥ 314 $ 2,613 Actuarial gains and losses 2,412 20,072 Total balance at March 31, 2015 ¥2,726 $22,685 (g) Accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans Components of accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans, excluding the impact of tax effect accounting, and the value thereof were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2015 Past service costs that are yet to be recognized ¥ (314) $(2,605) Actuarial gains and losses that are yet to be recognized 1,162 9,670 Total balance at March 31, 2015 ¥ 848 $ 7,065 (h) Composition of plan assets The composition of plan assets was as follows: 2015 Equity securities 21% Debt securities 45% General accounts 18% Other 16% Total 100% (i) Determination of long-term expected rate of return on plan assets The long-term expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by considering the current and projected future allocation of plan assets and present and future estimates for long-term investment returns calculated based on the diverse range of assets comprising plan assets. (j) Actuarial assumptions Actuarial assumptions used at March 31, 2015 were as follows: 2015 Discount rate (funded contributory pension plan) Mainly 0.1% Debt securities (lump-sum benefit plan) Mainly 0.8% Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Mainly 0.7% 96 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 (5) Defined contribution pension plans as of March 31, 2015 Contributions to the defined contribution pension plans of the Companies totaled ¥3,304 million ($27,494 thousand). (6) Multi-employer pension plans as of March 31, 2015 The Group’s contributions to multi-employer pension plans, for which contributions are negotiated, as well as contributions to defined contribution plans, totaled ¥1,900 million ($15,811 thousand). The funded status of the multiemployer contributory funded pension plans at December 31, 2014 (based on information available as of March 31, 2015), for which contributions are recorded as net periodic retirement benefit costs by the Companies, is as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2015 Fair value of plan assets ¥ 2,513,612 $ 20,917,134 Benefit obligation in the calculation of pension financing (2,414,960) (20,096,197) Difference ¥ 98,652 $ 820,937 Companies’ contribution percentage for multiemployer contributory funded pension plans* 5.5% * This percentage shows the Companies’ portion of the total estimated annual contribution to the plans, which is not necessarily equal to the actual percentage of the Companies’ portion against the funded status in the above table. Note 10 Net assets Under Japanese laws and regulations, the entire amount of the issue earnings reserve is included in retained earnings in the accompanying price of shares is required to be accounted for as common stock, consolidated balance sheets. although a company may, by resolution of its Board of Directors, Legal earnings reserve and additional paid-in capital may be used to account for an amount not exceeding one-half of the issue price of the eliminate or reduce a deficit or may be capitalized by a resolution of the new shares as additional paid-in capital. shareholders’ meeting. All additional paid-in capital and all legal earnUnder the Japanese Corporate Law, in cases where dividend distriings reserve may be transferred to other capital surplus and retained bution of surplus is made, the smaller of an amount equal to 10% of earnings, respectively, which are potentially available for dividends. the dividend and excess, if any, of 25% of common stock over the The maximum amount that the Company can distribute as dividends is total of additional paid-in capital and legal earnings reserve must be calculated based on the unconsolidated financial statements of the set aside as additional paid-in capital or legal earnings reserve. Company in accordance with Japanese laws and regulations. Additional paid-in capital is included in capital surplus and legal At the Board of Directors’ meeting held on May 9, 2014, appropriations of retained earnings for year-end dividends applicable to the year ended March 31, 2014 were duly approved as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Cash dividends: ¥2.00 ($0.02) per share ¥1,966 $16,360 DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 97 Note 11 Impairment loss Certain consolidated subsidiaries accounted for impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2014 as follows: Impairment loss Location Usage purpose Type of assets Millions of yen Singapore Performance Polymer Products facilities Machinery, etc. ¥3,028 Namegata City in Ibaraki Prefecture Performance Polymer Products facilities Buildings, Machinery, etc. 1,615 Zhejiang, China Performance Polymer Products facilities Machinery, etc. 1,272 Matsuyama City in Ehime Prefecture Polymerization facilities Machinery, etc. 1,031 Others — — 1,835 Total ¥8,781 The book values of idle assets with no utilization plan were written down to the recoverable amount of ¥5,829 million. Recoverable amount was measured by selling price, based on real estate appraisals or similar methods. If it is determined that an idle asset cannot be sold or diverted to another use, the asset is valued at zero. Certain consolidated subsidiaries accounted for impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2015 as follows: Impairment loss Thousands of Location Usage purpose Type of assets Millions of yen U.S. dollars Singapore Performance Polymer Products facilities Machinery, etc. ¥ 9,563 $ 79,579 Anpachi Town in Gifu Prefecture and others Performance Polymer Products facilities Machinery, goodwill, etc. 5,972 49,696 Matsuyama City in Ehime Prefecture Polymerization facilities, etc. Machinery, etc. 5,062 42,124 California, U.S.A. Pharmaceuticals and home healthcare business Goodwill, etc. 4,558 37,930 Tokuyama City in Yamaguchi Prefecture Power facilities, etc. Machinery, etc. 1,150 9,570 Others — — 4,071 33,876 Total ¥30,376 $252,775 The Companies set up cash generating units by business unit for As of March 31, 2015, the impairment losses in Singapore included which the profit or loss is continually controlled. Idle assets, which are a ¥4,070 million ($33,869 thousand) reversal of asset retirement oblinot being used for business, are separately treated. gations due to changes in the accounting estimates of asset retirement Among the assets used for business purposes, certain production obligations and a ¥711 million ($5,917 thousand) reversal of impairment facilities were devalued to the recoverable amount of ¥30,376 million losses resulting from remeasurement of the recoverable amount of ($252,775 thousand) as “Impairment loss.” Recoverable amount was machinery, etc. measured by value in use, which was calculated by discounting future cash flows with discount rates of 6–20%. 98 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Note 12 Consolidated statements of comprehensive income Components of other comprehensive income for the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 consisted of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2014 2015 2015 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities: Increase (decrease) during the year ¥ 4,231 ¥19,212 $159,874 Reclassification adjustments (8,468) (26) (217) Subtotal, before tax ¥(4,237) ¥19,186 $159,657 Tax (expense) or benefit 1,446 (5,718) (47,582) Subtotal, net of tax ¥(2,791) ¥13,468 $112,075 Deferred gains (losses) on hedges: Increase (decrease) during the year ¥ 3,351 ¥ (3,846) $ (32,005) Reclassification adjustments (3,617) (873) (7,264) Subtotal, before tax ¥ (266) ¥ (4,719) $ (39,269) Tax (expense) or benefit 215 1,132 9,420 Subtotal, net of tax ¥ (51) ¥ (3,587) $ (29,849) Foreign currency translation adjustments: Increase (decrease) during the year ¥ 7,957 ¥ 1,137 $ 9,462 Reclassification adjustments — — — Subtotal, before tax ¥ 7,957 ¥ 1,137 $ 9,462 Tax (expense) or benefit — 2,859 23,790 Subtotal, net of tax ¥ 7,957 ¥ 3,996 $ 33,252 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Increase (decrease) during the year ¥ — ¥ 3,773 $ 31,397 Reclassification adjustments — (1,047) (8,712) Subtotal, before tax ¥ — ¥ 2,726 $ 22,685 Tax (expense) or benefit — (988) (8,222) Subtotal, net of tax ¥ — ¥ 1,738 $ 14,463 Share of other comprehensive income of associates accounted for using the equity method: Increase (decrease) during the year ¥ 1,504 ¥ 396 $ 3,295 Reclassification adjustments 1 25 208 Subtotal ¥ 1,505 ¥ 421 $ 3,503 Total other comprehensive income ¥ 6,620 ¥16,036 $133,444 DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 99 Note 13 Income taxes The Company is subject to a number of taxes based on income, purposes for the year ended March 31, 2014. which, in the aggregate, indicate a statutory rate in Japan of approxiDue to loss before income tax for the year ended March 31, 2015, mately 37.8% for the year ended March 31, 2014. The following table reconciliation between the effective tax rate and the actual income tax summarizes the significant differences between the Company’s effecrate is omitted. tive tax rate and the actual income tax rate for financial statement 2014 2015 Effective tax rate 37.8% — Non-deductible expenses 3.2 — Per capita inhabitants’ taxes 1.2 — Difference in statutory tax rate between Japan and other countries 14.4 — Equity in earnings of affiliates (11.1) — Amortization of goodwill 7.0 — Changes in valuation allowance (0.7) — Refund of income taxes (3.7) — Decrease in statutory tax rate 2.6 — Other 3.8 — Actual income tax rate 54.5% — The Act on the Partial Amendment of the Income Tax Act, etc., deferred tax liabilities was changed from 35.4% to 32.1% in connecwas promulgated on March 31, 2014. Accordingly, Special Corporate tion with the temporary difference that is expected to be eliminated in Tax for Reconstruction will no longer be imposed from the fiscal year the fiscal year commencing on April 1, 2016. commencing on or after April 1, 2014. Thus, the effective statutory tax As a result of this change in tax rate, the amount of deferred tax rate used to calculate the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities assets (less the amount of deferred tax liabilities) declined by ¥299 for the current fiscal year was changed from 37.8% in the previous million ($2,488 thousand), while income taxes—deferred posted in the fiscal year to 35.4% in connection with the temporary difference that is current fiscal year increased by ¥1,215 million ($10,111 thousand). expected to be eliminated in the fiscal year commencing on April 1, Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities increased by 2014. Consequently, the amount of deferred tax assets (less the ¥1,039 million ($8,646 thousand), deferred gains (losses) on hedges amount of deferred tax liabilities) declined by 352 million yen, income increased by ¥16 million ($133 thousand), and remeasurements of taxes—deferred posted in the current fiscal year increased by 356 defined benefit plans increased by ¥154 million ($1,282 thousand). million yen while deferred gains (losses) on hedges increased by 4 Foreign currency translation adjustments declined by ¥293 million million yen. ($2,438 thousand). The Act on the Partial Amendment of the Income Tax Act, etc. (Act Furthermore, the deduction limit for deductions of loss carryforwards No. 9, 2015) and the Act on the Partial Amendment of the Local Tax has been amended to an amount equivalent to 65% of taxable income Act, etc. (Act No. 2, 2015) were promulgated on March 31, 2015. before deduction of loss carryforwards for fiscal years commencing on Accordingly, the income tax rate and other related matters for fiscal or after April 1, 2015, and an amount equivalent to 50% of taxable years commencing on or after April 1, 2015 have been revised. Thus, income before deduction of loss carryforwards for fiscal years comthe effective statutory tax rate used to calculate deferred tax assets mencing on or after April 1, 2017. Accordingly, the amount of deferred and deferred tax liabilities was changed from the previous 35.4% to tax assets decreased by ¥529 million ($4,402 thousand) and income 32.9% in connection with the temporary difference that is expected to taxes-deferred posted in the current fiscal year increased by the be eliminated in the fiscal year commencing on April 1, 2015. The same amount. effective statutory tax rate used to calculate deferred tax assets and 100 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Significant components of the Companies’ deferred tax assets and liabilities as of March 31, 2014 and 2015 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2014 2015 2015 Deferred tax assets: Excess bonuses accrued ¥ 3,014 ¥ 3,784 $ 31,489 Provision for loss on guarantees 292 154 1,282 Write-down of investment securities 2,653 2,696 22,435 Retirement benefits 4,647 6,583 54,781 Accumulated impairment loss 8,402 12,538 104,336 Net operating loss carry forwards 47,166 47,071 391,703 Other 16,720 22,998 191,378 Total ¥ 82,894 ¥ 95,824 $ 797,404 Valuation allowance (60,327) (65,187) (542,457) Total deferred tax assets ¥ 22,567 ¥ 30,637 $ 254,947 Offset with deferred tax liabilities (13,026) (19,639) (163,427) Net deferred tax assets ¥ 9,541 ¥ 10,998 $ 91,520 Deferred tax liabilities: Adjustments to fixed assets based on Corporate Tax Law ¥ (5,505) ¥ (4,790) $ (39,860) Accelerated depreciation of foreign subsidiaries’ fixed assets (1,889) (1,276) (10,618) Tax effect of foreign subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings (1,625) (2,305) (19,181) Adjustment of carrying amount based on fair value (5,103) (4,474) (37,231) Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (4,983) (10,647) (88,599) Other (3,764) (2,470) (20,555) Total deferred tax liabilities ¥(22,869) ¥(25,962) $(216,044) Offset with deferred tax assets 13,026 19,639 163,427 Net deferred tax liabilities ¥ (9,843) ¥ (6,323) $ (52,617) Note 14 Leases Operating leases as lessee Future minimum lease payments for the remaining lease periods as of March 31, 2014 and 2015 are as follows. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2014 2015 2015 Due within one year ¥ 387 ¥ 385 $ 3,204 Due over one year 2,733 2,649 22,044 Total ¥3,120 ¥3,034 $25,248 DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 101 Note 15 Stock option plans Information on stock option plans at March 31, 2015 is as shown below. Teijin Limited The account and the amounts related to stock options in the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Account 2014 2015 2015 Selling, general and administrative expenses ¥141 ¥146 $1,215 The following tables summarize the contents of stock options as of March 31, 2015. Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 54 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 146,000 Date of issue July 10, 2006 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 10, 2006 to July 9, 2026 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 55 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 207,000 Date of issue July 5, 2007 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 5, 2007 to July 4, 2027 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 57 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 328,000 Date of issue July 7, 2008 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 7, 2008 to July 6, 2028 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 57 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 420,000 Date of issue July 9, 2009 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 9, 2009 to July 8, 2029 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 55 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 349,000 Date of issue July 9, 2010 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 9, 2010 to July 8, 2030 102 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 47 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 737,000 Date of issue March 12, 2012 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 12, 2012 to March 11, 2032 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 38 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 698,000 Date of issue March 15, 2013 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 15, 2013 to March 14, 2033 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 40 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 618,000 Date of issue March 14, 2014 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 14, 2014 to March 13, 2034 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 32 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 379,000 Date of issue March 18, 2015 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 18, 2015 to March 17, 2035 The following tables summarize the numbers and movements of stock options as of March 31, 2015. Non-exercisable stock options Stocks Company name Teijin Limited 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 2014 2015 Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2014 — — — — — — — — — Stock options granted — — — — — — — — 379,000 Forfeitures — — — — — — — — — Conversion to exercisable stock options — — — — — — — — 379,000 Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2015 — — — — — — — — — Exercisable stock options Stocks Company name Teijin Limited 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 DATA SECTION Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2014 47,000 83,000 176,000 290,000 284,000 660,000 643,000 618,000 — Conversion from non-exercisable stock options — — — — — — — — 379,000 Stock options exercised 11,000 19,000 32,000 29,000 22,000 30,000 — — — Forfeitures 4,000 4,000 6,000 — — — — — — Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2015 32,000 60,000 138,000 261,000 262,000 630,000 643,000 618,000 379,000 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 103 The following table summarizes value information of stock options as of March 31, 2015. Yen Company name Teijin Limited 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 Paid-in value ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 Average market price of the stock at the time of exercise ¥280 ¥276 ¥277 ¥274 ¥283 ¥286 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Fair value at the date of grant ¥663 ¥610 ¥307 ¥253 ¥261 ¥245 ¥196 ¥228 ¥385 The method of estimation for the fair value of stock options granted in the year ended March 31, 2015 is as follows: Method of valuation Black–Scholes Model Volatility 30% Expected remaining period 5.5 years Expected dividend ¥4.0 per share Interest rate without any risks 0.08% Infocom Corporation The account and the amount related to stock options in the year ended March 31, 2015 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Account 2014 2015 2015 Selling, general and administrative expenses ¥26 ¥16 $133 The following table summarizes the contents of stock options as of March 31, 2015. Company name Infocom Corporation Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 5 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 36,200 Date of issue May 31, 2013 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From June 1, 2013 to May 31, 2043 Company name Infocom Corporation Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 6 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 23,000 Date of issue June 6, 2014 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From June 7, 2014 to June 6, 2044 104 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 The following tables summarize the numbers and movements of stock options as of March 31 2015. Non-exercisable stock options Stocks Company name Infocom Corporation 2014 2015 Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2014 — — Stock options granted — 23,000 Forfeitures — — Conversion to exercisable stock options — 23,000 Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2015 — — Exercisable stock options Stocks Company name Infocom Corporation 2014 2015 Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2014 36,200 — Conversion from non-exercisable stock options — 23,000 Stock options exercised — — Forfeitures — — Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2014 36,200 23,000 The following table summarizes value information of stock options as of March 31, 2015. Yen Company name Infocom Corporation 2014 2015 Paid-in value ¥ 1 ¥ 1 Average market price of the stock at the time of exercise ¥ — ¥ — Fair value at the date of grant ¥143,839 ¥144,800 The method of estimation for the fair value of stock options granted in the year ended March 31, 2015 is as follows: Method of valuation Black–Scholes Model Volatility 45.0% Expected remaining period 9.4 years Expected dividend rate 1.91% Interest rate without any risks 0.56% DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 105 Note 16 Segment information (1) Reportable operating segment information The Company’s reportable operating segments are components of an entity for which separate financial information is available and evaluated regularly by its chief decision-making authority in determining the allocation of management resources and in assessing performance. Up to and including the year ended March 31, 2015, the Company has divided its operations into business groups based on the type of product, nature of business and services provided. The business groups formulate product and service strategies in a comprehensive manner in Japan and overseas. Accordingly, the Company divided its operations into four reportable operating segments on the same basis as applied internally: Advanced Fibers and Composites; Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products; Healthcare; and Trading and Retail. The description of each segment is as follows: Advanced Fibers and Composites: Production and sales of aramid fibers, carbon fibers, polyester fibers and composites for industrial applications Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products: Production and sales of films and resins for various industrial applications Healthcare: Production and sales of prescription and non-prescription drugs and production, sales and rental of home healthcare devices Trading and Retail: Trading and retail of polyester filaments, other fibers and polymer products (2) Accounting methods used to calculate segment sales, segment income, segment assets and other items for reportable operating segments Accounts for reportable operating segments are for the most part calculated in line with generally accepted standards for the preparation of consolidated financial statements. Segment income for reportable operating segments is based on operating income. Amounts for intersegment transactions or transfers are calculated based on market prices or on prices determined using the cost-plus method. (3) Segment sales, segment income, segment assets and other items for reportable operating segments Segment information for the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 is as shown below. Millions of yen 2014 Electronics Materials and Advanced Performance Fibers and Polymer Trading and Consolidated Composites Products Healthcare Retail Total Others total Sales: 1) External customers ¥123,551 ¥179,446 ¥138,415 ¥254,180 ¥695,592 ¥ 88,833 ¥784,425 2) Intersegment net sales and transfer 27,898 4,851 — 4,234 36,983 22,608 59,591 Net sales 151,449 184,297 138,415 258,414 732,575 111,441 844,016 Segment income (loss) 5,742 (7,218) 24,529 5,186 28,239 1,741 29,980 Segment assets 199,099 157,913 124,753 121,847 603,612 87,106 690,718 Other items: Depreciation 16,314 9,985 9,789 1,795 37,883 3,046 40,929 Amortization of goodwill 1,435 190 1,116 16 2,757 (43) 2,714 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 7,546 16,658 879 698 25,781 9,786 35,567 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 9,062 2,638 12,545 1,626 25,871 3,014 28,885 106 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Millions of yen 2015 Electronics Materials and Advanced Performance Fibers and Polymer Trading and Consolidated Composites Products Healthcare Retail Total Others total Sales: 1) External customers ¥135,529 ¥184,767 ¥141,723 ¥259,380 ¥721,399 ¥64,772 ¥786,171 2) Intersegment net sales and transfer 27,657 4,509 — 4,687 36,853 20,096 56,949 Net sales 163,186 189,276 141,723 264,067 758,252 84,868 843,120 Segment income 14,353 3,402 24,829 4,249 46,833 3,983 50,816 Segment assets 193,894 151,978 147,931 133,329 627,132 79,121 706,253 Other items: Depreciation 15,462 8,154 10,935 2,021 36,572 2,213 38,785 Amortization of goodwill 1,410 95 763 41 2,309 (48) 2,261 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 7,368 21,694 1,062 1,823 31,947 10,535 42,482 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 10,034 1,676 11,232 2,025 24,967 2,296 27,263 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Electronics Materials and Advanced Performance Fibers and Polymer Trading and Consolidated Composites Products Healthcare Retail Total Others total Sales: 1) External customers $1,127,811 $1,537,547 $1,179,354 $2,158,442 $6,003,154 $539,003 $6,542,157 2) Intersegment net sales and transfer 230,149 37,522 — 39,003 306,674 167,230 473,904 Net sales 1,357,960 1,575,069 1,179,354 2,197,445 6,309,828 706,233 7,016,061 Segment income (loss) 119,439 28,310 206,616 35,358 389,723 33,145 422,868 Segment assets 1,613,498 1,264,692 1,231,014 1,109,503 5,218,707 658,409 5,877,116 Other items: Depreciation 128,667 67,854 90,996 16,818 304,335 18,416 322,751 Amortization of goodwill 11,733 791 6,349 341 19,214 (399) 18,815 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 61,314 180,528 8,837 15,170 265,849 87,667 353,516 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 83,499 13,947 93,468 16,851 207,765 19,106 226,871 (Notes) 1. “Others” includes the Company’s IT business and does not qualify as a reportable operating segment. 2. “Depreciation” and “increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets” include long-term prepaid expenses and their amortization. 3. As described in Note 2, the Company recognizes certain of the home healthcare devices as fixed assets and depreciates them using the straight-line method. As a result of this change, segment income for healthcare in the year ended March 31, 2014 was ¥1,740 million higher than would have been the case had the previous method of depreciation been used. DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 107 Reconciliations of published figures and aggregates of reportable operating segments for the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 are as shown below: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Adjustment for net sales 2014 2015 2015 Reportable operating segments ¥732,575 ¥758,252 $6,309,828 Others segment 111,441 84,868 706,233 Elimination of intersegment transactions (59,591) (56,949) (473,904) Net sales ¥784,425 ¥786,171 $6,542,157 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Adjustment for operating income 2014 2015 2015 Reportable operating segments ¥ 28,239 ¥ 46,833 $389,723 Others segment 1,741 3,983 33,145 Elimination of intersegment transactions 288 129 1,073 Corporate expenses* (12,190) (11,859) (98,685) Operating income ¥ 18,078 ¥ 39,086 $325,256 * Corporate expenses are expenses that cannot be allocated to individual reportable operating segments and are primarily related to basic research and head office administration. Reconciliations of published figures and aggregates of reportable operating segments as of March 31, 2014 and 2015 are as shown below: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Adjustment for assets 2014 2015 2015 Reportable operating segments ¥603,612 ¥627,132 $5,218,707 Others segment 87,106 79,121 658,409 Elimination of intersegment transactions 112,388 164,236 1,366,697 Corporate assets† (34,695) (46,794) (389,398) Total assets ¥768,411 ¥823,695 $6,854,415 † Corporate assets are assets that cannot be allocated to individual reportable operating segments and are primarily related to investments of the parent company in “Cash and time deposits” and “Investment securities,” etc. Millions of yen 2014 Reportable operating Other items segments Others Adjustment Total Depreciation ¥37,883 ¥3,046 ¥2,021 ¥42,950 Amortization of goodwill 2,757 (43) — 2,714 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 25,781 9,786 — 35,567 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 25,871 3,014 1,297 30,182 Millions of yen 2015 Reportable operating Other items segments Others Adjustment Total Depreciation ¥36,572 ¥ 2,213 ¥1,985 ¥40,770 Amortization of goodwill 2,309 (48) — 2,261 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 31,947 10,535 — 42,482 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 24,967 2,296 835 28,098 108 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Reportable operating Other items segments Others Adjustment Total Depreciation $304,335 $18,416 $16,518 $339,269 Amortization of goodwill 19,214 (399) — 18,815 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 265,849 87,667 — 353,516 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 207,765 19,106 6,948 233,819 (4) Information by geographical segment 1. Net sales by region for the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 are as shown below: Millions of yen 2014 Japan China Asia Americas Europe and others Consolidated total ¥494,741 ¥108,892 ¥68,802 ¥50,108 ¥61,882 ¥784,425 Millions of yen 2015 Japan China Asia Americas Europe and others Consolidated total ¥465,413 ¥121,286 ¥78,811 ¥56,534 ¥64,127 ¥786,171 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Japan China Asia Americas Europe and others Consolidated total $3,872,955 $1,009,287 $655,829 $470,450 $533,636 $6,542,157 2. Tangible fixed assets by region as of March 31, 2014 and 2015 are as shown below: Millions of yen 2014 Japan China Netherlands Asia Americas Europe Consolidated total ¥140,096 ¥22,469 ¥47,824 ¥17,550 ¥2,487 ¥6,435 ¥236,861 Millions of yen 2015 Japan China Netherlands Asia Americas Europe Consolidated total ¥124,938 ¥22,235 ¥37,421 ¥16,144 ¥2,560 ¥5,585 ¥208,883 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Japan China Netherlands Asia Americas Europe Consolidated total $1,039,677 $185,030 $311,401 $134,342 $21,303 $46,476 $1,738,229 (Change in presentation method) “China” was included within “Asia” in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, but from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 it has been presented as an independent category since the value of tangible fixed assets in China exceeded 10% of the tangible fixed assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 have been restated accordingly. DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 109 (5) Information by major customer Information for the year ended March 31, 2015 is omitted as no single customer accounts for more than 10% of consolidated net sales as reported in the consolidated statements of operations. (6) Loss on impairment and goodwill by reportable operating segment Losses on impairment by reportable operating segment for the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 are as shown below: Millions of yen 2014 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Loss on impairment ¥1,149 ¥6,065 ¥511 ¥— ¥1,056 ¥— ¥8,781 Millions of yen 2015 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Loss on impairment ¥2,041 ¥15,587 ¥4,558 ¥43 ¥8,147 ¥— ¥30,376 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Loss on impairment $16,984 $129,708 $37,930 $358 $67,795 $— $252,775 Goodwill by reportable operating segment as of March 31, 2014 and 2015 is as shown below: Millions of yen 2014 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Amortization of goodwill ¥1,435 ¥ 190 ¥1,116 ¥16 ¥(43) ¥— ¥ 2,714 Balance as of March 31, 2014 ¥9,517 ¥1,639 ¥4,676 ¥16 ¥(42) ¥— ¥15,806 Millions of yen 2015 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Amortization of goodwill ¥1,410 ¥95 ¥ 763 ¥ 41 ¥(48) ¥— ¥2,261 Balance as of March 31, 2015 ¥8,108 ¥— ¥1,193 ¥101 ¥ 7 ¥— ¥9,409 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2015 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Amortization of goodwill $11,733 $791 $6,349 $341 $(399) $— $18,815 Balance as of March 31, 2015 $67,471 $ — $9,928 $840 $ 58 $— $78,297 110 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Note 17 Contingent liabilities At March 31, 2014 and 2015, the Companies were contingently liable as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2014 2015 2015 (a) As endorser of notes discounted or endorsed ¥ 55 ¥ 27 $ 225 (b) As guarantors of indebtedness of: Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates ¥4,198 ¥ 8,896 $74,028 Others 2,595 2,538 21,121 ¥6,793 ¥11,434 $95,149 (c) As guarantor of accounts receivable negotiated to third parties ¥1,650 ¥ 1,885 $15,686 Note 18 Asset retirement obligations Asset retirement obligations recorded on the consolidated balance sheet (1) Outline of asset retirement obligations Recorded asset retirement obligations are expenses such as costs for removal of asbestos from buildings owned by the Company when they are demolished and costs for restoration under the lease agreements of real estate in connection with land. (2) Calculation method of asset retirement obligations The Companies estimate that the period of use is from one to ten years, and calculate the obligations using the discount rates between 0.3% to 3.4%. (3) Changes in the total amount of asset retirement obligations In the year ended March 31, 2015, estimated amount of the obligation was changed as the more precise estimation of the obligation of restoration to original condition became possible. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2014 2015 2015 Beginning balance ¥1,131 ¥1,246 $10,369 Reconciliation associated with passage of time 19 168 1,398 Reconciliation associated with changes in accounting estimates 186 5,420 45,103 Decrease due to the fulfillment of asset retirement obligations (114) (31) (258) Other 24 58 482 Ending balance ¥1,246 ¥6,861 $57,094 Note 19 Subsequent events At the Board of Directors’ meeting held on May 8, 2015, appropriations of retained earnings for year-end dividends applicable to the year ended March 31, 2015 were duly approved as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Cash dividends: ¥2.00 ($0.02) per share ¥1,966 $16,360 DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 111 Independent Auditor’s Report 112 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Independent Assurance Report DATA SECTION TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 113 Corporate Data As of March 31, 2015 Established June 17, 1918 Head Offices Osaka Head Office 6-7, Minami Hommachi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Osaka 541-8587, Japan Tel: +81-6-6268-2132 Tokyo Head Office Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1, Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585, Japan Tel: +81-3-3506-4529 Fiscal Year-End March 31 Common Stock Authorized 3,000,000,000 shares Common Stock Issued 984,758,665 shares Paid-in Capital ¥70,817 million Shareholders 98,874 Number of Teijin Group Companies Japan 58 Overseas 94 Total 152 Number of Teijin Group Employees Japan 9,268 (Consolidated) Overseas 6,512 Total 15,780 Stock Exchange Listing Tokyo Stock Code 3401 Stock Transfer Agent Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Dividends Dividends are usually declared in May and November. Reports Available to Shareholders Corporate Profile and Investors Integrated Report Kessan Tanshin (Japanese summary financial report) The Teijin Group CSR Report, Fact Book (web site) Annual Meeting of Shareholders The annual meeting of shareholders is held before the end of June. Independent Public Accountants KPMG AZSA LLC Teijin on the Internet http://www.teijin.com Teijin’s web site offers a wealth of corporate and product information, including the latest Integrated Report, financial results and corporate news. Investor Relations If you have any questions or would like copies of any of our reports, please contact: Masahiro Ikeda, General Manager, IR Section, Finance & Investor Relations Department, Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1, Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585, Japan Tel: +81-3-3506-4407 Fax: +81-3-5510-7977 E-mail: ir@teijin.co.jp ■ Italicized product names and service names in this report are trademarks or registered trademarks of the Teijin Group in Japan and/or other countries. Where noted, other italicized product names and service names used in this report are protected as the trademarks and/or trade names of other companies. © 2015 Teijin Limited. All Rights Reserved. 114 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 http://www.teijin.com This Integrated Report uses environmentally friendly FSCTM-certified paper. It is printed using a vegetable-based ink by a waterless printing method. Issued 2015.8
