POSITIVE I M PAC T 2 0 1 4 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CO N TEN TS The Framework 6 Corporate Practices and Policies  osmos Energy’s Business Principles, Responsibilities to Stakeholders, K Ethical Conduct, Our Workplaces, Kosmos and the Environment, Kosmos in Society, Commercial Relationships Spotlights Ghana 12 Mauritania 18 Morocco 22 Western Sahara 26 Suriname 30 Case Study 32 Fisheries and offshore oil and gas activity IPIECA/OGP/API CONTENT INDEX 34 2014 Performance Data 36 ABO UT THI S REPORT We believe open examination of our performance builds trust and credibility, and will ultimately better equip us to have a positive and lasting impact everywhere we work. Our 2014 report, “Positive Impact,” explains how corporate responsibility is a fundamental part of how Kosmos conducts its business across the globe. The report reviews the application of our Business Principles and supporting policies across each stage of the upstream project lifecycle. We continue to strengthen governance over our corporate responsibility performance, including a focus on embedding corporate responsibility into our daily business activities. Selection of information for inclusion in the report was based on internal materiality discussions, external stakeholder feedback, and consultations with third-party experts. Among other things, the report is designed to communicate our progress on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which we support and endorse. Additionally, this report is guided by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) standards for voluntary reporting in the oil and gas sector and by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), although it is not in accordance with GRI guidelines. This report has not received external assurance from an independent third party. We appreciate your interest in our company and welcome your feedback on how we can improve our reporting or on broader corporate responsibility issues. Please contact us at CorporateResponsibility@kosmosenergy.com. ABOUT THE COVER: A group of girls from Nzulezo, a village located in the Jomorro District of Ghana’s Western Region, travel home from school. Through Kosmos Energy’s social investment partnership with the Safe Water Network, the girls’ village of Nzulezo now has access to clean drinking water. Kosmos Energy openly addresses the challenges and responsibilities that come with being a successful oil and gas exploration and production company. We understand that our operations can have significant social and environmental impacts, and we are committed to making those impacts positive. To that end, we have implemented company-wide principles and policies that guide us in being a partner of choice for governments, non-governmental organizations and people in the countries and communities in which we operate. 2 Ireland Portugal Morocco Western Sahara Mauritania Senegal Ghana Suriname T H E PROJECT LIFECYCLE The diagram below outlines the oil and gas project lifecycle, from entering a new market, to exploration and, if successful, production. Our corporate responsibility activities in each area are increased as we move along the project lifecycle. The colors on the diagram coordinate to the countries and areas of operation listed on the map above to show where we are in the project lifecycle. T O T A L E M PLO YE E S 20 1 4 234Phase 6 Production 155 Phase 2 Phase 3 Exploring the Undertaking 20 1 3 block through exploration 248 site and seismic drilling surveys 180 Total Employees U.S. Employees E MPLO YE E DI ST R I BU T I ON Phase 1 United States 66% Entering a new market Phase 4 PhaseGhana 5 20% Appraisal Development drilling Morocco 10% Suriname 2% Mauritania 2% 3 F I N A N C I A L H IGHLIGH TS T OT AL EMPLOYEES Year Ended 2014 2013 2012 2014 (in thousands, except volume data) 234 155 Revenues and other income $ 882,738 $ 852,153 $ 671,101 2013 Income tax expense 298,898 166,998 101,184 248 Net income (loss) attributable to 180 common shareholders 279,370 (91,044) (67,028) Total Employees Net cash provided by operating activities 443,586 522,404 371,530 U.S. Employees Capital investments 548,991 437,750 426,894 Total Assets 2,972,766 2,345,826 2,366,123 EM PLOYEE DIS T RIBU TION Total long-term debt 794,269 900,000 1,000,000 Total shareholders’ equity 1,338,959 992,335 1,028,906 United States 66% Production (thousand barrels of oil per day) 23.4 22.5 16.6 Sales volumes (million barrels) 8.7 7.8 5.9 Ghana 20% Morocco 10% Total proved reserves (million barrels of oil equivalent) 75 47 43 Suriname 2% Crude oil (million barrels) 73 45 42 Natural gas (billion cubic feet) 14 11 9 Mauritania 2% A BO UT KOSMOS Kosmos Energy is a leading independent oil and gas exploration and production company focused on frontier and emerging areas along the Atlantic Margins. Our assets include production and major development projects offshore Ghana, as well as exploration licenses with significant hydrocarbon potential offshore Ireland, Mauritania, Morocco, Portugal, Senegal, Suriname and Western Sahara. As an ethical and transparent company, Kosmos is committed to doing business the right way. Our Business Principles articulate our commitment to transparency, ethics, human rights, safety and the environment. Kosmos is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the ticker symbol KOS. For additional information, visit www.kosmosenergy.com. 4 FELLOW STAKEHOLDERS Similarly, in our above-ground work, we go beyond formulaic social projects to help host countries plan for future success in managing hydrocarbon resources for the long term. We invest in building the capacity and skills needed to support a vibrant petroleum sector capable of creating economic opportunity that is widely shared. This approach is based on the values articulated in our Business Principles, as well as an unwavering commitment to corporate responsibility that doesn’t change with the price of oil, shifting political winds, or other trends. It’s simply the right thing to do – and, as a result, it’s good business practice. The more successful our host countries become, the more valuable our assets will be. Being Some people believe oil and a responsible operator and a good neighbor in one country opens new opportunities in another. gas companies focus their BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD efforts solely on what happens Since joining Kosmos last year, I have challenged the organization to continuously raise its level of below the earth’s surface. performance. I want Kosmos to find new and better ways to be a partner of choice in the countries where we At Kosmos, we’ve made a choice operate so we can have a positive and lasting impact. In 2014, we continued to make progress: to operate differently. In Ghana, where we have our largest presence outside the U.S., we took an important step forward when we We recognize that delivering lasting benefits to formed an independent advisory council comprised of local communities and developing mutual trust with respected Ghanaian business leaders who help us better host governments is just as important as operating understand national and local dynamics so that we can competently below the ground. In this regard, we have support the country’s needs as a developing economy. two objectives that we pursue in tandem: In Western Sahara, where geo-political sensitivities 1. Find and develop sustainable oil and gas resources have stifled foreign investment for more than 40 years, Kosmos was the first international oil company 2. Be a force for good in our host countries and create a to complete a Social Impact Assessment, as well as positive legacy engage more widely with local people on the potential We bring to these belowand above-ground objectives impacts and benefits of hydrocarbon exploration. the same commitment to excellence and a differentiated Consistent with our Business Principles, we have also approach. In our technical work, we use contrarian made infrastructure investments and brought skills thinking and the latest technology to find oil and gas in training to local people ahead of drilling our first places where others have failed or chosen not to look. exploration well offshore Cap Boujdour. 5 In Mauritania, where other oil and gas companies have will use our influence with host governments to raise left several thousand tons of drilling waste in storage issues relating to human rights in our activities. In this at the Port of Nouakchott, we worked with the regard, we have introduced authorities in Morocco Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development and Western Sahara to an independent organization to create a novel solution to this pressing waste that works to prevent violent conflict and promote management issue that has baffled others in the sustainable security, just as we did successfully during industry. A pilot program will be launched in 2015 and our time in Cameroon. We have also carried out includes an approach that trains local companies and human rights and labor rights training in Mauritania, shares technology to ensure a sustainable solution for and are vigilant in the selection of local contractors the long-term. across every country where we operate. In Morocco, which has yet to experience a These challenges are not insurmountable; indeed we are commercially viable hydrocarbon discovery, we making strong progress in many areas. However, they continued to support the government’s efforts to require our continued attention involving frank dialogue prepare for the future. We brought international with local communities, host governments, business experts to Morocco to lead workshops on best partners, and other stakeholders. We welcome these practices in natural resource management, conversations and will learn from them. transparency, and stakeholder consultation. These initiatives are aimed at making sure a potential discovery benefits the local people. KEY CHALLENGES Although we are proud of our accomplishments, we approach the future knowing that we will continue to wrestle with a number of challenges, including: Safety – Nothing is more important than the safety of our people and contractors, and it remains a key area of focus with the goal of continuous improvement. Whilst we did not have any lost time injuries in 2014, our total recordable injury rate for the year was 2.03 which did not replicate last year’s strong performance. POSITIVE IMPACT We are actively working with our contractors to improve and I am deeply committed to the goal of Many years from now, I want the people in our host creating an injury-free workplace. countries to remember Kosmos not just as the company that discovered oil. I want them to remember Kosmos Western Sahara – There will always be some who have differently, as the company that discovered oil and a different point of view about companies investing in worked in the right way – engaging early, listening Western Sahara while its political status is unresolved carefully, creating a shared agenda, and investing in – perfect consensus in a society with so many people and their capabilities to deliver real social benefit. competing interests is not possible. It’s important to balance these opinions with a universal truth: people Sincerely, want the opportunity to improve their lives. We believe hydrocarbon development can be an engine for greater economic opportunity. Our activities have been, and will always be, conducted in a manner that is inclusive and for the benefit of local populations. Human Rights – We work in some regions where there are documented concerns regarding the conduct of public security as well as labor practices, including Andrew (Andy) G. Inglis forced labor. Our Business Principles are clear: we Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will not tolerate human rights abuses. Equally, we 6 FRAMEWORK: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY POLICIES AND STRATEGY Corporate responsibility is core to who we are and what we do. It is integral to our strategy of advancing the societies where we work and in so doing, enhancing shareholder value by positioning Kosmos as a favored partner for governments and citizens alike. In delivering this strategy, we are prepared to be ambitious in embracing recognized international best practices, as well as trying new progressive approaches, both below and above the ground. Corporate-level policies and practices provide a strong framework for the work we do around the world. They enable us to maintain consistently high standards no matter where we do business. They are also critical to our success regardless of each project’s stage in its lifecycle. KOSMOS ENERGY’S BUSINESS Traditional leaders from Ghana’s Western Region visit the water treatment facility built by PRINCIPLES Kosmos in partnership with Safe Water Network. Kosmos Energy was founded in 2003 with the goal of creating value The Business Principles define how Directors. The Board of Directors for all of our stakeholders, including we conduct our business and the has six standing committees: shareholders, employees, and the standards to which we hold ourselves Audit Committee, Nominating and governments and citizens of our host accountable. Directors, officers and Corporate Governance Committee, countries. We recognize that providing employees are required to comply Compensation Committee, External reliable returns to investors can only with all aspects of the Business Affairs and Political Risk Committee, be achieved over the longer term Principles in their work activities Health, Safety, Environmental through advancing the societies in and in representing the company. and Security Committee, and the which we work. Kosmos Energy’s Board of Directors Exploration Assurance Committee. In 2013, we adopted the Kosmos is focused on building a successful, The External Affairs and Political Energy Business Principles to formalize long-term future for the company and Risk Committee evaluates company this commitment. These Principles ensures we maintain good corporate performance against our Business reflect the values that have guided us governance. Principles and advises management on through our first decade. They are also issues of potential political or societal The Board is made up of eleven informed by what we have learned risk. The Health, Safety, Environmental members, including five Independent over those early years and by what our stakeholders have told us about their Kosmos supports the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, commonly expectations of a responsible oil and referred to as EITI. The EITI is a multi-stakeholder initiative designed to promote gas company. good governance and improved development outcomes from the exploitation The Business Principles are supported by of oil, gas and mining. It aims to increase transparency and accountability and to reduce the risk of misuse of resource revenues. The EITI requires that participating more detailed policies, procedures and governments establish a steering group made up of representatives of government, management systems, many of which business and civil society to oversee a process whereby companies declare all are referenced in this report and on our material payments to government, and the government declares all material receipts website. The Principles reflect our values from extractive companies. These are then reconciled, and discrepancies identified and practices across six key areas: and investigated by an independent expert. As a supporting company of the EITI Responsibilities to Stakeholders at an international level and in the EITI implementing countries where we operate (currently Ghana, Mauritania and Senegal), Kosmos actively promotes the EITI and Ethical Conduct its mission. We also advocate for adoption of the EITI in our other countries of Our Workplaces operation, such as Morocco and Suriname. Kosmos and the Environment Kosmos in Society Commercial Relationships 7 and Security Committee periodically  ommunities: We are committed C and respecting human rights, we holds joint meetings with the External to engaging and creating work to be a welcome investor. Affairs and Political Risk Committee to opportunities, as well as respecting Our Stakeholder Engagement and review shared objectives and ensure human rights. Community Development Policy alignment. Business partners and suppliers: We details the standards to which we will allocate contracts through a fair hold ourselves accountable when RESPONSIBILITIES TO STAKEHOLDERS interacting with communities. We have and transparent process, and adhere Strong and supportive relationships to our Business Principles in our published this policy on our website, with our stakeholders underpin operations. www.kosmosenergy.com/responsibility. our business and create value. Our Kosmos also engages in public policy Civil society organizations: We will stakeholders are shareholders, discussions occurring globally around engage and listen – recognizing the employees, governments, communities, energy and corporate responsibility. important role that they can play in business partners and suppliers, and We have been in dialogues with holding governments and companies civil society groups. We believe we global institutions regarding policy to account. We will seek out NGOs have unique corporate responsibilities development and human rights, as valued partners in our social to each of these groups: such as the UN Global Compact’s investment programs. Shareholders: We aim to create Business for Peace forum, in which Investing in community and various stakeholders come together attractive returns and manage our stakeholder relationships early, prior to discuss how the private sector can business risks. to beginning exploration drilling, is create positive impacts in challenging Employees: We aim to provide a a key part of Kosmos’ approach in operating environments. stimulating and rewarding work every country where we operate. Our environment, and will not tolerate relationships with stakeholders in the unfair discrimination. countries and communities where we Host governments: We seek to operate create mutual value and are establish a collaborative approach central to our success. and contribute to national By taking a collaborative approach, development. acting in an open and accountable manner, contributing to development Kosmos Energy staff review plans during a meeting at the shorebase in Agadir, Morocco. The Kosmos team is comprised of capable and diverse individuals, each with entrepreneurial spirit and a commitment to open and honest communications. 8 FRAMEWORK: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY POLICIES AND STRATEGY ETHICAL CONDUCT We are committed to compliance with applicable laws and aim to align our conduct with international standards of good practice. Corruption in some resource-rich countries has prevented their citizens from benefiting fully from the fruits of their country’s natural resources. We have zero tolerance of corruption and have, and will maintain, a robust compliance program. We are politically neutral and will not provide funding for candidates or party political entities. Transparency Kosmos aims to be a leader in transparency. We report publicly on the material aspects of our performance and advocate for transparency in our dealings with host governments. Through such disclosures, we aim to strengthen investor confidence, as well as Policy. Our Compliance Committee We also share publicly the key terms of stakeholder’s access to information reviews requests for payments on our agreements with governments. To about our company. behalf of, as well as gifts and travel this end, all of our existing Petroleum Many people question the contributions Agreements (PAs) and Production provided to, government officials to our industry makes to oil and gas Sharing Contracts (PSCs) are filed ensure that these requests conform producing countries around the world. with the U.S. Securities and Exchange to our policies. Our Internal Audit It is in our best interest to increase Commission. We have also published team conducts an annual audit of the knowledge and understanding about these contracts on our website to make company’s compliance with its business these contributions and to support them easily accessible to interested ethics policies. greater accountability for how the parties. Kosmos maintains an anonymous revenues are spent. As such, we publish Whistleblower Hotline as a means for In 2014, we made a policy decision to material payments to governments employees, third parties and others disclose payments to governments wherever we operate and support to report, without risk of retaliation, at a project level, as laid out in the implementation of the Extractive violations of any Kosmos policy. There new European Union Accounting Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) are several channels through which to Directive, an initiative that aims internationally and in our countries of make a report. All reports go directly to improve corporate accounting operation. to the Chief Compliance Officer, the practices and transparency. Our project level disclosures are available on our Director of Internal Audit, and the website: http://www.kosmosenergy. Chairman of the Audit Committee. com/responsibility/transparency.php. We annually disclose the number of alerts lodged via the hotline, and in We believe that this type of disclosure 2014 decided to take the additional is beneficial to investors, civil society, step of disclosing the result of any and local communities, and reflects investigations, while still remaining evolving international expectations. careful to protect the identity of any Compliance Training involved parties. Please see Performance Data on page 38 for more information. All Kosmos employees, board members and contractors are required to attend OUR WORKPLACES anti-corruption training yearly and We aim to recruit the most certify that they have read, understood, appropriately skilled individuals and will comply with our robust Antiand to provide stimulating and Corruption Compliance Policy, which rewarding careers. We will not we have published on our website. To tolerate unfair discrimination and ensure comprehension and compliance, are committed to recruiting and all employees are required to pass a promoting people on the basis of test on the Anti-Corruption Compliance their potential and performance. 9 Located in Paramaribo, Suriname, The Kennedy School is a well-regarded institute for hearing impaired and deaf children. Kosmos has provided educational resources for the primary school classes as well as items for vocational classes, such as sewing machines. We aim to create a culture that Dallas office, enabling them to assume that we use to design and monitor our combines an entrepreneurial and teamgreater responsibility and handle the corporate, country, and project-level based approach with ethical behavior. increasingly complex work that we are activities. A copy of The Standard is As of year-end 2014, we had 236 transitioning to the local country offices. available on our website at http://www. employees around the globe. We are In May 2014, Kosmos undertook a kosmosenergy.com/responsibility/ determined to incorporate the ideas reorganization to ensure the company’s health-safety-environment-security.php. and experiences new employees bring structure and processes were efficient This management system establishes to our organization while retaining and effective, and that the company and communicates expectations our unique culture and upholding was prepared for future challenges. in broad management categories our Business Principles. In 2014, we This reorganization was ahead of the including safety and health, undertook a renewed focus on our recent significant drop in oil price and risk management, emergency international human resources and resulted in 35 jobs lost in our Dallas preparedness, and environmental increased training for local (non-U.S.) office. Kosmos provided generous protection. Specific goals and targets employees. Approximately 88% of our severance packages and job counseling for each element are benchmarked employees in our countries of operation to the affected employees. Please see and measured to track the company’s were local, working for Kosmos in the Performance Data on page 37 for performance. Our Board of Directors, their home country. employment metrics. through the HSES Board Committee, We are committed to developing our oversees our environmental KOSMOS AND THE ENVIRONMENT performance as well as management workforce and growing capability – organizationally and individually. We Kosmos works hard to identify system implementation. do this through secondments, our new and then prevent or minimize any We conduct an Environmental Impact intern program, personal development, environmental impact from our Assessment (EIA) for drilling and and opportunities for training. We operations. Our environmental policies seismic acquisition projects, the results provide development opportunities to and procedures are clearly defined of which are then incorporated into an qualified employees hired into our local in The Standard, our internal HSE Environmental Management Plan. offices through assignments in our management system. The Standard sets out the performance measures 10 FRAMEWORK: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY POLICIES AND STRATEGY KOSMOS IN SOCIETY We undertake a variety of Corporate Social Investment (CSI) activities, as well as seek to support capacity building programs. We frame our CSI programs around the theme of “Building Human Capacity and Economic Opportunity.” We believe this consistent theme, while underscoring the tangible benefits our investments provide to people living in the countries where we operate, will also provide practical benefits to the company by creating greater clarity about the way we view these activities. We want to highlight to our employees, contractors and to external stakeholders that our CSI activities are an integral part of our larger business plans and objectives rather than discrete, unrelated programs. Where it has the potential to increase the impact or sustainability of our programs, we often work collaboratively with public authorities, This assessment considers both routine Just as important is our emergency NGOs or community groups. operations and potential incidents. response preparedness and ability to Resource areas generally evaluated minimize environmental impacts in the Human Rights include air quality; water quality; unlikely event of an incident. Kosmos sediment quality; plankton, fish, and maintains access to a supply of special Kosmos has a deep commitment to fishery resources; benthic communities; equipment to be used in the event of a respecting and protecting human marine mammals; sea turtles; marine well control issue. Our Source Control rights. Our Human Rights Policy, and coastal birds; protected marine Emergency Response Plan and crisis available on our website, is a framework species and habitats of concern; drills prepare us to respond to a well for ensuring that our behavior toward fishing, shipping, and maritime industry; control incident. employees, contractors and external recreation and aesthetics/tourism; and stakeholders is both responsible archaeological resources. Climate Change and respectful. In implementing our Human Rights Policy, Kosmos seeks In 2014, Kosmos conducted EIAs We believe climate change is real and to apply the UN Guiding Principles on for seismic or drilling operations in understand that the topic is important Business and Human Rights. A key Mauritania, Morocco, Western Sahara, to stakeholders around the globe. We element of the Guiding Principles is for and Senegal. report greenhouse gas emissions for companies to encompass within their Kosmos-operated assets on page 36 risk assessments the extent to which Drilling Safety of this report. the company’s activities may pose risks Drilling safety and emergency In 2014, Kosmos received an invitation to those around them. preparedness are key to Kosmos’ from the Climate Disclosure Project Many of the countries that we enter continued success in preventing (CDP) to complete their questionnaire. are new to oil and gas exploration environmental incidents. Kosmos After considering the request, Kosmos or production and are sometimes carefully considers the technology and declined to participate. At this time, unprepared for this activity, as drilling equipment we use together Kosmos does not operate any of its evidenced by the lack of administrative with the training of personnel who will producing assets. Kosmos’ only oil capacity, governance structures and be involved. We have a Well Integrity and gas production is offshore Ghana, institutional strength that are necessary Management System (WIMS), which where our co-venturer, Tullow Oil, for sustainable energy development. dictates the design and execution of operates the Jubilee field. Tullow Oil drilling, completions and testing of participates in the CDP, reporting In some instances, development of wells in a safe and efficient manner. It is emissions and management processes natural resources occurs against a consistent with strong well governance on behalf of the Jubilee co-venturers, background of pre-existing tensions, procedures, international standards including Kosmos. We will revisit this or as history has shown in some cases, and best practices. In addition, well decision when Kosmos has material, it may trigger conflicts related to the design and procedures are thoroughly operated oil and gas production. distribution of benefits. In addition, the vetted in a Three Tier Review Process social and environmental footprint of our to assure that well barrier elements are Kosmos commends the Government of Ghana for becoming the first African established, tested, and verified during government participant in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, well operations and the well lifecycle. joining in early 2014. 11 activities has the potential for significant impacts from the activities, and collect on whether to work with them. One direct and indirect impacts upon coastal information that enables our future company that we are pleased to work communities. A failure to manage activity to benefit workers, communities, with is Atwood Oceanics. To read these issues may negatively impact and local businesses – assuming more about the business relationship individuals and the societies where we that exploration is successful and between Kosmos and Atwood work, damage Kosmos’ reputation and development proceeds. While the Social Oceanics, and about the Atwood relationships with stakeholders, create Impact Assessment conclusions often Achiever drillship, please see the case complex legal liabilities and cause help to further validate the Environmental study on page 20. disruption to our business. Impact Assessment, in 2015 we aim to In addition to our social investment Kosmos is implementing the Voluntary improve the connectedness of the two activities, another way we strive to Principles on Security and Human assessment processes. build human capacity and economic Rights in our operations. We have We exercise due diligence so as to opportunity is through our supply worked with The Fund for Peace, a understand and manage the impact of chain. We aim to maximize the amount U.S. non-profit organization that works our operations. Due diligence identifies of goods, services and employment to prevent violent conflict and to our actual and potential human rights that we source locally. Our business promote sustainable security in both impacts and is a continuing process. approach aims to enable people to find our past operations in Cameroon and Rather than conducting a stand-alone jobs, and local businesses to access in our current operations in Morocco company-wide human rights risk supply chain opportunities, through and Western Sahara. Our goal is not assessment, we have incorporated Kosmos. This is often difficult at the only to prevent potential human rights human rights into all of our Social exploration stage in our project lifecycle, abuses, but also to encourage security Impact Assessments, and have based where there are few non-technical providers to serve as advocates for our efforts on potential risk exposure. jobs created, and highly specialized protecting and promoting human rights. Adopting a proactive approach to equipment is often sourced globally. human rights is good risk management. In 2014, we began using third parties Social Impact Assessment to conduct early-stage supply chain COMMERCIAL RELATIONSHIPS Social Impact Assessment is a key part assessments in areas where we plan of how we capture and manage any Kosmos expects our business partners, to drill in the coming year. We are societal or community risk stemming agents, suppliers and contractors to refining this approach in 2015, and from our operations. The results of our behave ethically. Their willingness to plan to continue to increase our local Social Impact Assessments help develop observe standards comparable to content levels, without compromising the baseline of socioeconomic conditions those set out in our Business Principles on quality, safety, or the timely delivery before activity begins, understand and our supporting policies will be of critical goods and services. and mitigate any potential adverse a key consideration in any decision A woman fills her buckets with clean drinking water for her family in the Western Region of Ghana. The tap pictured above is fed by one of the water filtration stations built through Kosmos Energy’s multi-year partnership with Safe Water Network. Prior to the Safe Water project, the water sources in this coastal area were contaminated by high levels of salinity. 12 COUNTRY SPOTLIGHT: GHANA GHANA Ghana is the only country where Kosmos produces oil and gas. Kosmos and its partners, including the operator, Tullow Oil, discovered the Jubilee field in 2007 and spent 42 months drilling appraisal and development wells, and leading an integrated project team to install the Kwame Nkrumah Floating Production, Storage, and Offloading (FPSO) vessel and build the necessary subsea infrastructure before production began in late 2010. Although Kosmos does not oversee day-to-day operations of the Jubilee field – that is the responsibility of the field operator – we take an active role in technical decisions, stakeholder engagement, social investments, and other activities to ensure that Jubilee oil and gas production benefits the country. capacity of the FPSO, while also The appraisal of the Mahogany, protecting the reservoir for the longTeak and Akasa (MTA) discoveries term and maintaining the highest within the Greater Jubilee area possible safety and environmental was completed at year-end 2014 performance. as scheduled. A Declaration of We believe prospects for the Commerciality was made at the end of 102,000 petroleum sector in Ghana remain strong. The Tweneboa, Enyenra and March 2015 and we expect to submit a development plan for the Greater Ntomme (TEN) project, the second Jubilee area, incorporating both average bpd Jubilee and MTA, to the Government major oil development in Ghana, is on track to deliver first oil in the second of Ghana later this year. In 2014, the Jubilee field produced half of 2016. The project is now more MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT approximately 102,000 barrels of than 50 percent complete with all 10 oil per day. The operational focus in of the wells expected to be online at Tullow Oil remains the operator of Ghana remains centered on gradually first oil already drilled. the Jubilee field and thus oversees increasing production to the maximum daily operations related to oil and gas production. It is responsible for much 13 of the data reporting associated with how the field is managed and produced. Job creation and broad economic development are the best legacies that a company can give As a non-operator, Kosmos provides technical expertise to ensure the its host country. After 10 years of investment field is operated in accordance in Ghana, Kosmos continues to increase its with international standards. We level of engagement and wants to be a part of are focused on ensuring activities creating our country’s future. are carried out in a safe and environmentally sound manner, Seth Kwasi Dei while increasing the below-ground Member of the Kosmos Energy value of the asset. Ghana Advisory Council Our active monitoring of safety and environmental performance contributed to the Jubilee partnership achieving an important safety milestone in 2014: there were no Lost Time Injuries (LTI) on the FPSO Gas Company’s (GNGC) onshore gas Full commissioning of the gas Kwame Nkrumah, or any other Jubilee processing facility at Atuabo. This new processing plant in Atuabo is operations base, throughout 2014. infrastructure has allowed the Jubilee expected to be completed in 2015. This achievement represents an Partners to ship approximately 60 to Kosmos has worked with GNGC improvement from 2013 and can be 80 million cubic feet of natural gas throughout the process to: attributed, in part, to an increased per day to the Atuabo facility. Once focus on safety awareness and training. processed, gas is then shipped to a Enable a successful start-up of gas Volta River Authority (VRA) facility at exports from Jubilee Field Gas from the Jubilee Field Aboadze where it is used to generate Design a critical by-pass of the Kosmos continues to play a critical role electricity for public and industrial use. Atuabo facility which will enable in ensuring that Ghana benefits from Using Jubilee field gas to generate reliable power generation by the natural gas produced alongside oil reliable power is expected to providing a second channel through at the Jubilee field. improve living conditions, strengthen which gas can be shipped to economic development, and save VRA’s facility in Aboadze, and In November 2014, the Jubilee Unit connected the FPSO Kwame Nkrumah money for Ghana by displacing the Plan an expansion of the Atuabo to the offshore pipeline to initiate gas imported diesel fuel historically used facility to accommodate TEN and flow to Ghana National to generate electricity. Jubilee production growth. ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING Ten years after entering the country, Kosmos continues to be a proud, long-term partner for Ghana. We are entering a new and deeper phase in our relationship with the government and the people in communities where we live and work. For Kosmos, this means working with the government and other stakeholders to address the broader needs of the society, not just developing oil and gas. We are looking to create a shared agenda based on mutuality, respect, and trust. Advisory Council In September 2014, Kosmos took another step to demonstrate our long term commitment to Ghana by announcing the creation of an independent advisory council comprised of respected Ghanaian business leaders who will advise the 14 COUNTRY SPOTLIGHT: GHANA company and serve as a sounding board as we work to support Ghana’s needs as a developing economy. Kosmos has a healthy and realistic Members of the council were selected understanding that its continued success for their business knowledge, is linked to the promise of Ghana’s future. independent and diverse points The creation of an independent advisory of view, and history of working council is a strong signal that Kosmos successfully in Ghana. takes this matter seriously and wants By listening to the advice and insights to better understand local perspectives, of these business leaders, Kosmos challenges, and opportunities. will play a more active role in helping Ghana develop the full potential of its oil and gas resources. There is Ishmael E. Yamson Member of the Kosmos Energy natural alignment between Kosmos Ghana Advisory Council and Ghana when it comes to creating a well-managed and increasingly productive petroleum sector. Members of the advisory council include: Philippe Ayivor, a retired executive of The Coca-Cola Company; Felix Addo, Country Senior Partner Transparency and has been an EITI Compliant of PricewaterhouseCoopers Ghana; Country since 2010. The multi-year Kosmos believes resource revenues S  eth Kwasi Dei, Founder of collaboration between industry, are more likely to be managed in Leasafric and Blue Skies Ghana government and civil society has the best interests of a country if Limited; and created a smooth process, and we payments and receipts are made are proud to have been part of this Ishmael E. Yamson, non-executive transparently, and if accountability important step taken by the Ghanaian Chairman of Unilever Ghana measures are in place for the use of government. We continue to serve Limited and Standard Chartered these revenues. Ideally, this process is on the national multi-stakeholder Bank Ghana Limited, and former underpinned by a national dialogue steering committee, in addition to Chairman of Ghana Investment in which industry plays its part with reporting data to Ghana EITI. Promotion Centre (GIPC). government and civil society. In another demonstration of our In 2014, Ghana completed its third commitment to transparency and EITI oil and gas reporting cycle industry accountability, Kosmos supported the Ghana Journalists Awards in the Anti-Corruption and Business reporting categories. Engaging with the Ghanaian public on the oil and gas industry Managing public expectations following an oil and gas discovery is one of the main challenges facing international oil companies and host governments. It is common for people to expect a country’s fortunes to change overnight, and media coverage in the wake of a discovery can sometimes fuel this type of speculation in the absence of a more informed public dialogue. Similarly, lack of credible information about how the oil and gas industry works can result in misconceptions about the industry. Knowing that stakeholders in Ghana The Western Regional Coordinating Council, at the First Western Regional Business and Financial have been eager for more information Services Excellence Awards, presented Kosmos Energy with the only award in the oil and gas – about the industry, our activities, and sector, recognizing our immense contribution to the economic development of the Western Region. the current status of Jubilee field and 15 Working with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of Ghana, Kosmos held a consultation meeting to get local stakeholder feedback on the initial findings of a marine and fisheries impact study of the waters offshore Ghana. To read more about the study, please see the case study on page 32. other developments – Kosmos inmembers of the community to raise offshore might be having adverse creased its public outreach in 2014 to: concerns and submit complaints. effects on marine life in Ghana’s Government agencies not directly Eight grievances were logged through Western Region. involved in oil and gas operations this formal channel in 2014. In response, Kosmos facilitated an Local media To supplement our formal grievance independent study to understand mechanism, we have also stationed the situation, establish the potential Non-governmental/civil society Community Liaison Officers (CLOs) underlying causes, and propose organizations in local villages to solicit and respond actions to address stakeholders’ Fishing groups to feedback from people in the marine environmental concerns. community. In 2014, we heard a The study was conducted by Acorn Local community associations general concern shared by local International, a leading global Academia fisherman that oil and gas activities consultancy with expertise in This proactive engagement included one-on-one meetings, forums, workshops, and project commissions aimed at educating stakeholders, managing expectations, and promoting good governance of industry activities. During these meetings, we encouraged stakeholders to continue the dialogue with our company by visiting our local office, email, phone calls, our grievance mechanism, or the Whistleblower Hotline. Grievance Management Kosmos has two main approaches to managing grievances. The first is a formal grievance mechanism – established in 2012 – that enables 16 COUNTRY SPOTLIGHT: GHANA interactions between the offshore oil and gas industry and fisheries, please see page 32. POSITIVE IMPACT In 2014, we continued to support social programs in Ghana through Kosmos-initiated programs, as well as those led by the Jubilee Partners. Our programs and activities focus on building capacity, providing alternative livelihoods, improving health and hygiene, and enhancing socio-economic conditions in the Western Region. Social Investments Most of our social investment spending in Ghana for 2014, over 2.2 million dollars, is our contribution to the Jubilee Unit’s environmental and social matters, A draft report was released by social investment projects, which with support from the Environmental Acorn International in October 2014. focus largely on vocational training. Protection Agency (EPA) of Ghana. The final report was published and These initiatives are overseen by a The study included more than 100 provided to the public in February team of representatives from Jubilee stakeholder interviews, evaluation of 2015. The study found that issues companies, including Kosmos. In more than 200 scientific studies, and such as declining fish stocks, whale addition, we invested $711,000 in a series of local workshops held in mortality, algal blooms, and tar social programs independent of the Takoradi, Accra and the Nzema East balls were not directly attributable Jubilee Unit. Municipal and Ahanta West Districts to to offshore oil and gas activities. test the findings and invite feedback. To read more about this study, and Kosmos provided improved fish smoking ovens to two communities in the Western Region, which enable local women fishmongers to improve the quality of their product and limit spoilage. This initiative has helped the women sustain their income year-round, preventing post-harvest losses during the peak fishing season. 17 In 2014, Kosmos and Safe Water Network, with support from the Community Water and Sanitation Agency, completed the third and final phase of a water project in line with a commitment made in November 2012 when we began construction of water stations to bring clean water to 19 communities in the Western region. The third phase, which was completed in December 2014, benefits 12,300 people in eight communities. The newly built facilities – four water stations and three substations – produce approximately 25,000 liters per day, or 750,000 liters per month, for each community. The project also includes health and hygiene programs, as well as behavioral change strategies which are being implemented in communities and schools. Community volunteers, school children, and other groups form the basis of the outreach program and training is provided so these teams can visit homes and educate people regarding safe water handling. Since it began in 2012, the water project has benefited more than 27,000 people in 19 communities in four districts. There are now seven working water purification facilities, eight trained local operators, and more than 64 vendors engaged. Local technical and financial capacity building initiatives and a sustainability monitoring system have been launched to ensure successful were delivered in November 2014. The Opportunity (SEO) Africa, a program management of the water facilities. remaining materials are in storage that provides educational and career pending completion of the facilities at programs to young people from Ebola Preparedness Kumasi and Tamale. underserved and underrepresented The 2014 Ebola epidemic is the communities. The graduates were Local Hiring and Development given paid internships and provided largest in history, affecting several countries in West Africa. Although Kosmos strongly supports local the opportunity to complete their Ghana has not had a confirmed case content initiatives in Ghana and national service at the Kosmos office in of the disease, the country recognizes other countries. Where openings Accra. The interns have been assigned that it needs to be prepared to handle exist, we seek to employ suitably to work in different departments a potential outbreak. qualified people from the places where they are challenged to apply where we work. We believe in their skills and encouraged to explore Following extensive discussions other interests. While working with Ghana’s Ministry of Health to providing opportunities for highly motivated people to demonstrate with Kosmos, the interns also visit understand the country’s needs other companies, such as Zeal and level of preparedness, Kosmos their skills to contribute to the growth of the organization. We practice a Environmental Technologies Limited, donated critical equipment for three and participate in our proactive infectious disease containment and culture that promotes employee and organizational capability. outreach engagements to broaden treatment centers in Kumasi, Tema their understanding of various facets and Tamale. The equipment included Kosmos has been working with and of the oil and gas industry and its generators, incinerators, and other training students from the National impact on Ghana and its people. critical supplies worth approximately Service Program for the past three $325,000. The initial equipment and years. In 2014, we welcomed graduates supplies for the first facility in Tema from Sponsors for Educational 18 COUNTRY SPOTLIGHT: MAURITANIA MAURITANIA Kosmos acquired its acreage position offshore Mauritania in 2012 when it signed three contracts with the Société Mauritanienne Des Hydrocarbures et de Patrimoine Minier (SMHPM) covering the C8, C12, and C13 offshore blocks. The three blocks have a combined area of approximately 27,000 square kilometers. Since acquiring extensive 2D and response, aviation safety, and security. 3D seismic data offshore Mauritania We also completed an Environmental in 2013, Kosmos has focused on Impact Assessment. We worked with Kosmos on their preparing to drill by doing the below During our assessments, we learned environmental and social impact ground technical work necessary to that there are no disposal options maximize the chance of exploration assessments to facilitate a genuine available in Mauritania for certain success, as well as conducting abovedialogue with local people. Our involvement waste streams expected to be ground activities, such as stakeholder generated during operations, such reassured local people that their voices engagement, so as to begin in the as non-aqueous drilling fluid, a were heard and helped Kosmos better right way. synthetic-based mud that might understand their questions and concerns. contain cuttings, mineral oils, MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT biodegradable esters, or olefins. Abdallahi Sene Kosmos started drilling operations With no disposal services available President of Biomacène offshore Mauritania in November in Mauritania, we learned that there Keur Macène, Mauritania 2014, and plans to complete up to are several thousand tons of drilling two wells in 2015. waste – created by other companies Prior to increasing our drilling-related during previous drilling campaigns – activities, Kosmos conducted a risk currently being stored in the Port of assessment that surveyed waste Nouakchott, awaiting treatment or management, emergency medical export to other countries for disposal. response for workplace safety, oil spill 19 APPROXIMATELY 27,000 SQUARE KILOMETERS BLOCK C12 MAURITANIA BLOCK C13 BLOCK C8 After many discussions with relevant authorities in Mauritania and waste disposal companies in both Morocco and Mauritania, the Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development agreed to allow Kosmos to develop a pilot program for the treatment and disposal of some of the drilling waste in Mauritania. The program will use a centrifuge to separate a waste stream into its constituent parts – water, oils and solids – for further treatment with microorganisms prior to disposal. SIA without being required to do was has been an Extractive Industries The pilot program will include a made in accordance with the Kosmos Transparency Initiative (EITI) local content and capacity building Energy Business Principles. ‘Compliant Country’ since February component to train local companies To complete the SIA, we 2012. Kosmos’ Country Manager is a to handle such waste streams in commissioned RPS Group along member of the country’s EITI National the future. In addition, Kosmos will with Biomacène (a local NGO) to Committee, one of eight private propose regulatory discharge limits complete the study. Social impacts of sector representatives. based on international and regional laws for disposal. The pilot program routine activities and offshore drilling POSITIVE IMPACT is expected to be operational in time operations were found to be minor to receive waste streams from our to negligible. The primary concerns As we continue our exploration drilling operations. Three local waste expressed by the local population drilling program in Mauritania in 2015, companies will work on the project related to protecting the environment, Kosmos is working hard to engage to promote technology transfer sourcing local goods and services, with and support the communities into Mauritania, as well as create a creating jobs, and transparency. where we operate through programs service industry capable of meeting that enhance skills and quality of life. Kosmos designed a locally-appropriate the needs of oil and gas companies grievance mechanism for drilling to Social Investments operating in the country. allow for intake of grievances through locally adapted channels, such as We have invested in several social ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING from community liaisons and local projects and we are currently Since entering Mauritania in 2012, authorities, as well as via phone, email, evaluating opportunities to expand our Kosmos has engaged with a wide letter, and in-person at our office in social investment programs in 2015. range of stakeholders, including Nouakchott. English language training program government, communities, fishermen, in Nouakchott media and civil society. Transparency Kosmos is supporting PC-Vision, a We are pleased to support local non-governmental organizaSocial Impact Assessment Mauritania’s robust commitments to tion, as it implements an English Although a Social Impact Assessment revenue and contract transparency. training program at the vocational (SIA) is not required by Mauritanian Mineral resources represent over a training school Centre de Formation regulations, Kosmos voluntarily quarter of Mauritania’s total revenue, et de Perfectionement Professionels conducted an SIA covering the and the Mauritanian Hydrocarbon (CFPP). The English program is a potential impact area for the offshore Code of 2011 requires companies to complement to the CFPP’s existing C8 block, where initial drilling is taking disclose the payments they make vocational training curriculum. place. The decision to conduct an to government. Further, Mauritania 20 COUNTRY SPOTLIGHT: MAURITANIA CASE STUDY | The Atwood Achiever In 2013, Kosmos signed a long-term contract for Like Kosmos, Atwood Oceanics is committed to the newly built Atwood Achiever drillship. We are protecting the safety and health of the people pleased to have secured this state-of-the-art vessel who work on their rigs and onshore locations, and to support our exploration drilling over the next to preserving the environments where they work. several years. Construction and commissioning of Atwood’s Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) the drillship was completed on time, on budget, Management System has been developed and and with an exceptional safety record, largely due implemented to ensure the safety of individuals to the close collaboration between Kosmos and (personal safety) and entire installations (process Atwood Oceanics. safety) through compliance with operating standards and the effective use of safety tools. The rig began operations for Kosmos in Mauritania Atwood’s HSE Policy defines its commitment to in November 2014. its employees and other stakeholders. Atwood The Atwood Achiever is an ultra-deepwater, believes that careful planning and precise execution dynamically positioned drillship capable of are the key ingredients to a safe offshore working operating in 3,658 meters of water and drilling environment. Atwood employees are expected to depths of up to 12,200 meters. The ship to practice “Stop Work Obligation” whenever is 238 meters long, 42 meters wide, and has they have concerns that a task might be unsafe accommodations for 200 personnel. The Achiever or inadequately controlled – this ensures that it is is designed with the most advanced technologies done safely, the first time. for protecting and preserving the environment. When it comes to safety and environmental The drillship has four mud pumps and two blow incidents, Atwood and Kosmos believe that out preventers, which are state-of-the-art and have “Zero is Achievable.” upgraded capabilities for shearing and subsea intervention. For more information on the Atwood Achiever, please see http://www.atwd.com. We are very pleased to have the opportunity to support Kosmos on this important exploration campaign with our most modern and capable drilling vessel. Our two companies share a common commitment to safety, environmental stewardship and operational excellence, and this has been evident in the start-up and operation of the Atwood Achiever. Rob Saltiel President and CEO Atwood Oceanics 21  roviding meals for low P and building effective governance Human Rights income families and institutions. The results of the Kosmos seeks to apply the United  For the past two years, Kosmos assessment will influence our social Nations Guiding Principles on has supported the Mauritanian Red investment program in Ndiago. Business and Human Rights in Crescent’s initiative to provide the every country where we work. The needy with food during Ramadan, Local Content and Supply Chain nature of our operational footprint a period often marked by price We believe in doing our part to enduring exploration drilling offshore increases that can put basic items sure the benefits of our exploration Mauritania means that our exposure out of reach for many families. Kosactivities are shared as widely as to potential human rights risks is mos’ involvement has ensured more possible. Kosmos wants local people currently limited. than 3,000 people had food to feed and businesses to participate in the their families. Our local employees Nonetheless, we have undertaken a economic opportunities created by its in Nouakchott have volunteered to stage-appropriate human rights risk operations. assist in food distribution. assessment and we are currently Mauritania has been producing oil incorporating appropriate mitigation Participatory needs assessment since 2006 and has seen increased measures into our activities based of Ndiago offshore exploration over the last on the findings. Kosmos commissioned a socio-ecodecade. This history of oil and gas nomic baseline and needs assessMauritania outlawed forced labor activity enabled Kosmos to hire expement of the municipality of Ndiago, in 1981. In order to demonstrate our rienced local people to staff our office an area in southern Mauritania support for this position, Kosmos and our supply base at the port of directly onshore from our operahas tightened contract language Nouakchott. tions. The project took place over a and audit rights. We have also period of months. The assessment We have also commissioned Acorn Inconducted fit-for-purpose human was carried out by local professionternational to complete a supply chain rights training for our employees als in partnership with Counterpart assessment and assist in developing and select contractors in Mauritania. International, a global development our local hiring and contracting stratnon-profit organization that helps egy. We aim to maximize the goods, communities with food security and services and employment we source nutrition, economic development, from Mauritania without compromising safety and quality standards. A recent graduate of Kosmos-sponsored English classes at a vocational training center in Nouakchott, Mauritania is awarded her graduation certificate by Kosmos Energy Vice President and Mauritania Country Manager Mohamed Limam. 22 COUNTRY SPOTLIGHT: MOROCCO MOROCCO Kosmos continues to mature prospects for exploration drilling offshore Morocco. We drilled our first well there, known as FA-1, in April 2014. The well reached a total depth of 3,830 meters and was plugged and abandoned after failing to encounter commercial hydrocarbons. The well was the first in a series of MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT We also increased investment in play-opening wells designed to unlock Kosmos has offices in Rabat, the building the infrastructure at the port the Agadir Basin. capital of Morocco, as well as our of Agadir necessary to support our Importantly, FA-1 encountered oil and shore base at the port of Agadir. drilling campaign offshore Morocco. gas shows, suggesting the presence of We have invested significantly in Kosmos and its contractors upgraded a working petroleum system. The well safety equipment and training for also provided key seismic calibration employees and contractors working information and the well results are at the port of Agadir. In 2014, we now being integrated into Kosmos’ had a Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) ongoing petroleum system analysis of zero, and many of the man hours of the basin. The potential timing and contributing to this excellent result location of our next exploration well is were from workers at the port. We still being determined. aim for an injury-free workplace no We continue to maintain activities at matter where in the world we operate our shore base in Agadir in between and recognize that each individual drilling operations. As one of the first needs to play a role in this effort – companies to explore offshore the through safety vigilance, awareness country in recent years, Kosmos conof surroundings, and focusing on tinues to help set the standard for how the task at hand. the industry does business in Morocco. 23 certain facilities at the port, such as challenging. We are eager to build educational non-profit organization installing drilling mud plants and other capacity early, so that in the event that works to prevent violent conflict equipment. Throughout the process, of an oil discovery, the industry can and promote sustainable security. we sourced as much equipment and contribute to the sustainable devellabor as reasonably possible from local opment of the country. As such, we suppliers and contractors, ensuring have spent considerable time working that they adhered to international with ONHYM and other government standards of safety and service. stakeholders to increase awareness of POSITIVE IMPACTS international best practices regarding ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING resource development and the experiOur social investment program in ences of other countries. Morocco is focused on enhancing In Morocco, we work closely with the local capacity and creating economic Office National des Hydrocarbures In 2014, we organized two workshops opportunity. Kosmos has invested in et des Mines (ONHYM), the governfor ONHYM and other government social projects across the country: ment entity overseeing hydrocarbon stakeholders in which international exin Rabat where our main office is exploration. The government is a key perts came to Morocco to lead full-day located, and in the coastal areas partner in managing industry risks and sessions on best practices in Social Imnearest our offshore operations in the addressing challenges in a responsible pact Assessment and managing public Essaouira and Agadir regions. manner. expectations around oil and gas. We have also been working with the MoIn collaboration with the Ministry For countries like Morocco that are roccan government on issues related of Agriculture and Marine Fisheries, relatively new to offshore deepwater to security and human rights, in partKosmos provided funding for two oil and gas exploration, managing the nership with U.S.-based The Fund for women’s fishing cooperatives near potential social, environmental and Peace, an independent research and Agadir in the towns of Sidi Abed economic impacts of success can be 24 COUNTRY SPOTLIGHT: MOROCCO Kosmos continues to support Corps Africa, an organization that matches Moroccan youth with communities throughout Morocco to design projects that address poverty at local levels. Kosmos sponsored a Corps Africa fellow working in a rural village near Agadir in 2014. In addition to addressing local poverty, the program enhances the skills of young development practitioners so they can continue to contribute positively long after they leave Corps Africa. INJAZ Al-Maghrib is a non-profit focused on delivering a broad base of entrepreneurship training opportunities to Moroccan youth by partnering with the private sector. Kosmos has supported INJAZ AlMaghrib’s work in linking secondary and tertiary education with the business world and entrepreneurship and Sidi Ifni. Benefitting over 200 The cooperative in Sidi Abed received for three consecutive years, and we women, our support is continuing training during the summer of 2014, are looking forward to partnering with work started under a U.S. Millennium and has been packaging algae since INJAZ on the program’s expansion Challenge Corporation grant to their training. The Sidi Ifni cooperative into more schools in 2015. promote cooperative development will be focused on producing fish and management, product quality, products. Kosmos plans to continue hygiene and safety, entrepreneurship, supporting these cooperatives, with and leadership development. next steps being training in marketing and business skills. CASE STUDY | Morocco Capacity Advancement Partnership Kosmos has partnered with Chevron Morocco to develop and fund a new program designed to advance capacity in Morocco across three main focus areas: the oil and gas industry, economic development, and healthcare. In the oil and gas focus area, Kosmos is assisting in the development of a petroleum engineering ‘minor’ at local academic institutions, as well as providing support to enhance the technical capacity and skill level of ONHYM engineers and technical staff to meet the needs of the emerging hydrocarbon sector. In the economic development focus area, Kosmos and Chevron, along with the implementing organization Mercy Corps, are assisting in the establishment of a Moroccan Center of Excellence in Corporate Social Responsibility and Economic Development that will serve as a resource for ONHYM, private companies and social development organizations. The healthcare focus area has engaged U.S. medical universities and the organization HEARTT to develop train-the-trainer programs for Moroccan doctors and specialist doctors, particularly in the field of maternal and child health. 25 26 SPOTLIGHT: WESTERN SAHARA WESTERN SAHARA Kosmos has held rights to explore the Cap Boujdour block, an area of approximately 22,000 square kilometers located 70 kilometers offshore Western Sahara, since 2006 under a petroleum agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco, which includes our partner, the Office National des Hydrocarbures et des Mines (ONHYM). Western Sahara is a UN-designated only proceed in accordance with the Non-Self-Governing Territory, one 2002 UN Legal Opinion. of 17 such territories in the world. Kosmos operates the Cap Boujdour We are extremely attentive to the license with a 55 percent equity sensitivity of the area and to the interest along with ONHYM (25 requirements of international law. percent) and Capricorn Exploration We have been guided by the 2002 and Development Company Limited, UN Legal Opinion on resource a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cairn exploration and development in nonEnergy PLC (20 percent). self-governing territories, including its explicit application to exploration MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT for hydrocarbons offshore Western Sahara. In late 2014, Kosmos began drilling of approximately 500 meters. The its first exploration well offshore Kosmos’ current activities are focused discovery was non-commercial, and Western Sahara, known as CB-1, to on exploration and do not involve the the well was plugged and abandoned. test the Al Khayr prospect, a large production of resources. Our activities structure containing several stacked The CB-1 well was designed to open have yet to prove conclusively Cretaceous-age reservoirs. the frontier Laayoune Basin. While not whether sufficient hydrocarbon a commercial find, this first well in the resources are present to justify On March 2, 2015, Kosmos announced basin de-risked further exploration by commercial development. Kosmos that the CB-1 exploration well had demonstrating a working petroleum Energy and the Kingdom of Morocco encountered hydrocarbons. The system, including the presence of have signed a Joint Declaration of well penetrated approximately 14 a hydrocarbon charge, as well as Principles, which made it clear that meters of net gas and condensate effective trap and seal. The well development of any commerciallypay in clastic reservoirs over a results confirmed the substantial viable hydrocarbon resources would gross hydrocarbon bearing interval exploration potential of the Cap 27 2014 to meet with local people organizations, the tourism industry, regarding our exploration plans and and the fishing community. Because ongoing social investment programs. Kosmos’ exploration well was to be drilled far offshore, with a limited ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING onshore presence, many of our Prior to drilling the CB-1 exploration meetings specifically targeted coastal well, Kosmos conducted a Social businesses and organizations related Impact Assessment (SIA) in Western to tourism and fishing. Sahara to present the project to The SIA helped to validate and local stakeholders and identify confirm the findings of the and address potential concerns. Environmental Impact Assessment, This assessment was conducted to as well as the social baseline study. complement the EIA that Kosmos had The assessment did not reveal any conducted earlier in the year. The SIA significant adverse impacts from strengthened our understanding of the drilling project. However, the potential socioeconomic impacts and process did draw our attention to Boujdour block, which includes a created a strong foundation for our several important local concerns that diverse range of independent plays ongoing local dialogue. While an SIA we immediately worked to address, and fairways with multiple prospects. is a standard practice of the oil and particularly in the areas of access Going forward, the key exploration gas industry worldwide, we believe to benefits, the environment, and challenge is finding reservoirs of this is the first time an international transparency. Stakeholder feedback commercial size and quality. company operating in Western Sahara also highlighted key local issues that has initiated such a process. will require ongoing commitment We are analyzing the information and attention, even as the broader gathered from CB-1 and integrating The SIA study area was defined according to potential impacts of sociopolitical issues regarding a it with additional 3D seismic data potential discovery are addressed. we recently acquired to refine our the drilling project, and also took exploration plan, including deciding into account the bigger picture of In our Position Statement and the on the location and timing of a a possible oil discovery offshore Joint Declaration of Principles potential second well. Western Sahara. – both of which are available on Consultations targeted individuals our corporate website, www. Bringing Benefits to the Region that may have been potentially kosmosenergy.com, and our Western impacted, or concerned that Sahara-specific website, www. Prior to drilling the CB-1 exploration they would be impacted, by our kosmosinwesternsahara.com – we well, Kosmos commissioned a leading operations. We held meetings have publicly committed to ensuring global consulting company to with elected officials, business that local populations are involved, complete an early-stage oil and gas leaders, tribal leaders, as well as consulted, and benefit equitably and supply chain analysis, which included representatives from civil society in a transparent manner from any a field mission to Western Sahara and potential future development. locations within Morocco. This study has contributed to our understanding of the region so that in the event of exploration success, we can maximize local employment and supply chain opportunities. Rather than using existing facilities in Agadir, Morocco, or Las Palmas, Spain, to support CB-1 drilling operations, Kosmos chose to support its offshore crew change operations from Dakhla. Kosmos invested capital into improving the Dakhla airport by expanding its heliport. The heliport project resulted in the construction of temporary hangers, enabling Kosmos’ helicopters to use the facility. Local companies were hired to do the construction and the project demonstrated our commitment to investing in Western Sahara. A Kosmos community relations coordinator has been living and working in Dakhla since November 28 SPOTLIGHT: WESTERN SAHARA Kosmos has engaged intensively with relevant institutions of the While most of the interactions that we have had with local stakeholders were Government of Morocco to encourage broadly positive toward oil and gas exploration, the following are excerpts from progress on the development of a a concerned stakeholder letter we received in 2014, and how we responded. We clear framework for the eventual have published the full text of the letter and our response on our website. development of hydrocarbon resources offshore Western Sahara in “Precisely by siding with the Moroccan government, driven by your own economic interests, you are accordance with the 2002 UN Legal destroying our future. We have a right to self-determination, as stated by the International Court of Justice, Opinion. To this end, Kosmos has repeated over and over by the United Nations and recognised by the entire international community. We co-hosted a number of roundtables have the right to choose the political future of our country. It is our decision – not yours, not the Moroccan on resource governance and government’s. Only after we have made our decision known, will it be clear to you with whom you should management of the benefits from do business. Not before. hydrocarbon development and “We do not want Kosmos Energy or Cairn Energy or any other company to drill for oil in our country benefit distribution frameworks. before we have had the chance to exercise our right to self-determination. We ask for your support for that As we continue to prepare offshore right. You have a unique chance to create peace; by refraining from drilling until the voice of the Saharawi prospects for further exploration people has been heard.” drilling, we will continue to engage EXCERPT FROM OUR RESPONSE: with local people, as well as consult with the Government of Morocco on “If our exploration well is successful, it will take several years and much more work to determine whether the wider issues facing oil and gas sufficient hydrocarbon resources exist to justify development. Part of that work will be further engagement with development. local populations, as well as consultation by the Government of Morocco on the wider issues facing successful In addition to the feedback we have hydrocarbon development. received on the ground in Dakhla, “We understand and appreciate your desire for self-determination. Kosmos supports the UN-led effort to resolve we have also received letters and Western Sahara’s political status. As a private enterprise, however, we do not have a role to play in the political emails regarding our presence process. We remain hopeful that a solution can be reached to end the nearly 40 year stalemate and we will in Western Sahara. We have certainly support the outcome of the negotiation. made efforts to respond to all “No one benefits from maintaining a status quo that has resulted in virtually no private sector economic such feedback, whether through development for the people of the territory. We believe responsible resource development can and should proceed face-to-face discussions or other in parallel with the UN-led discussions on the region’s future. We also firmly believe that the 2002 UN Legal correspondence. Opinion lays out a clear path for resource development to co-exist with the political process, as long as any such resource development is conducted for the benefit of the people of the territory.” POSITIVE IMPACTS Kosmos continues to work with the Kingdom of Morocco to ensure that if benefits for the people of the territory. local people. A commercial discovery commercial resources are discovered Together with our partners, we would potentially lead to significant offshore Western Sahara, they are are making a significant financial foreign investment and job creation. developed in a manner that complies investment to generate information Responsible exploration now, in tandem with international law and reflects best about the resources that may exist. with continued work to ensure that the practices in resource management. If Understanding whether oil and gas people of Western Sahara will benefit our exploration efforts are successful, resources exist offshore can be a from any oil revenues, is an ethical and resource development has the potential first step toward realizing greatly appropriate course of action. to create tangible social and economic increased economic opportunity for Our phased approach to above-ground activities in Western Sahara has been based on our project lifecycle Early-stage exploration and seismic acquisition Preparing to drill Drill ready • Stakeholder Engagement • Expand Social Investments •H  old local Environmental • Risk Assessment • Conduct EIA Workshop • Publish contract • Conduct SIA • Implement Environmental and • Government workshops • Hire community relations Social Impact Management Plan • Supply Chain and Local Content coordinator, based in • Ensure cultural awareness Assessment the territory and respect among travelling • Early Social Investments • Executive visits employees and contractors • Local content • Security and human rights 29 Before Kosmos began exploration offshore Western Sahara, we invested in bringing early benefits to local communities through infrastructure investments and other programs. Much of this on-the-ground work has focused on stakeholder engagement and social investment, consistent with how we do business everywhere we operate. To best determine where social investment could have a positive impact, Kosmos undertook needs assessments in Dakhla and Boujdour, working respectively with AMIDEAST, a leading non-profit organization engaged in international education, training and development activities, and the High Atlas Foundation, a non-profit organization specializing in Dakhla, and local people have been is working with the Ministry of Health grassroots development. The studies recruited as teachers for the classes. to provide health education at the provided valuable insights and were schools to increase student awareness the basis for designing our social Schools Infrastructure and Hygiene of sanitation practices, disease Project in Boujdour investment projects, which are listed prevention, and personal hygiene. below. One of the findings of the study conducted by High Atlas Foundation Responsible Resource Development Workforce Development, Training and was that seven local schools lacked Kosmos remains confident that Education in Dakhla hygienic and private genderresponsible resource development in At the vocational training center segregated bathroom facilities. This Western Sahara has the potential to in Dakhla, AMIDEAST provides was contributing to an above-average create significant long-term social and soft-skills and language classes to incidence of skin and eye disease economic benefits for the people of 18-35 year-olds who are seeking among students, as well as lower the territory. Kosmos, working with its employment. The project has attendance rates among female partners including the Government components specifically targeting students. of Morocco, will only proceed with the fishing community, co-operatives, With the help of High Atlas development in accordance with and entrepreneurs. Upon completing Foundation, Kosmos is providing international law and good practices. the training classes, AMIDEAST the seven schools in Boujdour with We believe that economic development assists students with their career plan, clean drinking water facilities and of the territory can and should proceed including the search for internships new, gender-segregated bathrooms. in parallel with the UN-led mediation and jobs. A local program coordinator More than 4,750 students are directly process, without adversely affecting its has been hired by AMIDEAST in benefiting from the project. Kosmos progress or outcome. A helicopter waits at the temporary hangar Kosmos’ built at the Dakhla airport. We selected Dakhla as the base of our drillship crew changes in order to maximize the local economic benefits of our presence. The airport was not previously set up to manage this type of helicopter operation, and we ensured that contracts for the civil works were awarded locally. 30 COUNTRY SPOTLIGHT: SURINAME SURINAME Kosmos’UPPERposition offshoreSTRATIGRAPHIC CRETACEOUS Suriname represents PLAY TYPEthe expansion of our portfolio into South America. Kosmos holds a 50 percent working interest in Block 42 and Block 45. This position provides an exciting opportunity to explore the Upper Cretaceous stratigraphic play type along the northeast margin of South America. To better understand the local MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT 50% WORKING context and engage early with Suriname is a country with a pristine stakeholders, Kosmos established an environment, with 386 kilometers INTEREST office in Paramaribo in 2012. Investing of coastline, much of which is manin a community and stakeholder groves. These mangroves protect BLOCK 42 relationships prior to any exploration coastal areas from erosion and flooddrilling is a key part of Kosmos’ strategy ing. Kosmos will be supporting efforts in every country where we operate. BLOCK 45 to preserve mangrove forests in the Coronie district and raise awareness of the role that mangroves play in protecting the coastline through education efforts in local schools. SURINAME ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING As part of our corporate commitment with developing the Contingency to build local expertise and protect Plan. We will continue to fully support the environment, we have engaged Staatsolie, Suriname’s national oil with government stakeholders on company, and other organizations on the need to develop and implement this initiative in the coming year. a National Oil Spill Contingency Plan Further, in 2015 we plan to conduct in Suriname prior to an expected local consultations as part of the increase in industry activities offshore Environmental and Social Impact Asduring 2015 and beyond. Kosmos sessment for our future drilling plans is the industry representative on a offshore Suriname. The results of this multi-stakeholder committee tasked assessment will be captured in our 31 Suriname is still in the early stages of exploration. What we are witnessing in our offshore is positive and there is clear forward momentum. We are pleased that we could attract a company like Kosmos because they can play an important role in helping to unlock the geological puzzle that seems to mirror the Tano basin offshore Ghana, where Kosmos and others have had success. Like Staatsolie, Kosmos is planning for exploration success. Our ultimate aim is to ensure that the true potential of oil and gas resources will be realized for the benefit of Suriname. Kosmos is strongly supporting efforts to increase the technical skills of the future (oilfield) workforce.” Students at the Saramacca Technical School conduct a laboratory experiment on electrical currents. Kosmos has supported the school by providing electrical science tools and other classroom equipment, thus enabling the students to have increased hands-on experience prior to seeking employment. Mrs. Marny Daal-Vogelland Manager, Petroleum Contracts Staatsolie Maatschappij Suriname N.V. / State Oil Company Suriname N.V. As we analyze seismic data and refine research. The laboratory is scheduled our exploration plans, we continue to be completed in 2015. Kosmos also to implement social investment sponsored students from the Geology projects that impact a wide range of department to attend the inaugural operational management plans and beneficiaries. Guided by a KosmosSuriname International Mining, will influence our social investment initiated needs assessment, we have Energy & Petroleum Conference and program. designed our social programs in close Exhibition (SURIMEP) in June 2014. collaboration with Staatsolie, the POSITIVE IMPACTS national oil company. In Suriname, we In addition to investing in primarily focus on improving science communities, Kosmos hires locally and technical education for youth, as Since joining Kosmos in 2012 as the HSES officer whenever possible. Although we do well as job skills training and national in Suriname, I have had several professional not yet have drilling operations in workforce development. Suriname, our office in Paramaribo development opportunities inside and outside When we learned that the Geology currently has four employees, three the company. These opportunities have helped department at Anton de Kom of whom are Surinamese. build my skills, knowledge, and expertise. University, the only university in We regularly provide training and skills Suriname and the school from which I have completed training rotations in the U.S., development opportunities for our many people in the extractives industry Ghana, Mauritania, and Morocco to learn the best local employees. For example, Harvey have graduated, needed laboratory practices of my colleagues. I have also worked Bijnaar, our Health, Environment, Safety improvements to enhance classroomwith external stakeholders in Suriname through and Security Officer in Suriname, has based education and provide additional rotated through our office in Ghana to monthly HSES meetings with offshore operators, courses, Kosmos stepped forward to gain exposure to oil and gas production help. Throughout 2014, we worked with participated in the Suriname National Oil Spill at the Jubilee field, as well as through university faculty to develop a Geology Response Plan working group (NOSCP), and our offices in Mauritania and Morocco lab that meets students’ needs and served as a member of the Steering Committee to observe and assist with exploration enables hands-on learning and for the Regional Activity Center in Oil Spill drilling operations. Combatting for the Wider Caribbean Kosmos is committed to transparency and active promotion of the Extractive (RAC/REIMPEICT). The global culture and Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) wherever we work – even when the perspective at Kosmos Energy has been nation has not yet become an EITI candidate country. In Suriname, we are critical to my success . continuing discussions with government stakeholders regarding the benefits of EITI implementation. For example, as part of our engagement we presented the Surinamese government with a white paper commissioned from the Ghana Harvey Bijnaar EITI coordinator on Ghana’s experience with EITI process, including benefits of Health, Environment, Safety and implementation and lessons learned. We will continue to advocate for increased Security Officer, Kosmos Energy Suriname transparency in the extractive industries, and to offer support based on our experiences with the EITI in the implementing countries in which we operate. 32 CASE STUDY: FISHERIES AND OFFSHORE OIL AND GAS ACTIVITY keep these important stakeholders informed about the nature and duration of our seismic activities. In 2014, Kosmos conducted a 7,000 square kilometer 3D seismic survey offshore Senegal without incident largely due to these proactive measures. Where possible, Kosmos supports fisheries in other ways during and after seismic operations by gathering and sharing marine mammal data acquired during surveys. For example, in Ireland, we are supporting the Marine Renewable Energy Ireland initiative by contributing marine ecological data sets developed during 2013 seismic surveys to help researchers better understand the marine ecology of the Porcupine Basin. Kosmos also supports a similar marine biodiversity initiative in Mauritania – led by GIZ, a German sustainable development organization – to promote understanding and protection of the offshore ecosystem. As an exploration company focused SEISMIC SURVEYS – SENEGAL on frontier areas, our search for oil AND IRELAND and gas often takes us to countries To work successfully alongside the unfamiliar with our industry and where fishing industry, Kosmos engages with fishing plays a critical role in the local coastal communities early in the project economy and society. We recognize lifecycle, ahead of conducting seismic that to be successful, we must share surveys. This process typically involves: the ocean with the fishing industry. Identifying fishing communities ENGAGING WITH LOCAL FISHERIES potentially affected by seismic activities Most fishermen that we engage with believe our industries can coexist, but Holding workshops to educate they often have concerns about: people about what a seismic survey involves, how it is carried out, and Access to fishing grounds any restrictions it entails in the Potential damage to fishing equipareas open to fishing ment from oil and gas activity that Delineating the seismic zone clearly might result in lost fishing time, smaller catches, or reduced income Explaining the risks and hazards associated with the simultaneous Pollution presence of various types DRILLING OPERATIONS – MOROCCO, Impacts on the movement of of activities in the area, and WESTERN SAHARA, AND MAURITANIA fish stocks communicating the “do’s” and “don’ts” for the survey period Successful engagement with the Increased vessel traffic fishing industry ahead of seismic Using various channels to broadly At the same time, they recognize the acquisition creates a foundation of disseminate this information, such as potential benefits of the oil and gas goodwill that can be built upon once distributing printed leaflets at ports industry, including improved maritime Kosmos decides to proceed with or working with local radio stations and port services, and greater ecoexploration drilling. nomic opportunity beyond fishing. In addition, Kosmos hires fisheries In 2014, Kosmos conducted drilling liaison officers (FLOs) from among In every country where we operate, operations offshore Morocco, the local population who sail on the we consult with local fishing Western Sahara, and Mauritania. In seismic vessel and its support vessels communities. Good communication, each case, we used our successful to serve as familiar and primary points trust building, and a sense of goodwill pre-seismic outreach as a template of contact for artisanal fisherman and can go a long way toward creating an for follow-up engagement ahead of commercial fleets. On land and at atmosphere of successful coexistence. drilling. As part of our Environmental sea, field representatives and FLOs Impact Assessments and Social 33 Impact Assessments, we met with The study focused on six concerns local stakeholders to educate them related to the potential or perceived about the projects and address their effects of offshore oil and gas concerns. These meetings were activities. typically held in small group settings. Fishery and fishing During outreach prior to drilling the Whale mortality FA-1 exploration well in the Agadir BaAlgal blooms sin offshore Morocco, Kosmos learned Tar balls the following: Marine environmental conditions Proactive communication to Coastal socio-economic conditions artisanal fisherman, commercial The study found that issues raised Our concerns as both businessmen fleets, and regulators is strongly regarding declining fish stocks, whale valued. In addition to project details, and operators in the fishing sector are mortality, algal blooms and tar balls they welcome general information mainly environmental ones. You [Kosmos] were not directly attributable to about oil and gas activities. explained well that all appropriate offshore oil and gas activities. Grievance mechanisms should be measures have been taken and that you The final report was presented at adjusted to meet the preferences follow international standards recognized a public meeting hosted by Ghana of key stakeholder groups. and approved by the environmental EPA, with the Minister of Fisheries Improvements in safety practices organizations all over the world. attending to emphasize the and culture at the port brought by study’s importance and encourage Kosmos were viewed positively. cooperation among all parties to Khatat Yenja Fishermen, workers, and authorities implement its recommendations. In Fishing Agent appreciated investments in training Dakhla, Western Sahara attendance were traditional chiefs, a and infrastructure ahead of drilling. member of parliament from Ghana’s The safety culture is expected to Western Region, NGOs, oil industry have a lasting legacy at the port, representatives, government officials, to understand the situation, establish preparing local workers for marine experts, and the media. the potential underlying causes, future employment. and propose actions to address This project epitomizes Kosmos’ Access to benefits and opportustakeholders’ concerns. The study was science-based and problem-solving nities in the oil and gas industry conducted by Acorn International, approach to engaging with fishing supply chain is important for a leading global consultancy, with communities. We continue to engage local people. support from the Environmental with the local fishing community in Protection Agency (EPA) of Ghana. Ghana and are aware that meaningful PRODUCTION – GHANA engagement is not the product of The study included more than 100 a one-time study but is rather an Because production might last stakeholder interviews, evaluation ongoing process. 25 years or more, Kosmos takes of nearly 200 scientific studies, and a practical and long-term view of a series of local workshops held in its relationship with the fishing Takoradi, Accra and the Nzema East community, focusing on collaboration Municipal and Ahanta West Districts. that addresses issues and solves problems. In 2014, we heard a general concern shared by local fisherman that oil and gas activities offshore might be having adverse effects on marine life in Ghana’s Western Region. Fishermen complained of dwindling catches and residents feared that marine and coastal conditions might deteriorate. Media reports and special interest groups often contributed to confusion regarding the effects of oil and gas activities, and government agencies did not have the scientific data to separate fact from fiction regarding local energy development and environmental impact. With the input of local fishing and government stakeholders, Kosmos commissioned an independent study 34 IPIECA/OGP/API CONTENT INDEX Kosmos Energy’s corporate responsibility reporting is informed by the IPIECA/API/OGP Oil & Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting. Also shown in the index below are the locations of information demonstrating our support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, both in this report and in other sources, such as our publicly available policies and on our website, www.kosmosenergy.com. Global Page Number Indicator Indicator Compact Where Reported in 2014 CR Number Principle Report CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS E1 Greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 CR Report: Framework 10 CR Report: Performance Data 36 E2 Energy use Not reported E3 Alternative energy sources Not reported E4 Flared gas Not reported ECOSYSTEM SERVICES E5 Biodiversity and 7, 8, 9 CR Report: Framework 9-10 ecosystem services CR Report: Spotlights 30 CR Report: Case Study 32-33 E6 Fresh water CR Report: Performance Data 36 LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT E7 Other air emissions 7, 8 CR Report: Performance Data 36 E8 Spills to the environment 8 CR Report: Framework 10 CR Report: Performance Data 36 E9 Discharges to water 8 CR Report: Performance Data 36 Kosmos did not have any hydrocarbon discharges to water in 2014. Indicators E8 and E9 are combined in our Performance Data as “Hydrocarbon or Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluid Spills.” E10 Waste 8, 9 CR Report: Spotlights 18-19 CR Report: Performance Data 36 THE STANDARD* WORKFORCE PROTECTION HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS HS1 Workforce participation 1 CR Report: Framework 9-10 CR Report: Spotlights 22 www.kosmosenergy.com: Health, Safety, Environment and Security THE STANDARD* HS2 Workforce health 1 CR Report: Spotlights 17 www.kosmosenergy.com: Health and Safety THE STANDARD* HS3 Occupational injury and 1 CR Report: Spotlights 13 illness incidents CR Report: Performance Data 37 PRODUCT HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISK HS4 Product stewardship Not applicable Kosmos Energy’s activities are limited to the exploration for and the production of oil and gas. We produce oil in Ghana only as a non-operator PROCESS SAFETY AND ASSET INTEGRITY HS5 Process safety 7, 8, 9 CR Report: Framework 9-10 CR Report: Performance Data 36-37 THE STANDARD* COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INDICATORS SE1 Local community CR Report: Framework 7, 11 impacts and engagement CR Report: Spotlights 13-16, 19, 23, 27-28 CR Report: Case Study 32-33 CR Report: Performance Data 38 www.kosmosenergy.com: Society and Communities Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* SE2 Indigenous peoples Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* SE3 Involuntary resettlement Not applicable 35 Global Page Number Indicator Indicator Compact Where Reported in 2014 CR Number Principle Report SE4 Social investment CR Report: Framework 10 SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INDICATORS CR Report: Spotlights 16-17, 19, 21, 23-24, 28-29, 31, 32 CR Report: Performance Data 38 www.kosmosenergy.com: Society and Communities Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* LOCAL CONTENT SE5 Local content practices 6 CR Report: Framework 11 CR Report: Spotlights 19, 21, 23, 27 www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* SE6 Local hiring practices 6 CR Report: Framework 8-9, 11 CR Report: Spotlights 17, 21, 31 CR Report: Performance Data 37 www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* SE7 Local procurement and CR Report: Framework 11 supplier development CR Report: Spotlights 21-23 Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* HUMAN RIGHTS SE8 Human rights due diligence 1, 2, 4, 5 CR Report: Framework 10-11 CR Report: Spotlights 21, 28 www.kosmosenergy.com: Human Rights Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* SE9 Human rights and suppliers 1, 2 CR Report: Spotlights 21 Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* SE10 Security and human rights 1, 2 CR Report: Framework 11 CR Report: Spotlights 23 www.kosmosenergy.com: Security Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* BUSINESS ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY SE11 Preventing corruption 10 CR Report: Framework 8 CR Report: Performance Data 38 www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics Kosmos Energy Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy* SE12 Preventing corruption CR Report: Framework 8 involving business partners 10 www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics Kosmos Energy Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy* SE13 Transparency of payments to 10 CR Report: Framework 6-7 host governments CR Report: Spotlights 14, 19, 31 CR Report: Performance Data 36 www.kosmosenergy.com: Transparency Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* SE14 Public advocacy and 10 CR Report: Framework 7 lobbying CR Report: Spotlights 28 LABOR PROTECTION SE15 Workforce diversity and 1, 6 CR Report: Performance Data 37 inclusion www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People www.kosmosenergy.com: Careers SE16 Workforce engagement www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People www.kosmosenergy.com: Careers SE17 Workforce training and CR Report: Framework 8-9 development CR Report: Spotlights 17, 31 www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People SE18 Non-retaliation and 1, 2, 3, 6 CR Report: Framework 8 grievance system CR Report: Spotlights 15 CR Report: Performance Data 38 www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* *PDFs are available at www.KosmosEnergy.com/responsibility/ 36 2014 PERFORMANCE DATA E NVI RO N MENT The Environment data presented in this report is for Kosmos operated assets only. The data represents drilling rigs as well as support vessels. In 2014, Kosmos conducted two workovers in Ghana, Akasa-1 and Mahogany-3, in the West Cape Three Points block. We also drilled our first exploration well in Morocco, and began exploration drilling in Western Sahara and Mauritania. Waste and air emissions are measured in tons, with greenhouse gas emissions measured in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. 2012 2013 2014 2014 2014 Ghana Ghana Ghana Morocco Mauritania Waste (tons) Hazardous 125.3 65.02 7.93 338.53 318.03 Non-Hazardous 156 34.78 15.54 1617.25 1343.78 TOTAL 281.82 99.80 23.47 1955.78 1661.81 Recycled/reused/treated 55% 21% 36% 22% 15% Air Emissions (tons) Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 40607.9 2384.04 1572.27 31525.16 19019.73 Mono-Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 1088.4 2.28 29.18 702.89 432.25 Sulfur Oxides (SOx) 172.8 .18 3.79 18.88 16.96 Methane (CH4) 2.86 15.02 0.09 292.10 158.91 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) 30.7 1.71 0.98 47.14 27.13 Greenhouse Gases (GHGs) N/R1 2699.46 1574.16 37659.18 22356.84 Other Fines and penalties 0 0 0 0 0 Freshwater consumption N/R 0 0 0 0 Hydrocarbon or Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluid Spills 0 0 0 0 0 PAYMEN TS TO GOVERNMENTS ( U SD) 2 The ‘Payments to Governments’ data are reflective of direct payments made to government entities by Kosmos Energy. Not reflected in the numbers below are payments to the port authority in Morocco primarily for leased use of port facilities in the amount of $1.6 million. Please see the footnotes below for further detail on the payments we made to our host country governments in 2014. Ghana Ireland Mauritania Morocco Suriname Surface Rentals 18,000 113,000 54,000 — — Training3 175,000 — 900,000 — — Taxes4 1,263,000 — 228,000 574,000 250,000 Income Taxes5 85,187,000 — — — — Other6 104,000 24,000 300,000 — — TOTAL 86,747,000 137,000 1,482,000 574,000 250,000 Royalties (in barrels of oil) 449,090(7) N/A N/A N/A N/A  /R indicates metrics not reported in previous years. We begin reporting on new metrics as a result of materiality discussions, benchmarking, and improved 1. N reporting processes. 2. Our project-level disclosures are available on our website at www.kosmosenergy.com/responsibility/transparency.php 3. Represents payments made directly to government for satisfaction of training obligations per the Petroleum Sharing Contracts (PSCs). In addition to the numbers above, Kosmos made payments to third party training providers and/or national oil company employees in satisfaction of training obligations per the PSCs totaling $105,000 for Morocco. 4. Primarily local payroll-related taxes and exclusive of withholding taxes remitted on behalf of vendors. 5. In addition to this, Kosmos Energy paid the US government $22.8 million in income tax payments during 2014. 6. Primarily relates to permit renewals and fees for seismic data acquisition outside of licensed blocks. 7. Royalties represent the production entitlement to the Government of Ghana paid in barrels of oil out of Kosmos’ working interest share of production. Based on the annual average of daily Brent prices in 2014, this is worth approximately $44.5 million. 37 H U MA N RES OURCES The data on our workforce is point-in-time as of December 31, 2014. While we continue to report voluntary turnover, this year we expanded the definition to include our global operations rather than only voluntary turnover at our U.S. office. As described on page 9, Kosmos announced the difficult decision to reorganize the company in May 2014, resulting in 35 jobs lost in our U.S. office in Dallas, Texas. This led to a 22% combined turnover rate (voluntary and involuntary) in 2014. We continue to focus on hiring and training local staff from the countries in which we work. The ‘Local Employment’ metric, below, does not include employees in our U.S. office, and we define expatriates as employees in our local country offices who are living and working on a long term assignment in a country not of their origin. 2012 2013 2014 Employees and Hiring Total Employees 249 248 234 New Hires 76 43 31 Turnover 4% 8% 5% Total Employees by Country United States 158 180 155 Ghana 74 50 46 Morocco 8 13 24 Suriname 2 4 4 Mauritania N/A 1 5 Contractors United States N/R N/R 54 Ghana N/R N/R 2 Morocco N/R N/R 76 Suriname N/R N/R 0 Mauritania N/R N/R 4 Local Employment (%) Local 91% 91% 88% Expatriate 9% 9% 12% Workforce Gender Distribution (%) Female Male Female Male Female Male United States 38% 62% 39% 61% 34% 66% Ghana 52% 48% 31% 69% 27% 73% Morocco N/R N/R 47% 53% 38% 63% Suriname N/R N/R N/R N/R 25% 75% Mauritania N/R N/R N/R N/R 60% 40% SA F ETY Kosmos reports safety data for our global operations, including both employees and contractors. The definitions of the safety data reported are consistent with those used by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (now IOGP and formerly known as OGP). Lost Time Injury Frequency represents the number of lost time injuries (fatalities and lost work day cases) per million work hours. Total Recordable Injury Rate refers to recordable injuries (fatalities, lost work day cases, restricted work day cases, and medical treatment cases) per million hours worked. 2012 2013 2014 Total Man Hours 1,621,526 1,741,005 1,972,242 Fatalities 0 0 0 Lost Time Injury Frequency 1.23 0 0 Total Recordable Injury Rate 2.47 1.15 2.03 38 2014 PERFORMANCE DATA SOCIAL We define Social Investment Spending as payments that will directly impact the constituents of social investment projects. Not reflected in the numbers below are indirect costs related to social investment, such as needs assessments and reimbursable expenses incurred by our in-country social investment personnel. All of the Social Investment Spend is for Kosmos-initiated social investment, with the exception of the Jubilee Unit and TEN development project in Ghana, which represents our participating interest in social investments of these non-Kosmos operated projects. We have grievance mechanisms in place in every region where we have drilling operations. The grievance we received in Morocco concerned damage of fishing nets by a drilling support vessel. In Ghana, we received eight grievances regarding the implementation of some of our social investment projects in the Western Region. The unresolved grievances include: the timing of extensions of the SafeWater project, use of the fish smoking ovens, and requests for additional social investment projects. We continue engagement with the concerned parties to resolve these grievances with a mutually-agreeable solution. In 2014, one report was made to the Whistleblower Hotline by an external party. Upon investigation, it was revealed that there had been an incidence of email phishing using a Kosmos Energy email account. Kosmos responded by educating employees on email phishing and prevention, as well as contacting the appropriate regulatory bodies who track such incidents. 2012 2013 2014 Social Investment Spending (USD) Ghana $ 373,000 $ 404,000 $ 711,000 Jubilee Unit and TEN development project 2,699,000 4,739,000 1,509,000 Cameroon 34,000 185,000 168,000 Morocco 80,000 144,000 185,000 Western Sahara N/A N/A 95,000 Suriname 46,000 95,000 141,000 Mauritania N/A 20,000 38,000 Ireland N/A N/A 89,000 TOTAL $ 3,232,000 $ 5,442,798 $ 2,936,000 Grievances Logged / Grievances Resolved Ghana N/A 0/0 8/5 Morocco N/A N/A 1/1 Western Sahara N/A N/A 0/0 Mauritania N/A N/A 0/0 Suriname N/A N/A 0/0 Whistleblower Program Reports N/R 4 1 8176 Park Lane Suite 500 Dallas, TX 75231
