Our Contribution To Social, Environmental & Economic Sustainability 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Table of Contents Message from the CEO ..........................................................3 About GLOBAL CSR ................................................................4 Social Sustainability ...............................................................6 Environmental Sustainability ...............................................20 Economic Sustainability .......................................................23 2 M ESSAGE FROM THE CEO It is important to GLOBAL CSR that we continuously contribute, whilst avoiding becoming a barrier, to Our purpose is to promote sustainable development. sustainable social, environmental and economic As a given, we act in accordance with the principles development. We continue to support the UN Global we advise clients to apply. We believe that the Compact using the UN Guiding Principles on Business and internationally agreed upon principles for sustainable Human Rights (UNGPs) to provide for a consistent and development add needed quality to the field of CSR. transparent system for managing adverse CSR impacts. We The Principles-Based Approach to CSR enables us to acknowledge the importance of the UN Global Compact in address impacts in areas essential to sustainable streamlining international principles for sustainable social, environmental and economic development. development with business and of the UNGPs in establishing Furthermore it provides cost-efficient approaches to the minimum required practice in – or the minimum better manage such impacts. We intend to maintain standard for CSR. our leadership position in the field ensuring that fulfilling our purpose is also profitable for our To put the principles into practice, we rely on the business enthusiasm, creativity and inspiration of our employees and relationships with inspiring businesses to adopt profitable, It is my pleasure to present our fourth Corporate Social engaging and solid, sustainability strategies. We look Responsibility (CSR) report, providing samples of internal forward to continuing our work with CSR in 2014, and aim and external efforts during 2014. GLOBAL CSR was to improve our performance in areas of key importance to established as a consultancy in 1996. As one of the first the future of our planet. professional advisors on CSR worldwide we continue to optimise the social, environmental and economic impacts of our business. The report describes our top priorities for action and provides information on our performance in Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, CEO 2014. The report also includes our objectives for the future. 3 A BOUT GLOBAL CSR O UR W ORK GLOBAL CSR is a privately owned consultancy firm located GLOBAL CSR assists and advises corporations in developing in Copenhagen, Denmark. As a leading Corporate Social and implementing strategies in line with internationally Responsibility (CSR) consultancy firm, we specialise in recognised principles covering the triple bottom line. We creating sustainable solutions for private companies, public named this the Principles-Based Approach to CSR. authorities and organisations in a range of countries and With more than 19 years of practice in CSR and an industries. Since 1996, GLOBAL CSR has carried out extensive network of skilled partners, we are able to assignments in all parts of the world. provide the most qualified, up-to-date and experienced consultancy – anywhere in the world. GLOBAL CSR advisers are recognised as leading experts on the application of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Our goal is to continue to develop innovative and costHuman Rights (UNGPs) and the International Bill of Human effective tools and processes to address sustainability, Rights as the basis of CSR activities in relation to social enabling our customers to fully benefit from their sustainability. GLOBAL CSR experts are active members of investments in CSR. In addition to differentiation and costseveral international professional bodies developing the field efficiency, we can assist in creating appropriate space and of CSR. attention to our customers’ activities. Integrity is pivotal to the way we do business. We offer GLOBAL CSR has experience working with the full cycle of advice that leads to long term sustainable solutions for our CSR implementation from pre-assessment, impact customers and society. Furthermore we only support CSR assessments, risk & opportunity analyses, vision activities that genuinely contribute to sustainable statements, strategies, policies (policy commitment), development. capacity development, project design, action planning, implementation (prevention, mitigation and remediation), responsible sourcing, responsible investments, responsible distribution and accounting (both on the ground in form of 4 tracking performance and communicating and annual to make core international principles for sustainable reporting). In addition, our team has vast experience in development operational and manageable. evaluating both corporate and public programmes. GLOBAL CSR will run a profitable business by: Our comprehensive understanding of business realities in  Performing work for sustainable development based on most sectors and for all sizes of businesses allows us to fully the Triple Bottom Line: social, environmental and address the needs and wishes of our clients. economic sustainability.  Inspiring and assisting corporations, governments and O UR V ISION organisations in developing and implementing CSR and We envision a world of social, environmental and economic thereby creating shared value qualified by international abundance and sustainability; in which all human beings principles.  Maintaining high professional integrity while delivering enjoy the full realisation of their human rights in innovative, cost-effective and simple solutions, which appreciation of their diversity. A world where businesses create value for our customers. live by principles essential to co-creating a brighter future for our planet, for humanity – and not least for economic development. O UR M ISSION GLOBAL CSR’s mission is to be a catalyst for positive social development. We enjoy the ability to function as a preferred partner in advising corporations, governments, multilateral organisations and non-governmental organisations on how 5 S OCIAL S USTAINABILITY New Practices on Human Rights Impact Assessment With the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human With the UNGPs, new practices around Human Rights Impact Rights (UNGPs) endorsed in June 2011, the world’s Assessments need to be developed. To our knowledge no pre-2011 practices or tools were aligned with the UNGPs. GLOBAL CSR has businesses received an authoritative globally recognized conducted extensive research in the area since 1996. The UNGPs require companies to assess impacts on all 48 human rights from the reference point for respecting human rights, including the International Bill of Human Rights (UNGP 12). When conducting the core labour rights. Assessment on all 48 rights in all business units, we are expected to engage – as a minimum – with affected stakeholders (UNGP 18). GLOBAL CSR reviewed the few publicly available assessments. It The UNGPs describe what should be expected from any appears that companies seek to meet the new requirements by business in the world in terms of managing adverse impacts applying pre-2011 approaches. As an example, some assessments seek to predetermine the scope to a few human rights only (typically on human rights, i.e. the rights that are also referenced in including impacts on 8-12 human rights). Some assessments combined limiting the scope of rights with a preconceived notion of the first 6 principles of the UN Global Compact. typical human rights impacts from a certain ‘business function’, in addition to assessing impacts from a limited number of business This Communication on Progress (COP) demonstrates how functions only. Finally, some assessments focus attention to predefined issues involving human rights aspects, such as migration, GLOBAL CSR implements the UNGPs, thus ensuring respect land issues, etc., rather than adopting a rights based approach. for human rights in the organisation. We hope to inspire Also GLOBAL CSR is concerned that very large corporations appear to other businesses that are about to do the same. outsource the entire assessment to experts like us. Considering that assessments have to take place in all operational units and with regular intervals such practice will not be sustainable; focus should In addition we will outline where we work beyond be oriented towards local capacity development to conduct assessments. Companies need to develop capacity locally, compliance, contributing to fulfilling specific human rights empowering local management to take responsibility and ownership principles. of the process. To support this purpose, GLOBAL CSR has developed a Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) tool that companies can use to conduct assessments of their own. Thus, local capacity can be developed using this tool ensuring sustainability in corporate practices. 6 CSR C OMPLIANCE The basic human rights principles are essential for the dignity, well-being and development of all people. Dignity, well-being and development of people are essential for conducting and expanding business. Thus ensuring respect for human rights is good for business. “Respecting human rights” for business is now defined by having in place a management system that, as a minimum, meets the standards outlined by the UNGPs. In short the UNGPs enable all businesses to know their potential and actual adverse impacts and to show what they are doing to address such impacts. All companies regardless of where they operate will have both potential and actual adverse human rights impacts. Additionally, all companies have experiences managing such impacts; e.g. in our efforts to create safe and healthy working conditions. We are now expected to identify potential and actual impacts, and what we do to manage such impacts, in relation to all human rights; not just the right to safe and healthy working conditions. 7 In 2014 GLOBAL CSR created the Human Rights Impact impacts and are taking action to prevent and mitigate such Assessment (HRIA) tool. A new and technically improved adverse impacts; where we do not fully prevent adverse version will be officially launched in 2015. A BETA edition impacts from occurring, realising we ensure access to has also been created for certain clients who will begin remedy for the persons impacted. using it in 2015 and providing us with feedback for improvement. This COP serves to communicate highlights about this ongoing work. GLOBAL CSR also implements the UNGPs. We have embedded a commitment to respect all human rights Policy Commitment throughout our organization, and we continuously work with our customers and other relationships to enable them to do In all our activities we seek to identify potential and actual the same. We did not cause or contribute to any severe adverse impacts on all 48 human rights included in the adverse impacts in 2014. We are, however, advising some International Bill of Human Rights. In addition we of the largest companies in the world. Thus, we are directly continuously seek to influence our relationships, primarily linked to considerable potential and actual adverse impacts our clients, to respect human rights as well. Whenever on human rights. We are using our leverage as advisors to actual adverse impacts are identified in our value chains, establish solid systems implementing the UNGPs, and where we did not cause or contribute to such impacts, we whenever we identify severe human rights impacts through intend to use our leverage to make the party or parties that our work or such impacts are otherwise brought to our are causing or contributing to such impacts act in knowledge, we provide confidential advice addressing such accordance with the UNGPs. impacts. Our legal privilege enables us to keep such information confidential and our legal ethical commitments require us not to report about concrete impacts. In addition we have identified a range of less severe, yet important, potential and actual adverse human rights 8 area. It also helps them to understand better ways in which to implement the UNGPs into their business. The publication Human Rights Explained for business provides an accessible way to understand the 48 human rights from the International Bill of Human Rights in a Our commitment to human rights is evident throughout the business context. The publication aided the less experienced organisation. Following our identification process in 2013, employees in acknowledging their rights and how they may we developed a formal Human Rights Commitment which be impacted. It is now used in all of our client relations and was approved by our board in 2014. We have made some meetings to improve their general understanding of the full changes to this in 2014 and the final version will be signed range of human rights that need to be addressed when in 2015. We specialize in business and human rights and all implementing the UNGPs. Furthermore, we made our employees, from the CEO to project assistants, are commitment clearer throughout our organisation in 2014, passionate about creating shared value and spreading by using tools created for clients. We will continue this work knowledge of and respect for human rights. On a daily basis in 2015. we communicate to our employees and assist business relations on how to respect human rights in alignment with Our strategic CSR focus is contributing to the realization of the UNGPs. ‘right to work’. Innovation and cutting edge knowledge characterises our business and the competences of our In 2014 we worked on improving our tools, which continue staff; thus our best and most logical choice when to provide invaluable knowledge to others about human contributing to fulfilling the objective of social sustainability rights and the UNGPs. GLOBAL CSR worked alongside BBI is by focussing our proactive engagement on the ‘right to International and the EU Commission to create “My work’ – primarily in cost-effective capacity development of Business and Human Rights – a Guide for small and stakeholders; from students and peers to executives. medium-sized enterprises” (SME). This guide aids SMEs to work with human rights and realise their full potential in this 9 As we mentioned in our CoP in 2013 concerning our GLOBAL CSR’s internal compliance activities, we have reassessed Further elaboration on the implementation of processes to our employee manual, standard project assistants’ contract, prevent/mitigate adverse impacts on health and the standard contract for permanent employees against In 2014 GLOBAL CSR has clarified how best to deal with potential adverse all 48 human rights in 2014. In this process we identified impacts on healthy working conditions in light of our financial capabilities. Measures for prevention and mitigation include the purchase of siesta beds conditions and requirements that could lead to adverse for the office and the implementation of walking meetings as an alternative impacts if not properly administered. In order to create to sitting around a table. Every employee has an elevation table so they can change working positions regularly. The daily lunch is predominantly greater clarity for employees these terms will be clarified in vegetarian, providing all employees with a healthy and ethical choice of nutrition. All employees are encouraged to go for a short walk to get some order to prevent adverse impacts in the future. The analysis fresh air, and all employees are encouraged to invite their colleagues to join also revealed adequate procedures and needed measures and thereby motivate them to take a healthy break. Common coffee meetings every afternoon have been institutionalised, i.e. put in everyone’s for enhancing the implementation of our responsibility to calendars. As all this represents an improved focus on health at the work respect. place, GLOBAL CSR acknowledged that creating a culture at the work place takes time. It is a work in progress and in 2015 GLOBAL CSR will continue the work of embedding this culture within the organisation. Examples on findings from our assessment are presented in As addressed in CoP 2013, employees at GLOBAL CSR may be subject to a the next column. stressful working environment. GLOBAL CSR is well aware of our sector challenges and in 2014 we have continued to improve our focus on causes of stress and general employee satisfaction. Our continued strategic focus on the right to education where we have scaled up our course activities helps create a more stable income thus minimising uncertainty for our employees. A priority area is employee wellbeing, yet the employee handbook/contracts do not adequately advise employees how to raise concerns about this; e.g. ensuring that psychological well-being can be raised and acknowledged as an adverse impact on the right to safe and healthy working conditions, while ensuring that we best possibly avoid adverse impacts on the right to privacy. . 10 Due Diligence Process The first step of the due diligence process is identification of  2. Right to non-discrimination  8.b Right to adequate clothing  3. Right to work  9. Right to health potential and actual adverse impacts. In 2013 we involved  4.a Right to equal pay for equal  11.a Right to take part in work cultural life all of our employees in the identification process. In 2014  4.b Right to a living wage  11.b Right to benefit from  4.c Right to safe and healthy scientific progress we took further steps by including all employees in working conditions  11.c Right to material gains discussions on the actions that needed to be taken in order  4.d Right to equal opportunities from inventions for everyone to be promoted  11.d Moral rights of authors to prevent and mitigate the identified actual and potential  4.e Right to rest, leisure, and  12. Right to life paid holidays  23. Right to privacy adverse impacts on human rights. The Human Rights  5. Right to form and join trade  24. Right to freedom of unions and the right to strike thought, conscience and religion Impact Assessment was based on the 48 distinct human  6. Right to social security,  25.a Right to freedom of including social insurance opinion rights referenced by the International Bill of Human Rights  7.a Right to protection of  25.b Right to freedom of following some training of new employees on the mothers before and after expression childbirth  29. Right to protection of the understanding of the rights. The list below provides for an  7.b Right to children's and family and the right to marry young people's protection from  31. Right to participate in public overview of rights where potential adverse impacts were exploitation affairs  8.a Right to adequate food and identified by our employees. its fair distribution 11 GLOBAL CSR conducted our Human Rights Impact Example of an identified potential adverse impact and Assessment by engaging the employees while measures for prevention and mitigation accommodating the UNGPs criteria of meaningful Our 2013 due diligence process identified a potential adverse impact participation of the potentially affected stakeholders in in relation to the right to freedom of expression, using the KnowShowTM tool. identifying adverse impacts. The Assessment also served to further develop employees’ capacities on the UNGPs and When representing GLOBAL CSR publicly, members of staff are obliged to express the official opinions of GLOBAL CSR as well as human rights. Where potential adverse impacts were behave in line with our commitment. Members of staff are asked not identified employees were asked to present ideas for to publicly express an opinion that is not in accordance with the commitment. However when not directly representing GLOBAL CSR addressing such impacts effectively. the distinction between public and private life is not always clear, especially when it comes to the use of social media. The exercise of collecting identifications was performed by GLOBAL CSR is well aware of these challenges and in 2014 we have using GLOBAL CSR’s own Human Rights Identification App; maintained our focus on the employees’ right to freedom of expression. In order to avoid any discrepancy in the understanding of KnowShow™. Being fully aligned with the UNGPs, the distinction between public and private life, we have on a regular KnowShow™ provides a tool to conduct Human Rights basis addressed this issue through open discussion. impact identifications across the organisation. Even though employees are to some extent restricted from publicly TM KnowShow offers a platform to collect, organise and expressing opinions that could undermine our work, there is an open door policy where questions and debates in-house are always process reported data from the informants holding the welcomed. The CEO values the opinion of all employees and seizes a debate as an opportunity for feedback and improvement. Thus, the tablets. The exercise was introduced at a regular staff employees are acknowledged for their questions, rather than silenced, meeting and employees were given information on how to as a measure for preventing and mitigating the identified adverse impact on the right to freedom of expression. The CEO is especially use the app along with 10 days to respond during workaware of enhancing an organisational culture where questions and hours. All of GLOBAL CSR’s employees were guided through debates are an integral part of the organisational life, and this is a continued focus area for 2015. the identification of potential and actual adverse impacts on the full range of human rights. Through this exercise we As we witness rapidly developing technology we need to continuously address the question of what is considered private and what is not, so identified 25 potential and actual adverse impacts. we can mitigate and prevent the adverse impact on the right to Furthermore the exercise enabled us to recognise that we freedom of expression. We will maintain our focus on this issue in the future. could do better in guiding our employees on the difference 12 between actual and potential adverse impacts. In 2015, GLOBAL CSR will continue the internal due diligence process Example of an identified potential adverse impact and and work on qualitative and quantitative SMART indicators measures for prevention and mitigation for tracking performance. Being headquartered in Denmark represents a potential adverse impact on the right to non-discrimination; it is a fair assumption that Danish society has little focus on raising awareness on Development of practises regarding the use of social media discrimination and societal patterns that uphold stereotypes and prejudices. Our identification process has pointed to potential As discussed in CoP 2013, we have meet challenges concerning adverse impacts on the right to non-discrimination – related balancing the right to privacy, freedom of opinion and freedom of primarily to nationality and ethnicity. expression with employees’ representing the GLOBAL CSR brand outside of the office and using personal social media (Facebook, GLOBAL CSR is an equal opportunity workplace that values LinkedIn etc.) for work purposes. This is also important for diversity. In order to prevent and mitigate this potential adverse striking a work-life balance. Our review in 2013 made it clear that impact GLOBAL CSR trains employees, promotes diversity and we needed to establish a practice and guidance on what seeks to best share the knowledge of our senior advisor in the field; management can anticipate from employees in relation to their the leading specialist in Denmark on structural discrimination. use of social media; during office hours and spare time. A procedure on the issue was developed in 2014 a Standard Gender balance among shortlisted candidates, is a criteria in our Operation Procedure on Social Media. This includes not tagging recruitment process. Furthermore we believe that dialogue any employees in any posts by GLOBAL CSR on social media, and regarding sensitive issues is essential in order to become aware of, if pictures of any employee are posted on any social media and be able to prevent, discrimination. We work actively to uphold platform, this has to be done with the expressed consent from an open environment where employees feel comfortable discussing that person. discrimination; and to ensure that our clients are aware of the potential risks. Furthermore, in 2014 the manager has increasingly initiated an open dialogue about practises in regards to social media in order In 2014 we maintained our focus on the right to non-discrimination to avoid any misunderstandings and to support the right to based on nationality and ethnicity and GLOBAL CSR is pleased to freedom of opinion, freedom of expression and a good work-life have engaged several nationalities and ethnicities. balance. This issue constitutes a priority area for GLOBAL CSR and will continuously we revisited. 13 Remediation important for us to share our knowledge; support the development of the CSR field to find better, more costIn 2014 GLOBAL CSR experienced no legal or professional efficient and innovative ways to address global challenges in conduct actions. In relation to our employees the relation to social sustainability. Two key principles of social assessment has enabled us to focus discussions and to sustainability, which we promote through our know-how and solicit for better solutions through our regular meetings products are: (i) The right to education and (ii) freedom of among employees; it has helped to prioritise time and information. improved the confidence to express grievances or observations that management should consider in enabling a dynamic and constructive workplace. Examples of a grievance mechanisms for Project Assistants In 2014 we strived to further develop grievance Project Assistants at GLOBAL CSR are often university students and mechanisms and transparent information channels in order GLOBAL CSR is well aware if its potential negative impact on the right to education. Grievance mechanisms to prevent and mitigate that impact to facilitate an ongoing interaction regarding businessinclude prioritising university lectures, i.e. being absent from the office in related human rights impacts. We agreed that employees order to attend lectures, and GLOBAL CSR allows Project Assistants to take two weeks off in preparation for exams. should be able to contribute to the advisory board agenda, and will do this in April 2015. We will also send a member of our Project Assistants at GLOBAL CSR have the possibility to get continuous feedback to help them develop during their internship. Assistants are staff to the meeting as a representative. encouraged to initiate talks on their development if needed, and in addition we formalise such possibilities for grievance by arranging regular meetings with the assistants throughout their internship. In addition, all B EYOND CSR C OMPLIANCE employees are encouraged to raise grievances or potential impacts with management. We recognise that knowledge is our primary resource. The success of our business depends on our knowledge and competencies and our abilities to communicate this knowledge. It is important for GLOBAL CSR to continuously ”Our primary contribution to social sustainability is improve our competencies on CSR and sustainable through the actions of the clients we advise” development in theory as well as in practice. It is also 14 Fund for Developing Countries, Danish Ministries, and a As a consultancy firm we assist corporations that are both range of civil society organisations. experienced within the field of CSR as well as corporations that have only just begun working on their societal impacts Our greatest contribution is that we now offer work at in a structured manner. Our services also span across reduced rates for civil society organizations. This includes borders, both when we provide services to international our consultancy services and a five day seminar that we corporations and when we advise clients to address CSR in offered in late 2014 to improve the knowledge on business all their relations; both in supply chains, downstream and human rights within the Danish NGO community. (distribution) and in investments. By assisting our clients to strategically focus contributions, while complying with the Capacity development on UNGPs and human rights globally agreed upon minimum for social sustainability, we ensure that CSR efforts optimise shared value in the best One of the greatest challenges ahead in globally scaling up way possible. We are experts in identifying both CSR the responsibility to respect human rights among challenges and opportunities through direct application of businesses remains to be awareness and capacity the universally agreed upon principles for sustainable development. Because of our competencies and position in development. the field, we recognise the important role GLOBAL CSR can In an effort to contribute to sustainable development, we play in addressing this global challenge. share our knowledge by advising organisations and The greatest global challenge in implementing the UNGPs initiatives that are key players in the continued “Limited capacity is a far greater obstacle to rapid progress in development of CSR. In 2014 these efforts included both business and human rights than we tend to acknowledge; it’s compensated and pro bono work for organisations such as much easier to blame someone. Limited capacity affects the the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights, the ability of all stakeholder groups, including governments, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Global Business businesses, NGOs and the UN system to play their necessary roles.” John Ruggie, December 4th, 2012, UN Forum, Initiative on Human Rights, the Institute for Business & Geneva Human Rights, AIM Progress, the Danish Industrialisation 15  In 2014 we continued to develop and improve our In 2014 GLOBAL CSR gave presentations at numerous module on human rights in a business context, Human national as well as international seminars, workshops, Rights Explained. This module allows users to develop an trainings and debates on CSR with a special emphasis on understanding of the 48 specific human rights from the developing capacity and awareness on the UNGPs. In International Bill of Human Rights. Developed with addition GLOBAL CSR continues to invest and focus heavily business in mind, users are enabled to identify business on developing new tools for businesses: impacts on each human right through a mixture of learning resources, business scenarios, and testing  GLOBAL CSR has concentrated its resources on capacity probes. The tool can be accessed at www.learncsr.com. development and training in the UNGPs and human  In collaboration with the International Marine Purchasing rights; targeting government representatives, civil Association, GLOBAL CSR continues to support the IMPA society, academia, corporations, and CSR experts. ACT; the world’s first UNGPs based initiative on During 2014 we informed and trained more than 500 Responsible Supply Chain Management. individuals in the UNGPs, including 100 client  The CSR Compass for the Danish Government – a simple representatives that received in-depth training. tool for Danish SMEs offering practical guidance on how  The guide “Constructive Campaigning” continues to to conduct responsible supply chain management; now in provide information to clients and is used within the NGO alignment with the UNGPs. community, who also contribute by distributing the guide  GLOBAL CSR continues to promote and sell our booklet, to others to help spread our message further. Human Rights Explained – for business. The booklet  GLOBAL CSR’s e-learning platform, learnCSR has provides employees and managers with basic continued to receive great feedback and has in 2014 understanding of all 48 human rights contained in the been a popular tool for its ability to train many people in International Bill of Human Rights. Concrete scenarios on an effective, flexible and cost-efficient manner. adverse impacts, the application of the UNGPs and positive contributions demonstrate the relevance of all rights in a business context. Human Rights Explained – 16 for business is an important tool for businesses seeking EU guide supports small and medium sized European to respect human rights and can be purchased from enterprises in their CSR and human rights efforts and GLOBAL CSR. helps them to realise their full potential in this area.  GLOBAL CSR has in 2014 developed an online Human  An ILO Project, similar to the EU Guide in that it offers Rights Impact Assessment Tool. It was initially based on assistance to small to medium sized businesses on how our Excel version, developed in 2012, as one of two basic to start implementing the UNGPs was agreed in 2014, tools. One tool enables business to assess processes and will be written and published in 2015. This guide will needed to implement and ensure compliance with the take the work from the EU publication one step further. UNGPs. The second is used for the concrete local  In 2014 a Discussion Brief on the Global Minimum operation to assess impacts in light of each human right. Standard for Socially Responsible Investments was These tools are designed for internal use in companies or developed by GLOBAL CSR in collaboration with in collaboration with corporate relationships. Furthermore DanChurchAid. The brief intends to stimulate a debate on the tools are used in our two basic UNGPs courses – ‘CSR how public and private investors can ensure and promote Compliance Lab’ and ‘Human Rights Explained’. The more responsible investment in alignment with the UNGPs. technical and advanced Human Rights Impact GLOBAL CSR regularly participates in public debate on Assessment tool can be used online by clients from April business and human rights and the Principles-based 2015. Approach to CSR. We regularly publish articles and  Additionally GLOBAL CSR continues to develop the participate in national and international working groups world’s first Human Rights Identification App. related to the 10 UNGC principles, the UNGPs and CSR. We KnowShowTM provides for an empowering, solid and devote time to engage in debates as we believe this brings scalable identification process and software for tracking added value to our clients and to society. identified adverse impacts. This will be launched in 2015. Thus, continuing to promote social sustainability and in  The EU guide is another publication developed by particular the UNGPs is an ongoing objective for GLOBAL GLOBAL CSR that continues to contribute by extending CSR and an area where we can make a difference. our knowledge on respecting human rights further. The 17 Turning adverse impacts into opportunities We also recognise that all people are prone to reducing A known country risk in Denmark is the right to noncomplexity by establishing stereotypes and thus discrimination. Since GLOBAL CSR is based in Copenhagen occasionally will act with prejudice. A business that actively this country risk becomes a potential adverse impact for our supports diversity can improve employee satisfaction, company. Turning this obvious risk for potential adverse productivity, and retention. Also a diverse workforce is impacts into an opportunity by working for increased better equipped to understand the global marketplace which diversity is a focus area at GLOBAL CSR. We believe that we serve. diversity enables organisations to improve abilities to innovate. 70 percent of our knowledge is tacit, i.e. resting with our employees. 70 percent of an individual’s knowledge An example of how GLOBAL CSR seeks to address and lies with her network. In sum, the more diversity we promote the right to non-discrimination, identified as a manage to establish, the more knowledge we can access, potential adverse impact and the better decisions we are able to make. As an example our internship programme develops  We teach anti-discrimination (direct, in-direct and structural) at universities – all employees are asked to participate students’ knowledge about applying the principles-based  Several employees participating pro bono in public debates approach to CSR in practice, while GLOBAL CSR benefits about discrimination in order to create awareness about this from the fresh input and the extended network. particular country risk in the public  We conduct research on structural discrimination International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural  We promote a workplace environment where it is encouraged Rights, Preamble. to address stereotypes and prejudices immediately “…The State Parties to the present Covenant undertake to guarantee that the rights enunciated in the present Covenant will be exercised without discrimination of any kind as to race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status…” 18 T HE F UTURE C HAL LENGES AND W ORK WITH S OCIAL S USTAINABILITY In 2015 we will continue implementing the UNGPs in the In particular we will focus our efforts to continue developing organisation. In our work we are involved in establishing and communicating about our approach to responsible avenues for access to remedy and grievance mechanisms to supply chain management and responsible investments in apply our knowledge regarding such mechanisms internally alignment with the UNGPs; in addition we will seek to as well. promote our operationally centred, cost-effective and manageable human rights impact assessments. We also will continue our work with the tools mentioned, and find ways to further contribute to an overall global Finally, we will continue to ensure the quality of our understanding of human rights for business and the UNGPs. activities and tools through use of other external experts in We will continue to look for ways in which these tools can order to secure coherence with best practice working with be improved and implemented in better and more international principles. productive ways. In our work beyond CSR compliance GLOBAL CSR will continue to address the global challenge of capacity development focused on the UNGPs and human rights both through our services, course activities and our e-learning modules. We will continue to develop and refine tools for companies, organisations and public authorities enabling them to implement the UNGPs and assisting them in respecting human rights. 19 E NVIRONMENTAL S USTAINABILITY Due diligence We continuously seek to reduce our environmental impacts Companies of every size and type have adverse impacts on by always using the most environmentally friendly means of the environment through their business operations and transportation. All executives and employees cycle, use activities. When preventing and mitigating our adverse public transportation, or carpool as the predominant means impacts on the environment we address the subject areas of transportation. When possible we have meetings through covered by UN Global Compact’s principles 7-9. video and teleconferences, to minimize our use of air travel. During 2013 we participated in several meetings through CSR C OMPLIANCE teleconferences with clients in Asia, Americas, Europe and Scandinavia. Using online technology to meet with clients “We aim to minimise our negative environmental brings both economic and environmental benefits and impacts and where possible enhance our positive contributes positively to our employees’ right to rest and environmental impacts” leisure (work-life balance). Policy GLOBAL CSR supports and strives to demonstrate environmental responsibility through our work, as well as internally in our business. We aim to minimise our environmental impacts and where possible enhance our positive environmental impacts. Our external contribution to environmental sustainability stems from assisting businesses in minimising their negative environmental impacts on the planet. 20 Our e-learning platform, learnCSR has allowed us to We endeavour to maintain and expand our position as decrease the environmental impact of our company and our frontrunners in the field of CSR. This requires that we clients even further, since our consultants and course participate in debates to develop the field; which often participants can avoid travelling to specific locations to involves presenting at international conferences. Thus, the participate in lessons, but can enjoy the latest learning bulk of our CO2 emissions stems from international air technology and knowledge regarding social sustainability travel. and anti-corruption regardless of time or space. Several In 2014, GLOBAL CSR continued implementing the thousand employees have already been trained through environmental action plan developed in 2010, which learnCSR constituting a significant CO2 abatement. promotes green purchasing options e.g. new energy efficient office supplies. As an example we use recycled Nonetheless, being a consultancy that serves clients around paper, reusable printer cartridges and strive to print only the world, we cannot eliminate air travel. Our physical when strictly necessary and using both sides of the paper presence is often needed as part of our work. Ensuring high We also hope to install better waste disposal in our new quality service often requires that we perform onsite office headquarters with new recycling initiatives. assessments of clients’ operations and branches. Change management and capacity development are essential Remediation components of our work and both require interpersonal communication and presence. Examples of GLOBAL CSR’s In 2014, we witnessed an increase in our CO2 emissions engagements in 2014 that have required physical presence from air-travel. Due to great uptake on the UNGPs globally of our experts includes work in Nairobi, Kenya where both our CEO, Sune Skadegaard Thorsen and Director, Signe the demand for face to face training is increasing, and as Andreasen Lysgaard helped to train Danish and Kenyan mentioned previously we had two colleagues go to both defence forces in the UNGPs and environmental and Kenya and Canada for training purposes. Being a economic sustainability. GLOBAL CSR was also involved in consultancy that works with clients on human rights in more client training in Canada. than 80 countries makes it difficult to foresee air-travel 21 In 2013, we assisted our clients in meeting the growing needs. An increase in the use of paper is directly linked to environmental challenges, requirements and expectations an increase in our course activities. that they face today. GLOBAL CSR will collaborate with public authorities and We work in cooperation with strategic partners that are other partners, if we identify any major adverse impacts on leading experts on environmental sustainability. We have the environment. No such events were identified in 2014. advised clients to perform environmental impact Environmental Impact assessments, life cycle assessments, carbon and water 2012 2013 2014 footprint assessments. CO2-emissions from air travel in tons 8,37 4,71 13,5 Electricity in KWh 4094 3809 4071 In addition, we have participated in seminars and Paper (sheets) 2500 2500 2800 workshops, as well as facilitated and held several seminars and workshops on, for instance, the cradle to cradle and circular economy concepts, as part of raising public B EYOND CSR C OMPLIANCE awareness and meeting the growing need for education on CSR and the business case for being environmentally GLOBAL CSR works to promote environmental protection responsible. and efficiency policies with our clients. In 2014, GLOBAL CSR assessed and advised Danish and international clients T HE F UTURE C HAL LENGES AND W ORK WITH on principles 7-9 of the UNGC into their core business E NVIRONMENTAL S USTAINABILITY operations. These three principles serve to support precautionary approaches to environmental challenges, to It is our goal for 2014 to make a positive contribution to the undertake new initiatives on environmental responsibility development of environmentally responsible profiles and and to encourage the development and diffusion of practices for businesses as an integrated and strategic way environmentally friendly technologies. of doing business. In particular we continue to promote 22 aligning environmental bottom-line management systems E CONOMIC S USTAINABILITY with the process requirements set forth in the UNGPs. Corporations seek to incorporate their contributions to In the long run, it is GLOBAL CSR’s goal to become CO2 sustainable development into their core business strategies, neutral in our operations and increasingly generate a while ensuring that no functions have adverse impacts. Besides positive impact on the environment beyond our indirect focusing on making a profitable business, economic contributions through the actions of our clients. sustainability also means ensuring that we do not have negative impacts on the economy in particular in relation to corruption and bribery. Efforts to reduce our environmental impacts CSR C OMPLIANCE In our continuous effort to reduce our environmental impacts we are focusing on the meals provided at GLOBAL CSR. Lunches are “Our mission is to run a profitable business through primarily vegetarian and to the extent possible also organic. promoting sustainable development” Furthermore, we strive to reduce our food waste as much as possible. In this effort, employees are encouraged to plan the weekly grocery shopping efficiently and to eat what has already Policy commitment been opened before opening something new. By thinking about the way we buy groceries and by eating left overs, we avoid wasting food. GLOBAL CSR has a zero tolerance stance on bribery and While we mostly eat our meals at the office, once a week the office corruption in the business and in relations with our clients enjoys take-out meals or meals out of the house. On these and partners. In line with UN Global Compact principle 10, occasions, we choose vegetarian as well as organic alternatives. we work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion, and facilitation payments. We are committed to apply definitions from internationally recognised instruments, such as the UN Convention referenced by the Global Compact principle 10. 23 Due diligence GLOBAL CSR is a value based company and we are proactive in encouraging positive norms and values Remediation amongst our employees and business relations. We are also a financially transparent company and seek to foster an The risks of being involved with corruption and bribery vary open and transparent culture internally in the organisation. from one business culture to the next. GLOBAL CSR has In addition to having an external accountant, we developed two e-learning modules on anti-corruption, ‘Anticommunicate about our budget internally amongst all corruption for employees’ and ‘Anti-corruption for employees. We consider these practices to be proportionate managers’; as a tool to build capacity with businesses and to our size and the risks that the company faces. employees in achieving a corruption free business environment. We are aware that we run higher risks when operating abroad in markets where bribery is commonplace, B EYOND CSR C OMPLIANCE compared to Denmark. Thus we are diligent in communicating our values as the basis for doing business; Whereas corporate economic responsibility initiatives need and making sure to build business relationships based on only address the international principles on anti-corruption, trust and common understanding. we also advise our clients in relation to good corporate governance and the up-coming issue of sustainable tax payments. Through our work we contribute to the elimination of corruption, as we advise clients on corporate economic responsibilities and opportunities. In cooperation with our strategic partners we help our clients implement the 10th principle of the UNGC strategically into their businesses. 24 As consultants we were still confronted with the realities of to apply when planning and executing tax payments for the economic downturn that made most corporations very international operations. hesitant to spend resources on external consultants. We do, however, experience that businesses, governments and Also GLOBAL CSR continues to develop practical solutions organisations increasingly realise the importance of, and for applying the UN Guiding Principles (UNGPs) in Socially opportunities in, addressing CSR diligently. Responsible Investments (SRI). The UNGPs provide a standardised reference point, thus reducing costs for Especially with the unanimous endorsement of the UN investors while contributing to scaling up the responsibility Guiding Principles, we witnessed great interest in our to respect human rights. competences from businesses, governments, organisations and sectors initiatives. The increase of CSR initiatives in the ‘Our contribution’ is published in English only and will be private and the public sector appear to be on the increase in permanently available for download online on www.global-csr.com 2014 leading to greater financial results for our business as and on unglobalcompact.org. For feedback or further information, please contact us at info@global-csr.com or +45 44 99 55 06. well as for social, environmental and economic sustainability. The impacts of GLOBAL CSR on sustainable development are best measured through the actions and results of our clients. T HE F UTURE C HAL LENGES AND W ORK WITH E CONOMIC S USTAI NABILITY GLOBAL CSR intends to continue to participate in and contribute to both national and international debates on the establishment of viable international principles for business 25
