MANAGEMENT ANNUAL REPORT 2014 El crecimiento de todo un país bvc management report 2014 Coordination Chief Corporate Officer Contact Director of Investor Relations Office and Corporate Social Responsibility Investor Relations Office Director of Media and Public Relations +57 1 3139800 ext 1167 Director of Marketing cbarrios@bvc.com.co atencionalaccionista@bvc.com.co Composition BVC Facebook: Conozca la BVC (Bolsa de Valores de Colombia) Twitter: @BVCCOLOMBIA Translation Precision Translators Visit BVC´s website: www.bvc.com.co Graphic Design .Puntoaparte Bookvertising Art Direction: Mateo Zúñiga and Erik Naranjo Design and Layout: Lina Martín, Juan Pablo Posso, Daniel Gutiérrez, Andrea Callejas, Joulie Rojas, Guillermo Torres. Edition and Correction Jonatan Ahumada, Juan Mikán. LETTER TO THE SHAREHOLDERS Dear Shareholders, 2014 was a year of significant achievements for the BVC and for the Colombian securities market, because we achieved most of our strategic objectives as a Company and we showed that, as an industry, we are one of the main sources of corporate financing and a driving force of the development of the Colombian economy, even in the midst of the adverse international context that affected the investment dynamics around the world. Colombia was no stranger to the situation abroad or the impact generated by events such as the slow recovery of the global economy and the sharp drop in oil prices during the last quarter of 2014, which led investors to prefer to take their portfolios to markets such as the United States and withdraw a high percentage of their investment in regions such as Latin America. In this context, our country was one of the most affected, particularly by the drop in oil prices, which led to an overall decrease in the share prices of the oil companies and the devaluation of the COLCAP stock index, which ended 5.81% market securities and on the regulatory front, thus achieving below its closing value of 2013. Along with the drop in the the approval of several key rules to streamline our capital price of oil, there was the accelerated depreciation of the Comarket development agenda. lombian peso of about 25% at the end of the year. However, on the domestic front, the Colombian economy showed good The trading of standardized derivatives in the BVC grew performance with respect to its peers in the region, and the 37% in the number of contracts negotiated in 2014, makupturn in domestic consumption and construction led invesing it the year with the most trading since its launch in 2008 tors to focus their interest on some of the securities of the with COP 95 trillion traded. The main products are still on financial sector and infrastructure, which ended the year with treasury security futures (TES in Spanish) and the represenoutstanding valuations compared to other instruments of this tative exchange rate futures (TRM in Spanish), but in the market. latter, the standardized futures of the specific references introduced recently have aroused great interest among inThe BVC had significant achievements in the growth of new vestors. Similarly, while the trading of specific stock futures products such as derivatives and the Colombian Global Marstill represents a small percentage of the total, it has been ket, as well as in the initial public offerings of fixed and equity 4 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC growing at an average rate of 54.4% per year during the BVC advanced significantly in all 2012-2014 period. the objectives proposed in the strategic pillars of 2014 Foreign investors continued to play a leading role in our market, as their involvement by traded volume amounted to 26% on the stock market (while five years ago it was no more than 7%) and they increased their holding of treasury securities during the year to 15.36% (COP 29.6 trillion). processes, while with the industry, we moved forward in the professionalization of its actors and created the first recogniIn addition, the year ended with a satisfactory balance for tion for the areas of economic research. products such as the Colombian Global Market, through which stocks listed in other countries are traded, whose volume At the same time, we carried out the operational integration grew six times compared to the previous year. There, investors of the measures taken by the Government against the money have found an alternative for diversifying their portfolios and market system and we included the new limits for this type of accessing assets of foreign companies from multiple sectors transactions; we started up the money makers program in the of the international economy, without having to rely on broequity market and formalized the full adoption of Internationkers abroad. al Financial Reporting Standards IFRS in the Company with the Financial Superintendence, two years ahead of the deadline The dynamic of financing the companies on the market was also set by the regulator for securities issuers. important during the year, because the private sector obtained COP 16.6 trillion through stock and bond issuances to foster its As far as the promotion of the Derivatives market, we launched growth, which makes this period the second highest in issues the OIS Futures with the underlying IBR that will complement following 2011 when the figure was greater than COP 20 trillion. the BVC's product offering on this market. In retrospect, the balance for the Colombian securities market In the globalization pillar, we carried out the promotional during the year was positive in the midst of an adverse internaevent, Colombia Inside Out, for the third consecutive year in tional context that has continued to impact trading dynamics, New York and London, and as a very important achievement, especially in the fixed income market. we were elected to chair the Board of Directors of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), a position that brings enorOn our part, with regard the management of the pillars of our mous benefits by placing Colombia at the head of the discusstrategy, in 2014, we made substantial progress on all fronts sions on the future of the industry in the world. and fulfilled several of the objectives that we had set. In Market Quality, for instance, in coordination with the National Another outstanding event was the admission of the Mexican Government, we promoted the approval of the regulatory market to the MILA, thus bringing the first stage of regional framework relating to the modernization of stock issuance integration to a close, which has proven to be a good idea that Management Annual Report 2014 5 LETTER TO THE SHAREHOLDERS was widely accepted; however, it now has the duty of setting more ambitious goals as a base platform for the consolidation of true financial integration in the Pacific Alliance. On this front, the step we took as a market in the preparation of the local model was also relevant, and it will make the participation of global custodians possible as of 2015, thus enabling us to provide foreign investors greater security and reliability. In the infrastructure pillar, in 2014, the BVC upgraded its main trading platform and implemented the FIX 4.4 communication protocol, which operates extensively in the international arena, allowing the use of tools such as the DMA (Direct Market Access) to provide further access to both domestic and foreign investors as well as to allow new forms of trading, consistent with the trends observed on the global level. Considering all the above, we believe that 2014 was also positive due to corporate management, in an adverse scenario for markets that had a negative influence on the revenues due to lower fixed income and equity market trading volumes, which was offset by the effort made in 2013 to reduce costs and increase the diversification of revenues, and due to the great performance of the investments that the BVC has made in other companies of the value chain. That was how we ended the year with a consolidated net profit of COP 27,464 million at the BVC, a 8.7% increase compared to 2013. In addition, the 2014 EBITDA amounted to COP 34,151 million, 11.5% higher than 2013. For 2015, the BVC intends to carry out projects that will continue contributing to these three strategic pillars, aware that it is the best way for the market to gain liquidity and open more opportunities for both local and foreign investors, issuers and brokers. 6 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC As regards quality, we will continue to assist the Government This vision will renew the one set forth in the MEGA 2015, in the creation of a regulatory framework capable of facing which we built a decade ago, based on the needs of the the challenges that come with globalization, that will particuBVC and the securities industry in the current scenario. We larly protect investors and ensure their rights as clients. have made progress with most of these objectives and we will prepare a statement at the end of this year. In terms of internationalization, the BVC will carry on with its strategy to present the country as a relevant destinaFinally, I would like to thank the BVC Board of Directors and tion of investment and get the MILA to move on to the next employees once again, whose support has been critical in level by incorporating new assets in regional trading and ensuring that the Exchange can move forward decisively in increase financial integration among the countries of the its objectives. I would also like to thank those who build Pacific Alliance. the soundness of the Colombian securities market with their effort, in particular the investors, issuers and brokers. In terms of infrastructure, we will carry on with the operational inclusion of custodians, we will consolidate a To all of them and to you, our shareholders, thank you very much. solution to introduce the central counterparty in the equity market, and we will extend our offering of information services, providing them with better access channels and greater portability. This provides both the Board of Directors and Management with the confidence that the Company's future will still continue to be promising, as we have taken the necessary path to implement a business vision consistent the reality of the securities industry in the world, with a long-term perspective to meet the expectations of our shareholders and clients. This roadmap, which we have called the MEGA 2025, considers new horizons for the BVC, focusing on internationalization, the eligibility of the market, the entry in the OTC market and the expansion of our regional presence. This should lead not only to continue on the path of developing the local capital market, but also to support the diversification of the Company's revenue by developing post-transaction services and creating enabling services that allow greater technologJuan Pablo Córdoba Garcés ical connectivity across the industry's entire value chain. CEO Management Annual Report 2014 7 INDEX Index CHAPTER 1 Company Profile Page 11 CHAPTER 2 BVC Strategy Page 23 CHAPTER 3 Corporate Governance Page 32 CHAPTER 4 Internal Control and Quality Page 55 CHAPTER 5 Sustainability Page 65 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC CHAPTER 6 Commitment to Shareholders Page 79 CHAPTER 7 Commitment to Clients and the Market Page 91 CHAPTER 8 Commitment to our Employees Page 123 CHAPTER 9 Commitment to our Suppliers Page 141 CHAPTER 10 Detailed Index Page 145 Management Annual Report 2014 CHAPTER 1 Company Profile 1 COMPANY PROFILE 1.1 BVC: The Colombian Securities Exchange Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S.A. is a private company listed on the securities market based in Bogotá, Colombia. Its stocks are traded under the Ticker Symbol BVC and it is part of the COLCAP, COLEQTY, COLSC and COLIR indexes. The Exchange manages security trading platforms for the Equity, Fixed Income and Standardized Derivatives markets. Also, through its subsidiaries, it operates the Energy Commodities and Foreign Exchange Spot Markets and pricing services. In terms of international leadership, the Exchange plays an active role as a member of the main forums of the securities industry at the global level, the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) and the Ibero-American Federation of Stock Exchanges (FIAB), of which it is currently the President. In addition, the BVC is part of the Latin American Integrated Market -MILA, together with the Santiago Stock Exchange (BCS), the Lima Stock Exchange (BVL), the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) and the Central Securities Depositories of the four countries. Furthermore, as part of its commitment to sustainability, the BVC voluntarily participates in the UN initiatives, such as Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) and the Global Compact, and works on initiatives of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Finally, in 2014, the BVC renewed the IR Quality Issuer standard, wherein it voluntarily agreed to continue complying with best international practices of investor relations and those pertaining to disclosure of sufficient and timely market information for its different stakeholders in Spanish as well as English. 12 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 1.2 BVC Brands Millonaria, Arquitectos del Mercado de Capitales, Colombia Inside Out y Colombia Capital. In 2014, the Company worked on the consolidation and implementation of the differential values of the BVC brand 1.3 Top Products & Services (prosperous, visionary, close, Colombian, reputable and integral) to establish a basis for launching the new positioning in The Colombian Securities Exchange manages the Equity, 2015: The Growth of an Entire Country. Fixed Income and Standardized Derivatives markets in Colombia, distributes information on stock trading in those In addition, since 2013 we have been working to achieve a markets, facilitates mechanisms for connecting to transaction monolithic brand structure to promote the institutional brand systems and provides educational services to investors and as well as the Fixed Income, Equity Market, Derivatives, Eduprofessionals in the securities industry in general. The opercation, Issuer and Information and Electronic Media products ation serves more than 100 brokers and investors from the under the same umbrella. However, the Company still has enColombian financial, public and insurance sectors, and operdorsed brands, such as IEmisor IR, Emisor BVC, Afiliado BVC, ates nationwide through its main office in Bogotá, its regional Premios BVC y Punto BVC and four independent brands: Bolsa offices in Medellin and Cali, and more than 30 BVC Points in BVC Brand Endorsed Brands Independet Brands Management Annual Report 2014 13 1 COMPANY PROFILE Fixed Income: Public debt securities and debt instruments of the During 2014 BVC worked in the finance and real sector companies are traded and listed on the implementation of a new communication secondary market in this tier. In addition, the issuance of finance protocol called FIX 4.4 adopting international company CDs can be listed or carried out using a transactional standards system. The transactional system for trading and listing these instruments is the Colombian Electronic Market (MEC Plus) trading platform. 16 cities in Colombia. In addition, it distributes information on Standardized Derivatives: The BVC Standardized Derivatives a daily basis to the markets managed through 32 information market trades Futures, which are agreements for the purchase providers (vendors), reaching more than 20 countries. or sale of an underlying asset in specific units and for delivery on a specific future date. The BVC currently offers Futures on The BVC also offers services to current and potential issuers of the following underlying assets: Interest Rates (TES of a specific the securities market so they can finance their capital needs reference, OIS composition of the IBR overnight and Governthrough debt instruments or stock issuance. ment Bond rates short, medium and long term TES baskets), inflation, dollar-peso, Stocks, and Indices. The transactional sysEquity Market: This market trades equities whose profittem for trading these instruments is the NasdaqOMX X-Stream ability depends on the variations in the market price of trading and listing platform. In addition, the BVC has provided the securities and their dividends. Stocks and ETFs (Exits affiliates with the listing of OTC derivatives. change Traded Funds)listed on the local market can be traded through the BVC, along with those listed on securiData and Electronic Media: The BVC offers a specialized ties exchanges that are part of the MILA (Integrated Latin information system to manage, supply and license inforAmerican Market: Chile, Mexico and Peru), and stocks and mation regarding the transactions negotiated or listed on ETFs listed on foreign exchanges through the Colombian the securities market it manages It also provides electronic Global Market (MGC in Spanish). Repo transactions and access services for users to automate the receipt of inforSecurities Lending on equity assets can also be carried mation, route fixed income, equity and derivative orders, out through the equity market. In line with internationand carry out the operational processes required for each al standards, the BVC has the Market Maker figure, which transaction. In order to strengthen these services, the BVC reduces the price spreads and increases the liquidity of worked on the implementation of a new communication the different instruments listed on the market. The transprotocol known as FIX 4.4 in 2014, through which internaactional system for trading these instruments is the Nastional standards are adopted to improve the efficiency of daqOMX X-Stream trading platform. 14 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC electronic routing and information services of the equity Educational Services: The BVC carries out a wide range of and derivative markets. educational programs aimed at increasing awareness as regards the Fixed Income, Equity, Derivatives and Foreign Listing Services: Companies can finance their capital needs Currency markets, through courses aimed at individuals, through the BVC by means of stock issuance and debt secuspecialized training for market traders, virtual courses and rity auctions, or perform other types of listing services such agreements with academic institutions, among others. It as firm demands, tender offers (OPAs in Spanish) and public also conducts semi-annual competitions on stock market auctions, among others. investment aimed at students of Schools and Universities, to promote financial education in the country. 1.4 BVC's Scale Chart 1. Consolidated Financial Information 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CAGR 14-10 VAR 14 / 13 Ingresos Operacionales / $ 66.079 $ 73.642 $ 81.906 $ 82.970 $ 85.129 7% 3% Operating Revenues EBITDA* $ 32.393 $ 32.316 $ 42.315 $ 30.996 $ 34.150 1% 10% Utilidad Neta / Net Profit $ 23.944 $ 28.332 $ 28.655 $ 25.279 $ 27.804 4% 10% Activos / Assets $ 124.769 $ 138.910 $ 135.887 $ 138.559 $ 136.204 2% -2% Pasivos / Liabilities $ 21.645 $ 26.486 $ 25.652 $ 28.085 $ 26.420 5% -6% Patrimonio / Shareholder's Equity $ 103.123 $ 112.424 $ 110.235 $ 110.475 $ 109.784 2% -1% Margen Neto / Net Margin 36% 38% 35% 30% 33% Margen EBITDA / EBITDA Margin 49% 44% 52% 37% 40% RoE 23% 25% 26% 23% 25% RoA 19% 20% 21% 18% 20% COP Millions *As of 2012, the financial information is reported in IFRS. / *The financial information for 2010 and 2011 is reported in COLGAAP. *EBITDA: Operating Profit + Depreciations + Amortizations + Provisions. Management Annual Report 2014 15 1 COMPANY PROFILE Chart 2. BVC Shareholders BVC Shareholders % Acciones No. Accionistas Shareholders % Share At the end of 2014, the Exchange had 1,494 shareholders, 1 Fondo de Pensiones Obligatorias Porvenir Moderado 9,5759% with a total of 18,672,822,217 ordinary shares with the right 2 Universidad de Medellín 6,7084% 3 Kuroto Fund LP 4,6181% to vote. 4 Inversiones CFNS S.A.S. 4,3200% 5 Bancard International Investment Inc. 3,9450% The twenty (20) major shareholders of the Bolsa de Valores 6 Fondo de Pensiones Obligatorias Colfondos Moderado 3,5464% de Colombia S.A. at the end of 2014 are indicated in chart 2. 7 Fdo. Fidelity Inv.Trust Latin America Fund 3,4323% 8 Corporación Financiera Colombiana S.A. 3,3634% 9 BMO Investments II (Ireland) Pcl 3,3096% By stock ranking, the BVC shareholders were distributed as 10 Fdo. de Pensiones Obligatorias Protección Moderado 2,9973% follows at the end of 2014 (chart 3). 11 Valores Bancolombia S.A. Comisionista de Bolsa 2,9091% 12 Fundación FDI GIP Pacífico 2,1524% 13 Findlay Park Latin American Fund 2,1422% By type of shareholder, foreign investors, brokerage firms 14 Fondo Bursátil Ishares Colcap 1,7797% and pension funds were the three shareholder groups with 15 Banca de Inversión Bancolombia S.A. Corp Financiera 1,7793% the greatest share in the BVC at the end of 2014. 16 Londoño y Restrepo S.A. 1,6824% 17 Credicorp Capital Colombia S.A. 1,4435% 18 BBVA Valores Colombia S.A. Comisionista de Bolsa 1,4143% 19 Citivalores S.A. Comisionista de Bolsa 1,4143% 20 Fondo de Cesantías Porvenir 1,3637% Chart 3. BVC Shareholders' Distribution Graph 1. By Shareholder Type 2,3% 6,9% BVC Distribución de accionistas / Shareholders’ Distribution 20,8% 6,8% No. de Accionistas / Dec 2014 % Acciones / Shares Shareholders 19,6% Menos de / Less Than: 1.472 37,73% 1% Entre / Between: 1% 20 45,95% 5% 24,1% Entre / Between: 5% 19,6% 2 16,31% 10% Firmas Comisionistas / Brokerage Firms Universidades / Total 1.494 100,00% Universities Fondos de Inversión Extranjera / Foreign Investment Funds Personas Naturales / Individuals Por disposición legal (Ley 510 de 1999), ningún accionista puede ser Fondos de Pensiones / Pension Funds Carteras Colectivas / beneficiario real de más del 10% de las acciones en circulación de la BVC. Sector Real / Real Sector Investment Funds 16 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 1.5 Material Aspects and Coverage The different areas of the Exchange responsible for various topics reported herein were involved in the preparation of this The BVC's annual management report contains the requirereport, in which they explain their management during 2014, ments and guidelines required by Colombian regulations including material aspects, which largely reflect the issues of through the Financial Superintendence of Colombia, those greatest relevance to the stakeholders of the Exchange. considered in the BVC Code of Good Governance, as well as those suggested by the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI verBelow is a description of the process followed to determine the sion G4 and the UN Global Compact. content of the management report and the coverage thereof (chart 4). Chart 4. Process to determine the content of the management report dentification of the requirements in virtue of Colombian regulations. 1. Identification of issues relevant to Identification of the contents required by the BVC Code of Good Governance. stakeholders Identification of the contents suggested by the Global Reporting Initiative and the Global Compact. Identification of the Company's stakeholders. Assessment with the different areas involved in the valuation of the relevance, in terms of materiality, of the topics included in the management report. 2. Definition and prioritization of the topics to be reported Definition of the content of the report. Definition of the coverage of the topics included in the management report. Collecting information on: the markets managed, financial statements, risk management, corporate governance, sustainability, and human resource management, among others. Selecting, compiling and reporting the information. Detailed review on the part of management on the information reported by the different areas involved in the process. 3. Preparation, validation and presenReview and approval of the management report by the BVC Board of Directors. tation of the topics to be reported Independent Audit by the statutory auditor of the financial statements with the accompanying notes to ensure accuracy, reliability and transparency. Submission and approval of the management report and financial statements by the BVC General Shareholders’ Meeting. Publication and reporting of the management report to the Financial Superintendence and on the BVC website. Management Annual Report 2014 17 1 COMPANY PROFILE Material Aspects According to their Level of Impact on the Stakeholders The material aspects defined are evaluated for the market and for the Company by means of the reputation survey conducted by the BVC through a polling firm, where the different stakeholders rate each aspect on a scale of 1 to 5. To measure the work environment, the BVC uses the survey of the Great Place to Work Institute – GPTW, administered to all Company employees. The reputation and Great Place to Work GPTW surveys were conducted only for the BVC and did not include information on its subsidiaries and long-term investments. The BVC hopes in the future to be able to include the stakeholders that were not covered on this occasion and consider the material aspects that have not yet been evaluated. So far, there have been no reformulations or significant changes in the scope and coverage of the material aspects presented in this management report with regard to previous management reports, since the description of the material aspects regarding scope and coverage were included for the first time this year. 1.6 Report Profile This annual management report presents the corporate and financial performance of the Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S.A. and its subsidiaries during the period from January 1 to December 31, 2014 at the head office in the city of Bogotá, Colombia, corresponding to the Company's fiscal year. The previous report was published following approval by the General Shareholders Meeting on March 31, 2014, corresponding to the Company's performance in 2013. 18 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Chart 5. Material Aspects According to their Level of Impact on the Stakeholders Grupos de Interés / Stakeholders Aspectos materiales de acuerdo a su nivel de impacto BVC en los grupos de interés / MaPersona Comuniterial aspects according to the ColaboIntermediaGobierno / ProveeAccionistas / Emisores Inversionistas Medios de Comuninatural dades / Estudiantes level of impact on stakeholders radores / rios / IntermeGovernmdores / Shareholders / Issuers / Investors cación / Media / Retail Communi/ Students Employees diaries ment Suppliers Investors ties A Nivel del Mercado de Valores / Marketplace Administración de productos y servicios / Management of Products ✓ x ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ x x x x and Services Cumplimiento de la regulación / Compliance with ✓ x ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ x x x x Laws and Regulation Desarrollo del Mercado de Valores / Market Devel✓ x ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ x x x x opment Disponibilidad de los sistemas / System Availability ✓ x ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ x x x x Evolución y actualización tecnológica / Evolution and ✓ x ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ x x x x update Internacionalización / Internationalization ✓ x ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ x x x x Política pública / Public Policy x x x x x x x x x x x Seguridad de las operaciones en el mercado / ✓ x ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ x x x x Market transaction Security A Nivel de la Compañía / Company Desempeño y crecimiento económico sostenido y diversificado / Sustainable x x x x x x x x x x x and Diversified Economic Development and Growth Gobierno Corporativo / Corporate Governance ✓ x ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ x x x x Imagen y reconocimiento / Image and Recognition ✓ x ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ x x x x Servicio al cliente / Customer service ✓ x ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ x x x x A Nivel del Ambiente Laboral de la Compañía / Workplace Camaradería / Camaraderie x ✓ x x x x x x x x x Credibilidad / Credibility x ✓ x x x x x x x x x Imparcialidad / Impartiality x ✓ x x x x x x x x x Orgullo / Pride x ✓ x x x x x x x x x Respeto / Respect x ✓ x x x x x x x x x Criterio evaluado / Assessed Criteria: ✓ 4-5 3-4 0-3 Management Annual Report 2014 Criterio no evaluado / Not assessed Criteria: x 19 1 COMPANY PROFILE The BVC prepared its financial statements based on two acmarket participants, employees, suppliers, regulators and the counting standards: the Colombian accounting standard government, among others. COLGAAP, both for individual financial statements (only BVC) and for the consolidated financial statements (BVC and its The financial statements reported in the two accounting stansubsidiaries), and the international accounting standard dards contain comparative information of the previous year. IFRS, also in individual and consolidated versions. No changes have been made to the information reported in 2013 that could in any way influence the comparison with the They also include information on the BVC's permanent investinformation reported in previous periods, nor have there been ments in companies that are part of the value chain of the significant changes in the size and structure of the BVC or its Colombian capital market such as: the Depósito Centralizado capital structure. de Valores S.A. – DECEVAL, the Cámara de Riesgo Central de Contraparte S.A. CRCC and the Cámara de Compensación de The Statutory Auditor, appointed by the General Shareholders Divisas de Colombia S.A. – CCDC. Finally, they are also reportMeeting, is responsible for reviewing the management report, ed to XM Expertos en Mercados S.A. as an investment classiincluding the financial statements with the respective notes fied as a financial instrument. and disclosures. The financial statements reported in the two accounting stanThe scope of the Management Report is to validate that it condards contain comparative information of the previous year. tains, as required by Article 47 of Law 222, as amended by No changes have been made to the information reported in Law 603 / 2000, at least (…) an accurate statement on the 2013 that could in any way influence the comparison with the evolution of business and the Company's economic, adminisinformation reported in previous periods, nor have there been trative and legal situation . In this context, the Statutory Audisignificant changes in the size and structure of the BVC or its tor verifies that it contains information on: capital structure. 1. Any important events occurring after the period. This is the third annual management report, which includes 2. The company's foreseeable development. a sustainability report in line with the standards and indica3. Transactions carried out with partners and managers. tors set forth by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its G4 4. The Company's compliance with the regulations on guide. This third report has not been audited yet. However, intellectual property and copyright. it provides key quantitative and qualitative information of all areas of the Company with sustainability guidelines and its In reference to the report on the financial statements, the Statrelationship with BVC stakeholders: shareholders, investors, utory Auditor validates or corroborate that the figures are consistent with the financial information that it has on the Company, as contained in its financial statements, and provides an 20 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC opinion in accordance with Article 38 of Law 222 / 1995, which The Management Report 2014 is available on the BVC webindicates: that the certified financial statements attached to site: www.bvc.com.co in PDF format, and the hard copy is the statutory auditor's professional opinion or, in the absence provided during the General Shareholders Meeting. thereof, that of the independent public accountant, have been audited based on the examination thereof in accordance with The GRI index is on page 145. generally accepted auditing standards . For further information on the report, please contact the BVC's When the financial statements are presented together with the Department of Investors' Relations and Corporate Social Remanagers' Management Report, the Statutory Auditor must insponsibility at email: cbarrios@bvc.com.co clude in his report an opinion on whether they are consistent with each other. Management Annual Report 2014 21 CHAPTER 2 BVC Strategy 2 BVC STRATEGY 2.1 Strategic Orientation Vision In 2014, The Colombian Securities Exchange made progress in By 2015, the BVC will be one of the top three trading venues fulfilling the strategic objectives contained in the MEGA 2015: in Latin America, while maintaining its position as Colombia's • Increasing the eligibility of the Colombian market: by top trading venue. The BVC will be recognized by companies attracting more and better issuers, working together as a real option to finance their own growth and by shareholdwith market players to increase reliability through ers as a profitable company. the adoption of international standards, continuously developing new products and tools, promoting Mission the liquidity and depth of the listed securities. • Strengthening its internationalization process: by Contribute to capital market growth and development while working on the promotion of the Colombian capipositioning the BVC and its subsidiaries as the top exchange tal market abroad, implementing the global custoand financial center in the region, providing complete soludians model, developing and strengthening MILA, tions. The BVC is trustworthy, transparent, efficient and adexploring options and alternatives of interconnecmired for our innovation, our relationship to the clients and tion with other markets, continuously seeking and ability to learn. implementing cutting edge technologies to facilitate market access. 2.2 Forecasts, Vision Toward the Future • Penetrate the OTC market: by developing the Set Icap business plan, identifying and developing new In 2015, the BVC will work on improving the quality of the products, using the OTC network for distribution of market, by making progress with the Government in the incurrent BVC products. corporation of new policy adjustments for the country to be• Increasing the reliability and security of the markets come a full member of the MILA regional market, as well as operated by the BVC: by constantly strengthening in including tools for international use that will open more the monitoring of financial risks, adopting strict coropportunities for local players of the industry. porate governance standards, placing emphasis on market discipline together with our affiliates, workIt will also promote those initiatives aimed to help position ing with regulators and supervisors to implement a the country as an eligible alternative for foreign investors and regulatory framework with a long-term vision. as an attractive scenario for issuers and brokers to have great• Providing its shareholders with the best profitability. er participation in order to take advantage of the benefits of regional integration with the countries of the Pacific Alliance. In addition, as regards improving infrastructure, the BVC will work to ensure the best availability of its technology 24 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC platforms, while working on the full incorporation of the tional revenue at a 60% share of the total, and the positive global custodians model in the value chain of the Colombehavior of the investments made by the BVC in other entities bian market, as well as a central counterparty risk clearof the value chain, have offset the impact of the market situaing house for the equity market. It will also carry out the tion on the year's consolidated results. tasks necessary for the consolidation of certain products, particularly those related to the distribution of information In the Client Perspective, the BVC set three specific goals in through electronic channels, with the temporary lending of 2014. The first was to increase the number of stock transacsecurities and with the Derivatives Market. tions. This objective exceeded the expectations due to the six transactions carried out with issuers. The second was to 2.3 Monitoring the Strategy in 2014 achieve better quality regarding Brokers. This task also exceeded expectations because work was done to strengthen The BVC uses the Balanced Scorecard tool to measure the areas of economic research and relations with the brokers' effectiveness in the development of its strategic objectives, commercial divisions after arranging several sessions of trainwhich monitors four management perspectives: Financial, ing and market promotion, which are discussed in detail later Clients, Internal Processes and Talent Management. on in this report. The company set 13 objectives for 2014 on these fronts, of The third objective was to improve the Client Experience. which 77% (10 objectives) were fulfilled successfully, mostThis indicator establishes the degree of user satisfaction ly related to the perspectives of Clients, Internal Processes in relation to BVC services, which increased according to a and Talent Management. The other three, relating to the Fisurvey conducted in 2014, thus placing this objective on nancial Perspective, ended below the target set at the beginthe level of exceeding expectations, scoring 77 points on ning of the year. the NPS indicator. In the Financial Perspective, the BVC was affected by the As regards the Internal Processes Perspective, which had performance of the markets and the international situation. four specific objectives, the BVC fulfilled all of the tasks These factors reduced investors' interest in trading assets in proposed and in the end, three of the four goals exceedthe country dramatically. The Company's operating revenue ed expectations. Therefore, it is important to point out the ended the year at COP 85,129 million, and the EBITDA closed work carried out in terms of the Effectiveness of Regulatory at COP 34,151 million, which is below the figures forecasted Initiatives, on which six key policy adjustments were made by Management and the Board of Directors. for the development of corporate strategy. In addition, the work as far as Project Management was also successful. However, it is important to point out that the process of diverThis objective involves compliance with the timetables and sifying revenue sources, which currently keeps non-transacthe effectiveness of the initiatives in the Company. During Management Annual Report 2014 25 2 BVC STRATEGY Chart 6. Strategy Follow Up Strategic IV-Q Execution 2014 Goal Traffic Light Indicator Unit % Points Pilar 2014 2014 December I II III IV Annual MA 64.732 Operating Millions 15,729 62.286 G 67.130 10 11,4 Revenues EE 68.710 MA 28.723 BVC EBITDA Annual Financial Millions 25.230 G 31,121 10 0 Ratio EE 32.701 MA 15.500 BVC Operating Annual Millions 13.576 G 17.162 5 0 EVA Ratio EE 18.257 MA 4 Issuers Quality No. 6 6 G5 7,5 140 EE 6 Intermediaries Annual 100% 100% Clients Milestones 7,5 140 Quality Ratio Deliverables Deliverables MA 59 Customer Annual % 77 G 62 10 140 Experience Ratio EE 65 Regulatory MA 4 Initiative No. 5 6 G5 5 140 Effectiveness EE 6 MA 70 Project % 90.64 92,53 G 80 10 138,6 Management Internal EE 90 Processes MA 85 Continuous % 97.29 96,38 G 90 5 140 Improvement EE 95 MA 99,7 System % 99.72 99,87 G 99,8 5 124,9 Availability EE 99,9 Growth Annual 100% Initiatives Milestones Deliverables 10 120 Ratio Deliverables MEGA 2025 Strategic MA 80,9 Capital GPTW (I.A.L.) % 84.1 84,1 G 83,7 7,5 105,7 GE 86,5 Corporate Annual 100% 100% Milestones 7,5 140 Capabilities Ratio Deliverables Deliverables Exceeding Expectations Goal Minimum Acceptable Below Minimum Acceptable BVC Matrix 100.67 26 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC The organization's long-term aim is to strengthen and continThe BVC has defined a strategic vision MEGA ue working on these objectives, by setting increasingly am2015, with the purpose of becoming the bitious goals to sustain the development and profitability of leading stock exchange in regional stock the business. market management 2.4 Strategic Objectives for 2015 and Future Prospects In 2015, the BVC will carry on with its work to promote the securities market as an asset of the national economy, while generating opportunities for all stakeholders of the securithe period, this factor stood at 92.53%. Furthermore, the ties industry, especially the companies and investors who goals related to Continuous Improvement also exceeded turn to this scenario to meet their respective financing and expectations. These goals evaluate the Organization's abilprofitability needs. ity to adopt improvements in its processes, and achieved a compliance of 96.38%. Moreover, the systems availability Therefore, the Company will focus its efforts on improving indicator achieved the goal with a compliance of 99.87%. the quality of the market, increasing its internationalization and incorporating the best infrastructure throughout the year. Finally, in the Talent Management Perspective, the BVC These pillars served as a platform in previous years to move achieved the goals set in the MEGA 2025 Growth Initiative toward the consolidation of the objectives outlined in its design indicators, and reported progress in the measurelong-term vision. ment of the Work Environment Index, through the methodology of the Great Place to Work Institute, where the Company In terms of its medium-term perspective, the BVC has idenreceived a score of 84.1%. Last but not least, the organitified opportunities for growth in the internationalization zational skills indicator exceeded expectations, achieving a process underway with the Latin American Integrated Market fulfillment of 100% as regards to the performance manage(MILA), whose development in the future as a regional finanment and BVC leadership brand indicators. cial integration platform has become an objective of the governments of Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru. According to the monitoring matrix used by the BVC to measure management progress, the final result for 2014 was To this effect, the Exchange has defined a strategic vision, highly satisfactory, particularly with regards to the goals MEGA 2025, in which it has set out to play a leading role in the whose result depended directly on the Company. management of capital markets at the regional level, providing access to capital, investment opportunities and enabling services for the entire value chain of the Latin American securities industry. Management Annual Report 2014 27 2 BVC STRATEGY In order to achieve this result, the BVC will rely on its experience on the capital market, the reputation of its brand and the quality of its products and services. These inputs will help it build an attractive scenario for the financing of companies of all sizes, and the creation of new products, services and solutions, to meet all the needs of its clients, both in the negotiation and the post-negotiation process. This is how the Company expects to become a top-level player in the creation of tools that generate added value, with competitive advantages based on attributes such as efficiency and quality, but above all to enable integration with the globalized markets. At the same time, the BVC will carry on with the process of diversifying its revenue sources and work to increase profitability through post-transactional and enabling services, as well as through internationalization processes underway with other exchanges. The projects carried out by the Company to achieve a greater share on OTC markets will also be important in this sense, along with the increased integration achieved with other entities of the value chain and other exchanges, depositories and clearing houses in Latin America. Finally, the BVC has set out to take on the regional leadership to assist in the regulatory transformation required for the soundest development of the securities industry through the financial integration of the countries that make up the Pacific Alliance. 28 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Management Annual Report 2014 29 CHAPTER 3 Corporate Governance 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3.1 Report on corporate governance practices In addition to the above and based on the same conviction, the BVC took part in the discussion process to update the In 2014, as an entity in charge of managing the country's seCode of Best Corporate Practices 2007 led by the Financial curities markets (equity, fixed income and derivatives) and Superintendence of Colombia, through its active role and promoting the development thereof, the BVC has continued contribution at the roundtable created for this purpose by to work on the continuous improvement of its corporate govsaid Superintendence. ernance practices. It does so in the understanding that this is achieved by implementing practices that will reflect the The roundtable achieved the consensuses required for the highest corporate governance standards at the international Financial Superintendence of Colombia to publish the New level, generating value for the Company and its shareholders, Code of Best Corporate Practices of Colombia in External Cirachieving the proper management of the Company, conflicts cular 028 / 2014, which is in line with the advances defined of interest and relations with all other stakeholders. on the matter at the international level. Therefore, in 2014, in view of the results of the corporate As a result, the BVC management will constantly work to imgovernance assessment conducted in 2013 by Governance plement, update and strengthen the new Governance pracConsultants, the entity identified opportunities for imtices recommended by the Financial Superintendence, in line provement in order to strengthen the BVC's Corporate Govwith its purpose for the BVC to continue to stand out as a comernance, and divided them into three major groups: (i) time pany that adopts standards that exceed local requirements, optimization strategies, (ii) the control environment and making the BVC exclusively comparable with leading interna(iii) conflicts of interest, some of which were implemented tional entities. throughout 2014: • Approval of the annual agenda of topics for the Board Finally, in accordance with the results published by the Fiof Directors' 2014-2015 period, incorporating a distrinancial Superintendence in 2014 through its seventh annual bution by family of topics. report on the degree of acceptance of the recommendations • New rules for interaction between the Board and its comof the Code of Best Corporate Practices for Colombian Issuers, mittees, thus leading to better support by the committees the BVC was the entity that adopted all the recommendations for the work to be carried out by the Board of Directors. of Código País in 2013. • Recommendations related to the presentation of topics discussed by BVC Management. 32 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Chart 7. Board of Directors Independientes / Independents No independientes / Not Independent Sergio Clavijo Vergara Julián Domínguez Rivera Rafael Aparicio Escallón Juan Luis Franco Arroyave ANIF Confecámaras Acciones y Valores S.A. BTG Pactual S.A. Chairman of BVC Carlos Eduardo Jaimes Jaimes Javier Jaramillo Velásquez Mauricio Rosillo Rojas Aura Marleny Arcila Giraldo Independent Independent Bancolombia S.A. Universidad de Medellín Roberto Junguito Bonnet Santiago Montenegro Trujillo Diego Jiménez Posada Germán Salazar Castro Independent Asofondos Credicorp Capital Colombia S.A. Banco de Bogotá Juan Camilo Vallejo Arango Fiducor Management Annual Report 2014 33 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3.2 Board of Directors and Management In compliance with the corporate governance standards, the BVC Board of Directors is comprised of thirteen main members without alternates, seven of which are independent members1. The General Shareholders Meeting, at a meeting held on March 31, 2014, appointed the members that can be seen in chart 7. It must be highlighted that the members of the BVC Board of Directors are recognized executives with an excellent reputation. In order to guarantee impartiality and independence, none of them have labor or commercial relationships with the BVC or its affiliates. From this perspective, and in compliance with the Company's Code of Good Governance, the activities of the Board of Directors and its Committees are evaluated based on the following criteria: i) Compliance with meeting schedule. ii) Number of meetings that met the required quorum. iii) Each member's attendance of meetings. iv) Compliance with the agenda. v) Approval of the corresponding minutes. These are the results for the April December 2014 period (chart 8). 1 According to Article 2.10.1.1.1 of Decree 2555 of 2010 and paragraph three of Article 47 of the BVC Statutes, the capacity of independent member implies that the member cannot have any relationship with the BVC or its shareholders entities of the Colombian Stock Exchange, […] partners, shareholders or capital contributors for the shareholders entities of the Colombian Stock Exchange […], entities or natural persons that supply goods or services to the Stock Exchange or its subordinates […], just as with an employee, administrator, empowered person, manager, agent, advisor, consultor, contractor or supplier of goods or services for the Stock Exchange or its subordinates […], or with entities that receive donations or contributions from the Stock Exchange […], or with public entities that have supervision and regulation functions from the public market of the stock exchange . 34 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Chart 8. Results for the April December 2014 period Consejo Comité de Comité de Gobierno Comité Admin. y Comité de % de Directivo / Regulacion / Corporativo / Financiero / Finance Auditoría Miembros / Members Cumplimiento / Executive Regulation Corporate Governance & Administration / Audit % of Attendance Committee Committee Committe Committee Committee RAFAEL APARICIO ESCALLÓN 10 / 10 7/7 4/6 91% AURA MARLENY ARCILA GIRALDO 6 / 10 1/5 47% JUAN LUIS FRANCO ARROYAVE 7 / 10 3/6 63% DIEGO JIMÉNEZ POSADA 8 / 10 7/7 88% MAURICIO ROSILLO ROJAS 10 / 10 3/5 87% GERMÁN SALAZAR CASTRO 10 / 10 6/7 4/5 91% SERGIO CLAVIJO VERGARA 5 / 10 7/7 71% JULIÁN DOMÍNGUEZ RIVERA 8 / 10 3/3 85% CARLOS EDUARDO JAIMES JAIMES 9 / 10 7/7 3/3 94% JAVIER JARAMILLO VELÁSQUEZ 10 / 10 6/6 3/5 90% ROBERTO JUNGUITO BONNET 8 / 10 6/6 88% SANTIAGO MONTENEGRO TRUJILLO 8 / 10 5/6 3/3 84% JUAN CAMILO VALLEJO ARANGO 5 / 10 4/7 4/5 59% % de asistencia / % attendance 80% 90% 67% 67% 100% % cumplimiento del calendario / % Fullfillment of scheduled 100% 86% 100% 80% 100% meetings No. de reuniones con quorum deliberatorio / No. of meetings 10 6 6 4 3 with mandatory cuórum Cumplimiento de la agenda / 96% 100% 100% 86% 100% Completion of the agenda % aprobación de las actas / % 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% approval of minutes Management Annual Report 2014 35 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Below are the Board of Directors periods in which each of the current members have taken part: BOARD OF DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT MEMBERS NON INDEPENDENT MEMBERS • SERGIO CLAVIJO VERGARA • RAFAEL APARICIO ESCALLÓN 2008 to date 2001 to date • JULIÁN DOMÍNGUEZ RIVERA • AURA MARLENY ARCILA GIRALDO 2003-2005 external member 2013 to date 2005-2007 external member 2012 to date • JUAN LUIS FRANCO ARROYAVE r 2013 to date • CARLOS EDUARDO JAIMES JAIMES 2008 to date • DIEGO JIMÉNEZ POSADA 2008-2009 • JAVIER JARAMILLO VELÁSQUEZ 2009-2010 2007-2008 2010-2011 2009 to date 2013-2014 2014-2015 • ROBERTO JUNGUITO BONNET 2005-2007 external member • MAURICIO ROSILLO ROJAS 2006 to date 2014 to date • SANTIAGO MONTENEGRO TRUJILLO • GERMÁN SALAZAR CASTRO Desde 2010 a la fecha 2003-2005 external member 2005-2007 external member • JUAN CAMILO VALLEJO ARANGO 2006-2007 non independent member 2001-2003 external member 2007 to date 2003 -2005 external member 2006 to date In addition, the BVC has high-level Management consisting of a CEO. They assist in the development and fulfillment of the Company's objectives and obligations. 36 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Juan Pablo Córdoba Garcés Presidente de La Bolsa CEO of BVC Alberto Velandia Rodríguez Ángela Valderrama Guzmán Jitendra Puri VP. JurídicoSecretario General VP. Mercadeo y Producto VP. Tecnología Chief Legal Officer& General Counsel Chief Marketing & Product Officer Chief Information Officer Mauricio Mosseri Javier Diaz VP. Corporativo VP. Comercial Chief Corporate Officer Chief Commercial Officer Management Annual Report 2014 37 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3.3 BVC Governance Structure c. Process of Appointment and Selection of the Board of Directors and Committees a. Main Amendments to the Code of Good Governance In accordance with Article 47 of the By-laws and Article The Code of Good Governance was amended on two occasions 4.1.2.3 of the Code of Good Governance, it is the responsiin 2014, updating the means and mechanisms to evaluate bility of the General Shareholders Meeting to elect the Board the management of the Board of Directors, its Committees of Directors. In a General Meeting, the shareholders can regand members. The restriction included in the Code of Good ister the lists for the election of the Board members with the Governance preventing Board members from belonging Secretary. These individuals must be eligible in accordance to more than two Committees was lifted, and the list of with the concept of the BVC Corporate Governance Comthe primary obligations to be fulfilled by the shareholders mittee, which is the body in charge of verifying compliance of the BVC was included. This was done to ensure the with the general qualifications for all candidates to become proper functioning of the Committees and to maintain the members of the Board of Directors of the BVC, as well as the corporate code in constant evolution and at the forefront of conditions to be considered an independent member, estabcorporate governance recommendations and practices at the lished in Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 47 of the by-laws, international level. respectively. b. The Board of Directors and its Committees To this effect, at least twenty (20) business days prior to the date on which the Assembly will meet to elect members of To facilitate the development of the functions of the Board of the Board of Directors, the General Secretary will inform Directors, the achievement of its objectives and to ensure that shareholders of the election through the Company website, there is prior preparation of certain materials and analysis of or through a written communication, so they may nominate the topics for its revision in the established areas, there are candidates to be members to the Board of Directors. After Regulation, Administration and Finance, Audit and Corporate that, shareholders will nominate candidates with the GenerGovernance Committees made up of members of this body. al Secretary of the BVC at least ten (10) business days prior These Committees report and submit proposals or recommento the Meeting to elect the Board of Directors. dations to the Board of Directors for the approval thereof. In turn, during the first meeting, the new Board of Directors In addition, given that the BVC's stakeholders are made up of its defines the composition of the four committees established shareholders and members, among others, these stakeholders for the corresponding period. are represented on the Board of Directors through non-independent members. 38 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC d. Duties of the Board of Directors and Senior Management performing their duties and functions, the achievement of their goals, the members' observance of the principles The duties of the Board of Directors are aimed at the fulfilland responsibilities established for them in the Code of ment of the Company's strategic and organizational tasks, Good Governance, as well as to identify measures for imthe establishment of the policies for the management of provement. The individual and collective self-evaluation the risks inherent to the Company, and the development of the Board of Directors is completed anonymously by and operation of ordered, transparent and secure markets each of its members. with a proper pricing. Similarly, the Board of Directors is responsible for defining policies to verify the existence, inTo this effect, based on the results of the evaluation, mechdependence and effectiveness of internal controls for the anisms were implemented for the definition and discusappropriate monitoring of the Company's operation, a list sion of the most important topics to the BVC by approving of which can be referred to in Article 50 of the by-laws. In an annual agenda of topics for the Board of Directors to turn, the Company's senior management is responsible for discuss in the 2014-2015 period, incorporating a distrigenerating results in line with the strategy approved by the bution by family of topics, improvements in the delivery Board of Directors, achieving goals and economic results, and preparation of materials by BVC management and, in through the coordination and management of resources, addition, the members of the Board will reach agreements as well as complying with the orders and following the inof behavior for the preparation and development of each structions of the Board of Directors for the proper operaof the meetings. tion of the Company. f. Remuneration Policies for the Board of Directors and To this effect, the General Shareholders Meeting is the ComBVC CEO pany's highest authority, the governing body that approves the management report presented by the managers of the The Code of Good Governance provides that the duties of BVC at the end of each fiscal year. the Corporate Governance Committee include studying the policies for the remuneration of the Board of Directors. e. Board of Directors Self-Assessment Notwithstanding the above, it is the duty of the General Shareholders Meeting to set the fees or allowances for the The Board of Directors of the BVC is evaluated every year members of the Board of Directors. For the period from April by individual and collective self-evaluations developed 2014 to March 2015, it agreed to maintain the fixed amount in 2014 by an independent consultant. However, to this approved by the General Shareholders Meeting held on end, the means and mechanisms determined by the Board March 29, 2012 of four minimum monthly salaries (4 MMS), of Directors will be employed for each period to be evalper session of the Board of Directors and its Committees. uated. The self-evaluation is conducted with the aim to establish the levels of efficiency and effectiveness in Management Annual Report 2014 39 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In turn, the Company By-laws provide that it is the duty of ipating directly or indirectly in any deliberation, decision the Board of Directors to set the remuneration of the BVC or any other activities in the area of their duties, with reCEO. In addition, the Code of Good Governance prohibits the spect to the situation of conflict of interest that has been payment of the CEO's remuneration in stocks or other secuidentified. rities issued by the Company. Compensation or incentives for the CEO through shares, share options or other securities In order to ensure compliance with the corporate regulations, issued by the BVC are also forbidden. the BVC has provided in the Rules of Procedure (RIT in Spanish) that these regulations are mandatory for all employees and g. Mechanisms for the Management of Conflicts of Interest failing to comply with them will involve the imposition of the disciplinary sanctions established in the section Scale of OfThese mechanisms are described in Article 77 of the Byfenses and Disciplinary Sanctions of the RIT for BVC Employlaws, Articles 7.1.1.1, 7.1.1.2, 7.1.1.3 and 7.1.1.4 of the BVC ees, Articles 46 to 52. Code of Good Governance (CBGC), whose adoption is established in Article 83 of the Company by-laws, and Article 3.8 In 2014, the BVC did not enter into any contracts with direcof the BVC Ethics and Conduct Manual, Annex 2 of the Code tors, managers, senior executives or legal representatives, of Good Governance. including relatives, partners and other related individuals, except for those of a labor nature. Furthermore, commercial relaIn this respect, Article 77 Conflicts of Interest of the tionships with partners remained within the context of market by-laws provide that all individuals working with the terms and conditions. Company shall act with due diligence and loyalty, and establishes the procedure to be followed when faced h. Corporate Group with a conflict of interest or uncertainty regarding the existence thereof. Graph 2. In furtherance of the above, the Code of Good Governance Bolsa de Valores has developed good governance principles and ethics polde Colombia S.A. icies, including an entire section covering conflicts of interest, which establishes that all Company employees and managers must avoid incurring in situations that involve a conflict of interest, reason for which anyone working with Infovalmer the Company that is or believes they may be involved in a Invesbolsa S.A.S Proveedor de Precios para situation of conflict of interest, must abstain from particValoración S.A. 40 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC i. Judicial Actions Chart 9. Calificación Abogado Fecha Valor en Proceso Datos abogado Pretensiones probabilidad responsable notificación contabilidad pérdida Dirección: Carrera 7 No. Norman Alexander Aldana Julián Solorza 71-21 Of.602 T-B $684.950.000 Juzgado 7° Civil del Cto. Martínez (abogado 8 / 11 / 2007 Teléfono: 3174485 Fax: + perjuicios y Remota $ 753.473.851 de Bogotá externo) 3173032 daños morales Ciudad: Bogotá D.C. Dirección: Calle 72 No. 6 Sarasti y Cía. S. en C. y Juan Pablo 30 Piso 11 $1.280.000.000 Rodrigo Sarasti Juzgado Cárdenas 5 / 08 / 10 Teléfono: 5432808 Remota $ 1.414.409.834,00 + lucro cesante 37 Civil del Cto. de Bogotá (abogado externo) 5434264 Ciudad: Bogotá D.C. Dirección: Carrera 7 No. $10.000.000 + José Ignacio Uribe Ángela Cristina 71-21 Piso 12 T-B variaciones en Juzgado 21 Administrativo Silva (abogado 24 / 01 / 14 Teléfono: 3139800 Fax: el dividendo Remota $ 10.000.000 del Cto. de Medellín interno) 6068949 de la especie Ciudad: Bogotá D.C. Ecopetrol Total $ 2.177.883.685 3.4 Basic activities of the directors and management b. General Shareholders Meeting of the BVC The topics presented for discussion and approved by the Gena. The Board of Directors, as advises the CEO and other eral Shareholders Meeting at meetings held in 2014 are indiCompany executives, and orders and instructs them to recated in chart 10.. quire the proper performance of the Company's activities. This duty is carried out through the meetings of the Board c. Assessment of the BVC CEO of Directors and its Committees, which are the proper venues for the Board of Directors to give instructions to senior The Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors management, who in turn will present the progress and reevaluates the activity of the CEO on a periodic basis based on the sults of its efforts. fulfillment of the goals and indicators provided on the Balanced Scorecard. For the year 2014, the Committee found that Mr. Córdoba's performance was optimal for the benefit of the organization. Management Annual Report 2014 41 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chart 10. Shareholders' Meeting / Topics Presented to the Assembly Reuniones Asambleas Generales de Accionistas 2014 / The BVC’s Shareholders Meetings 2014 13.311.888.139 acciones equivalentes al 71.2902% de Ordinaria 31 de marzo de Cuórum las acciones en circulación. Shares equivalent to 71,2902% Ordinary 2014 outstanding shares Asuntos sometidos a consideración de la Asamblea General de Accionistas Topics presented to the Shareholders' General Meeting Informes del Consejo Directivo, del Presidente de la Bolsa y del Revisor Fiscal correspondientes a la gestión desarrollada por ellos durante el 2013 / Reports of the Board of Directors, the President of the Stock Exchange and the Statutory Auditor, corresponding to their performance during 2013 El proyecto de distribución de utilidades del ejercicio con corte a 31 de diciembre de 2013 / Proposal for the distribution of the year ended on December 31, 2013 Aprobación de estados financieros correspondientes al año 2013 / Approval of the Financial Statements of year end 2013 Elección de miembros independientes del Consejo Directivo para el período Abril 2014Marzo 2015 / Election of Independent Members of the Board of Directors for the period April 2014 to March 2015 Elección de miembros que no tienen la calidad de independientes del Consejo Directivo para el período Abril 2014 Marzo 2015 / Election of Non-Independent Members of the Board of Directors for the period April 2014 to March 2015 Fijación de honorarios del Consejo Directivo / Definition of the Board of Directors remuneration Elección de Revisor Fiscal para el periodo estatutario y aprobación de la apropiación presupuestal para su gestión para dicho periodo / Election of the External Auditor and approval of the budget appropriation for their activities Aprobación de la modificación del reglamento de la Asamblea General de Accionistas / Approval of the modification of General Shareholders’ Meeting regulations Informe cronograma de implementación Normas Internacionales de Información Financiera (NIIF) / Schedule Report for the implementation of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 42 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC It is important to clarify that the CEO of the BVC, who is the Financial Bulletin, and Chapter IV, Title I, Part I (6.1.2.1), Company's legal representative, will have the powers and atof the Fundamental Legal Bulletin, both issued by the Fitributions conferred by the by-laws and those determined by nancial Superintendence of Colombia; as well as the prothe Board of Directors. Also, the person holding this position visions established in Article 4.1.4.18 (7) of the BVC Code cannot be the Chairman of the Board of Directors, because of Good Governance. the latter represents said body and the Committees on a permanent basis and has the main duty of presiding over and I. Composition of the Audit Committee directing the Board meetings, as well as the deliberations that arise therein, ensuring compliance with the by-laws and the In accordance with Article 50 paragraph f. of the BVC ByCode of Good Governance. laws, the Audit Committee is made up of three members from the Board of Directors who act independently. For the 3.5 The Audit Committee's Annual Report to the period from April 2014 to March 2015, Julián Domínguez Board of Directors Rivera, Santiago Montenegro Trujillo were elected along with the undersigned, Carlos Eduardo Jaimes Jaimes, who was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee. Bogotá D.C., February 18, 2015 Furthermore, in response to the Board of Directors' decision Dear Sirs to adopt the alternate member mechanism when creating the BOARD OF DIRECTORS Committees, Sergio Clavijo Vergara was chosen as alternate Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S.A. member for the Audit Committee. This means that committees Bogotá can meet without being affected when the required quorum is not met. He was appointed in compliance with the Committee Reference: The Audit Committee's Annual Report to the creation rules as an independent member as required by the Board of Directors BVC Code of Good Governance. To the directors, II. Duties and Powers As the Chairman of the Board of Directors Audit ComAs established in Article 4.1.4.14 of the BVC Code of Good mittee, I would like to submit the report on the activities Governance, the Audit Committee is a unit that supports the carried out and results obtained by the Committee during operation of the Board of Directors with respect to monitoring the year it was in force: April 2014 to February 2015. The the performance and effectiveness of the Company's Internal above is based on the provisions established in Chapter IX Control System, including risk management and verifying the (2.3.10) and (2.2.32) of the Fundamental Accounting and function of the controlling bodies. Management Annual Report 2014 43 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Its duties are contained in Article 4.1.4.15 of the BVC Code of The internal control policies approved by the Board of DiGood Governance, adhering strictly to the requirements set rectors for the BVC were not modified in 2014, and thereout in Title I, Chapter IV, Part I (6.1.2.1) of the Fundamental fore remained in full effect. Notwithstanding the above, Legal Bulletin.. in the framework of the proposals for improvement being structured by the Corporate Governance Committee with the III. Assessment of the Committee's Functioning support of a consultant, the body asked Management in the extraordinary meeting held on October 21, 2014, to define The following criteria are taken into account in accordance with specific guidelines and instructions with respect to internal the BVC's Corporate Governance policies and in order to evaluate control for the subsidiaries of the BVC, to be submitted for the activities of the Board of Directors' Audit Committee: i) comconsideration thereby and, if applicable, for consideration pliance with the scheduled meetings, ii) the number of meetings by the Board of Directors. The proposal will be presented in that had the required quorum, iii) attendance of each member at the first quarter of 2015 and, if approved, it will complement the meetings, iv) fulfillment of the programmed agenda, and v) the current internal control policies for the BVC. approval of the corresponding minutes. IV. 2 4.2. Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Internal During the term in question the Board of Directors' AuControl System dit Committee met four (4) times, including the meeting in which this report was presented for approval. All the meetIn order to see the big picture when evaluating the instituings had the required quorum to hold discussions and make tional internal control system, in the 2014-2015 period, the decisions. The agenda for every one of the meetings, along committee addressed several matters within each of the syswith the presentations used during the meetings, were posttem's elements. ed for all committee members on the BVC website. The 23 topics scheduled for discussion in previous meetings were Control Environment discussed, which means that 100% of the initially proposed topics were examined. In this regard, the following main activities were carried out: 1. Ordinary meeting held on May 27, 2014 (Minutes Furthermore, the Committee approved 100% of the min033, Item IX). During this session, the proposal for the utes with a 100% attendance record by the members at amendment of the BVC's Internal Control Manual prethe meetings. sented by Management was reviewed. It contained a general update of the version that was originally apIV. Institutional Internal Control System proved on April 28, 2010. The committee authorized Management to submit IV. 1 4.1. Internal Control Policy the document to the Board of Directors for approv44 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC al (which was given at the meeting held on July 23, 4. Ordinary meeting held on August 26, 2014 (Minutes 2014). 034, Items VI, VII y VIII). Below are the topics present2. Ordinary meeting held on August 26, 2014 (Minutes ed by Management with regard to risk management 034, Item VI). A follow-up on the progress of the risk discussed in the Committee: awareness plan was carried out in the context of the • Operative Risk Management System Report, including discussion relating to the Operative Risk Management the evolution of operational risk events and the risk System ORMS. profile (operational and fraud), operational risk event management strategies, the evolution of the awareRisk Management ness plan, the residual risk ratio and the follow-up on the business continuity plan (Item VI). For the period covering the current report, the committee anThe committee stated that it was informed of the analalyzed the following risk management issues: yses provided. 3. Ordinary meeting held on May 27, 2014 (Minutes • Market risk report, which included the analysis of the 033, Item VIII). The topics discussed included the Repo stock transactions and the follow-up on the risk quarterly management report of the Compliance Offilimits (Item VII). cer for the System for the Prevention of Money Laun• It also covered the analysis of the Management Redering and Terrorism Financing (SIPLAFT in Spanish), port in response to an alert generated by the Board of and the market risk report. Directors in its meeting held in July. At this point, the The Compliance Officer's report included the main committee instructed Management to present a sumactivities carried out, particularly the notice of the mary of the analysis to the Board of Directors. delivery of the new SIPLAFT Manual to the Financial • Quarterly report of the Compliance Officer, which inSuperintendence of Colombia, the update of the warncluded the progress of the subsidiary assistance activing parameters, subsidiary assistance activities for the ities for the adoption of their procedures with respect adoption of their procedures with respect to money to money laundering and terrorism financing, the uplaundering and terrorism financing, training, the invendate status of the BVC's operational risk maps in relatory of risks related to the matter to be included in the tion to money laundering and terrorism financing and BVC's operational maps and, of course, the monitoring the result of the activities of monitoring and reporting and reporting of suspicious transactions. suspicious transactions (Item VIII). The market risk report included the monitoring of Repo It also included a summary of the main forms of ML/TF stock transactions, simultaneous fixed income trades for the securities sector and the mechanisms of control and the verification of compliance with risk limits. provided in the regulations, as well as the details of the The committee stated that it was informed of the inforscope of the alert system for the BVC. mation provided. The committee stated that it was informed of the analyses provided. Management Annual Report 2014 45 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 5. Ordinary Meeting held on November 25, 2014 (Minutes Control Activities 035, Item VII). The following matters were discussed: • Quarterly report of the Compliance Officer covering In the framework of this component, the committee carried out the progress of the main activities during the quarter activities for the review and analysis of the following reports: and the result of the activities of monitoring and re1. Ordinary meetings held on August 26, 2014 (Minutes porting suspicious transactions. 034, Item VI) and the current meeting (Item VIII).Evo• Market risk report describing the result of the monilution of the fraud and operational risk profile defined toring of Repo stock transactions, simultaneous fixed by the Board of Directors. This review included the income trades and risk limits. verification of the behavior of the risks of critical proThe committee stated that it was informed of the above cesses on the residual level (which includes an examtopics and requested as much detail as possible from ination of the effectiveness of the controls), as well as now on in the discussion of the topics of the market a follow-up on the progress of the action plans defined risk report. to prevent the recurrence of the risk events that have In addition to the above information, the Internal Autaken place. ditor presented the following for consideration by the The committee stated that it was informed of the analmembers of the Committee: yses presented in the meeting in August. • • The conclusion of compliance with the provisions of 2. Ordinary meeting held on November 25, 2014 (Minthe Financial Superintendence of Colombia in relation utes 035, Item VI). Assessment by internal auditing of to the Operative Risk Management System ORMS for the compliance with procedures and the effectiveness the year 2014 (based on the evaluation of the requireof the controls for inherent risks rated as high in the ments in Chapter 23 of the Fundamental Accounting Acquisitions Management subprocess Financial and and Financial Bulletin). Administrative Management process. The committee • • The results of mapping IT risks, which will be used from stated that it was informed of the above. now on for Audit assessments. The mapping was carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers, which provides Internal AuditInformation and Communication ing Services in the form of co-sourcing. The committee stated that it was informed of the above For the period covered by this report, the committee managed matters. the following information and communication matters: 6. Current Meeting held on February 17, 2015 (Item 1. Sesiones ordinarias del 27 de mayo de 2014 (acta VIII). In this meeting the following matters were dis033, Numeral X) y del 26 de agosto de 2014 (acta cussed, and the report was also approved: 034, numeral IX). Report and analysis of the individ• ORMS Report. ual Financial Statements according to COLGAAP and • Compliance Officer's Report. 46 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC management indicators as at April 30, 2014 and July lection process for the new annual period and the 31, 2014. The committee stated it was informed in proposal of fees. the two meetings. NOTE: Although the Individual Financial Statements Monitoring and Independent Assessment according to COLGAAP and the management indicators as at October 31, 2014 were also made available 1. At all ordinary meetings. Presentation of the Manto the members of the Committee for their informaagement Report to report significant internal control tion in the meeting held on November 25, 2014, they system events during the specific period. The report were not discussed. gives a precise indication of the permanent supervi2. Ordinary meeting held on August 26, 2014 (Minutes sion of the plans, programs and projects undertaken by 034, Item IX). Audit report on the consolidated financial Management on all levels. statements of the BVC according to IFRS as at September 2. Current meeting held on February 17, 2015 (Item 30, prepared by the Statutory Auditor. The Audit CommitVIII). Review of Internal Auditing's annual managetee stated that it was informed of the matter. ment report, including the results of the independent 3. Ordinary meeting held on November 25, 2014 assessment on the status of the internal control sys(Minutes 035, Item VI). Assessment of the main retem as at December 31, 2014, conducted by said consulted of the review by Internal Auditing of the BVC's trolling body. compliance with internal policies and information security management requirements established in Conclusions on the Effectiveness Chapter 23 of the Fundamental Accounting and Financial Bulletin of the Financial Superintendence of Based on the reviews conducted on the information presentColombia (in the current meeting). The committee ed by Management and the controlling bodies, the commitstated it was informed. tee considers that the Company's internal control system has 4. Current Meeting held on February 17, 2015 (Item V). The been satisfactory over the past year, as it provides for reasonCommittee performed the following tasks with respect to able compliance with the following objectives: the annual closure of the BVC's financial statements: • Review of the individual and consolidated financial 1. Improve operational efficiency and effectiveness. statements as at December 31, 2014 according to 2. Prevent and mitigate the occurrence of fraud. COLGAAP and IFRS, with their respective notes. 3. Adequately manage risks. • Review of the opinions issued by the Statutory Audi4. Increase reliability and timeliness of the information tor on the financial statements according to COLGAAP produced. and IFRS. 5. Fully comply with applicable procedures and regulations. • Review of the current Statutory Auditor's management assessment, as well as the results of the pre-seManagement Annual Report 2014 47 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In order to improve system effectiveness, the Committee 3. Improvements in the internal auditing process, particubelieves it is important to continue monitoring the relevant larly as regards information technology and the interacrisks and, in the case of materialization (risk events), timely tion thereof with financial and performance auditing. measures be taken to prevent their recurrence or mitigate 4. Improvement of technology processes, specifically the effects thereof, particularly in the cases affecting the with regard to administration and governance. availability of services to clients. It urges the controlling bodies to continue their assessments of processes and critV. Sanctions or Observations from Regulatory Authorities ical risks and, in relation to the events caused by human failure and processes, it encourages employees from all arManagement reported that no fines were imposed by the regeas and levels to conduct ongoing reviews of its working ulatory authorities during this period. practices in order to review and update them and even to improve them for error-free performance. VI. Management by the Controlling Bodies Timely and efficient closure of action plans defined to correct Internal Auditing and the Statutory Auditor participated in all weaknesses detected is also considered necessary. meetings, and they reported the progress in their corresponding action plans, presenting their significant findings and recIV.3 Principal Measures Adopted ommendations where relevant. The Committee monitored the activities of said bodies, verifying their effectiveness, indeNo material deficiencies were detected. Nevertheless, as pendence and the extent to which their work responds to the a result of analyzing the aforementioned information, the Company's control needs. observations made by the controlling bodies and management's opinions, it was possible to take measures in the folVI. 1 Issues Assessed lowing areas:: 1. Optimize operational, accounting and tax controls. Internal Auditing 2. Improve the corporate risk management process: • Operative Risk Management System (ORMS). With regard to Internal Auditing, the Committee addressed • Information security management. the following main points: • Market risks. 1. Review and approval of the annual Internal Audit plan • Strategic risks. for the 2015 term and the budget required to execute the activities. Said tasks were undertaken at the Committee meeting on November 25, 2014, in compliance with the provisions set out by the Financial Superintendence of Colombia. 48 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC The internal audit work plan for 2014 was approved 2. Quarterly review of the main findings and recommenin the meeting held on November 26, 2013, which is dations, as well as progress on the execution of its not within the scope of the calendar period covered work plan. by this report. 2. Review of the proposal to update the Auditing By-laws VI.2 Performance of Internal Auditing in the meeting held on May 27. This proposal was finally taken to the Board of Directors in July, where it was With respect to Internal Auditing, based on the review of the approved. above issues, the Committee concluded that the audit plan 3. Review of the proposal presented in relation to the covered the main business risks, that its auditing tasks met new model for the internal auditing of information the requirements and that the results satisfy the Company's technology IT, through co-sourcing with a specialcontrol needs. Furthermore, the Committee was able to deized international firm. The model was approved in the termine that the Internal Auditor performed its tasks indemeeting held on May 27 and the firm began working pendently, impartially, with resources and information and no on July 1, 2014. limitations that might hinder the integrity of the audit. 4. Revisión y aprobación del plan anual de actividades de la Auditoría Interna de TI. Dicho plan, una vez aprobaIn addition, the Committee believes that the emphasis givdo en la sesión de agosto 26, fue integrado al de la en to Internal Auditing of IT is relevant and considers that, Auditoría Interna operativa y financiera. based on the approach taken (co-sourcing), the integration 5. Quarterly review of the main findings and recommenof the Audit in the other areas is correct. It also found that dations, as well as progress on the execution of its the implementation of the new specialized IT audit compowork plan. nent is satisfactory. 6. Examination of Management's progress with respect to the closing of the main findings or observations 6.3. Performance of the Statutory Auditor on internal control (in meeting held on November 25, 2014). With regard to the Statutory Auditor appointed by the General Shareholders Meeting in March 2014, the Committee conStatutory Auditor cluded that it has performed its duties in accordance with the provisions set out in the procedures and by-laws. The following activities were carried out with respect to this controlling body: VII. Framework of the Committee's Relations 1. Review and approval of the annual Statutory Auditor activity plan for the 2014-2015 term. It was approved in Once the Annual Report has been approved by the Audit the meeting held on May 27, 2014. Committee, it shall be presented to the Board of Directors Management Annual Report 2014 49 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE in accordance with the provisions established in Article 3.6 Values, Principles, Standards and Regulations of 4.1.4.18 (7) of the Corporate Governance Code in order to the Organization report its content and conclusions, and obtain relevant feedback from said body. The BVC has an extensive list of corporate regulations that govern the Company's operation. To this effect, the OrganiSimilarly, when approved, the report shall be made availzation's main regulations are the by-laws, which establish able to shareholders for their inspection, in accordance the general provisions and regulate the Company's goverwith the provisions of Article 447 of the Code of Comnance structure. merce and Article 43 of the BVC By-laws and it shall also be presented for the consideration of the General ShareIn addition, the BVC has a Code of Good Governance whose holders Meeting. objective is to establish the parameters that complement the applicable legal and statutory regulations, and provide guidThe BVC CEO, the Vice-President and Secretary, and the Inance for BVC Management regarding its role as a commercial ternal Auditor attended all meetings held by the committee, company, as an entity that carries out an activity in the public thus making it possible to present various issues, to obtain interest, and as an entity that promotes the development of timely responses to questions raised, and for the Committee the capital, securities, derivatives, structured products and to immediately assign responsibilities to Management. The currency markets. The Code includes principles and reguStatutory Auditor that audited the BVC systems also attended lations designed to ensure shareholders' rights, the proper several ordinary committee meetings. management of the Company and the appropriate handling of stakeholder relations, the detection, prevention and control Sincerely yours, of conflicts of interest, and the existence of a safe, transparent market, with proper price setting in the systems managed by the Company or its subsidiaries. Now, in order to reinforce the BVC's commitment to act in accordance with ethics and comply with the applicable legal and regulatory provisions, specifically the guiding principles CARLOS EDUARDO JAIMES JAIMES and the rules of conduct applicable in these matters, the BVC Chair of the Audit Committee has an Ethics and Conduct Manual approved by the Board of Directors, which is a mandatory tool of reference and consultation for its recipients. Similarly, in addition to the corporate regulations mentioned above, there are the General Shareholders Meeting 50 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Regulations, the Rules of Procedure of the Board of Direcbasis and posted on the BVC website. The Legal Vice-Prestors and the internal control policies of the Bolsa de Vaidency of the BVC, or the corresponding Vice-presidency lores de Colombia S.A. will provide a reasoned written response to the requests, complaints or proposals mentioned above, within fifteen These corporate regulations are permanently posted on the (15) business days following submittal of the request, Company website in Spanish as well as in English. complaint or proposal. 3.7 Sharegolders' Rights When in the Company's opinion, the response to a shareholder's requests, complaints or proposals can place them at an The Code of Good Governance of the BVC, in addition to the advantage, the BVC will ensure that the other shareholders stipulations of the Law and the Bylaws, incorporates the rights will immediately have access to said response, according to of the Company's shareholders. the mechanisms established for that purpose, and in the same economic conditions. Shareholders will always be treated equally by Company management and employees, who will ensure they are allowed to In 2014, in response to the procedure established to do so, exercise their rights and will see to it that the questions, comthe Corporate Governance Committee studied the proposal plaints and suggestions they file with the Company are heard, to amend the BVC By-laws presented by a BVC shareholder at regardless of the number of shares they hold. the General Shareholders Meeting held on March 31, 2014, whose decision was reported to said shareholder in due time Shareholders' rights are mainly related to: in a reasoned written document. • Topics to be included in the agenda of the General 3.8 Compliance with the Autorities Shareholders Meetings. • Information made available to Shareholders, as well as The BVC is an entity controlled and supervised by the Fitimely and sufficient access to said information. nancial Superintendence of Colombia (SFC) and therefore • The possibility of requesting specialized audits and it must faithfully observe and follow the rules that regmaking recommendations to the Corporate Goverulate it. Therefore, the BVC must meet the requirements nance Committee. that this supervisory authority issues in the exercise of its • Resolution of conflicts and channeling of petitions, legal functions. claims or proposals to the Company. Likewise, it should be noted that the BVC has fully met the ETo this effect, the BVC has established channels for its terms established by the SFC for implementation of all the communication with shareholders. The information on the rules and provisions in the requirements it issues as a control, channels of communication is updated on a permanent inspection and supervisory entity. Management Annual Report 2014 51 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3.9 Compliance with Regulations on intellectual The BVC also has a procedure for software and media manProperty and Copyright, Tax Compliance of Foreign agement, whose purpose is to establish the different steps Accounts and Processing of Personal Data By the required to manage the inventory of software, media and verCompany sion licenses of the applications developed and/or acquired by the BVC. I. Compliance With Regulations on Intellectual Property and Copyright In relation to intellectual capital, in addition to the permanent use of the registered commercial brands, the BVC constantly The BVC has General and Specific Policies of the Information Severifies the validity of all the brands granted (at the end of the curity Management System , which is the document that estabyear, the Company had 62 registered brands), in order to analishes the guidelines and requirements for the management and lyze the viability of applying for the respective renewal within use of the BVC's Information Assets, in order to ensure the integrithe legal term to do so. ty, confidentiality and availability of the information in accordance with the Company's strategies and regulatory requirements. These In 2014, the BVC began to apply for the registration of six Policies establish that the information security management probrands that identify new products and/or services. In addition, cess is in compliance with the applicable legal and regulatory reit carried on with the permanent monitoring of the steps takquirements, including Law 1266 / 2008 Habeas Data, External en with the Superintendence of Industry and Commerce, by Bulletin 048 / 2006, External Bulletin 052 / 2007, External Bullevirtue of which the BVC brought opposition against proceedtin 038 / 2009, issued by the SFC and Statutory Law 1581 / 2012 ings filed by third parties for the registration of two brands Personal Data Protection. that are similar to those owned by the Company. This document also contains policies for the management of II. Compliance with the Provisions of the Foreign Account software, intellectual property and copyright in the BVC, all in Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) accordance with the legislation in effect. In 2014, the BVC analyzed the scope of the FATCA and its apIn compliance with its internal policies, the BVC conducts plication to the Company. The objective of the FATCA consists a periodic review of the licensing of all the programs used of preventing tax evasion by individuals who for tax effects by the Company. In turn, the BVC requires its contractors to are considered US persons. For this purpose, it imposes obliensure that they own any software they may use to provide gations on US taxpayers and financial institutions, as well as a service or it has been licensed by the software owners in Foreign Financial Institutions (FFIs). In compliance with this the name of the respective contractor. This is done in order to law, the BVC registered with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) avoid unauthorized use or damages to third parties. as a participating FFI with a Model 1 IGA. 52 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC III. Compliance with Regulations Relating to the Processing complaints, 3,937 queries and 9,088 service requests were of Personal Databases filed with the BVC by its different stakeholders in relation to the Company in 2014. The average response time was 2 days On occasion of the issue of Regulatory Decree 1377 / 2013 of for complaints and 0.25 days for requests and queries. Law 1581 / 2012, by which the General Personal Data Protection System was issued, the BVC published the Personal Data There were two (2) cases in which response time exceeded 15 Processing Policy, which is part of the General and Specific days (term provided by the Code of Good Governance). These Policies of the Information Security Management System. In cases are associated with technological requests that, given 2014, the Company complied with the provisions established their complexity, took longer than established. in its policies and regulations mentioned above. b. Claims Regarding Compliance with the Code of Good 3.10 Code of Good Governance Reports Governance a. Petitions, Claims or Proposals Submitted by No claims concerning compliance with the BVC's Code of Shareholders and Other Stakeholders Good Governance were filed in 2014. Pursuant to articles 8.1.1.1 and 8.1.1.2 of the Code of Good c. Unlawful or Unethical Actions Governance, petitions, claims or proposals presented by shareholders and other stakeholders must be provided with In 2014, The Legal Vice President of the BVC did not receive a reasoned written response within fifteen (15) business days any information from managers or employees of the Compafollowing the filing of the petition, claim or proposal. ny or its subsidiaries regarding facts that they are aware of and that, in their opinion, would imply a violation of ethical In compliance with said standard and according to informaprinciples or rules of conduct contained in the Manual of tion found in the Company's Centralized Claim System, 145 Ethics and Conduct. Management Annual Report 2014 53 CHAPTER 4 Internal Control and Quality 4 INTERNAL CONTROL AND QUALITY 4.1 Internal Control and Control Environment 4.2 Quality and Information Management During the year, the BVC carried out activities aimed at conAs part of its internal control, the BVC constantly consolidates solidating the Internal Control principles established by the the continuous improvement policy as an essential tool for Financial Superintendence in Part I, Title I, Chapter IV of the risk management and to meet client expectations in relation Fundamental Legal Bulletin by designing and implementing to the services provided. new policies, procedures and controls, as well the continuous improvement of existing policies. Accordingly, the quality process was focused on defining methodologies for the construction of efficient processes to Below are the main advances and achievements on each of strengthen knowledge management in the organization and the components thereof: encourage a work culture based on quality processes. Control Environment The Company is fully aware that operational efficiencies are achieved through continuous improvement and increase cusIn order to ensure that the human resources have the level tomer satisfaction, so it has strengthened the policies, proof skills required to do their jobs, the Company consolidated cedures and tools to manage control gaps in order to minithe model to assess positions and remuneration, as well as for mize the materialization of risks and non-compliant products. the management of employee performance, by aligning them Thanks to these improvements, the BVC's continuous imwith the Company's strategic objectives, process objectives provement indicator for 2014 was 96.38%, thus exceeding and their own objectives as individuals. the proposed goal of 90%. This methodology was implemented at all levels of the orgaFurthermore, in November, the BVC was recertified by nization and its understanding and application was monitored ICONTEC, the certification agency, which pointed out the on an ongoing basis in order to raise employee awareness organization's level of maturity as regards its Quality Manbased on the fulfillment of objectives aligned with the Comagement System. panies needs. For 2015, it has set the main objectives of (1) consolidatIn addition, the BVC focused process management as its main ing agile and efficient process documentation methodoltool on minimizing risks and complying with the levels of qualiogies, and (2) strengthening the structure for the docuty required in the services offered to the different stakeholders, mentation and measurement of costs associated with the in accordance with the current organizational structure. lack of quality. It is essential for the BVC to safeguard the criteria of information security and quality. Therefore, in 2014, it implemented initiatives focused on improving the levels of protection 56 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC through the Information Security Management System, the ments, which are used to inform all employees and the marmost notable being: ket in general of the level of fulfillment of the objectives, strategic decisions and the new challenges of the business. • Employee training on existing procedures and controls. • Strengthening of information security processes relat4.3 Risk Management ed to perimeter security, vulnerability management and access control in applications. According to the nature of the Exchange, its strategic objectives • Updating of detailed information flows of all Company and the external and internal context, the BVC is exposed to processes, including the related sources, destinations, risks inherently legal, reputational, financial and operational responsible parties and information asset and type. strategic impacts associated to meeting business objectives • Updating of the classification of the information and and its own operational activity. defining new controls in accordance with the confidentiality levels. Of these, 93% are rated within acceptable levels and will be • Identification of information security risks for each of monitored during 2015. For other treatment measures will be the critical processes and definition of action plans to implemented to improve their rating. handle them. • Design of procedures for information processing and In order to strengthen the corporate risk map, the risk control, related to the labeling, custody, destruction and methodologies of the System for the Prevention of Money levels of authorization in accordance with the confidenLaundering and Terrorism Financing (SIPLAFT in Spanish) tiality and criticality thereof for the Company. and the Operative Risk Management System (ORMS) were unified in 2014 to facilitate the comprehensive manageAdditionally, a review of the existing controls was carried out, ment of risks and contribute to decision-making on the part specifically those pertaining to minimum security and quality of the processes. requirements in processing information of products and services through the media and distribution channels to ensure In addition, cross-cutting strategies were defined and implethat security levels are maintained at all times. mented to optimize mitigation actions and controls, based on the comprehensive risk management methodology, the most Communication notable being: As part of proper communication management, during the • Inclusion of new sources for the identification of opyear, the mechanisms of information with stakeholders were erational risks. consolidated in order for it to flow effectively in all direc• Implementation of controls including the strengthening tions. These mechanisms include the Expanded Presidency of IT infrastructure and processes. Committee, the Results Meeting with all employees, the • Automation of activities in critical processes exposed Primary Committees by processes, and the general stateto high risk of human error. Management Annual Report 2014 57 4 INTERNAL CONTROL AND QUALITY As a result of the above, risk levels associated with business As regards the Know-Your-Customer process, in 2014, client encritical processes were reduced by 14.37%, thus exceeding rollment controls were strengthened and a campaign was carried the proposed goal of 12% for 2014. out to update client information. In addition, the generation of periodic reports was impleIn order to strengthen the compliance model in subsidiaries mented to facilitate the quick detection and correction of and controlled companies, activities were carried out to standeficiencies in risk management through more effective mondardize policies and processes. itoring on the part of processes. Throughout the year, the regulatory reports were sent to Furthermore, the Risk and Quality Awareness Plan was dethe Financial Analysis and Information Unit FAIU, and the veloped based on awareness and training campaigns aimed requirements related to ML/TF of supervisory agencies at all the levels of the Company and third parties involved, were satisfied. to raise awareness regarding the importance of internal control and its role in the prevention, detection and hanIn relation to annual employee training, activities included dling of the risks and impacts they have on the Company the dissemination of policies and procedures for the preand the general public. vention of ML/TF with BVC employees, the Risk and Quality Training Week, induction of new employees on these topics In Business Continuity, the annual test plan was executed, and training for specific processes. whose main focus is to verify the effectiveness of the strategies defined and implemented in response to disaster events For 2015, the Risk and Quality Management Unit intends to with an impact on business critical processes. continue strengthening the monitoring and control mechanisms that raise alert signals to identify unusual operations, Among the tests conducted, it is important to emphasize those therefore strengthening the procedures and controls for the carried out for the Fixed Income Market and business critical serprevention and control of ML/TF. vices for subsidiaries. Both tests generated satisfactory results. Control Activities The execution of contingency tests has been planned for 2015, including other market participants and the implementation In order to comply with the guidelines provided by manof improvements in the contingency strategies in effect on the agement through the policies and procedures related to the technological as well as the operational level. Internal Control System, the BVC developed initiatives, the most notable being: In compliance with the regulations for the prevention and control of money laundering and terrorism financing ML/ • • Consolidation of International Financial Reporting TF, activities were carried out aimed at implementing and Standards IFRS, aligning the accounting process to strengthening controls to mitigate associated risks. the needs of stakeholders, international standards 58 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC and enabling compliance with safety standards for the In addition, in order to measure employees' perception of information required to ensure the reliability of finaninternal control management at the BVC, the Annual Intercial statements of the Company, to reflect their actual nal Control Survey was administered, scoring 86.70 points, situation according to the principle of disclosure and which is equivalent to a satisfactory level. control of financial information. • Implementation of the training plan for BVC providFurthermore, the monitoring was complemented with indepeners in shopping, international accounting standards, dent assessments conducted by internal and external supervirisk management, fraud prevention and money launsory agencies, which gave their positive opinion with regards to dering and quality management. the levels of compliance with regulatory requirements. • Strengthening of the Corporate Governance model, reflecting the commitment of and importance to ManThe recommendations provided by the supervisory agencies agement of generating trust for the market through and the improvements proposed by management were inmanagement with integrity and transparency. cluded in the work plans for the processes for the respective • Optimization and automation of activities that desteps to be taken. creased risks associated with human error and improved the segregation of duties in accordance with 4.4 Auditor's Report the roles and responsibilities of each employee in business critical processes. 4.4.1 Independent Assessment of the Internal Control • Strengthening of procedures for physical security System ICS management, particularly in monitoring mechanisms, thus providing better control to safeguard the CompaPursuant to Title I, Chapter 9, (7.5.2.) of the Legal Basic Bulleny's goods and information. tin of the Financial superintendence, in addition to the permanent monitoring of senior management and the self-evalMonitoring uation of each area, a periodical independent assessment of the Internal Control System (ICS) must be carried out by the As part of the activities defined to verify the performance Internal Auditor, designated by the BVC for this purpose. In of internal controls, all their components were monitored 2014, said evaluation was conducted pursuant to the scope on a permanent basis through the Balanced Scorecard and and coverage defined in the Bulletin and the results were deprocess management indicators, which are monitored by livered to Management at the end of the year. bodies such as the Company's Board of Directors and the Risk Committee. The independent assessment encompasses the results of reviews performed as part of the audit plan and the status Management Annual Report 2014 59 4 INTERNAL CONTROL AND QUALITY thereof at the end of the year. The main conclusion of the AuThis plan, approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of ditor's report was that the elements of the ICS, namely, control Directors, developed the following actions and obtained the environment, risk management, control activities, information following results: and communication and monitoring, showed an average effectiveness level 83.19% in 2014. a) Evaluation of Management Systems: Review of the effectiveness of the BVC's risk and corporate governance 4.4.2 Internal Auditing Management systems, and an independent assessment of the Internal Control System. In 2014, Internal Auditing developed a work plan focused b) Auditing of Critical Processes: Evaluation of the efon risks, the use work models aligned with international fectiveness of the most relevant risk controls in core standard and considerable support from Enterprise Risk processes. Assessor (ERA) tool, used for the comprehensive managec) Quality Audits-Compliance: Evaluation of the BVC's ment and documentation of work, and the ACL tool used processes to establish their effectiveness and confor data analysis. formity with planned provisions, ISO 9001:2008 requirements and the requirements established by the organization itself. Graph 3. Internal control status per component Ambiente de control / Control environment 86,5% Sistema de Geslón de Riesgos / Risk assestment 83,1% Actividades de control / Control activities 84,1% CI contable / Accounting control 80,7% Información / Information 82,9% Comunicación / Communication 85% Monitoreo / Monitoring activities 80% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 60 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC d) Other special evaluations upon request of Senior Mancused on complementing the first and providing an in-depth agement for relevant matters. perspective in fundamental aspects such as governance, IT management and security. As a result of the auditory tasks, the reports were generated and delivered with findings and recommendations, and the closing 4.5 Ethics Hotline and Anti-Corruption Principle plans were coordinated with those responsible for each department. The progress of the plans was reviewed periodically. AcAs far as the anti-fraud program, in accordance with the 10 cording to all the auditors' reports (at least 90 days since issued), principles promoted by the UN Global Compact, the BVC as at December 31 the average percentage of progress attained prohibits any violation of the laws and regulations, and any in each area with respect to said closing plans was 94.76%. illegal, unethical or dishonest conduct on the part of its executives, managers and employees is also strictly prohibited. The Auditor presented quarterly reports to the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee to monitor the progress of To do so, the BVC has a Code of Good Governance, an Eththe plan and provide feedback on the most significant results. ics and Conduct Manual, and an internal control system that provides the tools necessary to minimize and control any Finally, it is important to stress that Management procured the risk of fraud and corruption, which are included in the BVC's resources and information required to carry out the audit incorporate risk management. dependently and without limitations. In 2014, no claims were received related to any of the con4.4.3 New Model for the Information Technology (IT) Audit ducts mentioned above through the Ethics Hotline, which is the mechanism provided to do so in the procedure for reportIn response to recommendations made on the first indepening unethical conduct. dent external assessment conducted by an international firm in 2013, the BVC adopted a co-sourcing model as of July Affiliates and Subsidiaries 2014, which it prevents to complement the in-house team of auditors with specialists in the area of IT Auditing, which facilThe BVC supervised how its affiliates and subsidiaries manitates the in-depth intervention of the technology issues that aged the implementation and maintenance of the internal so require, and is also articulated with the current internal aucontrol system, and concluded that INFOVALMER S.A has an diting activities in the operational and financial areas. effective system that meets the regulatory requirements established by the Financial Superintendence. The work plan that has been developed, which has been duly approved by the Audit Committee, includes compliance reAdditionally, INVESBOLSA S.A.S., an entity that is not superviews conducted with the in-house team of auditors to assess vised by the Financial Superintendence, adopted the policies regulatory compliance in relation to information security and and practices that are applicable according to its corporate internal technological control, and specialized reviews fopurpose and the development of the activity. Management Annual Report 2014 61 4 INTERNAL CONTROL AND QUALITY 62 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Management Annual Report 2014 63 CHAPTER 5 Sustainability 5 SUSTAINABILITY 5.1 Sustainability Focus and Vision In 2014, the first annual progress report of 2013 was sent, describing the actions of continuous improvement for the inIn order to increase the quality and competitiveness, and cretegration of the BVC's business strategy with the Global Comate long-term value for the Colombian capital market, the BVC pact and its principles. has recognized the importance of sustainability and responsible investment with environmental, social and governance Also, in July 2014, the BVC adhered to the Sustainable (ESG) criteria. In doing so, the BVC has been working on iniStock Exchanges – SSE initiative, becoming the second Latin tiatives over the last few years aimed at promoting aspects American Exchange to be a part of this UN initiative, which such as: corporate governance, investor relations, disclosure serves as a collaborative platform for exchanges to work standards, sustainability and responsible investment. together with investors, listed companies and regulators in order to raise the standards related to Environmental, The Company has played an active role in its commitment to Social and Governance factors, based on the long-term resustainability and therefore, has included the sustainability sponsible investment approach. report in its management report since 2012 based on the standard of the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI, a network In the interest of articulating the topics of sustainability at that establishes recommendations and standards for reportthe local and regional levels, the BVC has been working on ing sustainability at the international level. the LatinSIF initiative (Sustainable Investment Forum) since 2011, together with the Netherlands Embassy and the SusIn line with the initiatives that it has developed, the BVC is a tainalytics consulting firm, precisely to generate knowledge signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2012, in which it and the networks necessary to adapt the topics to the realhas reaffirmed its commitment to the principles of the initiaity and context of Colombia. So in 2014, training was protive. As regards labor rights, the BVC has focused on the develvided to journalists from 12 Colombia media, in which they opment of its employees as strategic capital, and in relation had the chance to get to know the perspective of compato environmental principles, it has carried out impact investnies and investors on the importance of incorporating susments through the Fondo Inversor, in an attempt to resolve tainability policies in their organizations. On this occasion, social and environmental challenges through sustainable and the event was attended by representatives of Bancolombia, economically profitable business models. Grupo Nutresa, IFC, GRI and Fondo Inversor as lecturers. In addition, with the support of the attending experts, the Finally, as for the anti-corruption principle, the Company journalists were able to clarify doubts as regards how to has a Code of Good Governance, an Ethics and Conduct understand the sustainability reports submitted by secuManual, and a tough internal control system that provides rities issuers and companies in general, which will be very the tools necessary to minimize and control any risk of helpful for them to be able to analyze and convey relevant fraud and corruption. information on these aspects. 66 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Chart 11. Valor económico generado y distribuido (Millones de pesos) / Generated and Distributed Economic Value (COP Millions) Valor Económico Generado y Distribuido / Generated and 2014* 2013* Distributed Economic Value Valor Económico Generado / Generated Economic Value Ingresos Operacionales / Operating Revenues 62.286 63.242 Otros Ingresos / Other Revenues 13.088 11.481 Valor Económico Generado / Generated Economic Value 75.374 74.723 Valor Económico Distribuido / Distributed Economic Value Total Remuneraciones a Empleados / Total Employees 19.025 22.725 Remuneration Total Pagos al Gobierno / Total Payments to Government 12.965 11.184 Pagos a Proveedores / Payments to Suppliers 15.585 14.377 Inversiones en Comunidad y Medio Ambiente / 194 364 Community and Environment Investments Costos Operacionales / Operating Costs 3.950 5.262 Valor Económico Distribuido / Distributed Economic Value 51.718 53.912 Valor Económico Retenido / Retained Economic Value Diferencia entre Valor Económico Generado y Distribuido / Difference Between Generated and Distributed Economic 23.656 20.811 Value *Data is derived from BVC's individual financial statements according to COLGAAP. Management Annual Report 2014 67 5 SUSTAINABILITY Chart 12. 2014 Results In 2014, the BVC reached a Generated and Distributed Economic Value for COP 23,656 million, which reflected a 13.7% Calificación / Promedio / Inversor increase compared to 2013. Grade Average(1) Gestor / Fund 130,0 108,5 Manager 5.2 Social Responsibility Portfolio 141,0 110,0 5.2.1 Inversor Fund Total 139,9 109,8 (1) The Fund Manager is compared to the average Active Funds and the Portfolio is compared to the average companies in emerging countries. On the general level, Fondo Inversor's social and environmental results in 2014 were the indicated in chart 12. Hotel Waya Guajira: Fondo Inversor is the first Colombian fund to adopt the GIIRS (Global Impact Investing Rating System) since 2012 for its 3 main impact investments, which are: Waya Guajira, Gaia Vitare and Groncol. The GIIRS is the highest social and environmental impact measurement standard for Impact Investment Funds, which enables Fondo Inversor to increase its positioning at the global level. In 2014, Fondo Inversor completed the GIIRS assessment The social strategy of the hotel in which Fondo Inversor holds process, obtaining a grade 27.4% higher than the average 47.7% of the shares underwent significant progress in terms of similar Funds (investment stage emerging markets). The of development of the supply chain, as well as employee welltotal score (on a scale of 200 points) consists of a weighting being activities. In 2014, the hotel created 16 new jobs, rising of the Professional Manager's assessment (10%), which rates from 71 in 2013 to 87 in 2014, where 76% of the workers are the approach, criteria and management of the portfolio. The natives of the region and 74% are from socioeconomic levels investment assessment (90%) grades corporate governance 1 and 2. In 2014, there were several delays in the information and the impact on employees, communities and the environrequirements for the Leed certification. However, work is bement. The results of 2014 were as follows: ing done to create a timetable of deliveries and commitments to obtain the certification around March 2015. 68 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC As for the GIIRS rating, Waya was not only the best compaGroncol: ny of the portfolio, but also the best in Colombia and is in the Top 10 of all the other segments compared, scoring 153.7 points (on a scale of 200). In its industry (Hotel and Catering), it ranked first place among 25 companies in the world. Gaia Vitare: This company designs, builds and maintains green walls and This is a company dedicated to the comprehensive manageroofs, in which Fondo Inversor holds 29.1% of the shares. It ment of waste electrical and electronic equipment, in which has strengthened its social indicators, and at the end of 2014, Fondo Inversor holds 45% of the shares. It generates an imit had 87 employees, of which 68% are from socioeconomic pact due to the management of WEEE in Colombia and crelevels 1 and 2. On the environmental level, it has generated ates direct jobs for persons in different conditions of vulnerpositive impacts, based on the fact that in 2014, it retained ability. It ended the year 2014 with 62 employees, 73% of and/or captured 1,074,182 liters of water, which represents which are from socioeconomic levels 1 and 2. In 2014, Gaia a 150% increase compared to 2013. As regards CO2 emismanaged a larger quantity of waste, thus generating a highsions, Groncol products captured 10,191 tons in 2014, which er positive impact on the environmental level by collecting is a 130% increase compared to 2013. In particulate matter, 1,728 tons of waste during the year, representing a 43% inthe green walls and roofs captured 207 kg, representing an crease compared to 2013. As regards the material managed, increase of 121% compared to 2013; and as regards repro815 tons were returned to the market and 710 tons were cessed garbage, it had a decrease of 46% compared to 2013 disposed of responsibly, for a total of 1,525. for a total of 172 tons. With respect to GIIRS rating, Gaia ranked third place among 11 Groncol got a grade of 111.2 points (on a scale of 200) on the companies in its industry (Waste Management and Recycling), GIIRS rating in its industry (Real Estate, Design and Construcscoring 134.4 points (on a scale of 200). tion) ranking 17 among 65 companies. Management Annual Report 2014 69 5 SUSTAINABILITY Indutrade: is a recycling plant located in Albania, Guajira, that disposes of used tires from the mining operation in the area, transforming them into steel, rubber powder and textile fibers. Fondo Inversor holds 36.5% of the shares in Indutrade, which is still in the project stage. Its impact will be mainly on account of the decrease in contamination caused by burying tires and the use of raw materials by returning them to the production chain. By the end of 2014, it had 10 employees. Waya Guajira Gaira Vitare Groncol Indutrade 70 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 5.2.2 Corporate Social Responsibility • Casa de la Madre y el Niño: A non-profit foundation dedicated to providing a home for abandoned children Since 2010, the BVC has delivered a total of COP and pregnant women, where they find wellbeing, spe1,206,957,000 in different types of donations to several cialized care, guidance and training. The total amount foundations as listed below. The largest amount was delivdonated by the BVC in 2014 was COP 3,000,000. ered to Corporación Inversor. • Corporación Inversor: An Impact Investment Fund that creates, supports and strengthens companies The following is the evolution of the donations made from that, transform the social and environmental prob2010 to 2014 (graph 4). lems of the country through its business models. The total amount donated by the BVC in 2014 was COP In 2014, the BVC made donations for a total of COP 150,000,000. 193,956,000, to entities such as: • Fundación Canguro: This foundation has the mission of humanizing neonatology, assessment, research, im• Asociación Mutual Bursátil (Asobursatil): A priprovement and dissemination of the kangaroo mother vate-law, non-profit mutual association, incorporatmethod. The total amount donated by the BVC in 2014 ed by individuals working in the securities industry. was COP 3,830,000. The total amount donated by the BVC in 2014 was • Fundación Dividendo Por Colombia: This is a multi-comCOP 15,000,000. pany Foundation that promotes corporate and individual social responsibility by contributing to the development of educational programs aimed at vulnerable children and adolescents. The total amount donated by the BVC in Graph 4. Donaciones / Donations 2014 was COP 1,176,000. • Fundación Ellen Reigner de Casas: This foundation 350 supports the needs of the National Cancer Institute 302 300 and other institutions that care for low-income cancer 271 patients. The total amount donated by the BVC in 2014 COP$ Millones / COP$ Millions 250 227 was COP 3,000,000. 213 194 200 • Fundación Monseñor Emilio: This foundation works to give the community a chance to have a better quality 150 of life by providing healthcare and educational services to strengthen the wellbeing of children, adoles100 cents and their families. The total amount donated by 50 the BVC in 2014 was COP 10,000,000. • Fundación Social Color Esperanza: This is a non-prof0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 it entity dedicated to promoting and carrying out Management Annual Report 2014 71 5 SUSTAINABILITY social programs for human potential, development Measuring the Carbon Footprint and the defense of Colombian children, families and communities. The total amount donated by the BVC In 2010, we began measuring the carbon footprint generated in 2014 was COP 3,000,000. by the two main direct sources of emissions, which are the • Fundación Cardio Infantil: This foundation has a space consumption of electricity and air travel. dedicated to treating low-income children with heart disease. The total amount donated by the BVC in 2014 In regards to energy consumption in 2014, the BVC achieved was COP 1,950,000. a reduction of 34.16%, going from consuming 50.32 kVA in • Fundación Formemos: This foundation has a program 2013 to 33.13 kVA in 2014. that enrolls companies in order for them to carry out their social responsibility by investing in educational, Chart 13. Consumo de energía 2012 -2014 kVA / Energy nutritional and construction projects for low-income consumption 20122014 kVA children. The total amount donated by the BVC in 2014 was COP 3,000,000 2012 2013 2014 75,53 50,32 33,13 5.2.3 Environmental Management In line with the environmental principles of the Global This decrease in energy consumption was achieved thanks to Compact and the UN Initiative, Sustainable Stock Exchangthe replacement of the lighting at the BVC offices, which are es, of which the BVC is a member, the BVC is working on the LED bulbs since 2013. development and application of environmental sustainability policies that complement its philosophy as a socialAs regards the carbon footprint generated by air travel, ly responsible company. the BVC achieved a reduction of 1.28% between 2013 and 2014 due to the decrease in the number of trips made Thus, in 2014, the BVC continued contributing to the impact by employees in the year, as they began to use a videoinvestment projects of the INVERSOR fund mentioned in the conferencing system to hold meetings and avoid commutsection above, with a view to promoting the social, environing to other cities. mental and economic development of the communities in its area of influence. Chart 14. Emisiones de CO2 Ton. / CO2 Emissions Ton. In addition, the Company has voluntarily implemented the initiatives described below, related to saving resources and 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 the continuous pursuit of better energy efficiency in its main facilities in Bogotá. 110,48 114,16 103,53 103,24 101,92 72 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Thanks to this teleconferencing service, we avoided generatThe initiatives carried out in both pillars were implemented ing an additional 242.2 Tn of CO2, as reported by the firm T1, in spaces called BVC Training Centers, along with strategies the provider of the tool. The following are the details: in social networks, which improved interaction with different audiences. The BVC currently has 33 centers in 16 cities in the country, carrying out ongoing activities to promote the Chart 15. Generation of Carbon Footprint securities market. Impacto Major results Numero de Numero de Ambiental Sesiones / Usuarios / Total Tiempo Ton CO2/ EnAcademic Program: Number of Number of / Total time vironmental sessions users impact Ton a. Academic Program Individuals: The BVC has variCO2 ous training options for individuals through its BVC 352 853 1.732 242 Training Centers. Among the contents offered in 2014, individuals found 12 programs to learn about financial concepts and investment in the equity, de5.3 Financial Education Program rivatives and fixed income markets, as well as basic financial concepts. In 2014, a total of 1,112 ColombiThe objective of the BVC's Education department is to bring ans took part in this initiative, including professors, the Colombian capital market to the masses, by generating professionals, students, homemakers, pensioners content, tools and opportunities to expand knowledge and and the self-employed, with an overall satisfaction bring closer to the local securities market. level of 4.70 out of 5. b. Specialized Market Training Programs: This initiative The strategy is developed through two pillars: includes a proposal of academic programs for financial and stock market professionals. Thus, in 2014, 1. Academic Program: classroom-based and virtual aca234 Colombians took part in this initiative, with an demic programs for individuals, financial market prooverall satisfaction level of 4.69 out of 5. fessionals, academic programs in agreements with c. Academic Programs Under Agreements: The BVC Colombian and foreign universities, and a free conferoffers specialized subjects on the securities market ence program for education in and the promotion of through agreements with universities and carries out the local securities market. outreach programs in investment and the market. In 2. Contests and Simulators: Practical tools for invest2014, 63 students took part in the programs provided ment simulation or the involvement of academia in by universities based on this system. the research of local market problems. d. Virtual Programs: Through the website www.bvcvirtual.com, anyone interested can access academic programs related to the principles of investment and the Management Annual Report 2014 73 5 SUSTAINABILITY fundamental concepts of the local securities market. offerings and closings, with a 20-minute delay, simIn 2014, the BVC offered 10 programs in which 521 ulating the platforms offered by current brokerage individuals participated. firms. This allowed people with little knowledge or e. International Agreements: In 2014, the BVC offered experience in this type of investment vehicles to four programs in an agreement with the University of gain real experience in decision-making regarding Illinois (USA) on topics of risks and derivatives. Profesinvestments, without the risk since the amounts sionals from three universities and six Colombian fiare simulated. In 2014, a total of 3,833 individuals nancial entities attended these programs, which were opened demo accounts on the simulator. aimed at professionals of the financial system and b. Millionaire Exchange Contest Universities: The Milstock market, as well as university professors. lionaire Exchange Contest, which has been around for f. Financial Education Conferences Program: In addithirteen years, is an event that helps undergraduate tion to the courses, the BVC complements its coverand graduate students to invest virtual money in real age with conferences on the capital market, whose time in the Colombia derivatives and stock market objective is to provide information on the entities' through an e-trading platform provided by the BVC. A role and financial consumers' rights, duties and prototal of 7,888 students from 119 universities in 141 tection plans, among others. The program is also Colombian cities participated. provided virtually on YouTube channel Conozca la c. Millionaire Exchange Contest Schools: In 2014, the BVC (Get to Know the BVC). BVC carried out the first two editions of the contest or school. Unlike the edition for universities, this contest In 2014, 3,252 individuals took part in the program, expressis aimed only at students in 10th and 11th grades (last ing an overall satisfaction of 4.73 out of 5. In addition, 30,371 two grades of high school), to invest in the stock that is more individuals participated in other activities carried out a part of the COLCAP index. A total of 5,843 students at the centers on the national level, such as film forums, semfrom 111 schools in 48 Colombian cities participated. inars, academic conferences, and introductory talks on the In addition, the BVC trained 184 schoolteachers in bamarket and its products. sic concepts of the market and the contest. d. Market Architects Contest: In an agreement with the Contests and Simulators: Securities Market Self-Regulatory Authority, the BVC held the fifth edition of the Market Architects contest, a. Simulators: In 2014, the BVC launched the first simengaging undergraduate and graduate students in a ulator connected to the BVC's stock trading system research project to expand their knowledge on the on its website, www.conozcalabvc.com. The simuColombian capital market, and enabling teachers and lator allows those interested to create investment professionals to show the studies or research conaccounts with a virtual amount on an e-trading platducted on market. During this edition, a total of 36 form that shows real information on stock market projects were submitted. 74 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Management Annual Report 2014 75 5 SUSTAINABILITY Market Promotion through the Digital Strategy: In 2014, Below is a list of social networks and their reach in 2014: we continued working on interaction with individuals through social networks. With this channel of communicaTwitter: “@BVCColombia”; 110,000 followers “@Conozcaltion, the BVC promotes academic content, addresses the aBVC”; 8,973 followers. main concerns people have about stock market products and services, promotes academic programs, conferences Facebook: “Conozca la BVC”; 32.071 followers. and contests, and generates fun activities to bring Colombians closer to basic, interesting concepts about the CoYouTube: ConozcalaBVC”; 1,942 subscribers. lombian securities market. Graph 5. Participantes por Iniciativa Educación BVC / BVC Education Participants per Initiative Participantes Totales / Total participants 54.536 Iniciativas / Initiatives Otras Actividades Puntos BVC / Other Activities Puntos BVC 30.371 Concursos y Simuladores / Contests and Simulators 17.620 Línea Académica / Academic line 6.545 0 10.000 20.000 30.000 40.000 50.000 60.000 Número de participantes / Number of participants 76 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Moreover, the education program's website www.conozcalabvc.com was visited by over 420,000 Colombians in 2014. The education front represented COP 1,087 million in revenues for the BVC. Graph 6. Distribución Ingresos Educación / Education Revenues Distribution 2014 1.200 1.000 Ingresos (Millones de Pesos) d 1.087 800 a Ingresos línea académica Revenues (COP millions) / Revenues Academic Line 600 a 560 b b Ingresos Concursos 400 475 / Contests Revenues c Ingresos otros (servicios) 200 / Other (services) Revenues c 52 d Ingresos totales 0 / Total Revenues Iniciativas / Initiatives Management Annual Report 2014 77 CHAPTER 6 Commitment to Shareholders 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS Graph 7. Volumen negociado vs. Precio acción / Traded Volume vs. VC Stock Price Volumen negociado (millones COP) / Traded Volume (COP Millions) Precio acción BVC ($ COP) / BVC Stock Price $35.000 $30 $24,9 $25,0 $30.000 $23,9 $23,0 $25 $21,7 $21,7 $22,0 $19,9 $20,7 $20,9 $20,9 $21,0 $25.000 $20 $20.000 $15 $15.000 $10 $10.000 22.985 16.290 17.952 25.879 16.289 19.583 11.252 10.366 $5 8.353 $5.000 6.601 4.686 4.322 $0 $0 Ene. Feb. Mar. Abr. May. Jun. Jul. Ago. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dic. 2014 6.1 BVC Stock Evolution In turn, in 2014, the BVC's stock trading volume increased 11.3% compared to 2013, as the traded volume in 2014 was In 2014, the BVC share price varied over the year, primarily COP 164,557 million, with a daily average of COP 674 million. due to local and external factors related to the performance In 2014, the BVC's stock continued to form a part of its main of the markets managed by the Company, such as the valuaindices, such as the COLCAP, COLIR, COLEQUTY and COLSC. tion of the dollar in Colombia and the drop in oil prices around the world that affected the local market in general. In light of this scenario, the BVC share price dropped 6.2%, going from COP 22.4 in 2013 to COP 21.0 by the end of 2014. Moreover, the Company´s market capitalization showed a proportional decrease and ended the period at COP 392,129 million. 80 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 8. Captación bursátil / Market Cap Capitalización Bursátil (Millones COP) / Market Cap (COP Millions) 500000 $500.000 450000 $450.000 400000 $400.000 350000 $350.000 300000 $300.000 405.200 371.589 405.200 386.527 390.262 429.475 464.953 466.821 446.280 410.802 390.262 392.129 250000 $250.000 200000 $200.000 150000 $150.000 100000 $100.000 50000 $50.000 $0 0 Ene. Feb. Mar. Abr. May. Jun. Jul. Ago. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dic. 2014 Also, as of November 11, 2014, the BVC's stock became the 6.2 Subsidiaries And Long-Term Investments first on the Colombian market to have a market maker, which in the case of the BVC was brokerage firm Credicorp Capital. In 2014, as a key participant of the Colombian securities market, the BVC carried on with its strategy to develop, The market maker is meant to improve the trading and price strengthen and integrate the Colombian capital market insetting of the BVC stock by generating more stability and a frastructure through its subsidiaries and strategic investbetter spread between the points of purchase and sale, in acments, which are part of the value chain. The following is cordance with the applicable regulations and the provisions a summary of the BVC's subsidiaries and long-term investestablished in the agreement signed between the BVC and ments (graph 9). CREDICORP, which is being carried out with the funds of the market maker based on the incentive system. Management Annual Report 2014 81 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS Graph 9. Subsidiaries and Long term investments Subsidiaries Long term investments 1 Manages, settles, clears and custody the securities traded at BVC, and also manages corporate events (dividends, INVESBOLSA 22,98% shareholders’ meetings, etc). 100% 100% Clears and settles operations on the Investment Is the securities standardized derivatives market, pricing provider acting as counterparty, eliminating vehicle. company in default risks. Colombia. 27,64% Manages the clearing and settlement system for foreign currency operations between exchange brokers. 25% BVC’s Direct Participation: 90,91%; Provides transactional, OTC and infor1 Through Invesbolsa 9,09% 2 mation systems for the spot market and foreign currency forwards. 50% 2 BVC’s Direct Participation: 49,82%; Through Invesbolsa: 0,18% Manages the standardized derivatives 3 market for energy commodities. 50% 3 BVC’s Direct Participation: 49,95%; Through Invesbolsa: 0,05% Manages the electricity market in Colombia. Companies that are part of the financial consolidation in IFRS 0,07% 82 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 6.2.1 Subsidiaries and Joint Control Chart 16. Subsidiaries and Joint Control Financial Invesbolsa Ratios 2014 2013 VAR % 2014 2013 VAR % 2014 2013 VAR % 2014 2013 VAR % Revenues 14.483 13.130 10% 4.101 3.690 11% 213 356 -40% EBITDA 6.613 5.888 12% 623 1.267 -51% -870 -688 -27% -2 -2 -23% Net Profit 4.244 4.058 5% 1.292 980 32% -1.101 -1.001 -10% 45 0,4 12059% Assets 7.763 7.566 3% 2.573 2.728 -6% 998 1.312 -24% 203 143 42% Liabilities 2.775 2.765 0% 920 1.228 -25% 300 108 177% 0 0,3 -1% Equity 4.988 4.801 4% 1.653 1.500 10% 698 1.203 -42% 202 143 42% EBITDA Margin 46% 45% 2% 15% 34% -56% -408% -193% -111% Net Margin 29% 31% -5% 32% 27% 19% -517% -282% -84% RoE 85% 85% 1% 78% 65% 20% -158% -83% -90% 22% 0% 8479% RoA 55% 54% 2% 50% 36% 40% -110% -76% -45% 22% 0% 8485% Evolution During 2014, 327.121 operaInfovalmer: provides securiIn 2014 the traded volume Invesbolsa: is an investment ve2014 tions were carried out through ties pricing services for local totaled COP$ 743 million hicle that can invest in the capital ICAP SET-FX in the amount and international securities, which represents an fall in stock of companies in which BVC of USD $ 222 billion which standardized and OTC for the 96% compared with 2013, is allowed to invest according to represents an increase of markets of fixed income, equiin 11 contracts with 3,96 its legal regime both local and 6.2% and 1.4% compared to ties, derivatives and structured Gwh energy volume. abroad. the number of operations and products. the trading volume in 2013 respectively. Source: Financial Statements in COLGAAP reported by each company. Management Annual Report 2014 83 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS 6.2.2 Long-term Investments Chart 17. Long-term Investments Financial Ratios 2014 2013 VAR % 2014 2013 VAR % 2014 2013 VAR % 2014 2013 VAR % Revenues 72.273 69.969 3% 8.695 7.780 12% 7.075 6.424 10% 110.093 90.750 21% EBITDA 41.927 40.266 4% 2.494 2.088 19% 1.879 1.703 10% 34.228 20.582 66% Net Profit 25.140 25.226 0% 1.980 648 205% 1.247 1.167 7% 10.293 2.466 317% Assets 90.814 91.369 -1% 32.869 31.664 4% 5.520 4.897 13% 300.746 73.302 310% Liabilities 22.612 24.356 -7% 566 1.180 -52% 714 576 24% 280.148 47.634 488% Equity 68.202 66.813 2% 32.303 30.483 6% 4.806 4.322 11% 27.598 25.667 8% EBITDA Margin 58% 59% -1% 29% 27% 7% 27% 27% 0% 31% 23% 37% Net Margin 35% 35% 0% 23% 8% 173% 18% 18% -3% 9% 3% 244% RoE 37% 38% -2% 6% 2% 188% 26% 27% -4% 37% 10% 288% RoA 28% 28% 1% 6% 2% 194% 23% 24% -5% 3% 3% 2% Evolution During 2014 Deceval had In 2014 the CRCC cleared During 2014 CCDC settled XM operates the national grid 2014 securities for COP $ 421.7 and settled a total of 931,641 a volume of USD $ 279 bilsystem and the energy market billion under coustody with an contracts in standardized lion, 4.1% higher compared in Colombia. In 2014 Colombia increase of 9% regarding to derivatives, 37.5% higher to 2013. The operations reached its highest growth in 2013. Also at the end of 2014 compared to 2013, the value showed an increase of 6.2% energy demand over the last it reported a dematerialized of the open position closed at with 350,630 operations 10 years (4.4%) and consumpissuances of COP $ 400.2 COP $ 8 billion, 11.1% higher and liquidity tion of 63.571 GWh. The main billion and managed securities than in 2013, by 38 members reason for the growth was due for COP $ 105.7 billion, which Derivatives market. On the to the increase of 5% of the represented increases comside of non-standardized energy demand of the regulated pared to 2013 of 16.5% and derivatives (OTC), the CRCC market (residential and small 15% respectively. Also had cleared and settled in nominal business) and a 3% increase in USD $ 39.1 billion 6.8% highenergy demand of large con181,127 DVP Transactions er than 2013. sumers (companies) totaling COP $ 170.4 billion. Source: Financial Statements in COLGAAP reported by each company. 84 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 6.3 Dividend Distribution Policy In the meeting held on March 31, 2014, the BVC's Generproject for FY2013 under the terms that are displayed in al Shareholders Meeting approved the profit distribution chart 18. Chart 18. Divided Distribution Policy Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S. A. Profits Distribution Project as of December 31, 2013 $ COP NOTES: It is proposes that cash dividends will be paid in Operating Profits before Income Tax 29.605.228.574 three payuments: ordinary dividend ($0,78 per share) Minus on April 30th, 2014, extraordinary dividend ($0,32 per Income Tax and Complementaries 6.589.977.114 Income Tax for Fairness CREE 2.204.698.713 share) on June 27th, 2014 and extraordinary dividend ($0,32 per share) on October 31st, 2014. Net Profits of the Year 20.810.552.747 Dividends will be paid to whoever has the quality of Plus Reserves Release Decree 2336 of 1995 1.255.962.118 shareholder at the time to be claimable to pay, in accorCorrespond to the profits generated by the application of dance with Article 455 of the Commercial Code. market price valuation system according with the Article 1° The dividends of 2013 are considered for shareof the Decree 2336 of 1995. holders, incomes with no income tax nor windfall profits. Reserves Release 4.495.186.157 Considering that it will be proposed to the AssemProfits before Obligatory Reserves 26.561.701.022 bly that dividends will be paid in three (3) payments, the Minus ex-dividend period will happens the four (4) trading Legal Reserves 0 days preceding the date of the dividend payment: (The Company has 50% of the capital in reserves) Between April 24th, 2014 to April 30th, 2014 ex-dividend date for the dividend payment on (April Reserve Decree of 1995 46.293.474 30th, 2014). Profits before Occasional Reserves 26.515.407.548 Between June 20th, 2014 to June 27th, 2014 Total Profits to Distribute 26.515.407.548 ex-dividend date for the dividend payment on (June Ordinary Dividend 0,78 14.567.386.923 27th, 2014). Extraordinary Dividend 0,64 11.948.020.625 Between October 27th, 2014 to October 31st, 2014 Total Profits to Distribute in Cash 26.515.407.548 ex-dividend date for the dividend payment on (October 127,41% 31st, 2014). Shares Outstanding 18.672.822.217 Dividends per Share 1,42 Management Annual Report 2014 85 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS 6.4 Special Report under Article 29, Law 222 of 1995 (charts 19, 20 and 21) Most important transactions completed during the FY2014 period between Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S.A. and its Subsidiaries. Chart 19. Derivex S.A. (COP$ millions) Description Value Description Valor Accounts receivable and payable Accounts receivable to DERIVEX 155.281 Accounts payable to BVC 155.281 Total accounts receivable 155.281 Total accounts payable 155.281 Revenues Expenses Subsidiaries (IT support) 246.588 IT consulting 246.588 Furniture lease 12.198 Specialized services 30.955 Administrative services 30.499 Professional service fees 29.329 Legal services 31.995 Tax consulting 2.666 Expenses repayment 3.033 Comunication and computing equipment 4.840 Alternate datacenter 7.358 Taxis 572 Stationery 2.005 Total revenues 324.313 Total expenses 324.313 Chart 20. SET ICAP S.A. (COP$ millions) Description Value Description Value Revenues Expenses Subsidiaries (IT support) 105.066 Buildings 24.000 On site courses 639 Other leases 639 Furniture lease 24.000 Technical support 21.378 Expenses repayment 911 IT support 53.590 Administrative services 1.746 Special comunication services 31.009 Other sundries 1.746 Total revenues 132.362 Total expenses 132.362 Dividends revenues 2.025.226 Dividends distribution 2.025.226 Total 2.157.588 Total 2.157.588 86 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Chart 21. Infovalmer S.A. (COP$ millions) Description Value Description Value Accounts receivable and payable Accounts receivable to Infovalmer S.A. 2.340 Accounts payable to BVC 2.340 Total accounts receivable 2.340 Total accounts payable 2.340 Accounts payable to Infovalmer S.A. 933 Accounts receivable to BVC 933 Total accounts payable 933 Total accounts receivable 933 Revenues Expenses Subsidiaries (IT support) 76.589 Administrative fees 173.994 On site courses 2.130 Technical consultancy 76.589 Furniture lease 24.000 Data system providers 159.120 Databases & reports 159.120 Public relations 2.130 Expenses repayment 4.747 Administrative services 145.247 Total revenues 411.833 Total expenses 411.833 Dividends revenues 427.273 Dividends distribution 427.273 Total 839.106 Total 839.106 Portfolio valuation 10.246 Local fixed income 10.246 Total expenses 10.246 Total revenues 10.246 Management Annual Report 2014 87 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS In 2014, there were no transactions of major influence beAccordingly, the first financial statements issued according to tween the Colombian Securities Exchange and other entities International Financial Reporting Standards are those submitdue to the influence or interest of the subsidiaries. ted as at December 31, 2014, compared to the year ending on December 31, 2012. These consolidated financial statements In 2014, the Colombian Securities Exchange did not make or were audited by Deloitte and Touche Ltda. fail to make any major decisions due to the influence or interests of the Subsidiaries. The BVC has been establishing a strategic partnership with ICAP Securities since 2014, to promote the development The Subsidiaries did not make or fail to make any major of the corporate debt market by promoting liquidity, depth decisions due to the influence of the Colombian Securiand benchmarking in this market. This strategic partnership ties Exchange. should be signed in the first few months of 2015. 6.5 Important Events Occurred following the Period También la BVC se encuentra adelantando el proyecto de Cámara de Acciones, el cual busca incrementar la confianza y transparBy means of communication dated January 26, 2015, the Fiencia de las transacciones de compensación y liquidación del nancial Superintendence of Colombia made a statement on mercado de Renta Variable. La implementación de este proyecto the BVC's early adoption of the International Financial Reportdebe quedar definida en los primeros meses de 2015. ing Standards (IFRS), indicating that the Company is exempt from preparing another opening statement of financial posi6.6 Circulation of Invoices tion (ESFA for the Spanish original), because the entity met the requirements of Decree 3024 of 2013, which modify the The Colombian Securities Exchange stated that in 2014, it did technical conceptual framework of Decree 2784 of 2012 and not hinder the free circulation of invoices issued by providers therefore, the opening statement of financial position submitor contractors and ensured the free mobility of those generted on January 1, 2012 would be accepted. ated in the entity as a result of the sale of goods and services relating to its activity. 88 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Management Annual Report 2014 89 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET 90 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC CHAPTER 7 Commitment to Clients and the Market Management Annual Report 2014 91 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET 7.1 International Environment ever, the expected start of a cycle of increases in interest rates did not take place and no changes are expected in The expected recovery of the world economy did not octhis position in the short term. cur in 2014; regions showed a growth below the levels expected with significant differences between the major On the contrary, Europe, Japan and China carried on with economic blocks. On one hand, after having a negative the processes to increase monetary stimuli. In the Eurofirst half affected by the winter season, the United States zone, the ECB decreased its intervention rate twice during and Great Britain improved the performance of their macthe year and it also began a program to inject liquidity roeconomic aggregates GDP, inflation and unemployin the market, consisting of long-term credits to commerment for the rest of the year. On the other, Europe and cial banks at close-to-reference rates. In Japan, the BoJ Japan showed weak growth, below 1% for Europe and increased the size of the liquidity injections in the market -1.3% in the Asian country for the third quarter of the and decided that they would be maintained until the taryear, and also faced the significant threat of deflation in get inflation of 2% is achieved. In China, the central bank their economies. cut its interest rate in November for the first time in more than two years. In emerging markets, the decline in the global demand for raw materials, due to the slowdown in developed econoAs a result of this global situation, financial assets showed mies and China, led to a reduction in the terms of trade differentiated behavior by region. The markets in the US in these countries, thus having a negative effect on the were the biggest beneficiaries: 10-year treasury securidomestic demand and resulting in less economic growth ties ended the year 86 basis points below the rate of the than expected. In particular, for the last quarter of the year, previous year, the major stock indices had significant valthe overproduction of oil and low global demand led to a uations and the dollar reached the highest level of tradsharp drop in crude oil prices —46% for the year in the ing compared to the major currencies of the world in the WTI benchmark—. In the middle of this scenario, growth post-crisis period. projections for Latin America in 2014 were adjusted heavily downward, where Mexico would grow well below the In the rest of the global markets, fixed income had good 3% initially predicted, and Brazil would have a growth of performance benefited by the postponement of the rate around 0.4% at the end of the year. increases in the US, while equities in general underwent devaluations in response to the prospect of lower ecoThis context of divergence between economic blocks led nomic growth. In particular, the behavior of Latin American central banks to implement different monetary policies. markets was not favorable during the year, and they were In the United States, the FED began to withdraw the monthe only ones in the region where the aggregate indicators etary stimulus with a monthly reduction of its asset pursuffered devaluation for both the fixed income markets as chase program, which ended definitively in October. Howwell as the equity markets. 92 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Local Environment rate was predicted since the end of 2013, it was not expected until the second half of the year and up to a level of 4% Colombia exhibited differentiated behavior in the region, not by the end of 2014. only by growing more than its peers but also as the only country in which growth projections were adjusted upward during The positive macroeconomic environment in the country and the year. While the dynamism of the product in Latin America the increase in the share of local debt in the JP Morgan emergwas much lower than expected —0.9% compared to the origing market indices in 2014 attracted a significant amount of inal expectation of 2.5%—, in Colombia in 2014, the econresources, and at the end of the year, the foreign investment omy is expected to grow 5% above the average of the last portfolio totaled about USD 12,400 million, which represents decade, which was 4.8% per year. a growth of 165% compared to 2013. In turn, although foreign direct investment stood at high levels —USD 15,032 milThe growth of the gross domestic product (GDP) was a surlion— it exhibited a 10.7% reduction compared to the incomprise with its upward trend in the first quarter at 6.5%, ing flows on this account in 2013. the highest since 2011, and for the following quarters, it remained above 4%. This dynamism in the Colombian With regard to local capital markets, the foreign context economy occurred mainly due to a significant domestic played a major role during the year. In the fixed income mardemand driven by the growth of investment, which for the ket, the increasing flows of portfolio investment served as a third quarter of the year came to represent 26.49% of the major boost for the recovery of local references in a context GDP with a growth of 14.6% between January and Sepof increase in the Central Bank's intervention rate —annual tember 2014. variation of the Coltes index of 4.8%. In the equity market, the drop in international oil prices coupled with the reducIn terms of inflation, it ended the year at 3.66%, which is tion in the level of crude oil extraction in the country, put the near the upper limit of the Central Bank's target range of ballast on the performance of oil companies, which mostly 4%. The prices of food and regulated products had the bigdrove the major local market indices down —annual variagest increases in the first three quarters, and at the end of tion of the Colcap index of -5.8%. the year, the significant depreciation of the local currency against the dollar caused the prices of imported goods to Finally, the significant drop in oil prices also caused the Cosuffer the greatest variations. lombian peso to suffer a significant depreciation against the dollar —Annual variation of 23% in the price of the dollar. Therefore, in a context of significant growth and certain inAlthough this situation was in line with the trend exhibited flationary pressures, the Central Bank decided to begin the by the currencies in the region, the local currency showed the contractive cycle monetary policy, by raising the reference second highest loss in value of the Latin American countries, rate five times throughout the year by 25 basis points from following Argentina's peso, which suffered an annual depreciApril up to 4.5%. Although the increase in the intervention ation of 31% against the dollar. Management Annual Report 2014 93 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET 7.2. Equity Market The total volume of transactions in the equity market in 2014 The number of transactions during the year reached a towas COP 49.07 trillion, COP 40.38 trillion of which correspond tal of 619,056 transactions in the spot market, 29,490 in to cash transactions (purchase and sale), COP 8.19 trillion to repo transactions and 1,669 Securities Lending transacrepo transactions and COP 0.49 trillion to Securities Lendtions, creating a total of 650,215 transactions in the transing transactions. This was how the average daily amount of actional systems of the BVC's equity market. In 2014, the trading in cash transactions (purchase and sale) showed a deCOLCAP index exhibited a negative variance of 5.81%, as crease of 1.18%, dropping from COP 167,538 million in 2012 a result of the behavior of oil constituents, affected by the to COP 165,547 million in 2014 (graph 10). sharp drop in oil prices (graphs 11and 12). Graph 10. Volumen de operaciones de Contado Renta Variable periodo 2010 2014 / Cash Equity Transactions 2010 2014 45,9 50 40,9 40,8 40,3 37,1 COP$ Billones / COP$ Trillions 40 30 20 10 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 94 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 11. Volumen promedio Diario Negociado periodo 2010 2014 / Average Daily Trading 2010 2014 188.212 165.707 167.538 165.547 151.524 200.000 COP$ Millones / COP$ Billions 150.000 100.000 50.000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Graph 12. Índice COLCAP 2009 2014 / COLCAP Index 2009 2014 2.000 1.800 1.600 Unidades de índice 1.400 1.200 1.000 800 1/1/09 1/4/09 1/7/09 1/10/09 1/1/10 1/4/10 1/7/10 1/10/10 1/1/11 1/4/11 1/7/11 1/10/11 1/1/12 1/4/12 1/7/12 1/10/12 1/1/13 1/4/13 1/7/13 1/10/13 1/1/14 1/4/14 1/7/14 1/10/14 Management Annual Report 2014 95 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET In terms of participants, foreign investors have increased an increase of 487% compared to the COP 84,195 million their share in the equity market, rising from 20% in 2013 of 2013 (graph 15). to 26% in 2014. In addition, they became the net buyers of the market, with a combined position of COP 1.96 trilIn 2014, the BVC made a series of adjustments aimed at lion during the year (graph 13). aligning the characteristics of the Securities Lending product to global standards and increasing the security and satisThe market capitalization presented a variation of faction levels of participants. Thus, the adjustment of the fee -12.50%, closing the year at a value of COP 364 trillion structure was made, and the adjustments to the Securities (graph 14). Lending transactions were made available to the market in the recall process of repo transactions, along with the transSecurities Lending – TTV fer of ownership of basic guarantees from the Receiver to the Originator, adjustments in the guarantee substitution In 2014, Securities Lending transactions at a total value of procedure, and the possibility of selecting the guarantee to COP 494,386 million were carried out, which represents back the transaction on trading. Graph 13. Participación de Extranjeros en Renta Variable 2010 2014 / Foreign Investors Participation on Equity Market 2010 2014 26% 30% 25% Porcentaje / Percentage 20% 20% 14% 15% 8% 7% 10% 5% 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 96 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 14. Capitalización Bursátil 2010 2014 / Market Capitalization 600 484 COP$ Billones / COP$ Trillions 500 418 416 404 364 400 300 200 100 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Graph 15. Volumen operado TTV en Acciones 2011 2014 / Securities Lending Volume 2011 2014 $600.000 COP$ Millones / COP$ Billions $500.000 $494.386 $400.000 $300.000 $200.000 $84.195 $57.029 $43.618 $100.000 $2011 2012 2013 2014 Management Annual Report 2014 97 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Colombian Global Market (MGC) Market Makers Program In 2014, Securities Lending transactions were carried out on In 2014, the Market Makers Program was launched. Two brothe Colombian Global Market for a total of COP 15,032 milkerage firms, BTGPactual Colombia and Credicorp Capital S.A. lion, which represents an increase of 596% compared to the enrolled in the Program during the year. The first on March 6 COP 2,161 million of 2013 (graph 16). as a Market Maker of the ICOLCAP instruments and the second on November 11 as the Market Maker of the BVC instruments. With a view to expanding the opportunities of diversification for Colombian investors, 12 new ETFs were listed on As a result, the ICOLCAP and BVC instruments increased their the Colombian Global Market in 2014. Now local investors liquidity by decreasing their bid-offer spread. The average daily can access international investment alternatives by being spread of the ICOLCAP instrument2 went from 4.11% to 0.52% exposed to different geographies, industries and investafter the Program began. Similarly, the average daily spread of ment objectives. the BVC instrument3 dropped to 1.13% compared to the average daily spread of 2.03% reported before the Program. Graph 16. Volumen operado MGC 2011 2014 / Colombian Global Market Volume 2011 2014 $15.032 $16.000 $14.000 COP$ Millones / COP$ Billions $12.000 $10.000 $8.000 $6.000 $2.161 $4.000 $1.377 $1.220 $2.000 $2011 2012 2013 2014 98 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC In 2015, more issuers and brokerage firms are expected to ennumber of listed companies in Latin America and the leadroll in the Program to continue contributing toward a market ing market by size of market capitalization, according to the with more depth and liquidity. World Federation of Exchanges (WFE)— the overall value of the four markets exceeds USD 1.1 trillion, which makes it Integrated Latin American Market (MILA) one of the most attractive markets in the region. In December 2014, the Mexican Stock Exchange officialIn 2014, transactions were carried out for USD ly joined the Integrated Latin American Market (MILA), 118,725,444 through the MILA infrastructure, which repbased on which the markets of Colombia, Chile and Peru resents a decrease of 15.34% compared to 2013, during will have the opportunity to trade on the Mexican market which operations amounted to USD 140,233,200. In 2014, through a local broker. the securities traded most were those of Chile, for USD 62,069,800 (52.28%), followed by Colombian securities The inclusion of Mexico has added 136 new issuers from for a total of USD 53,498,211 (45.06%) and Peruvian sethat market to MILA, totaling more than 780 securities becurities for USD 3,155,560 (2.66%) (graph 17). tween the four countries, becoming the leading market by Graph 17. Volumen Transado a través de la Infraestructura MILA 2011 2014 / Traded Volume Through the MILA Insfrastructure 20112014 112 120 Millones de US$ / US$ Millions 100 80 66 62 53 60 40 21 20 8 8 8 6 7 3 0 0 Sobre Valores Chilenos Sobre Valores Colombianos Sobre Valores Peruanos Over Chilean Securities Over Colombian Securities Over Peruvian Securities 2011 2012 2013 2014 2 For the ICOLCAP instruments, the average daily spread was calculated for 196 trading days before the Market Maker Program began, from May 10, 2013 to March 5, 2014. And 196 trading days following the start of the program from March 6, 2014 to December 30, 2014. 3 The calculation of the average daily spread of the BVC instrument is based on 33 trading days from September 15, 2014 to November 10, 2014 and from November 11, 2014 to December 30, 2014. Management Annual Report 2014 99 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET In 2015, the BVC will continue working on initiatives that 7.3 Fixed Income Markets contribute to the development and quality of the Colombian equity market, such as the consolidation the current The total volume of the fixed income market amounted exchange products, the implementation of custodians and to COP 1,353.89 trillion in 2014. The volume decreased the creation of a Central Counterparty Stock Clearing10.75% compared to 2013. The volume trend was marked house, among others. by two important events during the year. The first was the recomposition of the Colombian debt in the JP Morgan BVC Visionaries Program emerging market bond index EMBI family, which generated an increase in the inflows of foreign capital and posiIn 2014, the BVC launched the BVC Visionaries program tioned Colombia as one of the most attractive countries with a select group of Equity Market traders who contribin the region for investment in local debt; the second was uted their ideas and experiences to identify opportunities the rapid fall in oil prices, which affected the exchange that would generate value for the market and thus, build a rate and the performance levels of the Central Governmore prosperous, visionary market. The Program served as ment's treasury securities (graph 18). an opportunity for Equity Market traders and all the Brokers of the market to have a representative and present The BVC's strategy of 2014 for the fixed income market their short and medium-term visions. The best proposals was focused on the strengthening of the market's comwere socialized in a press conference with the market. plementary products, through the development of new In 2015, the co-creation process that began in 2014 will functions in the trading sessions and the consolidation of continue, in order to work on the initiatives presented by a strategic partnership with ICAP Securities for the develthe Brokers with the visionaries and find the way to imopment of private debt, and the regulation of clearing and plement them. settlement services for other trading and listing systems. This was done in order to provide a bundled clearing and New Fee Structure settlement service, as well as the management of guarantees for clients and the delivery of disaggregated inIn order to provide more competitive services and develformation on clearing and settlement transactions in the op the bases of a more dynamic market, the fee structure organization. of the equity market was modified, where each participant can select the fee group according to their needs, and the The TES Market reduction in fees for e-trading, day trading transactions, market maker transactions and those of the security lendIn 2014, the TES, MEC and SEN market rose 13.94% coming market are highlighted. pared to the previous year, totaling COP 2,763.10 trillion. The share percentage in the BVC'sTES market volumes 100 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 18. Evolución de volúmenes Negociados Renta Fija BVC 2010 2014 / BVC Fixed Income Traded Volume 2.500 2.161 2.000 1.749 1.695 COP$ Billones / COP Trillions 1.510 1.516 1.370 1.356 1.353 1.500 1.283 1.197 1.000 411 500 332 226 160 156 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Volumen Total / Total Volumen Deuda Pública / Public Debt Deuda Privada / Private Debt dropped from 55.92% in 2013 to 43.32% in 2014. The Private Debt Market volume of the BVC'sTES market reached COP 1,175.36 trillion. At the end of December 2014, transactions on the OTC The private debt volumes on the secondary market continue market listed through the MEC represented 70.45% of the their downward trend, reporting COP 156 trillion compared total volume traded on the BVC, compared to 69.20% in to COP 160 trillion in 2013. The volume of private debt fundDecember 2013 (graph 19). ing operations decreased 31.05% compared to the 8.62% growth of purchase and sale transactions. Finally, corporate Similarly, the fixed income market has been influenced debt issuances in the 2014 amounted to COP 4.04 trillion by monetary policy decisions made by the Central Bank compared to COP 9.24 trillion in 2013. regarding the intervention interest rate, which started out at 3.25% and ended the year 2014 at 4.50%. Also, as a result of the exchange rate reaching levels of COP 2,400, there was a general devaluation in the price of public debt securities for all maturities in Colombia's sovereign curve. Management Annual Report 2014 101 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Graph 19. Participación Mercado de TES por sistema SEN Banco República MEC BVC / TES Market Share SEN (Central Bank) & MEC BVC ( % ) % BVC % SEN 43,88% 37,97% 53,37% 44,08% 56,68% 56,12% 62,03% 46,63% 55,92% 43,32% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 7.4 Derivatives Market The broken-down analysis of the traded amounts indicate that the interest rate contracts are still the main product of the marMarket Performance ket amounting to COP 62.4 trillion, 65.6% of the total traded, concentrated in the Specific Reference TES Futures. RepresenIn 2014, the key performance indicators exhibited a positative Exchange Rate Futures totaled 31.1 trillion i.e. 32.7% of tive trend of the BVC derivatives market: 941,620 contracts the total. Finally, in regard to stock futures, while they are still were traded with a 37.4% increase compared to 2013; the the product with the smallest share, 1.8% of the total, it is imtotal amount traded was COP 95.1 trillion, i.e. 13.4% highportant to mention the increase in the amount traded of 78.7% er than in 2013; and 44,999 transactions were carried out, totaling COP 1.7 trillion, mainly due to Single Stock Futures. As indicating an annual increase of 26.2%. Also, it is importto market conditions, it is important to point out the evolution ant to mention that throughout the year, the historic record of the third party share, which went from representing 15% of daily trading was broken four times, with a maximum of of the traded volume in 2013 to 33% in 2014, as a result of COP 1.5 trillion on December 3 (graph 20). product distribution and penetration strategies. 102 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 20. Evolución mercado de Derivados BVC / Volume trend by Instrument Renta Variable / Equity Tasa de interés / Interest rate Divisas / FX Monto / Volume 350000 350.000 $35 Volumen Billones COP / Volume COP MM 300000 300.000 $30 Número de contratos / Contracts 250000 250.000 $25 200000 200.000 $20 150000 150.000 $15 100000 100.000 $10 50000 50.000 $5 0 0 $I -II I -II I -II I -II I -II I -II I -II -I -I -I -I -I -I 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 13 14 14 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 Cifras 31/12/2014 Información trimestral | Data 31/12/2014 Quartely information Fuente / Source: BVC Objective and Approach of 2014 Activities In terms of market structure, the Market Makers Program was launched on the COLCAP Future to increase its trading With the strategic objective of positioning and consolidatand consolidate the contract as the benchmark for equity ing the Derivatives Market, management in 2014 was fomarket futures. In regard to the TES Futures, adjustments cused on strengthening the product portfolio and improvwere made to the listing requirements of the TES Futures ing the market structure. In regard to the product portfolio, Makers System by strengthening Specific Reference Futhe Overnight Index Swap Future on the IBR overnight rate tures for the sake of the greater liquidity and developwas launched in November, replicating the trading condiment of this market. tions of this swapon the OTC market. Thus, the BVC's strategy to in the OTC market has continued by adapting to cli7.5 Issuers and Listing Services ents' needs for interest rate risk management. Strategic Objective In accordance with the evolution of the spot market, two new stock futures contracts were listed (GRU and PCE) The strategic objective in the area of issuers and listing along with a Specific Reference TES futures contract (T19). services is to contribute to the growth and development Management Annual Report 2014 103 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET of the securities market by channeling savings towards turned to the market in 2014, it is important to highlight productive investments; thereby making the Colombian the issuance of Grupo Argos, which amounted to COP 1 trilSecurities Exchange (BVC) an effective means for corpolion, and those carried out by: Grupo de InversionesSuramrate financing. ericana, Emgesa, Sociedades Bolívar, EmpresasPúblicas de Medellín and Cementos Argos, which individually exceedIn addition, the BVC is working to contribute to the deed COP 500,000 million. velopment, dynamism and quality of the Colombian capital market by implementing best practices in the area of In regard to the new companies' access to the securities mardisclosure and investor relations on behalf of securities ket, it is important to mention the listing of OrganizaciónTerissuers, as well as having a sufficient and attractive ofpel with common stock, after materializing the merger profering for investors or those looking to participate on the cess, which led to the corporate reorganization following the Colombian capital market. absorption of Sociedad de InversionesenEnergía (SIE) and Terpel del Centro by OrganizaciónTerpel. Access to Corporate Financing Market Makers In 2014, various issuers from the financial sector and the real sector turned to the securities market in search of fiThis program was launched by the BVC in 2013 by following best nancing and obtained resources for COP 16.6 trillion, thus practices of international markets, and thus: reaching a financed amount exceeding COP 77 trillion in the 2010 2014 period. (i) Increasing liquidity and adding to market depth. (ii) Protecting minority investors by providing market deIn addition, it is important to point out that 2014 became the parture mechanisms. second year with the highest amount financed in history, only (iii) Boosting the efficiency of stock performance and, exceeded by 2011. in particular, the initial public offerings of equity market securities. During the course of the year, three stock transactions of great (iv) Establishing the Colombian market as an eligible, importance and relevance were carried out: (i) GrupoAval for high-quality world-class market. COP 2.4 trillion, (ii) Bancolombia for COP 2.6 trillion and Banco de Bogotá for COP 1.5 trillion. As at December 2014, there were two instruments with market makers operating on the Colombian market: (i) ICOLCAP In addition, various entities obtained financing through 28 and (ii) BVC, which increased their liquidity and decreased debt issuances for more than COP 4 trillion with terms of up their bid-offer spread. In the case of ICOLCAP, the bid-offer to 20 years. Among the companies from the real sector that spread went from 4.11% to 0.52% and in the case of BVC stocks, it dropped from 2.03% to 1.13%. 104 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 21. Acceso a Financiamiento / Financing Access COP Billones / COP Billions 6,57 0,38 2,28 0,52 2,70 13,80 8,84 10,19 9,27 10,03 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 14,32 21,97 12,46 11,96 16,60 Renta Fija / Fixed Income Renta Variable / Equity Issuer Recognition IR It is important to mention that the index made up of the companies with IR Issuer Recognition (COLIR) was the Colombia Since 2012, the BVC has been making efforts, together with with the best performance during the year. listed securities issuers, to improve the quality of the Colombian market, and thereby make it more attractive to investors Latin American Roundtable of Corporate by increasing its competitiveness. Governance of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) In 2014, the BVC recognized for the second year in a row the effort made by securities issuers that voluntarily adopted The OECD chose Colombia as the host country for the Latin better information disclosure and investor relations practicAmerican Roundtable of Corporate Governance, held on Noes, with the Issuer Recognition IR . On this occasion, IR Recvember 18 and 19, 2014 with the participation of 163 particognition was awarded to 29 companies, most of which also ipants from 19 countries. received it in the year 2013 (exhibit 1). The Colombian Securities Exchange, committed to initiatives to invigorate the Colombian economy and contribute to the development of the securities market, led the orManagement Annual Report 2014 105 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Exhibit 1. IR Recognition ganization of the Roundtable with the support of several 7.6 Colombia Capital market players. Strategic Objective Some of the conclusions of the Roundtable are related to: (i) the work of building more efficient, liquid and interconnected Training program for future issuers of the Colombian Securimarkets, (ii) working on building trust between regulators, exties Exchange that aims to expand the offering of Colombian changes, depositories, investors of each of the MILA member issuers, and to strengthen and make the stock market known countries and (iii) finding mechanisms to avoid potential conat the national and international levels. The program serves flicts of interest between holding companies and their subas a catalyst between the Colombian business base and the sidiaries in the case of economic groups, because a large part stock market, contemplating the following activities: of the region's economic activity and market capitalization is represented by these groups. 1. Enrollment of potential issuers in the training program. 2. Business training. 106 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 3. Organization of specialized workshops and seminars 7.7 Colombia Inside Out together with current issuers to share experiences. 4. One-on-one assistance for enrolled companies. 5. Preparation and dissemination of specialized documents on market topics. As an integral part of its value offering and following the global trend of virtual education, Colombia Capital developed a A UNIQUE MARKET virtual training module together with experts on different subjects related to public securities market access in order for members to access content and material at their discretion, In September 2014, the BVC carried out the third edition of thus enabling a larger number of individuals in companies to Colombia Inside Out in New York and London. The event once receive the training. again brought together the business sector and the Government to discuss the investment opportunities available to It is important to point out that Credifamilia, a company eninternational investors on the Colombian capital market. The rolled in the program, placed UVR 87,610,000 in mortgage third edition of Colombia Inside Out again had the support bonds in 2013 and continued to be present on the secuof Citi as the main sponsor, Deceval, Financiera de Desarrollo rities market with another mortgage bond issue for UVR Nacional FDN, Marca País, Financial Times as the Media Part100,009,288 in 2014. ner and Avianca as the official airline. Also, Colombia Capital continued to provide personalized On this occasion, Colombia Inside Out had the participation assistance for the companies enrolled in the program and of 18 issuers, which held a total of 330 one-on-one meetings carried out a series of events aimed at the same companies, with foreign investors and 380 participants in the confertogether with other issuers that are now listed on the Colomences, where the highest ranking executives of these compabian Securities Exchange. nies discussed their vision of the future with the Government, along with the environment of their industry and plans for This year, Colombia Capital led the update of the Securiexpansion (chart 22). ties Market Guide, with the assistance of the Brigard&Urrutia law firm. This document has become a tool of refIn 2014, Colombia Inside Out was also attended by the Miniserence for those who want to understand and access the ter of Finance, the Director of Public Credit, the Ambassadors securities market. of Colombia in the United Kingdom and the UN. Eight Presidents and ten Vice Presidents of Finance of the major companies listed also took part in the event. Management Annual Report 2014 107 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Chart 22. Issuers Emisores / Issuers AviancaTaca Ecopetrol Grupo Sura Bancolombia EEB ISA BVC ETB Odinsa CANACOL Grupo Argos Pacific Rubiales CELSIA Grupo Éxito Isagen Conconcreto Grupo Nutresa FDN The event also had great media exposure, thanks to the atColombian media, that were invited to attend the conferences tendance of 18 international media and the assistance of four in the city of New York by the BVC. 108 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 7.8 Information and Electronic Media number of electronic orders, which has grown significantly since 2010, and has continued to grow in the percentage of Information total orders sent to the BVC (graph 22). Information products are divided into four lines of business: 7.9 2014 Commercial Management: market information, licensing, information screens and daBroker Management tabases and reports. Revenues from these products ended 2014 at COP 5,964 million. Commercial efforts in 2014 managed to impact our affiliates on various decisive fronts for the development of The amount of these revenues is mainly due to the 70% inthe capital market. On this front, the BVC focused efforts crease in vendor terminals with in-depth information of five on multi-strategy training of the brokers' sale desks, the lines and full depth and the growth of assets managed by the strengthening of Economic Research areas, the inclusion of ETF indexed at the COLCAP index. Mexico in the MILA and the enrollment of new affiliates in the different markets. Electronic Media The Standardized Derivatives Market and the Figure of the Electronic media products are the Electronic Access Services Equity Market's Security Lending generate new business (EAS) and BackOffice and trading terminals. Revenues from structures, combining the BVC's entire portfolio, thus enthese products ended 2014 at COP 4,204 million. abling affiliates to expand their product offering. In 2014, the Company worked hand in hand with these entities Throughout the year, the service of on-line notification of to provide their teams with training and generate a new fixed income indices and the new function for equity and trends in order for them to offer more elaborate strategies derivative markets was implemented for the routing of orto their end clients. Also, the BVC supported internal certiders and the receipt of market information based on the FIX fication processes on the subject of derivatives and carried 4.4 protocol. out joint presentations to the firms' end clients on the new investment alternatives. Since the FIX 4.4 is an international standard in exchange messaging, its implementation facilitates the connection of At the end of the year, the BVC carried out a series of international agents and boosts the development of the diworkshops in Bogotá and Medellín for the sales force of rect market access (DMA) model for foreign investors. the different brokerage firms. Mr. Roberto Ortiz, a Derivatives specialist of Bancomer México took part as a lecturer In addition, because it has lighter messaging, the FIX 4.4 in the events, with the participation of more than 130 inprotocol enables the BVC to support future growth in the dividuals from the different entities. Management Annual Report 2014 109 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Graph 22. Envío de órdenes por mecanismo / Order Routing by Platform SAE / Electronic Access Services Pantalla Trader / Trader Workstation 100% 90% Porcentaje por participación / 80% 70% 60% 50% Market Share % 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% Dic-2010 Jun-2011 Dic-2011 Jun-2012 Dic-2012 Jun-2013 Dic-2013 Jun-2014 Dic-2014 The BVC also carried out a specialized workshop in Bogotá and macroeconomic aggregates. To do so, the teams of the on investment futures in mutual funds (MF), with the particBrokerage Firms, Banks and Finance Corporations were ipation of Trust Funds and Brokerage Firms. The managers of called on for their reports to be assessed by the Portfolio these funds presented the benefits of incorporating these fuManagers of Institutional Investors and the Treasurer's of tures in the management of their portfolios. financial entities in the country. These awards were widely accepted, managing 90% of the research teams to take In order to promote high quality standards in the repart therein. ports of the Areas of Economic Research for proper decision-making by investors, in 2013, the BVC began a proOn another note, Mexico's inclusion in MILA led to a new cess for the strengthening and training of the affiliates' meeting of the minds between the brokerage firms of that technical teams country and their peers in Colombia. The BVC organized an event with the representatives of both markets in order To close this cycle in 2014, the first edition of the AER (Arto promote this meeting, in which they could analyze the eas of Economic Research) Awards was carried out togethcharacteristics of both securities markets and hold more er with the Portafolio newspaper, to recognize the best than 45 one-on-one meetings, thus facilitating their initial Areas of Economic Research in local stock, fixed income of contact for future partnerships. 110 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 23. Participación porcentual en los ingresos del segmento / Percentage share in segment's income 69,01% 2,72% 1,18% 1,21% 4,27% SCB / Brokers Vendors 8,71% Establecimientos de Crédito / Credit Entities Fiduciarias / Trust Companies AFP / Pension Funds Aseguradoras / Insurance Companies 12,89% Otros Clientes / Other Clients The BVC's commercial map by the end of 2014 includsuch as the effects of mergers between companies listed ed the enrollment of three new affiliates in the different on the Exchange, and advances in the modernization and markets. Servivalores enrolled in the Derivatives market, updating of the legal system applicable to certain market while Scotia Valores enrolled in the Equity Market and Old transactions and market infrastructure providers, through Mutual Valores did the same in the Fixed Income and Eqthe promotion of efficiency in the services. uity Markets (graph 23). These initiatives include the adjustments made and pro7.10 Advances on the Regulatory Agenda Focused on posed for the Exchange Regulations in response to Decree Market Developments 2878 of 2013, which established prudential criteria for the performance of monetary transactions (Repo transacIn regulatory matters, the year 2014 was characterized as tions, simultaneous and Security Lending), particularly in a period in which significant advances were made for the relation to the guarantee system applicable to monetary secure, sustained development of the Colombian capital transactions, establishing the obligation to set up guaranmarket. To this effect, initiatives were carried out, such tees, the admissible types of guarantees and the system as the review and consolidation of the risk models for applicable to transactions carried out in the over-themonetary transactions, the establishment of tax aspects, counter market. Management Annual Report 2014 111 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Another goal that the Exchange has continued supporting to mention the design and listing of the Overnight Index Swap consists of raising the level of quality of the Colombian marFuture, which involved the issue of External Bulletin No. 25 of ket and making adjustments to improve trading efficiency. In 2014 of the SFC for the appraisal thereof. this context, the BVC contributed to the issue of Decree 2510 of 2014 through which mechanisms were adopted to stabiThe BVC will continue working on the inclusion of cuslize the price of shares in initial public offerings, the update todians as new participants of the different markets, and for book building based on issuers' needs and the recognithe implementation of the risk model applicable to Repo tion of known and recurrent issuers by providing them with a transactions, simultaneous trades and Security Lending fast track for their issues. These initiatives not only led to the on the fixed income market. achievement of the objective, but will also promote the use of issues as financing mechanisms for companies. In addition, 7.11 Main Stakeholders the BVC supported the establishment of a clear, stable legal system that will allow short sales, as the definition and system The BVC has defined the priority of creating channels of was adjusted through said decree. communication with its different stakeholders, in order to get to know their needs and satisfy them in a consistent On other fronts, the BVC fostered and assisted the Colombian manner through action plans based on the information proGovernment in the different regulatory developments relatvided by each of them. ed to the viability of a business model integrated by infrastructure providers, the issue of the new Código País and the Since 2007, the BVC has identified the individuals and update of the Fundamental Legal Bulletin (External Bulletins organizations that interact with the organization and the No. 28 and 29 of 2014 of the Financial Superintendence of market through constant interaction, research and market Colombia (SFC, for the Spanish original). studies (among which the annual satisfaction survey and the annual Corporate Reputation survey are the most relIn addition, in the Equity Market, the BVC mainly made adevant). Thanks to this process, the Company has identified justments to the Securities Lending transactions in order to the following stakeholders: increase the security standards for the participants of these transactions by implementing the transfer of ownership of Brokers: consisting of Brokerage Firms, Credit Institutions guarantees from the Receiver to the Originator, as well as and institutional investors. They are a direct client and a the recall process, among others. Furthermore the conditions channel of distribution and interaction of the BVC's main applicable to issuers and investors in public offerings were products and services. established, aimed at the Integrated Market, and the infringement regulations for Repo transactions were updated. In the Issuers: business organizations from different industries fixed income market, the services of clearing and settlement seeking funds to fulfill their production objectives through of transactions from other trading and listing systems were the BVC by issuing securities; this is how the BVC contributes made available, and on the derivatives market, it is important to the growth and development of the national economy. 112 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Management Annual Report 2014 113 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET With these two stakeholders, the satisfaction survey has befor improvement with the above-mentioned stakeholders. come a tool to identify their needs in order to develop action In addition, the Company maintains an open dialog with plans to improve products and services. the media through its Department of Media and Public Relations, which is in charge of addressing the information Domestic Investors: are the end users based in Colombia requirements of communicators and opening spaces of who consume the Company's products and services. training for journalists to learn about the operation of the securities industry in detail, as well as other BVC manageForeign Investors: the end users of our products and serment issues. vices who are based abroad. College Students and Community: the BVC considers that uniThe Corporate Reputation survey provides the BVC with relversity students and students in the last grade of high school evant information to improve its products and services for are future market participants, which is why it interacts with these two stakeholders. In addition, the creation or improvethem through the training programs and contests designed to ment of products and services, as well as the growth stratepromote the securities exchange culture with them. In addition, gies of the securities market for final investors are established universities and professors are the main allies in the disseminawith the affiliated entities. tion and promotion of these programs, as well as in the proper training and instruction that students should receive regarding Shareholders: investors who deposit their trust in the Comthe securities market. pany by contributing their capital through the acquisition of BVC stocks. We have generated trust and confidence in their In addition, the BVC has provided this audience with different investments through the permanent delivery of information contests to stimulate learning and real-world experience in on the organization's management and performance. simulated environments, which promote permanent interaction with this stakeholder. Furthermore, the BVC has identiOpinion Leaders: sReliable generators and influencers that fied opportunities for improvement and the implementation are knowledgeable of the market and provide important inforof new academic offerings specialized in the securities market mation and reflections for the different market participants. based on its satisfaction surveys. Journalists: communicators, whether specialized in economy Employees: the BVC considers its employees a vital asset, beand finance, or not, who disseminate information, opinions cause it is through their knowledge and experience that the and events that affect all BVC stakeholders. Company materializes the initiatives it has set forth for the development of the securities market and leverage its growth Corporate reputation studies and different interaction as the main forum of business financing in Colombia. forums, such as events, special training and market research, allow the BVC to establish the perceptions and The Organization has established cross-cutting channels valuation of its brand, in order to establish opportunities of communication to interact with its employees on a per114 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC manent basis, obtaining feedback on the most relevant On the dissemination and promotion front, another funissues, not only regarding the Company's operation, but damental piece for corporate communication, the BVC also on the initiatives to improve its employees' quality carries out different educational and specialized training of life. activities, in which it includes investors, the student community, the media and providers, as well as affiliates and Communities: the BVC makes investments of social and envibrokers of the securities market. With the latter, the BVC ronmental impact with sustainable and economically profitable also carries out co-creation forums and events to promote business models through the Inversor Investment Fund, thus market participation in the design of the Company's prodstimulating the development of companies and their communiucts and services. ties with a social impact on those involved. Finally, the BVC has included the creation of spaces for interProviders: strategic allies that provide the support necessary action, such as the BVC Training Centers, which consist of 33 for the different projects and important activities with their entry level service centers throughout the country, as part of experience, expertise, knowledge, updated information and its strategy to reach out to the general public. The Millionaire effectiveness, for the effective operation of the BVC, thus alExchange Contests are also a part of this strategy. Starting in lowing it to focus on its corporate purpose. 2014, they were launched for students in the last two years of high school from all over the country. Government: state institutions that interact with the BVC on the different securities market projects and process7.12 Technological Development and Evolution es, particularly for the creation of products and services, and of course, for the regulation, monitoring and control In 2014, the BVC continued to pursue the objective of thereof. increasing competitiveness by improving the quality of products and services, as well as its innovation with ease. Interaction Mechanism Major Initiatives: The BVC interacts with its stakeholders by means of a multichannel platform that has tools such as Internet por1. In line with the easy market access strategy, the BVC tals, hotlines, e-mail and social media, such as Facebook, made an important effort in offering access through LinkedIn and Twitter. the FIX 4.4 protocol on the local Stock and Derivatives Market, which will benefit both local affiliates as well In addition, through its commercial channel, the BVC addressas foreign investors who want to access the market es the needs of its clients and affiliates, with whom it also through DMA providers. FIX 4.4 access was impleconducts market studies and research, such as the annual Satmented based on Nasdaq's Xstream platform to offer isfaction Survey and the Satisfaction Survey on Specialized a reliable service and easy access in compliance with Products and Services. international standards. Management Annual Report 2014 115 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET 116 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 2. The Company implemented a temporary technological turity of the technology processes using the ITIL framemodel to support the expansion of MILA, complying work of reference. with the technological and time restrictions. A defin9. The Company made improvements in the informaitive model is expected to be implemented in 2016. tion and the use of the Corvil tool to improve the 3. In line with the market's need to include Custodians, monitoring and analysis of the behavior of electronthe adjustments were made to the BVC systems to ic access services. allow this new player to take part in the complemen10. The BVC analyzed the technological alternatives for the tation, compliance and guarantees processes. Also, implementation of a stock portfolio. services were developed to allow electronic access to these processes by favoring STP (Straight-Through ProFurthermore, in order to improve IT governance and managecessing). ment, the BVC carried out several initiatives: 4. The evolution of solutions for Listing Services has continued through the implementation of new public auca. Optimization of the technological support process tion software and the construction of a rights module to provide clients with better service and timeliness for initial public offerings. in solutions. 5. In moving forward with the infrastructure upgrade b. Creation of the IT manager role for subsidiaries to implan, the host server of the Fixed Income training platprove the management of the companies' needs. form was replaced. In addition, the updating of more c. Strengthening of the culture of using collaboration than 250 communications servers (MC) located in Affiltools to improve the internal communication of techiate branches began. nological processes and generate historic information 6. As part of the infrastructure upgrading effort, a new for decision-making purposes. storage platform (storage SAN) was implemented. d. Improvement and standardization of the documentaThe BVC acquired it in 2013 to expand capacity and tion of the IT project plan and follow-up reports, thus reduce operating risks associated with the obsolesfacilitating the integrated management of projects. cence of the previous technology. e. Optimization of deliverables for the specification 7. In an attempt to streamline operations and costs, of requirements and planning of project testing, in the Company made a significant effort in updating order to ensure coverage, the common understandand consolidating the infrastructure that supports ing of requirements and tests, and quality in the the process integration services (BUS), enabling the documentation supporting the implementation of support of more services without increasing the infrasolutions. structure or licensing. f. IImplementation of the integrated IT project map for 8. In order to improve the technology operation processan integrated vision of the initiatives managed through es, the BVC hired Deloitte to diagnose the level of maPMO and those managed directly by IT. Management Annual Report 2014 117 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET 7.13 Development and Evolution of the Project Management Office In 2014, the Project Management Office focused its efforts on the management of 20 projects whose main objective is to improve market quality, increase investor trust, diversify revenues and optimize processes. Below is the status of each of the projects (charts 23, 24, 25 and 26). Also, in order to continue to improve its management methodology, the Projects Office specified and formalized the risk management subprocesses and processes for projects. 118 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Chart 23. Projects whose main purpose is to improve market quality Project Description Status Implementation of the custodian figure in the clearing and settlement Custodians process in Equity and Fixed-income transactions for Collective Portfolios Progress of the plan at 68% and foreign investors. Implementation of the FIX 4.4 protocol for local Brokers, DMA providers DMA II and information vendors to route orders for stocks and derivatives and Progress of the plan at 96% send BVC information using the form. Implementation of a new system for the listing services of Fixed Income Auctions Progress of the plan at 90% Auctions. Replacement and installation of the central primary and alternate trading Closed in July 2014 servers. Reconciliation engines of the fixed-income trading system. MEC PLUS Update Replacement and installation of the communications monitoring servers. Progress of the plan at 83% Activation of the function to generate implicit orders (fictitious orders Implicit generated based on the combination of points of purchase and sale on Progress of the plan at 54% contracts and spreads). Mexico's Inclusion in MILA. Enable the BVC's operational, legal and MILA Mexico technological interconnection with the BMV (Mexican Stock Exchange) and Progress of the plan at 93% Indeval (Central Securities Depository). Legal and technological implementation of the Equity Market Makers Market Makers Closed in April 2014 program. Management Annual Report 2014 119 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Chart 24. Projects whose main purpose is to increase investor trust Project Description Status Security Lending Implementation of the transfer of ownership of basic guarantees in Security Lending Closed in Adjustments transactions and the figure of recall, unilateral and mutual agreement transactions. December 2014 Operational and legal implementation of the risk model provided by Decree 2878 of the Progress of Risk Model Ministry of Finance and Public Credit for fixed income. the plan at 31% Definition and evaluation of alternatives for the implementation of the Central Counterparty Progress of Equities Project Clearing House for the Colombian Equity Market. the plan at 91% Chart 25. Projects whose main purpose is to diversify revenues Project Description Status Implementation of the clearing and settlement services for transactions involving fixed Progress of ICAP income securities from other trading and listing systems. the plan at 71% Technological implementation of an application that supports: the receipt of information to Index Calculator II calculate indices and baskets, periodic basket calculation, online rate calculation and the Closed in July 2014 delivery of index information to third parties. Information Implementation of a flexible, scalable and profitable solution for the Company to distribute Progress of Screens market information to users using different devices using the latest technology. the plan at 45% Management of regulatory changes and authorization for the market of the IBR listing Progress of OTC-IBR Contracts system and the delivery thereof to the CRCC. the plan at 99% 120 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Chart 26. Projects for process optimization Project Description Status Optimization of the system used in the BVC Meeting Software General Shareholders Meeting for registration, Closed in April 2014 voting and generation of reports. Implementation of a new market collection EM Fee Schedule Closed in February 2014 system. Automation of the billing of securities FR Issuer Billing maintenance of the issues of: fixed income, Closed in February 2014 collective portfolios and ETFs. Stabilization of the upgraded version of the INFOVAL Migration Progress of the plan at 85% price valuation system for Infovalmer. Automation of reports on OTC derivatives for OTC Frame Closed in February 2014 the Financial Superintendence of Colombia. Implementation of a new interconnection Renewal of CB Technology system with the Central Bank as per its Suspended by decision of the CB requirements. Management Annual Report 2014 121 CHAPTER 8 Commitment to our Employees 8 COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES 8.1 Talent Management Graph 25. Strategic, Tactic and Operational Processes The BVC firmly believes in its commitment to promote the growth of its people and their talent to develop a high-perTalent Recognition formance corporate culture, which undoubtedly adds value to Managment Management the BVC strategy, through talent management, performance Performance Competencies and culture, ensuring the achievement of results for the atManagement Strategy Management tainment of the MEGA. So the Company incorporated five Payroll and Personnel Culture Administration management pillars to ensure the results as illustrated below. Managemnt Processes Structure Labor Policy Administration The BVC has strategic, tactical and operational processes to Communications carry out talent management as listed in graph 25. Management Occupational Health People Measuring BVC evolution of most processes is explained in detail in Quality Wellness Management graphs 26 to 30. Management Compensation Management Strategic Process Tactical Process Operating Process Graph 24. Five Management Pillars Strategic Tactical Processes Operating Developed and motivated people thorough: Strategy Training plans People Development plans 70,20,10 Individual performance Training programs Processes Structure Defined roles Critical position map Structure Position description Balanced scorecard Individual performance objectives Area indicators Measuring People Measuring GPTW survey 124 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 26. Great Place to Work Survey IAL 100 90 83,7 84,1 82,2 81,6 80 79,5 74,8 70 66,1 60 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The culture management have been working to implement environment survey from 2012 to 2013 generating the plans in every area of the organization, in 2013 the Mark commitment of all people of the BVC in conjunction with of Leadership BVC, development policy was created, perthe monitoring of the leaders. During 2014 we focused on formance management was implemented, development consolidating the culture and we are carrying BVC orientplans were made for employees and more than 100 worked leadership, recognition, development and alignment of shops, achieving an increase of 8.9 points in the working corporate values programs Management Annual Report 2014 125 8 COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES Graph 27. Labor Environment Dimensions Credibility We have obtained a significant increase in 85% of the vari• Lidership ables in the working environment survey, which shows that • Vision culture is taking root and that our employees feel that most • Reliability issues are resolved appropiately. Respect • Development Favorability Favorability Dimension Var 2012 2014 • Recognition • Live and work Balance CREDIBILITY 83 86 3 Impartiality Leadership 80 89 9 • Equality Vision 84 88 4 • Justice RESPECT 79 83 4 • Absence of Favoritism Recognition 80 87 7 Camaraderie • Fellowship IMPARCIALITY 68 78 10 • Hospitality • Team Sense Equality 55 71 16 CAMARADERIE 82 86 4 Pride Fellowship 84 90 6 • My job PRIDE 84 87 3 • My team • BVC My team 83 90 7 126 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 28. BVC Balance Scored Card Rating 100 86,9 100,6 80 60 55,1 40 20 0 2012 2013 2014 Thanks to the implementation of a Performance System with business, we obtained the best result of internal management individual goals aligned to the strategic objectives of the BVC, in recent years: we increased 31.8 points 2013 consolidating in which every employee understand his contribution to the the culture of results in 2014. Management Annual Report 2014 127 8 COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES Graph 29. Key actions in achieving Human Management objectives Recognition Management Luz Dary Pacheco L ¡La más reconocida! Ha redimido sus puntos hasta por 14 premios y experiencias In 2014 we implemented, recognition program The Value of Your Action was a success: 60 million invested, more than 85% of employees use it and we increase 7 points in this variable in the climate survey. In the BVC everyone have the opportunity to give and receive special recognition. Competencies Management Talent Management • Over 100 BVC leadership workshops since 2013 for training of employees, with an annual investment of $ 150 million. • 39% of employees had at least a promotion or lateral movement through the implementation of its Career Plan in the past three years. • Development plans coverage for 100% of the population since 2013. • USD $200,000 invested in abroad training since 2011, seven employees benefited. • $500 million invested in Specialized Training since 2008, more than 50 employees benefited • Over 50% of employees have participated in the english training program, with an annual investment of $ 55 million since 2012. 128 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 30. Key actions in achieving human management objectives Compensation Management It has been given to the employees on average $ 1,400 Million annually for compliance with performance objectives, in 2014 for compliance with 2013 results. Wellness Management Since 2011 approximately COP$500 million have been invested in welfare activities for employees and their families. The BVC assumes 85% of the investment. Since the last 5 years we have implemented a 75% Relief of the prepaid health care annual cost for our employees and their families, with an average annual cost of $ 215 million. Comunication Management Since 2013 has been made about 300 meetings of primary teams, 7 meetings with the CEO, about 170 electronic communications via email “Tune in to the BVC” and 424 electronic communications through internal newsletter “lets Talk about Us”. Occupational Health In 2014 approximately COP$80 million was invested in the provision of workstations with ergonomic elements, which allow us to integrate security with productivity to improve the quality of working life. Management Annual Report 2014 129 8 COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES 8.2 Communication Strategies approximately 170 announcements were sent out using this method. In 2011, the BVC carried out an exercise to redesign and con• In 2013, the BVC created a space called the Results solidate the organizational culture. Based on the model of CamMeeting which is aimed at revitalizing the strategy eron and Quinn, the BVC administered a survey on all workers and culture and becoming a formal space for the recto diagnose the BVC's culture at the time and get to know the ognition of the people, processes or teams; in 2014 new culture that workers wanted and the BVC needed. there were four meetings, one held each quarter. • CEO's Committee (in person): Monthly meeting led This is how it defined the campaign for the communication and by the CEO of BVC, in which information discussed incorporation of the organizational culture: a model that would with the Board of Directors is presented along with help the Organization to incorporate the cultural model that it had new initiatives, and a follow-up is carried out of the defined through experience. Therefore, internal communications commitments of the strategy; in 2014, 12 committee would be aimed at experiencing the values: printing of promomeetings were held. tional material of the BVC with messages to remind people of the • Primary Groups: Each area experiences monthly movalues —notebooks and calendars; permanent dissemination of ments in primary group meetings, where the achievemessages by e-mail, among others. ments and accomplishment of goals are recognized. LOne of the top priorities of Colombian Securities Exchange 8.3 Wellbeing is to keep its workers informed of the changes and important matters occurring in the company and on the outside, so it has The BVC has a benefits program called In Tune with You, which designed various spaces for communication in person and by has segmented benefits into three groups as follows: electronic means: For everyone: • Let's Talk About Us (electronic means of communication): institutional communication channel • When workers' children are born, the BVC gives them through which workers are informed of market an early stimulation kit. events and relevant and regulatory information; • Children's Christmas Party. in 2014, approximately 424 announcements were • Allowance of 75% for Prepaid Health Care with Medsent out using this method. Plus in the Cereza Plan for the worker, spouse and • Tune in to the BVC (electronic means of communichildren. cation): Communication Channel of the BVC's ini• We celebrate BVC Health Day once a year. tiatives, projects and programs for its workers in • Corporate agreements to purchase tickets for order for its programs of training, development, segames, recreational and cultural events by deduclection, induction, occupational health, wellbeing tion through payroll. and benefits (In Tune with You Program); in 2014, 130 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC • Second language training: English with an allowance of nication, teamwork, development plan and leader assisup to 85% of the cost. tance. In 2013, there was more investment because the • Funeral insurance for the worker and his family, of BVC Leadership Brand program was launched. In 2014, which the BVC covers 100% of the cost. the program was replicated in the BVC by facilitators • Financial assistance for every 5 years with the BVC. (graph 31). • The BVC subsidizes courses that are not work-related: we have financial aid for specialized training (up to To choose from: 50% of the cost of the program in Colombia and up to USD 25,000 per year, for a maximum of two years with • Recreational Vacations for Children up to 12 years of USD 50,000 in training abroad), courses on quality of age in June and December. life and wellbeing and corporate training activities. In • Activity for workers' adolescent children up to 18 years addition, the BVC promotes e-learning in English, a of age in extreme sports. program in which 42 workers enrolled in 2014. • Cooking Courses. • The BVC has a Corporate Training program that ap• Christmas Decoration Courses. plies to all levels of the company, providing training in • Participation in Compensar's Inter-company Soccer coaching, leadership, empowerment, effective commuTournament. Graph 31. Capacitaciones en Liderazgo / Leadership Training 160 152 140 Millones de Pesos / COP Millions 120 100 80 80 68 66 60 50 40 20 $2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Management Annual Report 2014 131 8 COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES • Bogotá's Marathon. • Possibility to choose from three Flex Time schedules • Karts Championship. in coordination with each supervisor: 7:00 a.m. 4:45 • Paintball. p.m./ 8:00 a.m. – 5:45 p.m. and 9:30 a.m. – 7:15 p.m. • Extreme Sports. ( Pico y Placa traffic mitigation policy). • Flex Time schedules on Fridays in June and July For Life Balance: during the Summer Festival from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. non-stop. • If a worker gets married, the Company gives him/her three business days of leave of absence. 8.4 Compensation Model • In December, workers get two business days of vacation. • On their birthday, the BVC gives workers a half-day off The BVC's full compensation policy integrates job analyses to enjoy the occasion with their family. and the complexity of finding them on the job market in the • On the fifth-year anniversary, workers get three addilight of the equality and competitiveness analyses, for the tional days of vacation. profitability of the Organization. This is a comprehensive pol• 15 additional days for maternity leave. icy whose purpose is to generate attraction and motivation • Eight additional days of home office for paternity leave. and to retain talent. Chart 27. Compensation Policy per level group Gerentes de negocio Directores, líderes, profesionales Vicepresidentes / Cargos / Positions Definiciones / Definitions y gerentes / Business y auxiliares / Directors, leaders, Vice-presidents Managers professionals and Assistants Curva del mercado que se toma como referencia para la Percentil 75 Percentil 75 / definición de la politica de CT / Q3 / Percentile Mediana / Percentile Mediana / Median Market reference curve for 75Q3 75/Median the definition of the Referencia del Mercado / compensation policy Market Reference Sueldo Base Anual (Fijo +Prestaciones)+Compensación Variable / Annual base salary COMP3 (Fixed + presentations) + variable compensation 132 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC The chart 27 presents the BVC Compensation Model applied tion of maintaining and caring for the environment and by levels. natural resources by always being respectful and abiding by the occupational health and environmental legislation The compensation model is illustrated in accordance with the established by the Ministry of Social Protection, Ministry market reference in which the mean was applied (indicating of the Environment, Housing and Territorial Development that 50% of the companies are above these values) for the and other competent authorities. jobs listed in the table and Q3 or p. 75 (indicating that 25% of the companies are above these values). The BVC is committed to minimizing any risk factors that may cause occupational accidents or diseases, because it COMP 3: Includes the guaranteed annual income plus the poconsiders safety, quality and environmental production, tential variable salary that can be received for reaching the productivity and customer satisfaction the essential facgoals set for the year. tors for the success and survival of the Company; and it is committed to devoting its efforts for the continuous 8.5 Occupational Health and Industrial Safety Report improvement thereof, as well as that of its employees, clients and providers in order to reach the objectives set Levels of Responsibility for Occupational Health and Safety forth together. The occupational health and safety management system The BVC believes that occupational accidents and diseasstarts with the CEO, and it is considered effective when a clear es can be prevented and it will be held responsible for the conception of its importance is achieved at all the levels of injury of its workers and any damage to property that the the organization. failure of this premise may give rise to, and as the core entity for the performance of the activities of the health, safety The system is managed, controlled and evaluated by the Corand environmental management system, it has chosen the porate Leader and/or Professional of Talent and Culture, acting Occupational Health and Safety Peer Committee to ensure with the endorsement of the Company's legal representative. the strict compliance with the regulations established in the This person is in charge of the coordination, development and subprograms contemplated thereby. monitoring of the occupational health and safety management system and has the support and cooperation of all Company The CEO of the BVC is responsible for steering the Company's employees to do so. efforts to provide people with the best work environment, equipment, material and facilities, and the highest levels of As part of its management policy, aware of its responsiwellbeing, safety and comprehensive protection. In addition, bility as an employer, the BVC highlights the importance it will ensure that the health, safety and environmental manof workers by promoting, developing and preserving their agement system has the economic resources necessary for comprehensive wellbeing, strengthening their pride in the proper implementation and development thereof. their work and their health, and will act with the convicManagement Annual Report 2014 133 8 COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES The following activities were carried out in 2014 to contribute sions regarding employee promotion. It also works to ento the promotion of the occupational health of BVC workers: sure compliance with the law and to provide workers with an ideal environment for their personal and professional • A total of 25 executive check-ups were carried out, development. aimed at Managers, Chief Officers and the CEO in order to reduce the possibility of generating illnesses associIn compliance with the principles of labor law, the Colombian ated with work-related activities. Securities Exchange has explicitly mentioned the principle of • Updating of the legal requirements in the occupational Labor Law in the work regulations as follows: health and safety management system, by validating processes such as the risk factor scenario and creating • Freedom of Association: Article 45 of the work regulathe coexistence committee. tions Restrict the freedom to work or not to work, to • In order to decrease possible emergency contingenbecome a member of a union or not, or to stay with the cies, every two months sessions were organized by union or withdraw therefrom. areas together with the Red Cross with recommenda• Abolition of child labor: Chapter XI Work prohibited tions for prevention. for pregnant women and children under 18 years of • Workers chairs were replaced to prevent and improve erage, Articles 40 and 41 of the Work Regulations. gonomic risks with the help of the Occupational Health • Abolition of discrimination practices in employment Peer Committee (COPASO, for the Spanish original). and occupation: Chapter II, Conditions of Admission, • An annual evacuation drill was prepared with the Article 2 Work Regulations. Occupational Risk insurance company (ARL, for the Spanish original). The public commitments and the company's objectives • Health Week was celebrated, during which we carried as regards labor law are in line with the policies of pubout 95 check-ups, 116 hearing tests and eye exams, lic law as well as Decree Law 2663 of August 5, 1950, and 86 blood tests. which adopted the National Labor Code, seeking justice in the relations arising between employers and employees 8.6 Explicit Mention of the Principles of Labor Rights (graph 32). The BVC ensures its workers' rights to the freedom of asso8.7 Number of employees ciation for collective bargaining and dialog with the Company's Senior Management. It rejects all forms of forced From 2011 to 2012, the structure grew because the area labor, in the Company as well as outside. It is opposed to of technology was strengthened; in comparison with 2012 any form of child labor and supports the policies that proto 2013, several projects were optimized and the number mote the effective abolition thereof in the world. It rejects of temporary employees was reduced; finally, the reducany type of discrimination and promotes the abolition of tion observed from 2013 to 2014 was a result of organidiscrimination in contracting, job opportunities and decizational restructuring (graph 33). 134 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 32. Número de Empleados / Number of Employees 250 234 223 215 202 Número de Personas / Number of People 200 183 150 100 50 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Graph 33. Distribución por Género / Gender Distribution Femenino / Female Masculino / Male 140 126 124 113 Número de Personas / Number of People 120 108 107 108 96 99 100 89 87 80 60 40 20 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Management Annual Report 2014 135 8 COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES In general, an equitable percentage is maintained with regard to 2013, the turnover rate increased due to restructuring to the genders of the employee population, which has not and, in 2014, it decreased in comparison with the previfluctuated significantly. ous year (graph 35). Kind of Contract 8.8 Operating Structure (Organizational Chart) The most significant change is observed between 2012 and The Company's structure consists of Chief Officer Units that 2013, when 13% of temporary employees were given perrespond to the needs of the clients. These are: Commercial, manent contracts of employment; the change from 2013 to Corporate, Legal, Marketing and Product, Projects and Tech2014 was due to restructuring, which reduced the number of nology. The other areas ensure proper operation by providpermanent employees, but increased the number of projects ing support for internal as well as external requirements in to be executed, which require a permanent staff (graph 34). a cross-cutting manner (graph 36). Employee Turnover The structure is made up of the levels in chart 28. Employee turnover increased in 2012 because of the employer substitution to create a subsidiary; with respect Chart 28. Position Levels Job Level Number of Positions CEO 1 VP 5 Manager 13 Director 32 Leader 33 Professional 104 Assistant 11 SENA APPRENTICE 3 136 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 34. Empleados por Tipo de Contrato / Employees per Contract type Permanent Temporary Apprentice 250 Número de Personas / Number of People 209 200 188 176 180 159 150 100 50 42 37 22 11 19 2 2 4 3 3 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Graph 35. Rotación de Personal / Personnel Turnover Rate 30% 26% Porcentaje de rotación del personal / 24% 25% 21% 20% 15% Personnel Turnover Rate Percentage 10% 10% 7% 5% 0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Management Annual Report 2014 137 8 COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES Graph 36. Corporate Structure CEO Audit Chief Marketing and Chief Commercial Operations & Chief Corporate PMO Chief IT Chief Legal & Products Oﬃcer Customer Service Oﬃcer Oﬃcer General Counsel Oﬃcer Manager Oﬃcer Director of Director of Manager of Manager of Manager of Manager of Legal Trading Project Planning and Equity Market Intermediaries Financial Planning Manager Transactions Management Control Manager of Manager of Clear and Manager of Manager of Derivatives Market Issuers Settlement Human Resources IT Services Manager of Director of Director of Manager of IT Solutions and Fixed Income Listing Services Risk and Quality Architecture Customer Director of Director of Services and Marketing Media and Pubic Market Data Relations AREA No. of Employees Marketing and Product 23 Director of Market Education Information Director of Commercial 16 center Investor Relations and Corporate Operations and Customer Services 21 Social Director of Reponsibility Market Data Corporate 35 PMO 24 Director of Technology 75 Market Research Legal and General Counsel 8 TOTAL 202 138 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Management Annual Report 2014 139 9 COMMITMENT TO OUR SUPPLIERS 140 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC CHAPTER 9 Commitment to our Suppliers Management Annual Report 2014 141 9 COMMITMENT TO OUR SUPPLIERS 9.1 Procurement Management that certifies best practices in procurement and logistics. The certification was awarded at an event attended by the repre2014 was the year in which the BVC became more involved sentative of that institute and the CEO of the BVC, as well as with its providers by contributing to their corporate growth. In several media representatives. This made the BVC the first comdoing so, the BVC implemented the program Building Company in the local financial sector in being certified. petitiveness Together, which is aimed at strengthening provider development and helping them minimize risks go genIn addition, during this period, the BVC carried out purchases erate profitable long-term relations focused on the highest for a total of COP 15,585 million through 1,132 providers, 14 standards of service and quality. of which are foreign, mainly for technological products and services. The most notable were the providers of the technol“Building Competitiveness Together” started out with ogy platform and exclusive software licenses. specific training aimed all providers on topics such as Prevention of Money Laundering, Financial Risks, How to It is important to point out that most of the BVC's providInvest in Stocks and Corporate Finances. In addition, the ers are Colombian, with 1,117 companies. Compared to BVC launched a pilot plan with three strategic providers of 2013, procurement increased by 8.5%, mainly due to the technology, advertising and administrative services. After upgrading of technological systems and the procurement a diagnosis carried out with the assistance of the Bogotá of equipment. Chamber of Commerce, the Company planned a series of activities aimed at strengthening each of the participating It is important to mention that purchases at the BVC's head companies in topics such as human resources management, office in Bogotá as well as the commercial offices in Medellín risks, strategic management and processes. and Cali were made through the Decentralized Hybrid model, that is to say, by means of the direct advice of the acquisitions In March 2014, the BVC was certified by CIPS (Chartered Institeam to the areas making the purchases, which are required tute of Purchasing & Supply), a nationally recognized entity to follow established procurement policies and procedures. 142 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Graph 37. Cadena de valor / Value Chain P UBLICIDAD / TEC NOLOG ÍA / G ESTIÓN H UMANA / ADMINISTRATIVA / JURÍDICA / Mar ke ting IT Human Resources Admi ni strati on Lega l ÓN / Eva LU AC I lua E VA tio n U C I Ó N / Exec E C u EJ tio n A T A C I Ó N /H R iri NT ng CO I Ó N / Sele C ct EC i S EL on DEFINICIÓN Y COTIZACIÓN NECESIDAD DE COMPRA / Deﬁnition and PAGO Y LIQUIDACIÓN / Purchase Needs Quotation Payment and Liquidation ADQUIS ICIÓN DE B IENES Y S ERVICIOS / Adqui si ti on of Goods and Servi ces PLAN DE CO MPRAS / Purchase Plan Management Annual Report 2014 143 10 DETAILED INDEX 144 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC CHAPTER 10 Detailed Index Management Annual Report 2014 145 10 DETAILED INDEX 2014 MANAGEMENT GLOBAL REPORTING CONTENTS BVC GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT INDEX INITIATIVE GRI CHAP PAG Declaración del responsable principal de las decisiones Letter to Shareholders 4 G4-1 de la organización G4-3, G4-5, G4-7, 1.1 BVC: The Colombian Securities Exchange 1 12 G4-15, G4-16 1.2 BVC Brands 1 13 G4-4 1.3 Top Products & Services 1 13 G4-6, G4-8 CHAPTER 1: Company Profile 1.4 BVC´s Scale 1 15 G4-9 G4-18, G4-19, 1.5 Material Aspects and Coverage 1 17 G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-PR5 G4-17, G4-22, G423, G4-28, G4-29, 1.6 Management Report Profile 1 18 G4-30, G4-31, G432, G4-33 CHAPTER 2: 2.1 Strategic Orientation: Mission, vision 2 24 G4-2 BVC Strategy 146 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 2014 MANAGEMENT GLOBAL REPORTING CONTENTS BVC GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT INDEX INITIATIVE GRI CHAP PAG 2.2 Perspectives, Vision toward the Future 2 24 G4-2 CHAPTER 2: 2.3 Strategy Follow Up in 2014 2 25 G4-2 BVC Strategy 2.4 Strategic Objectives for 2015 and Future Prospects 2 27 G4-2 Principles 1 and 2 of 3.1 Report on Corporate Governance Practices 3 32 Human Rights 3.2 Board of Directors and Management 3 34 G4-34 G4-34, G4-38, G4CHAPTER 3: 40, G4-41, G4-42, 3.3 BVC Governance Structure 3 38 Corporate Governance G4-44, G4-48, G451, G4-54. 3.4 Basic Activities of the Directors and Management of G4-35, G4-36, G43 41 the BVC 37, G4-39 3.5 The Audit Committee´s Annual Report to the Board G4-45, G4-46, 3 43 of Directors G4-47 Management Annual Report 2014 147 10 DETAILED INDEX 2014 MANAGEMENT GLOBAL REPORTING CONTENTS BVC GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT INDEX INITIATIVE GRI CHAP PAG 3.6 Values, Principles, Standards and Regulations of the Principle 10 of 3 50 G4-56 Company Anti-corruption Principle 10 of 3.7 Shareholders' Rights 3 51 G4-49, G4-50 Anti-corruption CHAPTER 3: Principle 10 of 3.8 Cumpliance with the Authorities 3 51 G4-49, G4-50 Corporate Governance Anti-corruption 3.9 Compliance with Regulations on Intellectual Property Principle 10 of and Copyright, Tax Compliance of Foreign Accounts and 3 52 Anti-corruption Processing of Personal Data by the Company Principles 1 and 2 of Human Rights, Prin3.10 Code of good Governance Reports 3 53 ciple 10 of Anti-corruption G4-14, G4-45, Principle 10 of 4.1 Internal Control and Control Environment 4 56 G4-46 Anti-corruption CHAPTER 4: Internal Control and 4.2 Quality and Information Management 4 56 G4-45, G4-46 Quality G4-2, G4-14, G4-45, 4.3 Risk Management 4 57 G4-46 148 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 2014 MANAGEMENT GLOBAL REPORTING CONTENTS BVC GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT INDEX INITIATIVE GRI CHAP PAG G4-14, G4-45, Principle 10 of 4.4 Auditor's Report 4 59 G4-46 Anti-corruption CHAPTER 4: Internal Control and Quality Principle 10 of 4.5 Ethics hotline and Anti-corruption Principle 4 61 G4-57, G4-58 Anti-corruption Principles 1 and 2 of 5.1 Sustainability Focus and Vision 5 66 G4-EC1 Human Rights Principles 1 and 2 CHAPTER 5: of Human Rights. 5.2 Social Responsibility 5 68 G4-SO1 Sustainability Principles 7, 8 and 9 Environmental 5.3 Financial Education Program 5 73 6.1 BVC Stock Evolution 6 80 G4-9 CHAPTER 6: Commitments to 6.2 Subsidiaries and Long-Term Investments 6 81 G4-9 Shareholders 6.3 Dividend Distribution Policy 6 85 G4-9 Management Annual Report 2014 149 10 DETAILED INDEX 2014 MANAGEMENT GLOBAL REPORTING CONTENTS BVC GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT INDEX INITIATIVE GRI CHAP PAG 6.4 Special Report under Article 29, Law 222 of 1995 6 86 CHAPTER 6: Commitments to Share6.5 Important Events Occurred Following the Period 6 88 holders 6.6 Circulation of Invoices 6 88 7.1 International and Local Environment 7 92 7.2 Equity Market 7 94 CHAPTER 7: Commitment to Clients 7.3 Fixed Income Market 7 100 and the Market 7.4 Derivatives Market 7 102 7.5 Issuers and Listing Services 7 103 150 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 2014 MANAGEMENT GLOBAL REPORTING CONTENTS BVC GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT INDEX INITIATIVE GRI CHAP PAG 7.6 Colombia Capital 7 106 7.7 Colombia Inside Out 7 107 7.8 Information and Electronic Media 7 109 7.9 2014 Commercial Management: Intermediaries 7 109 Management Area CHAPTER 7: Commitment to Clients and the Market 7.10 Advances on the Regulatory Agenda Focused on 7 111 Market Developments G4-24, G4-25, G47.11 Main Stakeholders 7 112 26 y G4-27 7.12 Technological Development and Evolution 7 115 7.13 Development and Evolution of the Project 7 118 Management Office Management Annual Report 2014 151 10 DETAILED INDEX 2014 MANAGEMENT GLOBAL REPORTING CONTENTS BVC GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT INDEX INITIATIVE GRI CHAP PAG Principles 3, 4, 5 and 8.1 Talent Management 8 124 6 of Labor Rights Principles 3, 4, 5 and 8.2 Communication Strategies 8 130 6 of Labor Rights Principles 1 and 2 of Human Rights, 8.3 Wellbeing 8 130 G4-LA10 Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Labor Rights 8.4 Compensation Model 8 132 CHAPTER 8. Commitment to our Employees Principles 1 and 2 of Human Rights, 8.5 Occupational Health and Industrial Safety Report 8 133 Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Labor Rights Principles 3, 4, 5 and 8.6 Explicit Mention of the Principles of Labor Rights 8 134 6 of Labor Rights Principles 1 and 2 G4-10, G4-11, G4of Human Rights, 8.7 Employees Profile of BVC 8 134 34, G4-54, G4-55, Principles 3, 4, 5 and G4-LA1 6 of Labor Rights 8.8 Operating Structure 8 136 152 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC 2014 MANAGEMENT GLOBAL REPORTING CONTENTS BVC GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT INDEX INITIATIVE GRI CHAP PAG CHAPTER 9: G4-12, G4-13, G4Commitment to our 9.1 Procurement Management and Supply Chain 9 142 EC9 Suppliers CHAPTER 10. Index 10 144 Detailed Index Management Annual Report 2014 153 El crecimiento de todo un país
