United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress April 2015 Allens is an independent partnership operating in alliance with Linklaters LLP. Statement of continued support from Chief Executive Partner Michael Rose Over the past year, Allens has continued to implement and support the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which seeks to promote responsible corporate citizenship, encouraging business to be part of the solution to the challenges of globalisation. As a firm, we recognise that we have broad responsibilities to our people, their families and the communities in which we live. In addition to maintaining the highest ethical standards, we engage with the wider community through our pro bono, reconciliation, philanthropic and environment programs, and we nurture close relationships with a wide range of community groups in each of those areas. A snapshot of our activities and impact in 2014 appears at the start of this report. As a firm we are proud of these outcomes, particularly our pro bono contributions and our achievement in being the first Australian law firm to be certified carbon neutral1. I am pleased to present this Communication on Progress, which outlines not only our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, but also the efforts of our people in honouring that commitment. Michael Rose Chief Executive Partner 1 This certification applies to our Australian offices. While we offset emissions from our Asian offices, these offices are not eligible for certification under the Carbon Neutral Program. 1 ABOUT ALLENS Allens is a leading law firm with partners, lawyers and corporate services staff across Australia and Asia and, through our alliance with Linklaters, has a global network spanning 40 offices and 29 countries. Our clients recognise us for our commerciality, professionalism, integrity and technical expertise. We have some of the world’s longest ongoing client relationships, stretching back more than 175 years, and work with many of the world’s leading organisations – including 55 of the world’s top 100 companies and more than 75 of Australia’s top 100 companies. We see our extensive client relationships as an important component of our corporate responsibility and aim to support our clients and the market in moving toward a sustainable economy. Allens, which was the first organisation in Australia to become a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in 2001, demands the highest of ethical standards from our partners and employees. These ethical standards support the 10 principles of the Global Compact, while also supporting our client relationships and the reputation of our business and the legal profession generally. Working to fulfil the Global Compact means businesses like ours can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. This is why Allens is committed to internal and external practices – including our workplace and environment policies and community activities – that meet the criteria set by the Global Compact. 2014 – as a snapshot 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HUMAN RIGHTS Commitment Every human being is entitled to basic human rights – that is, freedom, equality, justice and the right to life. However, not everyone has access to the help or resources required to uphold these rights. Allens has developed lasting relationships with non-government organisations and others within the community who are working to advance human rights. We recognise that these groups are often in the best position to identify the issues, while we have the resources and expertise to assist. Allens works hard to achieve its human rights-related goals, as set out by the firm’s various community committees. Our goals have been exceeded during the past year, and we have set revised targets for the coming year. Our commitment to improving and protecting human rights, and our continual desire to push our human rights agenda, has been widely recognised within the broader community. Systems Allens has a number of systems in place that support human rights, in particular through our commitment to Pro Bono, Reconciliation, the Annual funding program and our work with clients. The firm’s systems are outlined below. Pro Bono Allens is committed to pro bono work and to having a coordinated, focused, well-balanced and meaningful Pro Bono practice. Our Pro Bono practice provides free legal assistance to a range of not-for-profit and charitable clients, as well as to individuals in need. The Pro Bono practice runs across all of our legal departments and we aim to give all staff an opportunity to become involved in pro bono work. The enthusiastic engagement of our people is key to the success of this program. We were a Foundation Signatory to the National Pro Bono Aspirational Target, which means we have committed to use our best efforts to ensure that the firm will undertake, on average, at least 35 hours of pro bono legal work per lawyer each year. However, we have set our internal target of 50 hours per lawyer per year, and, for the past five years, have well exceeded this target. The number of pro bono clients Allens has at any time is between 300 and 400. They include organisations dedicated to the promotion of human rights, the environment and mental health. In 2014, some of our human rights pro bono clients included: 5 HUMAN RIGHTS 2014 – as a snapshot 10,000+ of pro bono work relating to hours homelessness Assisted 348 individuals and 160 organisations with pro bono advice Allens undertakes ground-breaking legal work for refugees Allens acted for Plaintiff M150 – a 15-year-old ‘The decision will hopefully help Ethiopian boy – in his challenge to a cap imposed thousands of asylum seekers who have by the Minister for Immigration and Border been found (or may be found) by the Protection on the number of protection visas Australian Government to be genuine granted in a financial year. refugees but who would have been The High Court unanimously upheld unable to receive protection visas while the challenge and found that the the cap was in place.’ Minister’s determination to cap the number of protection visas was invalid. Malcolm Stephens, Partner Public Interest Advocacy Centre Allens works with the Public Interest Advocacy Centre (PIAC) across a range of projects, including the Indigenous Justice Program and the Homeless Persons Legal Service. As part of the Homeless Persons Legal Service, Allens sends lawyers to a weekly clinic in Surry Hills, NSW to assist clients with civil law matters, including housing and tenancy, credit and debt issues and victim’s compensation claims. Allens also hosts law students participating in PIAC’s course, Practising in the Public Interest. This course introduces students to organisations involved in public interest and pro bono initiatives. PIAC intern, Karina Marlow 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Reconciliation In 2009, Allens became the first top-tier law firm in Australia to institute a Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), designed to help close the gap in life expectancy between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and other Australians. Allens recognises that we have an important role to play on this issue. We decided that the steps we would take under the plan would be longterm and would be based on the premise that the most meaningful results come from relationships of equal trust, which then lead to real opportunities. Below is a look at some of the work undertaken and initiatives implemented that support our commitment to Reconciliation. Constitutional Recognition 'I think we need to secure explicit recognition in our founding constitutional document of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples' occupation of this continent before European settlement. That recognition then needs to be coupled with legislative power to support existing legislation, that is important to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and their heritage, their language and culture. Partner Ian McGill, on the firm's involvement in Constitutional Recognition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Constitutional Recognition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait ‘The submission was a process of true collaboration Islander peoples is of significant national importance – and one that Allens has played an active role in influencing. from Allens people across all of our Australian offices, and we were all very pleased to see our submission In 2010, the then Federal Government promised to bring extensively quoted in the Expert Panel’s final report forward to the Australian people, during the term of that published in January 2012.’ government, a referendum on constitutional recognition of Following the publication of the Expert Panel report, the RAP Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. Reconciliation committees continued to follow developments, including Australia was asked to lead the campaign and a division the decision of the 44th Parliament on 2 December 2013 to of Reconciliation Australia, Recognise, was established. re-establish the Joint Select Committee on Constitutional Recognise was to be the peak national organisation to Recognition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander lead the awareness and education campaign that would peoples. Also, following the Expert Report, the firm was underpin the referendum proposals. contacted by the Human Rights Legal Centre (HRLC), where An Expert Panel was established in 2010 to investigate how Allens alumna Anna Brown is the Director of Advocacy to give effect to constitutional recognition of Aboriginal and and Strategic Litigation, and asked to prepare high-level Torres Strait Islander peoples. Several members of the Allens advice on the potential application and interpretation of RAP committee became aware of this development and the recommendations made by the Expert Panel. Allens proposed that the firm take a lead in this area by providing delivered the draft opinion to the HRLC that was given to a detailed response to an issues paper developed by the Mr Neil Young, QC for his comment and opinion. We have Expert Panel. provided a final draft opinion to the HRLC, and await further instructions. ‘The decision to take an active role was an easy one. As lawyers, we have an important civic responsibility ‘I hope we continue to build national consensus to bring our expertise to bear on matters of national to recognise Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander importance, particularly when it concerns our peoples, and at the end of this year we have some Constitution and recognition. The drafting team constitutional language that can be shared with the all subscribed to the view of Recognise that formal Australian people to build popular ownership and recognition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander momentum. As lawyers, we need to assume a vital peoples in our Constitution was a real opportunity role in assisting the prosecution of a public education to walk together, in a spirit of respect, friendship and campaign around the proposed words. If we have hope, towards a truly reconciled nation. As indicated bipartisanship, popular ownership, a strong public by the Apology, words are important. They are even education campaign in support of a sound proposal more important in our founding document,’ said for recognition, I think Australia can approach a Partner Ian McGill. referendum with the best chance of success.’ 7 HUMAN RIGHTS Empowered Communities As an extension of the firm’s partnership with Jawun, Managing Associate Matthew McCarthy undertook a three-month secondment with the Empowered Communities Project in 2014. Based in the West Kimberley, Matthew was part of a team working on a proposal for the reform of the relationship between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities and government that aims to give the leaders and representatives of those communities a greater say in the allocation of funding and the implementation of programs and services in the communities they represent. ‘It was a great opportunity to use and share the skills and experience I have gained here at Allens, in a very different environment to what I’m used to,’ said Matthew. About Jawun Jawun works to partner government and corporate organisations with Indigenous businesses and leaders, and to support development and long-term sustainability in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. 16 Allens staff have completed secondments with Jawun since 2011, working on key projects within Indigenous businesses in Cape York, the Goulburn Murray region in Victoria, inner Sydney, North East Arnhem Land and the West Kimberley. Top: Geikie Gorge, Fitzroy Crossing. The Jawun West Kimberley secondees. Bottom: Matthew presenting to community members, Beagle Bay 8 HUMAN RIGHTS Garma Festival Last year, Chief Executive Partner Michael Rose spoke at the Garma Festival at Gulkula, near Yirrkala in North East Arnhem Land, on the impact big business can have on reconciliation. Garma is the largest annual celebration of Yolngu (Indigenous people of North East Arnhem Land) culture, bringing together people from all walks of life across Australia to share knowledge and culture and to work together to build a greater understanding between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and other Australians. Michael attended Garma on behalf of the firm, as well as in his capacity as a member of the advisory board for the Empowered Communities project. 9 HUMAN RIGHTS Supporting Indigenous youth About AIEF Australian Indigenous Education Foundation (AIEF) is a private sector-led, not-for-profit organisation focused on empowering Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children to build a brigher future through quality education and careers. AIEF is a product of a strong partnership between the Australian Government and the private sector, and has deep and broad support from all layers of the Australian community. About AIME Australian Indigenous Mentoring Experience (AIME)is a structured educational program provided for Indigenous kids to access throughout their high schooling experience. Students completing the program are proven to finish school and transition through to university and employment at the same rate as every Australian child – effectively closing the gap in educational outcomes. Allens supports AIEF and AIME through hosting events, providing pro bono legal assistance and mentors. Twenty six staff were involved in mentoring programs last year. In 2014, staff once again donned AIME hoodies to support National Hoodie Day, raising awareness of this important organisation. ‘We’ve got our sights on reaching 10,000 kids a year by 2018, which would be one of the biggest examples of closing the gap in Australian history. And we have Allens to thank for walking that path with us.’ Jack Manning Bancroft, CEO, AIME Top image: AIME Hoodie Day 2014 Bottom images: Allens employees and AIEF mentors Peter Brennan, Rachael Duggan and Jeanine Barbi meet their AIEF students during program induction 10 HUMAN RIGHTS Indigenous Legal Internship Program Allens’ Indigenous Legal Internship Program gives Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander law students exposure to a commercial legal environment and provides valuable learning and development opportunities. The firm has now had 78 interns complete the program. ‘My Indigenous internship was basically my first major insight into what I could achieve in this industry. Prior to that experience I had very little concept of what was involved in being a lawyer at a top tier firm or the process that I would have to follow to achieve that. I thoroughly enjoyed the environment at Allens and the idea of the corporate world as a whole and I have never looked back.’ Jessica McCarthy, Associate and Indigenous Internship alumna in Melbourne ‘The internship gave me a real insight into the culture at Allens. Further, Allens and in particular the RAP Committee has a real focus on improving the lives of Indigenous people and this was a key reason why I wanted to work at Allens.’ Jayde Geia, Associate and Indigenous Internship alumna in Brisbane Reconciliation Action Mentoring Program In Brisbane, Allens established its own Reconciliation Action Mentoring Program (the Allens RAMP) in partnership with a number of Queensland university Indigenous student associations. Through the Allens RAMP, university law students are partnered with Allens lawyers with the aim of giving students an understanding of legal practice, guidance on a possible career in the law, and encouragement to complete their education and achieve their personal goals. Noongar Institute of Western Australia The Perth RAP Committee recently sponsored Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students from the Noongar Institute of Western Australia (NIWA) to attend the Foundation of Young Australians (FYA) Worlds of Work program. The FYA program supports young people to make successful transitions to work and life beyond school. The program involved networking sessions with volunteers from the Allens Perth office and other leading Australian workplaces that aimed to help students build their confidence and abilities. 11 HUMAN RIGHTS Our work with clients In the past year, Allens has also worked with clients on a range of matters and projects that have had an impact on the human rights of several members of the community. For instance, there has been infrastructure projects relating to healthcare and education, the implementation of innovative business models – including a ‘payment-by-results’ mechanism for a prison project that focuses on prisoner rehabilitation and a safer community – and supporting the innovation of pharmaceuticals and medical devices organisations. These, and other examples, go some of the way to protecting and benefiting the community. Here is just one example of this type of work. Allens lends a hand to Global Health In the past 12 months, Allens worked with the Global Health Investment Fund (GHIF), a private investment fund whose mission is to finance late-stage drugs, vaccines and diagnostics for diseases that disproportionately burden low-income populations. This US$10 million program works with Medicines Development, a not-for-profit biopharmaceutical company headquartered in Melbourne. The program relates to the registration of moxidectin for the treatment of river blindness (onchocerciasis). The GHIF investment will be used to support the manufacture of moxidectin and the compilation of the regulatory dossier required for the registration process for use in humans. Should the drug be approved, Medicines Development will work towards ensuring a secure supply of moxidectin for onchocerciasis and, with GHIF, will continue to research other potential human uses of moxidectin for infectious diseases. An important part of the agreement between GHIF and Medicines Development is the contractual requirement to ensure accessibility of moxidectin for river blindness should the drug be approved. ‘This is a significant matter in terms of the benefits that may be derived by those in low-income countries through the delivery of new treatments for river blindness and potentially other tropical diseases. It is a great demonstration of how the allocation of private capital towards the development of affordable medicines may deliver positive global health outcomes, and Allens is privileged to have been involved in this commendable endeavour.’ Partner James Darcy 12 HUMAN RIGHTS Some of the human rights organisations Allens has supported through our Charity Committee include: National Indigenous Program This program supports projects aimed at redressing the inequalities that exist between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and other Australians. ‘Yummy to be Mummy’, SIDS & Kids, WA This program teaches young pregnant Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander women about pregnancy and child rearing, aiming to reduce instances of foetal alcohol spectrum disorder, SUDI and SIDS, and giving mothers the skills to raise happy, healthy children. ‘Wheelchair basketball’, Red Dust Heelers, WA Red Dust Heelers is a national wheelchair basketball team focused on the inclusion of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and others with a disability in the wider community. The team comprises Indigenous and non-Indigenous elite athletes with a disability, who are led by professional athletes. Allens’ donation funded the hire and purchase of wheelchairs for their ‘Wheeling and Healing Program’. Allens and Syd Jackson RDH launch 2014, Perth Annual funding program The projects supported as part of this program are selected by our Charity Committee, comprising partners and staff, and target a variety of marginalised groups, including those who are disabled, homeless or living in poverty. Books in Homes, St Brendan’s School, Flemington, VIC Ninety per cent of students at St Brendan’s Primary School live in public housing and speak English as a second language. The Melbourne office has sponsored St Brendan’s Books in Home Book Giving Assembly for the past three years. The Grade 3 class now reads above their grade level (NAPLAN). Books in Homes, St Brendans Melbourne Early Intervention Program, the Shepherd Centre, NSW The Shepherd Centre provides family-centred training programs to teach children born deaf or hearing-impaired to develop spoken language. This year, Allens is supporting one child through the Centre’s ‘Early Intervention Program’. Of the children attending this program, 95% eventually make the transition to mainstream schooling. Shepherd Centre 13 HUMAN RIGHTS Support Kids in Pain, QLD Support Kids in Pain (SKIP) assists children who suffer from chronic pain by providing them with access to a physiotherapist, occupational therapist and clinical psychologist. In 2014, Allens covered the cost of professional education videos and webinars to appear on SKIP’s website, providing free information to children, parents and practitioners about managing chronic pain. SKIP program Nhi Dong II Hospital, Ho Chi Minh City Each year, the Ho Almost all the children hospitalised come from the provinces, meaning the children and their families are Chi Minh City office forced to leave behind their loved ones and regular provides support to the income sources. Lack of income and high medical bills Nhi Dong II Hospital mean most families have limited capacity to meet even their basic food needs. assisting children who suffer from renal failure. In addition to volunteering and delivering Christmas presents, Allens provides each child with two meals a day, which, for many patients, is their main daily nutrition. 14 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LABOUR Commitment Allens maintains employment arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit or discourage freedom of association or collective bargaining. The firm opposes all forms of forced and compulsory labour and seeks to abolish child labour. Allens is also active in our endeavour to eliminate all forms of discrimination in the workplace. Systems Allens has a number of systems in place that support labour principles, in particular our Equal Employment Opportunity, Bullying and Harassment Policy, and strategies and initiatives to celebrate, promote and reward Inclusion and Diversity . Equal Employment Opportunity Allens is committed to the principles of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and takes a zero tolerance approach to discrimination, harassment and bullying in the workplace. Providing a safe and supportive workplace that values difference is critical to the engagement of our employees and the sustainability and growth of our business. Our Equal Employment Opportunity, Bullying and Harassment Policy is supported by: • A Grievance Policy that details the steps an employee can take if they feel they have been bullied, discriminated against or harassed; • Access to an independent, free and confidential counselling service for all staff and their immediate family members; and • Compulsory online EEO training upon commencement with the firm, and every two years thereafter. The last mandatory training module was rolled out across the firm in July 2014. Allens reports annually to, and is compliant with, the Australian Federal Government Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012. This legislation is overseen by The Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) and aims to improve and promote equality for both women and men in the workplace. 16 LABOUR Inclusion and Diversity at Allens We are committed to providing an inclusive workplace that celebrates diversity and values the contribution that different backgrounds and life experience bring to our firm. We recruit, develop and promote talented people, and we – and our clients – benefit from the different backgrounds, experiences and points of view that shape their thinking. Our diversity and inclusion strategy is built on seven segments: gender, flexibility, reconciliation, cultural competency and relationships (including family), Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual , Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI), and disability. Celebrating Women at Allens We are committed to building a culture of genuine diversity to support the success of women in the firm. We are proud of our policies and initiatives that support this commitment, including our career model, our approach to flexibility, parental leave transition program and development programs – all of which have a strong emphasis on the engagement, career and professional development and promotion of women in the firm. 67% of women who have participated in our external mentoring program have been promoted after completion of the program. Women at Allens event , Sydney – panel and audience 17 LABOUR Supporting our people Below is a look at some of the systems we have in place to support our people. • Our Inclusion and Diversity Council is chaired by our Chief Executive Partner and oversees Allens’ inclusion and diversity strategy and progress. • The Allens Diversity Thought Leadership Lunch Series brings together 8-10 business leaders from four clients to provide diversity thought leadership and expertise on diversity within business and the broader community. • We are one of 76 organisations in Australia recognised by WGEA as an Employer of Choice for Gender Equity – a citation we have held continuously since 2005 and that recognises our active commitment to gender equality and our sustained focus on removing the structural and cultural barriers that prevent the full participation of women at work. • Our Women at Allens Committees believe in the importance of fostering, and assisting the firm to build a culture that supports the success of women, drives the engagement and promotion of talented women and harnesses their capability to achieve their full potential. In 2014, our Women at Allens Committees’ internal and external events focused on connecting, building capability, and communicating and sharing stories of women in our firm and in business. In addition, to celebrate International Women’s Day, committees helped support women experiencing disadvantage by partnering with and making donations to women’s charities and community organisations. • We were one of the first organisations in Australia to become a signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. Accordingly these principles provide the reporting framework for the firm’s annual Equality and Diversity Report. • Our Equitable Briefing Policy aims to achieve equal access to the Bar for women and men by eliminating briefing practices that consciously or unconsciously limit opportunities for female barristers. • In 2014, we undertook the firm’s first Culture Survey – a census of our cultural diversity. • Our approach to flexibility is broad and recognises that employees’ flexibility needs will be different for each individual, and vary at different life stages and ages, particularly when family commitments change. Currently 15 partners in the firm work on a formal flexible arrangement (seven men and eight women). In 2014, our Inclusion and Diversity Council sought feedback from our employees and partners on flexible work through its Ways of Working Survey. The results of this survey will form the basis of flexible work initiatives in 2015. • Allens recognises that mental health is one of the most significant health issues in the legal profession and is committed to raising awareness and understanding of mental health issues to support the wellbeing of our people. We play an active role in the legal profession Depression and Anxiety Working Group, which is a collaboration between the Managing Partners and Chief Executive Partners of some of Australia’s largest law firms and The College of Law. The Working Group aims to build resilience and raise awareness and understanding of the nature and impact of stress, depression and anxiety across the legal profession. • Our LGBTI network, ALLin, is for all partners, employees and clients who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or intersex (LGBTI), as well as their allies within the firm. In 2014, Allens shifted its culture from one of general awareness to celebration to one of its LGBTI partners and employees. One of the greatest successes in this space is reflected in our skill base – legal advice and advocacy, with the firm achieving some great outcomes in regards to its pro-bono work in regards to LGBTI rights. 18 LABOUR Supporting the community Here’s a look at some of the ways we’ve been able to assist people in the community through pro bono work. Pro bono work supporting LGBTI rights Allens has played an important role providing pro bono legal assistance in two High Court decisions that have promoted the inclusion and recognition of the LGBTI community in Australia – the decision in Commonwealth v ACT, which recognised the Constitutional power to legislate on same-sex marriage, and the Norrie decision, which held that NSW laws permit the registration of a person’s gender in a ‘non-specific sex’ category. Pro bono legal assistance to the LGBTI Legal Service in Queensland We have assisted, or are in the process of assisting, the Queensland LGBTI Legal Service with a number of important matters that aim to assist the LGBTI community: • A discussion paper about expunging historical criminal convictions for consensual same-sex sexual activity; • Submissions to the Attorney-General in Qld regarding the state’s unequal age of consent laws; • A factsheet regarding the rights and remedies of transgender youth in schools; and • Applying for funding and/or a grant. Empowering transgender, gender diverse and intersex people 'Transgender, gender diverse and intersex Allens, alongside the HRLC, played a central role in a people face high levels of stigma, social landmark High Court case that ruled unanimously in favour exclusion and discrimination, including of an androgynous person, Norrie’s entitlement to be from accessing services and facilities recorded on the NSW Births, Deaths and Marriages register that most Australians can use without as being of non-specific sex, rather than as ‘male’ or ‘female’. thinking twice.' The decision will affect the wider intersex and transgender community. Anna Brown, Human Rights Law Centre ‘Above all, we are contributing to ensuring that all voices are heard on the issue of the inappropriate categorisation of intersex people – to uphold their human rights and prevent further marginalisation.’ Rachel Nicolson, Partner The Allens and Human Rights Law Centre team with A Gender Agenda's Sam Griffin. Allens was recognised as a finalist in the 2014 Human Rights Commission Awards for our pro bono assistance to gender diversity support and advocacy group A Gender Agenda in this case. 19 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ENVIRONMENT Commitment Allens has long been committed to sustainability and to supporting the environment. Our past efforts to reduce our carbon footprint have culminated in the firm achieving carbon neutral certification under the Australian Government’s Carbon Neutral Program. As a law firm, we recognise that true sustainability comes from consistency in best practice, ranging from our procurement practices and the education of staff, to the way our offices are managed and maintained. Allens has implemented many changes to reduce our impact on the environment. These initiatives have been driven by our people. From the Leadership Team and partners to our staff and suppliers, everyone is charged with considering the environment in all aspects of their work. Our commitment to being sustainable leaders is driven and formally monitored by the Allens Footprint Committees. The Footprint Committees’ goal is to reduce Allens’ environmental footprint as much as possible in the areas of energy, water, waste (reuse and recycling), greenhouse emissions and procurement. Our priority is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, with the balance of our impact offset by carefully selected carbon credits. Systems The Footprint Committees have had a great impact over the past decade, making significant changes to the way the firm operates. Some of the new initiatives that have been introduced are listed below. 2014 – as a snapshot • Reduced our greenhouse emissions by 12.8 per cent last financial year. • Reviewed and updated an Environmental Management System and Sustainable Procurement Policy. • Reported our environmental performance, alongside other major Australian firms, in the Australian Legal Sector Alliance annual report. • Switched to 100 per cent recycled FSC certified A4 copy paper. • Reduced A4 copy paper use by over 40 per cent in our Australian offices. • Introduced Meatless Mondays (once a month) for staff meals. • Participated in Earth Hour, Ride to Work Day, National Recycling Week and Fair Trade Week, and celebrated World Environment Day. • Reduced hard copy journal subscriptions across most of our offices. 21 ENVIRONMENT Carbon Neutrality In 2014, Allens became certified An organisation is eligible to be certified as carbon neutral when its net greenhouse as carbon neutral under the gas emissions are equal to zero. Allens Carbon Neutral Program – the has achieved its Carbon Neutral status first Australian law firm to do so. by reducing emissions and by purchasing (and retiring) carbon offsets to match the The Carbon Neutral Program, run by the remaining emissions. This certification Department of Environment, is a voluntary applies to our Australian offices. While scheme which certifies products, business we offset emissions from our Asian operations or events as carbon neutral offices, these offices are not eligible for against the Australian Government’s certification under the Carbon Neutral National Carbon Offset Standard (NCOS). Program. This standard provides integrity through its Allens is continually reviewing and guidance on genuine voluntary offsets and implementing new ideas in an ongoing its minimum requirements for calculating, effort to find ways to further reduce its auditing and offsetting a carbon footprint emissions across all its offices. to achieve carbon neutrality. Qantas Future Planet Program We continually look at innovative ways to become a more sustainable firm. This year we are proud to partner with Qantas on the Qantas Future Planet Program to support carbon credit projects. Future Planet is the Qantas corporate carbon offset program through which corporate partners such as Allens can support projects across the world that aim to mitigate climate change, protect wildlife and nourish communities. Qantas sources carbon offsets for its programs from a variety of domestic and international projects that meet its minimum sustainability standards. Future Planet provides partners with access to projects that are verified by the highest international standards for emissions reductions, environmental outcomes and community benefits. Projects cover a range of initiatives in Tasmania, Papua New Guinea, Cambodia and Peru. 22 ENVIRONMENT North Kimberley Project As part of the Future Planet program, Allens will partner with and support North Kimberley Traditional Owners who have established a Savannah Burning Project under the Federal Government’s Carbon Farming initiative. Indigenous land owners in the North Kimberley are reducing carbon emissions through traditional fire management techniques in a landmark project. Under the North Kimberley Fire Abatement project, four Indigenous groups conduct early season dry burns to prevent uncontrolled wildfires, improve the health of country, avoid the release of greenhouse gas emissions, and generate certified carbon credits for sale. Future Planet has made a long-term commitment to support the project through a Memorandum of Understanding with North Kimberley native title groups – Dambimangari, Wilinggin, Wunambal Gaambera and Balanggarra – and the Kimberley Land Council. The sale of carbon credits will provide the North Kimberley communities with an economic boost, while protecting the region’s biodiversity and reinvigorating Indigenous cultural traditions. Andrew Grant (Independent Consultant), Megan Flynn (Qantas), Dr Erik van Sebille, Phillip Cornwell (Allens) and Alec Kibblewhite (Qantas) Fairtrade support The Fairtrade label guarantees that a third-world farmer receives a fair price for their produce, that forced labour was not used in its production, and that certain employment and environmental standards are met in the production. Allens was one of the first Australian organisations to become a certified Fairtrade workplace. Last year, the Sydney office and clients heard from Ester Ephraim, a Fairtrade cocoa farmer from Ghana, on how Fairtrade in Australia influences rural communities in developing countries. Esther Ephraim 23 ENVIRONMENT Recycling Allens provides employees with a suite of recycling options, ranging from battery recycling to confidential paper recycling. Employees are constantly reminded to ‘reduce the use’ and then recycle what’s left. Pro Bono The firm has spent more than 1600 hours of pro bono work helping environmental organisations. Some of our environmental pro bono clients include: Bush Heritage Australia Bush Heritage is a national non-profit organisation conserving biodiversity in Australia. The organisation helps protect native habitats on millions of hectares of the most ecologically important landscapes by buying and managing land of outstanding conservation value and working in partnership with other landowners. Allens supports Bush Heritage with extensive pro bono legal advice on a range of matters, including property acquisitions. Ongoing initiatives A key part of Allens’ commitment to being a sustainable organisation is to continually look at projects and initiatives that can further reduce emissions. Some of the new projects currently in the pipeline from our Allens IT team, alongside the Footprint Committee and Corporate Services departments, include: Using technology to minimise our environmental footprint • upgrading our multifunction printing devices to more energy-efficient models • introducing an automated shut down of computers • significant upgrade of our video and audio conferencing technology • use of technology such as iPads and Lync for remote communication • investigating the introduction of ‘follow-me’ printing • replacing dictation machines with iPhone apps • moving our data centres off-site 24 ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ANTI-CORRUPTION Commitment As a leading law firm, Allens is committed to ensuring that our employees abide by the law. This includes laws that prohibit corruption in all its forms. Systems Allens has its own policies that aim to prevent corruption in all its forms, including a Fraud and Corruption Prevention Policy. Two of the firm’s systems that relate to anti-corruption are outlined below. Fraud and Corruption Prevention Policy The Fraud and Corruption Policy aims to ensure that Allens personnel, as well as third parties that act on behalf of Allens, do not engage in corruption and minimise the risk of Allens breaching anti-corruption laws. All Allens partners, employees and contractors are responsible for the prevention of fraud and corruption when acting on behalf of Allens, and must ensure their own actions do not result in fraud or corruption. Additionally, all personnel have an obligation to report (anonymously, if preferred) suspected fraud or corruption. Ethics Committee Our work with clients Allens’ Ethics Committee continues to help our people Each year, our Australian offices run ethics sessions deal with ethical issues encountered during the course as part of the Corporate Counsel Seminar Series, our of their work, including situations where it might be CPD program for clients . Ethics is a compulsory annual suspected that a party to a transaction is engaging course for all lawyers. The firm looks at innovative ways in corrupt conduct. The Ethics Committee is closely to deliver these ethics lessons, such as inviting clients involved in a wide range of training at the firm, covering as panellists, or using voting buttons when discussing issues of ethical conduct, professional responsibility ethical scenarios with clients. The ethics events are and anti-corruption. the most subscribed-to event for the series, and client feedback is excellent. Activities During the past year, Allens engaged in a range of activities that demonstrated support for the UN Global Compact principle on anti-corruption. These included: • H olding seminars for clients detailing compliance requirements according to Australian and overseas anti-bribery laws, including a seminar and roundtable on anti-bribery enforcement with representatives of the Australian Federal Police and Australian Securities and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission; • leading the work of the UN Global Compact Australian Network’s anti-bribery leadership group; and • p roviding extensive advice to a range of clients on establishing anti-bribery policies and compliance programs in Australia and overseas on conducting anti-bribery due diligence on client-proposed transactions and business relationships, and on engagement with and investigations commenced by regulators . 26 www.allens.com.au Allens is an independent partnership operating in alliance with Linklaters LLP. 19099
