2014 Corporate Sustainability Report HESS VA LUE S Hess Values set the framework Integrity. We are committed to the highest level of integrity in all our relationships. and establish the ethical standards by which we conduct our business. People. We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the best people by investing in their professional development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for personal growth. Performance. We are committed to a culture of performance that demands and rewards outstanding results throughout our business. Value Creation. We are committed to creating shareholder value based on sustained financial performance and long term profitable growth. Social Responsibility. We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business. Independent Spirit. We are committed to preserving the special qualities and unique personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise. REPORT APPLICATION LEVELS  This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact.  We welcome feedback on its contents. Note: Following a review by ERM CVS, our external verifier, Hess is self-declaring a GRI G3.1 Application level of A+ in conformance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. ASS UR A N CE ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) conducted representative site visits, reviewed source data and our internal data collection and aggregation system and conducted interviews to ensure the information presented is a reliable representation of our performance. An ERM CVS assurance statement has been included at the end of this report. ERM CVS also provided an opinion on the GRI Application Level. ON THE COVER Drilling Operations, Gulf of Mexico 24 30 44 TABL E OF CONTENTS 2 Message from the CEO Our CEO’s view on building a sustainable enterprise 34 Climate Change and Energy Balancing the world’s growing energy needs with cost-effective greenhouse gas emission reductions 4 About Hess Our company operations in brief 44 Environment Responsible management of our environmental footprint 5 Progress and Goals A snapshot of our progress and path 52 forward Performance Data Five years of key performance metrics 6 Approach to Reporting A description of our materiality assessment, reporting framework and boundaries 54 GRI Content Index 8 How We Operate The values that define our expectations for sustainable management and performance 57 Independent Assurance Statement 16 Community and Social Performance A review of corporate social responsibility as a way of doing business 24 Safety and Health Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, every day, home safe 30 Our People Creating a company culture and high quality workforce that innovates, leads and learns ME SSAGE FROM TH E C E O Overall, 2014 was a year of strong execution and operating At Hess we strive to make a positive impact on the results for our company, and marked the completion of our communities where we do business. Corporate social transformation into an exploration and production company. responsibility enhances our ability to be an effective, While our industry continues to be challenged by the sharp profitable and trusted energy partner and is a way of doing decline in oil prices that began late last year, Hess is well business for Hess. We integrate social considerations into positioned to manage through the current environment while our business planning using a three-faceted approach that preserving our long term growth options. We have a strong brings together stakeholder engagement, social risk and balance sheet, a focused portfolio of world class assets and impact management, and strategic social investment while top quartile operating capabilities. minimizing the social and environmental impacts from operations. Our corporate social responsibility governance Our company is steadfastly committed to being a trusted framework includes commitments to international voluntary energy partner that helps meet the world’s growing energy initiatives that are designed to protect the environment, needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive promote human rights and encourage financial transparency. and profitable way. Fundamental to that commitment are the In 2014 we continued with our endorsement of commitments Hess Values of Integrity, People, Performance, Value Creation, to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Social Responsibility and Independent Spirit. Through our International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, we translate these Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the United Values into sustainable practices that guide the way we do Nations Global Compact, the Voluntary Principles on Security business. In 2014 we advanced several key initiatives aimed and Human Rights, and the Extractive Industries at driving long term sustainable performance: enhancing Transparency Initiative. global standards, improving our environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy, and applying “lean” Hess’ strategic social investments are aimed at creating principles across our operations to create additional value shared value that improves the quality of life in local and eliminate waste. communities and helps create a favorable operating environment. Our social investment program in 2014 totaled As we strive for continuous improvement in safety $42 million, with about $34 million directed toward education performance, our ultimate goal is to reach zero safety projects. The balance is directed primarily to economic incidents – a goal that is shared at every level throughout our development, health and capacity building. company. In 2014 we made significant progress in safety performance. Our combined employee and contractor Total To meet the world’s energy needs, all forms of energy are Recordable Incident Rate decreased by 23 percent, and our needed, with fossil fuels continuing to make up the majority Lost Time Incident Rate was down by 14 percent compared of supply for the foreseeable future. The International Energy with previous year performance. To align safety and health Agency’s most recent forecast projects energy demand to systems for our contractors, who make up more than 80 increase 37 percent by 2040, with fossil fuels comprising 74 percent of our workforce, with our internal expectations, we percent of the energy mix. Therefore, it is more important utilize safety prequalification systems and supplier than ever for cooperation between world leaders and assessments. industry to develop comprehensive energy and climate solutions. We acknowledge the need for transparent and Process safety is another critical focus area for the company equitable carbon price signals that will promote energy in order to prevent unintentional releases that could result in efficiency and a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. a major incident. Throughout the year, we took significant steps to strengthen the three key strategic elements of our Our focus is on cost effective climate change policy process safety program: enhancing process safety responses that balance mitigation, adaptation and societal leadership; understanding and addressing process safety priorities. We manage climate change risks, along with many vulnerabilities; and educating people across the organization other business risks, through our enterprise risk management in process safety awareness. process. Between 2008 and 2014, we have reduced net 2 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report “ We are proud of our progress in 2014 and conﬁdent in our ability to build a sustainable enterprise that makes a positive difference for our stakeholders and the world around us. ” John B. Hess, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer equity greenhouse gas emissions from our oil and gas All of our assets undergo multidisciplinary risk assessments operations by 40 percent, or over 4 million tonnes of absolute to identify mitigation measures we can pursue to help protect emissions, through a combination of improved operating the environment, the communities in which we operate and processes, asset sales and refinery closures. the safety of our workforce. We provide extensive information on our programs and performance through our annual In the United States, oil and gas from shale has become a corporate sustainability report and on our company website critically important source of supply. The shale revolution has at hess.com. put the U.S. on a path to energy independence, buoyed national and state economies, bolstered tax revenues for Our strong operating results in 2014 are a tribute to our federal, state, and local governments, and helped bring down high-quality workforce and a company culture that fosters energy related carbon dioxide emissions as natural gas has performance, professional growth and teamwork. The replaced coal in electricity generation. As an industry, we divestiture of multiple businesses affected a significant need to do a better job of educating the public about number of employees in 2014. In keeping with our Values, energy’s value as a natural resource, its importance to our Hess provided comprehensive support to ease the transition economy, and the practices that are in place to ensure that for those impacted, including an enhanced severance we are operating in a safe and environmentally and socially program. Looking ahead, we will continue our focus on talent responsible manner. management, employee engagement, learning and development and diversity and inclusion, with the recognition Hess, as one of the largest producers in the Bakken play in that our employees hold the key to our company’s continued North Dakota and as an emerging producer in the Utica wet success. gas play in Ohio, is committed to responsible shale energy development. We have a flaring reduction strategy in place Our 2014 Corporate Sustainability report shows how and have been steadily investing in supporting infrastructure, sustainable business practices are integrated into our short and we have onsite operating practices to prevent potential term goals and long term strategy, particularly in managing surface water and groundwater impacts. We also have the key challenges and opportunities with economic, ongoing efforts to reduce or eliminate the use of chemical environmental and social performance. We are proud of our additives in fracturing fluids, and require our hydraulic progress in 2014 and confident in our ability to build a fracturing contractors to make nonproprietary data publicly sustainable enterprise that makes a positive difference for available on the FracFocus website regarding the chemicals our stakeholders and the world around us. We are thankful used in each fractured well. for the ongoing support and partnership of our employees, communities, customers, suppliers, business partners and Improving the safe transport of crude oil by rail is a growing investors today and in the future. concern to be addressed through a shared effort among railroad operators, regulators and producers. At Hess, we are committed to doing our part to minimize the risks involved through our own practices and as part of oil and gas industry efforts. John B. Hess Chief Executive Officer 3 ABO UT HE SS Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. 2014 HIGHLIGHTS • Averaged 83,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (BOEPD) net Hess Portfolio of Operations production from the Bakken oil shale play in North Dakota, a 24 percent increase over 2013 • In March 2014, commenced operation of our expanded Tioga, North Dakota, gas plant • Achieved first production at the Hess operated Tubular Bells Field in the Gulf of Mexico in November 2014 • In the Utica shale in Ohio, brought 39 wells into operation, increasing wet gas production to 13,000 BOEPD in the fourth quarter of 2014 Exploration • In the North Malay Basin, averaged 40 Developments Production million cubic feet of gas per day net production in 2014, a 33 percent increase over the fourth quarter of 2013 Our key exploration locations are the Gulf of Mexico, • Completed a three well appraisal Exploration Ghana, Guyana and Nova Scotia. program on the Deepwater Tano Cape Three Points block, offshore Ghana Developments are underway at several assets, including Stampede in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as staged ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS Developments developments at the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area and the Hess operated North Malay In 2014 our direct economic Basin project in the Gulf of Thailand. contributions included payments to suppliers, capital and exploration Production operations are ongoing globally. Key expenditures, wages and benefits, taxes production assets include the Bakken in North and royalties, interest, dividends and Dakota, Baldpate and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of social investments. Production Mexico, the Utica in Ohio, Okume and Ceiba in $ Millions Equatorial Guinea, South Arne in Denmark, Valhall in Recordable Supplier Spend (E&P) $8,267 Norway and the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Capital and Exploration Expenditures $5,606 Wages and Benefits (U.S.) $1,040 Development Area. Royalties and Other Payments $707 Income Tax Expense $744 158% 1,431 11.7 329,000 Interest Expense $323 Dividends $303 Social Investments $42 Replaced Production Million BOE Proved Reserves Years Reserve Life BOEPD Total Net Carbon and NOx Taxes $3 Hydrocarbons Produced A portion of capital and exploration expenditures may include payments to suppliers. 4 P RO GR E SS A ND G OA LS Based on the International Energy Meeting this long term demand will philosophy and daily operating Agency’s most recent long term require all types of energy, including rhythm and then exhibiting outstanding forecast, energy demand is expected to fossil fuels and renewables. execution. increase almost 40 percent by 2040, with As a company, our mission is to meet The purpose of this page is to provide fossil fuels comprising approximately 75 society’s energy requirements in an a snapshot of our progress and path percent of the energy mix. The growth environmentally and socially forward with respect to our most material in energy demand will come from responsible, safe and profitable way. environment, social and governance emerging market countries trying to Our success as a company depends (ESG) programs and initiatives. In-depth advance their standards of living and upon fully integrating both technical and discussion of these topics can be found meet societal priorities. Demand in non-technical risks into our lean throughout this report. developed countries will remain flat. Issue Progress Path Forward How We Operating in a challenging Continued to implement lean principles to Deploy lean metrics Operate environment (low oil prices/ eliminate waste and drive continuous excess supply) improvement Continue to embed enterpise risk management process into business functions Protecting our license to Maintained focus on enterprise risk management operate and enhancing our as an integral part of operational excellence Roll out and implement complete set of reputation enhanced global standards Began rollout of enhanced global standards to formalize enterprise wide expectations and Complete EHS & SR strategy refresh and responsibilities establish metrics to gauge performance Began updating our environment, health, safety Expand reporting to meet growing and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy stakeholder expectations Increased scope of ESG disclosures Community Enhancing our reputation as Reviewed social, political and economic Continue to integrate stakeholder and Social a trusted energy partner environments for existing and proposed areas of engagement, social risk and impact Performance operation to identify non-technical risks and management and social investment into mitigation activities and to integrate them into enterprise business processes our strategic planning Expand grievance mechanisms across the Developed a standard enterprise wide enterprise stakeholder engagement process and set of tools Safety Focusing on continuous Focused on enhancing personal and process Continue to enhance enterprise wide and Health improvement as we aspire safety leadership, identifying vulnerabilities and contractor prequaliﬁcation and selection toward zero incidents educating employees process Incorporated EHS reviews into the procurement Remain actively engaged with multiprocess stakeholder rail safety task forces Procured more than 500 railcars with enhanced safety performance features Our People Managing major structural Effectively managed the divestiture of the Progress initiatives in key programs, including changes in our organization downstream businesses, which resulted in a employee engagement, onboarding, talent as part of a multi-year signiﬁcantly smaller employee workforce management, diversity and inclusion, process transformation to an efﬁciency, reliability and data integrity exploration and production Renewed focus on key human resources company programs Climate Responsibly managing our Expanded carbon asset risk and methane Work toward setting reasonable methane Change, environmental footprint reporting reduction targets through the ONE Future Energy and coalition Environment Continued to build infrastructure in North Dakota to transport associated gas to market Expand depth of carbon asset risk reporting and reduce ﬂaring Meet regulatory requirement to reduce North Conducted environmental impact assessments Dakota wellhead ﬂaring to 10 percent by 2020 for new or proposed projects Examine additional opportunities to reduce waste and environmental footprint 5 APPROACH TO REPORTING This report describes the company’s principles of the United Nations (UN) In early 2015, we conducted a strategy and performance regarding Global Compact. A GRI Content Index, materiality assessment survey to significant economic, environmental and cross-referenced with IPIECA indicators validate our internal assessment and social issues in 2014. Financial and and the UN Global Compact principles, expand upon it to ensure that we governance information, including our is provided at the end of this report. incorporate stakeholder expectations annual report, our U.S. Securities and into our materiality assessment. The Exchange Commission Form 10-K filing An expanded GRI Index is available at results of our materiality assessment hess.com/gri-index and our proxy statement, is available on survey are presented on the next page. our website. While we report on a broad range of GRI MATERIALITY and IPIECA indicators, we consider the Additional sustainability and investor Over the past several years we have information is available at hess.com/investors topics listed as our most material, in the strengthened our materiality order in which they are disclosed in this assessment process. By engaging key report. REPORTING STANDARDS stakeholders, including employees, We annually report our sustainability suppliers, customers, communities, BOUNDARY SETTING performance based on the Global shareholders, governmental and The scope of this report includes Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1/Oil & Gas non-governmental organizations, principal facilities and assets operated Sector Supplement guidelines, to an A+ industry peers and academics, we are by Hess Corporation and its subsidiaries application level. Our report is also able to maintain and strengthen our during calendar year 2014, unless based on the Oil and Gas Industry license to operate. New and emerging otherwise indicated. The majority of Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability issues that are important to these data presented are gross figures from Reporting developed by IPIECA, the groups form the basis for the content of operated facilities, unless specified American Petroleum Institute and the this sustainability report, consistent with otherwise. International Oil and Gas Producers the GRI G3.1 guidelines for determining Association, as well as on the 10 materiality. In 2014 Hess completed the divestiture of its downstream businesses. The Retail business was part of the Hess portfolio through the third quarter of 2014. Limited 2014 data for this business is provided separately on our website. See our expanded performance data at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ key-sustainability-metrics We report some quantitative environment, health and safety data on a normalized basis to facilitate year-onyear comparisons. We report greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on both an operated and net equity share basis in accordance with the IPIECA Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions (2nd edition, May 2011). GHG data for the joint Utica Shale Drilling Operations, Ohio venture Bayonne Energy Center are 6 Materiality Assessment Process Determine material Identify issues for Prioritize issues topics for inclusion in consideration using: based on: the report: • Internal evaluations of risk and • Relevance to our business • Transparency in business conduct impact strategy • Community and stakeholder • Feedback from internal and • Level of risk and impact to Hess engagement external stakeholders • Coverage by our industry peers • Human rights and security • Prior sustainability reports • Stakeholder expectations • Process safety and spills • External reporting standards and frameworks • Occurrence in external • Emergency preparedness and reporting frameworks and response • Investor and rating agency surveys inquiries and surveys • Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions • Sector benchmarking • Water management • Formal surveys of internal and external subject matter experts • Transportation impacts • Media coverage • Biodiversity and ecosystem services impacts • Regulatory assurance excluded from the reporting boundary not material, representing a very small sustainability report, including because this asset was part of the percentage of the overall expenditure consistent and objective data collection downstream divestiture. (less than 5 percent). and the reporting of our sustainability performance. ERM CVS also reviews our We also report our social investments INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE self-declared GRI G3.1 Application for our operated assets, joint ventures We have internal documentation and Level. In previous years ERM CVS’ and non-operated facilities in which we information systems in place to promote assurance related to the business at the hold a significant interest. consistent and reliable data collection time (including the Marketing and and aggregation from all of our Hess RESTATEMENTS AND Refining business). As 2013 and earlier operated and joint venture assets. We data have been restated in this year’s ADDITIONS conduct quality assurance/quality report to reflect the upstream business, To enable comparisons, prior years’ control reviews and validation to it should be noted that this year’s safety and environmental data in this evaluate the accuracy and reliability of assurance process included the 2014 report have been restated to reflect the facility specific and aggregated data. data and that the restated numbers for upstream (exploration and production) Due to rounding, individual numbers in prior years have not been assured. business only, with a few exceptions. On the charts, tables and text may not sum an individual basis, divestitures did not The Independent Assurance Statement to the total amounts shown. The unit of meet the threshold for removing them is provided on page 57 of this report. In currency used in this report is the U.S. from our 2008 GHG emissions baseline. addition to providing assurance in dollar. This is discussed further in the Climate relation to our sustainability report, ERM Change and Energy section of this EXTERNAL ASSURANCE CVS also conducts a separate report. Our social investment spend has ERM Certification and Verification verification of the GHG emissions data also not been restated, since the Services (ERM CVS) conducts annual provided in this report and in our CDP downstream-focused investments were third party assurance of our Climate Change response. 7 HOW W E O P E R ATE North Dakota Production Operations 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2015 GOALS > Further strengthened > Enhanced our > Completed a > Roll out enhanced > Implement our updated > Complete risk our Global Compliance contractor selection, non-technical risk enterprise wide Conflict of Interest assessments and Program management and assessment and an environment, health Policy and our new develop integrated review process integrated risk register and safety standards Gifts, Meals, risk registers for for both technical and on a prioritized basis Entertainment, all assets in the non-technical risks Hospitality and Travel Hess portfolio for our North Dakota Support Policy operations We seek to conduct business in a The purpose of the EHS Subcommittee manner that meets the highest is to assist the Board with respect to standards of corporate citizenship, identifying, evaluating and monitoring creates a long lasting, positive impact EHS risk and strategy that could affect on the communities where we do the company’s business activities, business and delivers long term value to performance and reputation, and our shareholders. developing recommendations to the Audit Committee and to the Board on Our goal to be a trusted energy partner policies, programs and practices to and our six core Hess Values underpin address such issues and risks. The our business philosophy. The Hess members have extensive oil and gas Code of Business Conduct and Ethics industry experience, including (Code of Conduct), along with our operations, research and development, policies covering corporate social and financial expertise. The EHS responsibility, human rights, and Subcommittee met four times in 2014. environment, health and safety, build on our Values to define our internal Hess is governed by the Hess Sendje Ceiba, Equatorial Guinea expectations for sustainable Leadership Team (HLT), which is chaired management and performance. by our CEO and comprises the company’s most senior executives. The GOVERNANCE AND KEY HLT focuses on operational, strategic INITIATIVES and financial issues and is the highest Hess’ governance structure ensures that approval body before the Board of the highest level of oversight rests with Directors. The HLT meets face to face at the Board of Directors while direct least every other month. An operational responsibility lies with the company’s subcommittee of the HLT, which is senior leadership. chaired by our President and COO, meets weekly and focuses on In 2013 the Board of Directors operational matters. Environmental and established the Environmental, Health social issues and performance are and Safety (EHS) Subcommittee of the discussed at these meetings. Audit Committee. Each member of the Subcommittee is a member of the Audit In 2013 Hess formed the Operational Committee and is independent and Excellence Council (OEC), composed of qualified under standards established by several senior vice presidents and applicable law, stock exchange listing others, which recommends and governs standards and Hess’ Corporate enterprise wide, high impact initiatives Governance Guidelines. that encompass multiple disciplines. The OEC’s purpose is to ensure alignment See Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines at hess.com/hessgovernanceguidelines and integration, prioritize initiatives, load-level and implement initiatives 9 HOW W E O P E R ATE consistently, hold initiative leaders Risk, Corporate Strategic Planning, EHS, the third and fourth quarters of 2015. In accountable for delivery and sustain Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), the interim, we plan on retaining several improvement over time. Two key Government Affairs and Sustainability elements of our five-year climate change initiatives sponsored by the OEC with managers and professionals compose strategy, which concluded in 2013. direct relevance to environmental and the project team, which will develop the Please refer to the Climate Change and social issues include the environment, elements of the new strategy. The Energy section of this report for more health, safety and social responsibility Steering Committee, which includes vice detail. (EHS & SR) strategy refresh project and presidents from each of the major the global standards project. disciplines, provides guidance, expertise Global Standards and strategic direction to the project Our management systems provide a EHS & SR Strategy Refresh team. The HLT and the EHS Board framework for managing risk, ensuring With our transformation to an Subcommittee periodically review and operational excellence, tracking key exploration and production company provide feedback to the Strategy performance metrics and maintaining complete, we have begun to refresh and Refresh Project Team and Steering regulatory compliance. Under the update our climate change, environment, Committee. leadership of the OEC, we have been health, safety and social responsibility developing and implementing an strategy to align with our goal of During the fourth quarter of 2014, we enhanced framework of global becoming a trusted energy partner. We reviewed all recent asset-specific risk standards as part of our management believe that refreshing our enterprise assessments conducted as part of our systems to formalize enterprise wide wide EHS & SR strategy will contribute enterprise risk management process. In expectations and accountabilities and to improving operational effectiveness the first quarter of 2015, we retained a support a globally consistent approach and management of stakeholder third party consultant to conduct a to environment, health, safety and social expectations, reducing risk and survey of material issues for our industry risk management. protecting our license to operate. with industry peers and other external stakeholders. Obtaining external views A risk-based approach was adopted to We began working on our strategy allowed us to validate and build on our prioritize the order of development and refresh in the fall of 2014 by developing internal assessments. We are currently implementation for each of the and implementing the governance completing the second step of our standards. The first set of enhanced structure for the project, including a strategy refresh – the industry standards was developed by crossStrategy Refresh Project Team and a benchmarking – and will develop asset and cross-functional development Steering Committee, and conducting strategic positioning and strategy teams and approved by year end 2014, kickoff meetings. Operations, Enterprise development recommendations during with the second set to follow in 2015. EHS & SR Strategy Refresh Timeline Q4 2014–Q1 2015 Q2 2015 Q3 2015 Q4 2015 1 Materiality and Risk Assessment 2 Industry Peer Benchmark 3 Strategic Positioning on Select Issues 4 Strategy Development Recommendations Conduct a materiality and risk Conduct an industry peer Clarify Hess’ strategic Develop a detailed EHS & assessment based on three benchmark analysis on each positioning on each material SR strategy. Identify metrics views: of the issues determined to be issue relative to the industry to measure performance. 1) an internal review of assetmost material for our industry. benchmark, based on a Review with Hess specific risk assessments Identify policies and continuum of laggard to leadership. 2) survey results from industry programs that drive best-inleader. Review with Hess peers; and 3) survey results from external class performance. Review leadership. stakeholders. with Hess leadership. 10 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report Following the development and approval risk profile identifies each risk and its Value Assurance of each set of standards, assets will associated likelihood and potential Value assurance is an independent complete gap assessments and develop impact to our business. “Critical” risks review process within Hess to ensure plans to implement and embed each – risks with higher likelihood and impact that investment opportunities and standard. As the enhanced standards or those that are unlikely but would have decisions are properly characterized and are developed, approved and significant impact if they were to occur assessed. Major capital projects are implemented, we will continue to check – are placed on an integrated risk screened at various stages to verify that and adjust the process regularly to register that catalogs actions for environmental and socioeconomic ensure their effective and sustainable managing or mitigating each risk. In concerns, regulatory requirements and implementation. 2014 risk assessments were completed other non-technical risks have been and risk registers were begun for all incorporated into early project design KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES assets in the Hess portfolio. In 2015 the and planning. We rigorously apply a number of key ERM group will continue to develop risk processes in our organization that A major project follows a series of excellence standards and guidelines for provide the foundation for managing risk “stage gates,” which ensures that all risk related functions. and achieving operational excellence at various risks have been identified, and Hess. We utilize these processes to Significant progress has been made in recommendations made to mitigate evaluate investment opportunities and embedding this process into key them, at each stage before the project identify and mitigate risks in potential, business functions at Hess, including transitions to the next stage. At the new and existing operations. project planning and entry into new Frame Stage, for example, a decision to areas of operation. We are also in the proceed is based on the risk and Enterprise Risk Management early stages of integrating risk opportunity profile, the technical and Effective risk management at Hess is at management with our stakeholder commercial feasibility and the economic the core of our commitment to engagement program, which includes viability of project alternatives. During operational excellence. Our enterprise alignment of key contacts at the asset the Screen Stage, risks, uncertainties risk management (ERM) process applies level and facilitation of stakeholder and opportunities are identified, and the a comprehensive, standardized mapping at ERM workshops to enable preferred option meeting economic and approach to identifying and managing effective stakeholder management. For risk hurdles is selected. The Refine risks of all types across our operations. more information about the stakeholder Stage is marked by the completion of a Information from subject matter experts engagement program, see the Project Execution Plan and Risk and recent audits is used to develop a Community and Social Performance Mitigation Plan, leading to project holistic risk profile for each asset; the section of this report. sanction. Value Assurance Process FRAME SCREEN REFINE IMPLEMENT OPERATE Handover to Operations Team Gate review and decision Gate review and decision Gate review and decision • Outline objectives • Develop objectives • Optimize preferred • Operate in line with and requirements • Deliver the refined option option budget and plan • Determine technical and commercial • Evaluate and rank • Define plan for • Meet/exceed sanction viability options delivery metrics • Identify alternatives • Reduce risks and • Secure funding • Meet Production uncertainties Excellence • Select preferred expectations option • Post-project review 11 HOW W E O P E R ATE During the Implement Stage, the project recurring, formalized evaluation of risk in focus on the key breakthroughs must demonstrate operational our ongoing activities. necessary to meet our short and long readiness. The final stage is Operate; term goals. We track daily operational the project is handed over to the Lean and breakthrough progress, make Operations Team and begins production Hess has adopted lean principles to problems visible and structure operating operations. drive continuous improvement and meetings to efficiently address clearly enable the company to provide value to defined issues. And we apply structured New Country Entry communities, employees, business problem-solving using the scientific When evaluating opportunities in a new partners, shareholders and other method, constantly striving for country of operation, we assess nonstakeholders. To Hess, lean is not a perfection. technical above ground risks associated tactical, a near term or a cost cutting with that location using the new country program. Rather, it is a way of thinking Lean was first deployed in Hess’ entry (NCE) process. This crossand acting for an organization to create onshore unconventional assets, where functional process involves a detailed value, improve performance and field development depends on drilling, questionnaire through which Hess eliminate waste. completing and producing from a large subject matter experts from across the number of wells. Lean principles, tools Lean begins with building a company and methodologies were initially applied business provide input on various risks culture of learning and execution. With a in the Bakken in North Dakota, where – including social, environment, legal, deep respect for people, our leaders Hess has drilled and completed more external affairs, compliance, commercial engage employees to develop problemthan 200 wells annually over the past and supply chain risks – associated with solving skill sets, enabling employees to several years. Since 2011 Hess has operating in a particular country. The eliminate waste and solve problems they reduced drilling cycle time by more than review draws on available information face every day. We are actively 50 percent and drilling and completion from governmental sources such as the managing our value streams, creating costs by almost 50 percent while U.S. State Department and leading standard work, identifying customer– improving safety performance by more non-governmental organizations to supplier relationships, defining clear than 50 percent. Applying lessons categorize each risk as high, medium or hand-offs, enabling smooth work flows learned in the Bakken, Hess has low based on severity and whether the and continuing to improve our implemented lean in its Utica asset in risk can be easily mitigated. standards. Ohio. As this unconventional asset has The NCE process enhances the quality completed its appraisal phase and Our high-level strategy is cascaded to and breadth of information available to moved into development, the team has individual objectives. Our business plans Hess leadership when evaluating new opportunities and enables the mitigation of identified risks by the project team Lean Principles Clear Quality Effective Structured once a commitment is made to enter a Dashboards Business Operating Problem new country. The results of this process Plans Rhythm Solving support our enterprise risk management and value assurance workflows, enabling us to use this information at + key decision points in our investment and project planning processes. Beginning in 2013 this process was Standard Processes Value Stream Management expanded from new projects to include an annual review of all significant existing assets, which allows for a Leadership Behavior and People Development 12 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report and reporting mechanisms for employees were put in place to promote greater access and transparency. These initiatives are continuing into 2015. The Global Compliance group is further enhancing Hess’ Anti-Corruption Compliance Program through the implementation of an updated AntiBribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedure, the rollout of automated approval systems and the launch of online anti-corruption training. These global initiatives will occur in 2015 and into 2016. Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Gulf of Thailand POLITICAL SPENDING Under Hess policy, all colleagues reduced its drilling cycle time by almost prevent and detect compliance (defined as full time, part time and 70 percent and drilling costs per foot by violations. Its aim is to promote an contract employees) are prohibited from 40 percent. Offshore assets have also organizational culture that encourages using Hess funds to contribute to a begun to apply lean principles to their commitment to ethical conduct and national, state or local political operations. compliance with the law. To continuously campaign, a political party, or election improve compliance controls and committee, or to pay a debt related to ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT embrace best practices, our Global such activities. This prohibition includes Our Code of Conduct describes the both direct and indirect cash and in-kind Compliance organization focuses on business conduct and behaviors that contributions. In 2014 there were no internal investigations, anti-corruption Hess expects of its employees, officers, political contributions made by Hess and other enterprise programs. The directors and contractors. We expect employees using corporate funds. Chief Compliance Officer reports to the that our suppliers, contractors, agents General Counsel and informs the Audit and other business partners will follow In the United States, federal election Committee of the Board of Directors on similar principles when working for Hess law permits corporations to establish a regular basis. and our subsidiaries. The Code of political action committees (PACs), Conduct has been translated for In 2014 Hess globally implemented the which may make political contributions. employees in each of our countries of Gifts, Meals, Entertainment, Hospitality In February 2014 the company formed operation outside the United States. and Travel Support Policy and the the Hess PAC for eligible employee Conflicts of Interest Policy to provide contributions. All contributions to the The company takes disciplinary actions, Hess PAC are voluntary and publicly employees with further guidance including termination of employment or disclosed to the U.S. Federal Election regarding what constitutes ethical services, for violations of the Code of Commission (fec.gov). In 2014 the Hess business conduct. Additional noteworthy Conduct and related policies. PAC received $21,500 in contributions accomplishments included the rollout of Our compliance policies and procedures a new online training program on these and did not make any disbursements. all stem from the Code of Conduct. The policies and the Code of Conduct, which As legally permitted, Hess corporate Global Compliance Program establishes, was completed by 100 percent of funds, resources and facilities were maintains and enforces policies, employees throughout the year. In used to provide administrative support procedures, processes and initiatives to addition, enhanced investigative tracking for the Hess PAC. 13 HOW W E O P E R ATE Hess belongs to a number of trade SUPPLY CHAIN Contracts that involve higher risk, due associations, primarily to give the Our global reach extends well beyond either to the number of manhours the company access to the business, our individual company operations to contractors will work at Hess or the technical and industry best practices our business partners, suppliers and nature of that work, automatically trigger expertise of these associations. Hess contractors. Maintaining a competitive an EHS review in the procurement actively engages with various industry and secure supply chain is one of the process. As one part of the EHS review, and trade groups (organized under the key ways we reduce our operational we use recognized industry Internal Revenue Code) in the United risk. In 2014 we purchased more than prequalification systems for most major States. In 2014 Hess contributed $8 billion of goods and services from areas of operations, including in the $250,000 to the Greater North Dakota more than 5,000 suppliers, and United States and Europe. This includes Chamber for advocacy on issues that contractor manhours comprised more a review of training qualifications, safety would preserve and promote a healthy, than 80 percent of our total workforce programs and performance, an pro-business environment in the state. hours. environmental checklist and proof of The advocacy included the Chamber’s insurance. Potential contractors receive campaign opposing the passage of Supplier Qualiﬁcations a rating based on this review. In cases general election ballot Measure 5. This We employ a standardized approach to where a contractor receives a rating that measure sought to redirect 5 percent of evaluate and measure the performance does not meet our requirements, an North Dakota’s revenue from its oil of potential and current suppliers on the improvement plan should be in place extraction tax to a new, independent basis of total value, including safety, before a contract with that supplier is conservation fund not administered by quality, delivery and cost. We have a established. Beginning in 2015, these the state, which Hess believes would centralized system in place globally that formalized improvement plans are have had a negative impact on the oil houses all contract templates and other housed internally at the asset level using and gas producing business key materials and manages the our existing EHS data system. environment. The voters in North Dakota contractor procurement process. We also use a central, global electronic Elsewhere, we use a standardized defeated the measure in November 2014 sourcing system in a majority of our process with a questionnaire based on by a 60 percent margin. Except for funds locations to collect bids and evaluate 14 safety and environmental elements. contributed to the Greater North Dakota suppliers. This system allows for the In our U.S. operations, the EHS review Chamber, no payments made by Hess to efficient creation of online Requests for will also typically include an on-location 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4)organizations were Proposals and encourages the use of audit. used for express political advocacy. A list of memberships and associations best practices. Supply Chain Transparency and that received more than $50,000 from Compliance Our contractor prequalification and Hess in 2014 can be found on page 58 Our suppliers of goods and services selection process helps to ensure we of this report. must comply with applicable laws and are working with the most qualified companies. Where appropriate, potential regulations in areas such as EHS, drug We recognize that our positions do not contractors undergo a risk review, an and alcohol use, conflicts of interest and always align with all formal positions of anti-corruption and legal compliance anti-corruption laws, and must maintain the associations, organizations and review and a review of EHS programs any licensing or permitting requirements collaborative working groups in which and performance. Our procurement staff with respect to their activities. we participate. Our funding should not also reviews the potential contractors’ Contractors are also required to abide be considered a direct endorsement of insurance, tax, legal and quality by our Code of Conduct. Standard the entire range of activities undertaken information; in case of discrepancies contract clauses include requirements by these membership organizations. To with our standards, the relevant with respect to ethical business address concerns related to potential department within Hess conducts an practices, human rights, social misalignment, we publish our positions additional review. responsibility, business integrity, search on key sustainability issues in this and seizure and quality. annual sustainability report. 14 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report In addition, clauses that cover federal contractor requirements are included for suppliers supporting our U.S. operations. Contracts typically also include a requirement that suppliers and contractors allow access to all offices and facilities and cooperate fully with all audits and inspections. Security Services Our Code of Conduct prohibits the use of local military or law enforcement personnel except where required by local authorities or in emergency situations. If the use of local military or law enforcement personnel is unavoidable, asset managers are requested to seek prior approval from Hess’ Legal Department and Global Valhall Field, Norway Security function. can be used locally for training security specifications for local companies or In operating locations where security personnel on human rights issues. workers. We are also active participants services are necessary, we contract for in an industry partnership task force these services locally with support from In the event of a security incident with dedicated to developing and sharing our Global Security and Global Supply human rights implications, a report is best practices in this area. Chain functions. Contracts with security made to the head of Global Security. services providers include clauses Reports are also issued for those Supplier Engagement and covering security and human rights occurrences, such as peaceful Sustainability expectations. These clauses detail our community protests, that highlight Hess continues to engage with suppliers expectations for security providers to potential future risk. We are not aware of on issues that are important to our adhere to applicable international law any incidents where public or private industry and our stakeholders. Since enforcement principles, humanitarian security forces engaged community 2009 we have worked with current and law and human rights law. The clauses members in 2014, and no incident prospective suppliers of hydraulic require our security contractors to reports were filed. We are also piloting a fracturing services to define acceptable communicate our human rights, social formal mechanism to report such fracturing fluid systems, including responsibility and ethical expectations incidents internally using our existing restrictions on the selection and use of to their employees and subcontractors, data systems and plan to use this tool certain chemicals. We require suppliers as well as demonstrate compliance. The across the enterprise beginning in 2015. to publish fracturing fluid chemical aim is to ensure delivery of a consistent composition and quantities via the Local Content FracFocus website. While the majority of message of performance expectations Internationally, we often prioritize local chemicals are identified by unique for security contractors and drive suppliers as part of production sharing identification numbers issued by the consistency across Hess operations. contracts or other agreements with host Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) and These expectations are also detailed in countries. These agreements vary, but are listed on the publicly available CAS our enterprise wide Security and Human may include use of an approved vendor Registry, Hess allows its suppliers to use Rights policy. We have also developed a list, requirements for government generic names for proprietary Security and Human Rights Toolkit that approval of suppliers or threshold ingredients. 15 COMMUN IT Y A N D S OC I A L P E R FOR M ANCE Stakeholder Engagement, North Dakota 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2015 GOALS > Draf ted > Developed a > Launched a > Invested more > Finalize and > Implement > Continue to > C onduct corporate social standard stakeholder than $42 million implement grievance enhance our strategic responsibility enterprise management in social corporate social mechanism at stakeholder review of and human stakeholder database programs responsibility three assets engagement in social rights global engagement system to throughout and human all assets, with investment standards (SE) process support SE our portfolio rights global a specific focus programs and began and grievance standards on at least five rollout mechanism assets in 2015 processes At Hess, we view corporate social The next level of our CSR governance two standards were developed to responsibility (CSR) as a way of doing framework includes our commitments to expand upon the company’s business, enhancing our ability to be an international voluntary initiatives that expectations of business and asset effective, profitable and trusted energy Hess has endorsed or formally joined level programs, processes and partner. By proactively engaging with (collectively known as our “Voluntary performance. Training, toolkits and local the communities where we operate, we Commitments”) and that are designed procedures and plans make up the final can maximize our business value, to protect the environment, promote level of the framework. manage social risks and impacts and human rights — including labor rights STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT create opportunities for stakeholders. — and encourage financial Discovering and producing oil and gas transparency. In addition to our We integrate social considerations into have become increasingly challenging endorsement of the Universal our business decisions using a threefor our industry, both technically and in Declaration of Human Rights and the pronged approach: stakeholder terms of environmental and social International Labour Organization’s engagement, social risk and impact considerations. As an international Declaration on Fundamental Principles management, and strategic social energy company, our access to and Rights at Work, our Voluntary investments that facilitate direct and resources depends on effective Commitments include the United indirect local benefits. Each element engagement with governments, Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the informs the others as we work toward regulators, communities and civil Voluntary Principles on Security and continuous improvement. This approach society. As such, it is critical for our Human Rights (VPs), and the Extractive fosters long term relationships, company to understand the Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). encourages operational success and Hess serves on the board of the supports profitable growth. Governance Framework UNGC’s U.S. network. GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Our Corporate Social Responsibility, Our Hess Values and our Code of Human Rights, and Security and Human Conduct, which includes expectations Rights policies all cascade from the regarding human rights, provide the umbrella of our Voluntary Commitments. starting point for our commitments to This framework details our Hess Values ethical and responsible business and Code of commitments to our employees and practices. Corporate Social Conduct communities of operation through Responsibility is one of the six Hess every phase of our business Values; it establishes our commitment to Voluntary Commitments activity. It also sets expectations meeting the highest standards of and Voluntary Principles for employees and contractors. corporate citizenship by protecting the Corporate Social Responsibility, health and safety of our employees, In 2014 we drafted CSR and Human Rights and Security, and safeguarding the environment, and Human Rights Global Human Rights Policies creating a long lasting positive impact Standards, which on the communities where we do comprise the next level CSR and Human Rights Global Standards business. of our framework and cascade from our Toolkits, Training and Local Procedures/Plans policies. These 17 COMMUN IT Y A N D S OC I A L P E R FORM ANCE expectations, priorities and concerns of our stakeholders, including communities, employees, suppliers, customers, industry members, governments and investors. We recognize that risks associated with our activities can have a significant impact on stakeholder relationships, public perception and the success of a project. In 2014 a multidisciplinary team developed a standard, enterprise wide stakeholder engagement process and set of tools. This process focuses on both the proactive relationship and trust building opportunities created by meaningful engagement, as well as the business value engagement brings when integrated as part of project risk management. Our stakeholder engagement process is consistent with the company’s “Plan, Do, Check, Adjust” continuous improvement methodology utilized by other Hess business processes such as lean, and Ghana Fishermen’s Cooperative thus adopts a disciplined methodology that also offers consistency across understanding of expectations between earliest phases of our new country entry the enterprise. Hess and those who live and work process through the decommissioning Stakeholder Engagement nearby. Indeed, stakeholder of an asset. Proactive, ongoing Process engagement is a critical aspect of stakeholder engagement helps set To operate effectively as guests in host operational success across the entire expectations, averting miscommunication communities requires a mutual life cycle of our business, from the and misunderstanding before they start. Stakeholder Engagement Process 11.. IDENTIFY D VES, OBJECTIVES, 2 2.. ANAYLZE A ANAYLZ AY & MAP 3.. DEFINE 3 DE D PLEMENT & IMPLEMENT P 4. 4 R RISKS & IMP Understand: Define: Stakes, Needs and Timing • Desired Outcome Interrelationships • Relationship Owner Track Engagements & Long Term & One-off or Cross-asset • Engagement and/or Response Grievance Resolution Short Term Impacts/ Business Risks Issues Special Cases • Indicators and Metrics Objectives Report Regularly Implement Engagement Plan Grievance Share Lessons Map to Grids: Management Learned STAKEHOLDERS Rate Influence & Interest Rate Strength of Relationship 18 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report EXTERNAL EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS We interact with many different types of external stakeholders, ranging from local landowners, leaseholders and communities to international organizations. Our goal is to collaboratively identify opportunities benefiting our host communities, improve our business and strengthen our license to operate. Below are a few select examples of recent stakeholder engagement. Category External Stakeholder Groups Recent Examples of Engagement Land Users/ Residents, commercial land interests, farmers Bakken stakeholder engagement and grievance mechanism Landowners and ranchers deployment to improve two-way dialogue and proactive risk management Resources Users/ Mineral rights owners, water rights owners and Proactive engagement in both Ghana and Kurdistan with Rights Holders users, hunters/ﬁshers/gatherers community leaders and other stakeholders to better understand their interests and support our operations Governments Local, regional and national authorities, national Hosted Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Ernest military, international governing authorities Moniz and Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) on a visit to Hess’ Bakken asset to educate them on North Dakota production and operations; served on DOE Secretary’s Advisory Board for the Quadrennial Energy Review (QER) and testiﬁed at DOE QER hearing in North Dakota on energy infrastructure challenges Direct Economic Investment partners, vendors and suppliers, Hosted a Supplier Day meeting with representatives from Interests contractors, unions, shareholders Hess’ top 100 suppliers to initiate a supplier engagement process that will lower supply chain costs while continuing safe, reliable, efﬁcient operations External Business Chambers of commerce, industry organizations, Vice President of Corporate Social Responsibility serves on Interests local businesses, sustainability initiatives executive committee of IPIECA; leaders of Environment, Health and Safety and CSR functions actively participate in working groups and stakeholder engagement, including on such topics as biodiversity, social responsibility, water, climate change and sustainability reporting Special Interest NGOs, religious groups, cause-oriented Active participant in multi-stakeholder initiatives, including Groups nonproﬁts, community groups the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, EITI and UNGC, to advance responsible business practices globally Community Local police/ﬁre/EMS, health care services, Conducted a training drill at Tioga Rail Terminal that Services education, human service agencies included several agencies and organizations, including the Local Emergency Planning Committee, Ward County Emergency Management, Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp., Union Paciﬁc Co., and CHEMTREC. The exercise served as veriﬁcation of roles and responsibilities between the carrier, manufacturer and track owner in the event of an incident Indigenous Formally recognized groups, tribal coalitions, Conducted meetings with the Three Afﬁliated Tribes in Groups government supporting agencies, indigenous North Dakota, and other Native American tribes of the advocacy groups region, around the Hawkeye Pipeline project. The meetings included project description brieﬁngs, consultations on sensitive cultural areas, and a walkthrough of the pipeline route with the tribes to conduct a survey to identify historic and culturally sensitive sites in the projected corridor. Appropriate adjustments to the route and project were made to preserve those identiﬁed areas 19 COMMUN IT Y A N D S OC I A L P E R FOR M ANCE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT: MANAGING BUSINESS RISKS IN GHANA In 2014 Hess Ghana undertook seismic survey consulted with the fishermen, traditional permitted early and easy resolution of and drilling operations in its offshore Deep leaders, and the six District Assemblies closest problems. Water Tano/Cape Three Points license area. to the license area. The seismic survey, lasting almost four months, A good example was the resolution of an collected data over a seabed area of 1,800 At the community level, a key to success was to incident in which a fisherman’s nets were square kilometers and was followed later in the work through the chief fishermen, who damaged by a seismic survey vessel. A swift year by the drilling of three appraisal wells. As commanded respect in each community and investigation, with help from the chief part of the project development, Hess identified facilitated discussion in small groups. fisherman, the Fishermen’s Association and the coastal fishing communities as an important Engagement with the fishermen gave Hess a Fisheries Commission, allowed Hess to replace stakeholder group due to the potential for good understanding of the issues and the damaged equipment in a timely and interaction offshore between fishing canoes challenges that the fishing community faces, equitable manner. and company vessels. Hess reached out and and by developing good relationships it Hess works to identify and map its and accompanying tools to support our environmental and social issues the operational stakeholders and develop efforts to enhance our ability to listen to, region is facing. The study captured engagement plans at each asset. Assets engage and respond to stakeholders. feedback from internal and external create, maintain and implement a Through a consistent application of stakeholders, and the findings have strategic social investment program robust grievance mechanisms, we hope been incorporated into mitigation tailored to that operation and to strengthen our relationships with plans, stakeholder discussions and community. communities and respond more industry partnership opportunities. effectively to their concerns, thus The study will also help inform social Grievance Mechanisms addressing issues before they grow into investments going forward. Formal grievance mechanisms support more severe or widespread problems. stakeholders who are seeking to share • We conducted social and feedback with companies on their SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT environmental studies in Kurdistan, operational impacts and help ensure MANAGEMENT Equatorial Guinea and Malaysia in that the company has a process to Engaging with stakeholders helps us to conjunction with our operational respond to and act on that feedback. proactively identify, mitigate and activity and to provide additional Through our membership in IPIECA, the manage above ground risks that can information for social responsibility global oil and gas industry association impact communities and projects. Prior and investment programs. for environmental and social issues, and to new country entry, project startup, or • We commissioned a report of the in partnership with six of our sector expanding existing facilities, we examine downtown Houston area where Hess peers, in 2014 we participated in a the social, political and economic Tower is located. The report identified voluntary pilot project at one of our environment to identify non-technical socio-economic issues and potential shale energy asset locations. We also risks and mitigation activities and social investment opportunities. developed an internal database to integrate them into our strategic support implementation and planning. Recent examples include the Human Rights management of our stakeholder following: Building trusted partnerships and engagement and grievance mechanism treating people with dignity and respect • We completed a third party social and processes. are part of our company’s culture. environmental baseline study for Hess’ Although it is the duty of governments to We are applying the learnings from our Bakken operations and surrounding protect human rights, companies like site specific grievance mechanism pilot communities. The findings provided ours must act with care and respect for to an enterprise wide set of guidance Hess with a better understanding of 20 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report the human rights of all citizens wherever Human Rights Policy, offers employees 2014 Social Investment Spending we operate. Our strategy is to prevent guidance on integrating respect for by Country ($ Thousands) human rights related incidents by human rights into their daily work and engaging with stakeholders, including provides direction on how to report communities, to proactively address suspected human rights issues. All potential issues. The complex employees will be expected to take this 75% 3% environments in which we operate course once it launches. In addition, present an opportunity to make positive human rights content is included in our 19% and lasting contributions in the areas of mandatory Code of Conduct training, governance, transparency, respect for which all employees completed rule of law, and social and economic in 2014. U.S. $31,881 development. Equatorial Guinea $8,059 COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND Kurdistan Region of Iraq $1,134 All Others* $1,326 We have been working to more firmly CAPACITY BUILDING *Includes Algeria, Australia, Denmark, France, align our business practices with our For Hess, CSR is more than Ghana, Libya, Malaysia, St. Lucia, U.K. CSR Policy, Human Rights Policy and philanthropy and what we do with our Security and Human Rights Policy. For profits; it is about how we operate. Our 2014 Type of Investment example, before we begin exploration programs have evolved over time to ($ Thousands) activities in a new country, we analyze incorporate a broader understanding of 1% <1% 2% <1% <1% human rights issues with the what it means to invest in a community. understanding that these are clear Philanthropy is an element for 4% 4 % business risks that must be assessed developing communities and 13% and managed. This analysis is maintaining a social license to operate, integrated into the new country entry yet it is not sufficient in and of itself. To process to help inform our strategy and make a contribution to sustainable 80% approach. development, companies must excel in areas beyond charitable giving, such as In 2014 we continued to implement our local sourcing, capacity building and Education $33,752 Security and Human Rights Toolkit. We Community $5,367 workforce development, while also In-Kind $1,799 conducted one workshop in December minimizing the social and environmental Disaster Relief $664 2013 and a second workshop in October Health $576 impacts from operations. Environment $95 2014, targeted toward our Algeria asset Other $86 leadership team. We also developed a Arts & Culture $61 Our strategic social investments are Note: These charts include all social investments self-assessment questionnaire to designed to create shared value that in 2014, including those associated with joint support asset implementation of the improves the quality of life in local venture operations. Toolkit. We are continuing to expand use communities and helps create a of the Toolkit on an ongoing basis with favorable environment for our the goal of having workshops at every operations. We focus in particular on asset. education and heath, contributing to education improvement and work skill We also educate our employees on the development, which are fundamental to importance of respecting human rights. sustainable economic growth. We also We have developed an online training seek to identify opportunities in the module and documentation for all supply chain to provide lasting employees that explains human rights economic benefit through local job and why they are important to our creation. business. The course reviews our 21 COMMUN IT Y A N D S OC I A L P E R FOR M ANCE We have several different types of social sustain a system of quality education participated in Roads to Success investment programs; in general, these ($5 million) lessons; this curriculum is designed to include corporate-led, multi-year and integrate college and career planning We are receiving implementation multi-million-dollar flagship programs as into classroom lessons. In addition, assistance from FHI 360, a non-profit well as asset-based projects with more than 200 teachers, 300 human development organization whose moderate funding levels. In 2014 our administrators and 150 counselors and role is fiduciary as well as program social investments totaled $42.4 million, advisors received professional design, technical assistance in country, with $33.8 million going toward development, support and guidance. monitoring and evaluation. The program education projects. Another $6.6 million started in late 2014 and was able to Local Programs was earmarked for economic accomplish several key objectives. At At the local level, Hess assets and development, health and capacity the end of 2014, FHI 360 teamed up with Houston headquarters have focused building. the Ministry of Education to distribute a their social investments in the areas of Flagship Investments in complete suite of instructional materials education and community development. Education to 860 primary schools across the We currently have two flagship projects University of North Dakota country, benefiting some 33,000 Petroleum Engineering Program that are focused on helping to develop students. FHI 360 also trained the In 2010 the University of North Dakota secondary education systems and PRODEGE team within the Ministry of (UND) launched a $65 million capital capacity. Education to train teachers on how to campaign to expand the Petroleum PRODEGE II incorporate the materials into classroom Engineering Program, the only program Building on Hess’ PRODEGE project to instruction. of its type in the state. The program, develop the primary education system in started in 2010 with four students, Succeed 2020 Equatorial Guinea, PRODEGE II carries increased enrollment to 200 by 2013. Succeed 2020 is a five-year, $25 million the theme of quality education to the While Hess has supported various program to assist students in North junior secondary population. The programs at the university over the Dakota as they prepare for college, program, funded at $50 million over five years, we committed $5 million in 2014 careers and the workplace. The program years, has three broad goals: for infrastructure and other needs to has been carefully planned and support the school’s rapid growth. This • Support the Ministry of Education in implemented as a partnership with the level of funding complements our its efforts to consolidate the state of North Dakota and FHI 360. It existing engagements with academic successful outcomes of Phase 1 and supports college and career counseling institutions around recruiting and replicate them across all primary for students, professional development research, enhances our ability to hire schools nationwide and to strengthen for teachers, tutoring and online engineers locally, and assists UND in preschool education ($11.4 million) learning. Nominated by the Greater building institutional capacity that can North Dakota Chamber of Commerce, • Strengthen junior secondary help the school secure accreditation. Hess was recognized by North Dakota’s education through intensive teacher State Superintendent of Public Belmont College training and by introducing an active Instruction with the 2014 ACT College Beginning with the 2013/2014 school learning methodology that prepares and Career Readiness Award for this year, Hess has partnered with Belmont students for both higher education effort. During the 2013/2014 school year, College in Ohio and its foundation to and the workplace. Activities will more than 2,500 students from 66 award scholarship funding to incoming target students enrolled in school as school districts participated in eight and current students enrolled full or part well as young people who have left college and career fairs, and more than time in an associate degree or certificate school ($33.1 million) 3,000 students participated in science, program. The purpose is to provide technology, engineering and math funding to help students gain the highly • Build the capacity of the Ministry of activities. Thousands of students technical skills necessary to do well in Education to better manage and 22 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report the local economy, where increased oil English language learners and over age creation of affordable housing, facilities, and gas activity is resulting in an for their grade level. The first year went local businesses and jobs. Through Hess economic revival. Scholarship recipients well, with partners integrating their support, LISC’s Houston program was are selected by the Belmont College programs at the two schools and able to expand their team to conduct Scholarship Committee, in cooperation students leveraging opportunities financial and employment workshops in with the Office of Student Financial Aid. available to them. addition to launching their Occupational Special considerations are made to Skills Initiative program to strengthen non-traditional students who are Art and design were added to the math and literacy skills for job training displaced workers returning to college in second year of the program as part of a programs in health care. order to further their education and movement by school districts nationwide to augment the traditional primary LISC also conducted “Leading Together” regain employment. Key performance through secondary school science, leadership workshops to educate metrics for the Hess Corporation technology, engineering and math (STEM) community leaders on organizing Scholarship program include scholarship education. This addition helps students fundamentals, neighborhood affordability recipient demographics, completion understand STEM elements through and preservation, economic development rates, and job placement data (when customized applications and more and systematizing city advocacy. available), as well as data on the overall status of the energy programs at Belmont natural ways of learning. Tioga Fireﬁghter Training College. LISC Volunteer firefighters in Tioga, North Founded in 1979, LISC (Local Initiatives Dakota, benefited from extensive training LEAP In 2014, LEAP (Learn. Engage. Advance. Support Corporation) is the largest in 2014 thanks to a $22,000 Bakken Hess Persevere.) completed the first year of a community development support Force grant. Six volunteer firemen three-year pilot dropout prevention organization in the United States. attended the Texas A&M firefighting program for at-risk middle school LISC helps to sustainably transform school in College Station, Texas, in early students at two Houston, Texas, innerdistressed communities through local 2014. The training courses are similar to city schools. Five program partners, resident led community development real-life situations the firemen would including Hess, work collaboratively to organizations. It supports the encounter in both the community and in provide support to students who are development of local leaders and the the field. First Responder Training, Tioga Firehouse, North Dakota First Responder Training, Tioga Firehouse, North Dakota 23 SA FE T Y A N D H E A LTH Tubular Bells Platform, Gulf of Mexico 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2015 GOALS > Achieved a 23 percent > Closed all action items > Successfully conducted > Meet a workforce > Meet a High Potential > Achieve 95 percent improvement in identified in our 2013 a simulation of a major Total Recordable (HiPo) incident rate of implementation of workforce (employees process safety health offshore loss of Incident Rate target 0.32 or below safety observations plus contractors) Total checks by the targeted containment incident of 0.33 or below Recordable Incident deadline in the Gulf of Mexico Rate and a 14 percent – our most complex improvement in emergency drill ever workforce Lost Time Incident Rate compared to 2013 Safety is a top priority at Hess. Our PERSONAL SAFETY Full Workforce Safety Performance1,2 ultimate goal is zero incidents, and as We continued to make significant strides we work toward that goal we strive for in our safety performance in 2014. The 0.60 0.62 continuous improvement in key safety Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 0.54 0.52 metrics. Commitment to and for our full workforce (i.e., employees 0.39 accountability for personal and process and contractors together) was 0.40, safety begins at the highest levels of our 0.40 a 23 percent improvement from 2013. company, as performance against our Our full workforce Lost Time Incident 0.15 0.14 metrics is a component of our bonus Rate (LTIR) was 0.12, a 14 percent 0.11 formula for executives as well as all improvement from 2013. 2012 2013 employees. 0.17 0.14 Our contractor TRIR dropped 25 percent 0.12 in 2014 compared to 2013, while our PREVENTING DROPPED employee TRIR was flat year-to-year. We OBJECT INCIDENTS 2012 2013 2014 experienced no employee or contractor Cases per 200,000 Hours Our Hess Rules for employees and fatalities in 2014. Workforce TRIR contractors provide guidance for controlling Workforce LTIR seven activities (such as lifting and hoisting PROCESS SAFETY and working at heights) that are at high risk Our focus on process safety is to prevent 0.73 for fatalities. We also focus on activities such Employee and Contractor unintentional releases that could result in Safety Performance as dropped objects and equipment failure, a major incident such as a fire, explosion 0.60 and we are implementing programs and practices aimed at preventing such incidents. or toxic exposure. 0.71 In late 2014 we put a particular focus on 0.43 To manage process safety effectively at 0.60 preventing dropped objects, in part because of a perceived upward trend pertaining to Hess, we focus on: these types of incidents, including a major • Design integrity – reducing risks to as 0.24 0.45 incident involving a contractor. low as reasonably possible in the 0.14 0.13 design and construction of facilities To more effectively prevent such injuries 2012 0.20 2013 0.20 2014 from dropped objects, Hess senior • Technical integrity – inspecting, testing 0.14 management conducted visits in early 2015 and maintaining our hardware with our drilling contractors to discuss and assess their systems for preventing dropped • Operational integrity – working within 2012 2013 2014 objects. We have also worked with our Cases per 200,000 Hours operational design parameters contractors on their mitigation programs, Employee TRIR worked with site personnel so that they Contractor TRIR • Process safety leadership – minimizing understand and react appropriately to the likelihood of process safety events 1 Hess corporate and upstream workforce data, hazards, and have conducted routine which includes employees plus contractors inspections. through the effective management of together. process safety risks by our leaders 2 When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are We regularly review our contractors’ health across the organization used. A Lost Time Incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the and safety systems so that they align incident. We include occupational illness and with ours. occupation-related disease for current employees in our companywide safety totals. 25 SA FE T Y A N D H E A LTH Our process safety program has three and regional MOC procedures; this Tier 3 and 4 KPIs are primarily designed strategic elements: enhancing process standard sets minimum requirements for monitoring and review of risk control safety leadership; understanding and that they must all meet. This will systems/barriers at the facility, business identifying process safety vulnerabilities; improve MOC implementation by and enterprise level. Because these and educating key people across the aligning MOC expectations across the indicators are specific to particular organization in process safety awareness. enterprise. facilities or company systems, they are generally not suitable for company-toIn 2014 we significantly strengthened our • Process Safety Information (PSI) – This company benchmarking or year-on-year process safety systems enterprise wide. defines the minimum requirements for corporate performance reporting. First, we worked to address the documentation that must be approximately 400 action items maintained. It also requires that any The chart below shows our process identified in our 2013 process safety changes to PSI must go through the safety performance in 2013 and 2014, in “health checks.” A health check is an enterprise MOC process. terms of Tier 1 (greater consequence) internal, high-level assessment of the and Tier 2 (lesser consequence) process • Vehicle Entry – This defines process safety at our various production safety events. requirements to reduce the likelihood assets and drilling operations around the of a vehicle engine becoming an Data for 2012 were not included world. The on-time completion of the ignition source of a release at our because Hess and the industry were in action items was incorporated as a onshore production assets and drilling the process of understanding the new metric in our annual incentive plan operations. IOGP data collection methodology and formula for Hess employees. At year end working to improve the quality of the 2014, 65 percent of the action items had Also in 2014 we continued to conduct data. Although year end 2014 data is been addressed, and they all had been process safety awareness training, higher than 2013, a closer look at the closed by the deadline date. All health primarily among our drilling and cases that comprise this data has not check action items are on target for completions employees and contractors. revealed a statistically valid trend. closure by year end 2017. We have been collecting information on Process Safety Events Second, we convened a two-day, process safety key performance multi-functional process safety indicators (KPIs) per the International 2013 2014 alignment meeting to discuss process Association of Oil and Gas Producers’ Tier 1 PSEs 18 20 safety in depth. The meeting brought (IOGP) Process Safety – Recommended together 40 people from various Hess Tier 2 PSEs 48 49 Practice on Key Performance Indicators, business units and backgrounds with Report No. 456, November 2011. This Note: Tier 1/Tier 2 criteria and PSE events are based on deﬁnitions from the International Association of Oil the goals of ensuring that process safety recommended practice identifies leading and Gas Producers, Process Safety–Recommended was being addressed consistently and lagging KPIs that can be used to Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2011. across the enterprise, clarifying roles strengthen risk controls and barriers in and responsibilities, and identifying order to prevent major process safety The enterprise included on-time closure opportunities for improvement. The incidents. of environment, health and safety (EHS) gathering represented a step change in audit and health check action items our level of alignment, coordination and In May 2012 we began tracking process as a Tier 4 KPI that was included in the communication regarding process safety events (PSEs), which are the 2014 bonus calculation for all Hess safety management. result of a loss of primary containment employees. The Global Drilling and of any material, including non-toxics and Third, we developed three standards Completions organization began non-flammables. These are Tier 1 and that relate to process safety: tracking some specific drilling and Tier 2 lagging KPIs that can be reported completions Tier 3 and Tier 4 KPIs as at an enterprise level in both internal and • Enterprise Management of Change well in 2014. external reports. (MOC) – We have various functional 26 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report Response Project, the Oil Spill Prevention and Response Advisory Group and Clean Gulf Associates. We are also active members of the Oil Spill Response Joint Industry Project organized by IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues) and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers. The project is developing Good Practice Guides on 24 key aspects of oil spill preparedness and response. CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT At Hess, contractors now comprise over 80 percent of our workforce. As Safety Drill, Gulf of Mexico this proportion has increased in recent years, we have significantly EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS year, in addition to our regular, smaller strengthened our contractor AND RESPONSE scale emergency exercises and drills. management processes. While we always aim to prevent To complement our own capabilities, we As part of the procurement process, incidents, we are also prepared to partner with mutual aid and emergency EHS reviews are conducted for those swiftly respond to any emergency that response organizations at the local, contractors that are considered higher may arise – whatever its cause. regional and global levels. In 2014 we risk, due either to the number of Hess’ emergency preparedness and joined the Marine Preservation manhours they will work at Hess or the response procedures are designed to Association, which runs the Marine nature of that work, such as drilling and protect people from injury, the Spill Response Corporation. This completions or offshore work. As one environment from spills and other membership significantly enhances our part of the EHS review, we use incidents, our assets from damage and oil spill response capabilities in the Gulf recognized industry safety the company’s reputation from harm – in of Mexico. prequalification software for most major that order. Our Emergency Response areas of Hess operations. Elsewhere, we We belong to the Subsea Well Network is composed of incident use in-house processes such as Intervention Service, a program that response and mitigation personnel at supplier questionnaires. In the United provides well capping and dispersant the asset, regional and enterprise levels. States, potential contractors receive a equipment and oil spill dispersant that grade based on items such as insurance In July 2014 we conducted our most can be deployed internationally, and the and safety record. If potential complex emergency drill yet – the Wild Well Control Capping System, for contractors receive a low grade, the simulation of a major offshore loss of international deployment in the case of asset director (or above) must endorse a containment incident in the Gulf of source control situations. We subscribe safety action plan before the contractor Mexico. The day-long exercise involved to Impact Weather, which provides may be approved. The procurement all levels of our Emergency Response detailed reports on potential weather process will also typically include an Network as well as multiple contractors. threats. In addition, we partner with Oil on-location audit. New contractors take Going forward we hope to conduct an Spill Response Limited, Marine Well part in a four-step onboarding and exercise of this magnitude once each Containment Company, the Subsea Well engagement process. 27 SA FE T Y A N D H E A LTH LOCAL EFFORTS DECOMMISSIONING NG WORKFORCE W OR DEVELOPMENT CE DEV D ENT HE HEALTH AL EMERGENCY CY Hess has delivered exceptional safety In November 2014 Hess partnered with Belmont PLANNING P L AN performance during its decommissioning of wells College in Ohio to sponsor and facilitate a In 2014 we worked with our assets in Ghana and in the Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus fields in one-day oilfield emergency response training for Equatorial Guinea to develop plans and guidance the North Sea, off the U.K. coast. The project 250 local firefighters and emergency medical to address the Ebola epidemic, should the need involved taking the offshore oil rigs out of technicians. The training – which included 21 arise. Fortunately, no Ebola cases were service, removing all facilities and subsea sessions from which attendees could choose – ultimately reported in these countries. These structures and permanently closing off the wells. educated first responders on how to handle the guidance documents were part of a larger update This complex, seven-year process – which has unique challenges that may arise at a shale oil to our corporate pandemic planning program. required 6.5 million manhours to date – has asset. These skills are increasingly important as Our pandemic plans help us to maintain business achieved a Total Recordable Incident Rate of oil and gas exploration and production in the continuity by setting triggers and action steps in just 0.13 with only four Lost Time Incidents. Utica Shale continue to grow. the case of epidemics such as Ebola or, more commonly, influenza. HEALTH AND WELLNESS In early 2014 our Occupational Health In the second half of 2014 the Hess’ health and wellness strategy team met with Hess EHS professionals Occupational Health team partnered encompasses several elements of health from around the world to review these with EHS colleagues in Ohio and North management: elements and introduce a Health Gap Dakota to conduct industrial hygiene Assessment Tool. We began conducting surveillance on noise levels, benzene • Health risk assessment and planning health gap assessments in the second and silica dust exposure at hydraulic • Industrial hygiene and control of quarter, piloting the effort with the Gulf fracturing sites. workplace exposures of Mexico EHS team, followed by In addition, we deployed mobile medical Seminole (Texas) and China. Health gap • Medical emergency management surveillance of the Hess workforce at assessments enable our sites to identify • Management of health in the locations throughout North America in any gaps in their health and wellness workplace, fitness for task assessment 2014. This effort helps to ensure that our initiatives and set short and medium and health surveillance workforce is fit for duty and that we are term health management priorities. The complying with internal requirements • Health impact assessment initial assessments contained some and government regulations. It includes common themes and, in particular, • Health reporting and record hearing testing, respiratory fitness highlighted the need to focus further on management testing and occupational health related industrial hygiene monitoring and • Public health interface and promotion medical exams. We also conduct practices. This observation was of good health random drug and alcohol surveillance of validated by internal audit team findings. the workforce, with emphasis on our field locations, to further ensure health and safety at our operations. 28 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report SAFETY AT OUR DEEPWATER ASSETS Deepwater operations can present personal and process safety risks greater than those of land-based assets. While the drilling and production processes are in many ways similar, the wells tend to be much deeper and are under greater pressure. Accidental discharges can be more severe and harder to contain. Oil spill response is more complicated. And of course, the operations are conducted on self-contained, mobile offshore drilling units. At Hess, we have been managing these safety risks effectively. We currently have three deepwater assets (in more than 1,000 feet of water) in production: Baldpate and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico, and the Okume complex in Equatorial Guinea. Tubular Bells is our most recent; it commenced production in November 2014. Two other deepwater sites are in pre-production: a rig off the coast of Ghana has completed appraisal, and our Stampede project in the Gulf of Mexico has been sanctioned and should be in production by 2018. Like all oil and gas companies operating in U.S. waters, our deepwater operations in the Gulf of Mexico are subject to the U.S. federal government’s Safety and Environmental Management System (SEMS) regulations. The SEMS rules – which were first implemented in 2010 and then revised in 2011 – set forth a series of requirements operators must follow to help ensure workplace safety. In particular, SEMS mandates a systematic approach to identifying hazards and then managing or mitigating them effectively. It puts a strong emphasis on emergency preparedness and response, with mandatory weekly drills. We implement the SEMS requirements through our own EHS management system. Although our asset in Equatorial Guinea is not technically subject to SEMS, we manage safety at that location to the same high standards as in the Gulf of Mexico, using the Hess EHS management system. Tubular Bells,, Gulf of Mexico 29 O UR PE O PL E North Malay Basin Production Facility, Malaysia 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2015 GOALS > Continued to > Held leadership > Introduced a new > Progress initiatives in management, diversity implement programs workshops for different career and key programs, and inclusion, process to ease the transition levels of leadership performance including employee efficiency, reliability for employees affected within the organization, management system engagement, and data integrity by our corporate from early career onboarding, talent reorganization in 2013 supervisors through senior management Our success relies on a company By year end 2014, slightly less than half 2014 Turnover and New Hires culture and high quality workforce that of employees were located in Houston, Number of Employees innovates, leads and learns. The past Texas, and 21 percent of employees several years have been a time of were in international locations. significant change at Hess as we transformed into a focused oil and gas EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITION 882 In light of the significant headcount 882 131 84 exploration and production (E&P) 1189 290 284 reductions, the company developed and enterprise and exited our downstream implemented an enhanced severance 1,189 businesses. We also transitioned from a program to ensure that the transition functional to an asset-based was as smooth as possible for both the 29 organizational structure and divested 131 18 49 2 2 4 company and affected employees as 290 284 20 17 several E&P assets. 12 11 they reentered the job market. Africa Americas Asia-Paciﬁc Europe In 2014 we renewed our focus on key Hess’ Human Resources (HR) function Male Turnover Female Turnover human resources programs, including coordinated outreach to both individual Male New Hires Female New Hires talent management, learning and employees and groups about their development, diversity and inclusion potential severance packages and the and employee engagement, integrating impact of the transition on their benefits these processes with our adoption of 2014 Employees by Region going forward. This included individual lean principles and tools as described meetings with each affected employee, United States 2,392 79% earlier in the How We Operate section of group meetings with senior leadership this report. Asia-Paciﬁc 239 8% and HR, ongoing updates via emails, EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS and the creation of an internal Global Africa 222 7% We began 2014 with about 12,100 Transition webpage, which housed Europe 192 6% employees and ended the year with relevant severance and benefit approximately 3,045 employees. information. In addition, the company Divestitures of downstream businesses provided robust outplacement services and the consolidation of operations to support employees with their resume genetic information, disability, veteran drove this 75 percent reduction in preparation, interview skills and job status, or any other protected status in employee headcount during the year. search strategies as they launched their recruitment, hiring, compensation, The sale of Hess Retail Marketing new job searches. promotion, training, assignment of work, accounted for the majority of the performance evaluation and all other decrease. Reductions in headcount DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION aspects of employment. We also Hess is committed to diversity and consider more than 30 attributes of among corporate and E&P personnel, equal employment opportunities for all diversity, including elements such as primarily from the sale of the company’s employees and job candidates cultural and physical differences, Indonesia and Thailand businesses and regardless of race, color, gender, age, lifestyle, and diversity of background, the closure of our London office, sexual orientation, creed, national origin, experience and perspective. resulted in approximately 425 fewer employees during 2014. 31 O UR PE O PL E We do not tolerate any form of In keeping with our aim to foster also introduced to ensure the alignment workplace harassment, including sexual diversity and cultivate leadership, we of employee effort top-to-bottom in the harassment. We reinforce these employ a high number of local nationals organization. The committee continues expectations through our Code of in our international operations and to meet to discuss additional Conduct, our Equal Employment report publicly where the number is 100 opportunities for improving this system. Opportunity and Affirmative Action or more. The percentage of local Learning and Development policies and training (for U.S.-based nationals as well as the proportion of Hess offers leadership development managers), other Human Resources nationals holding managerial or through a suite of three programs. Each is policies (including the addition of professional positions, increased in tailored to meet the competency domestic partners in health and welfare Equatorial Guinea and Malaysia development needs of different levels of benefits coverage in 2014), and our compared to 2013. leadership within the organization, from Human Rights and Corporate Social early career supervisors through senior Responsibility Policies. TALENT MANAGEMENT leadership. Hess has used a comprehensive annual In 2014 Hess continued its diversity talent management process for several During 2014 we conducted sessions of all outreach efforts with organizations that years to help us understand and assess three programs globally, reaching advocate for minorities, women, our leadership and technical capabilities approximately 200 leaders within the veterans and the disabled, including and develop succession and hiring United States, Europe, Africa and Equal Opportunity Publications, the plans. In 2014 we leveraged our global Malaysia. National Business and Disabilities talent management process to assess Council, the National Association of Training in leadership continues to be talent and build succession plans in the Black Accountants, the National Society offered to all employees through our new asset-based organizational of Black Engineers, the National Action Learning Center, which provides access structure. Council for Minorities in Engineering, the to more than 1,000 virtual and instructor Society of Hispanic Professional CareerManager, the performance led courses on many topics, ranging from Engineers Foundation, the Women’s management system we launched technical to soft skills. Energy Network, the Society of Women globally in 2013, provides an integrated Engineers, the Association on Higher platform for Individual Development Key disciplines, such as Exploration, Education and Disability and the Plans (IDPs), goal setting and Developments, and Drilling and 100,000 Jobs Mission. We continue to performance evaluations. We utilized the Completions, have formed internal support additional membership-based new system in 2014 to encourage every communities of practice and sponsor organizations providing a diversity of employee to prepare an IDP, which is lunch and learns on technical topics to expression and thought. used to document actions and activities support ongoing professional to develop career plans and individual development. Employees also have Our proportion of women and U.S. ongoing opportunities for professional skills. Also in 2014, as a follow-on to minority employees as defined by the development through external previous work on the company’s Annual U.S. Department of Labor decreased engagements that include trade Incentive Plan, a cross functional from 2013. However, the proportion of associations, conferences and external committee convened to review the female new hires year-over-year courses. effectiveness of our current increased significantly, from 23 percent performance management system. The New Hires and Early Career to 32 percent of all new hires, and the committee’s recommendations included Programs proportion of U.S. minority new hires a change to the performance Hess has developed and implemented increased as well, from 23 percent to management calendar to ensure programs to accelerate the integration of 30 percent. performance objectives are documented new employees. A key focus of these in CareerManager earlier in the year. The programs is the development and concept of cascading objectives was 32 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report integration of early career technical The Hess Global Foundation Program enable the company to share hires as skilled older workers choose to prepares early career engineers and information and connect with employees retire. Employees new to Hess benefit geoscientists for challenging in a timely and meaningful way. from our onboarding and orientation assignments through accelerated In 2014 Hess’ chief executive officer program known as Passport to Hess. training, mentorship and on-the-job and chief operating officer launched The onboarding program facilitates close assignments. Our Global Supply Chain the Leadership Dialogues program, a interaction between supervisors and new function also offers enriched series of small group employee employees for the first 90 days at Hess, development opportunities for early engagement sessions. More than 40 to ensure a smooth assimilation into the career professionals. sessions were conducted in 2014, with company. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT separate sessions for new hires and Following our reorganization in 2013, we Hess utilizes various mechanisms to existing employees. The sessions with updated the Passport to Hess program engage employees, in order to be more new hires provided early exposure to to reflect our new portfolio and transparent about our business senior leadership in a discussion of the organizational structure. The program performance and processes and company’s culture, goals and history. now has an increased emphasis on our receiving employee input. These The session for existing employees vision, values and culture. We have also mechanisms range from one-on-one provided an opportunity to discuss increased leadership visibility for new discussions to small focus groups to organizational and business issues hires through a Leadership Dialogues global town hall meetings. They also directly with senior leadership. Themes program hosted by CEO John Hess and include feedback surveys and from the sessions were discussed and COO Greg Hill. communications infrastructure that turned into actions by the Executive Committee. Additional sessions may be conducted in 2015. 2014 National Employees National Managers/ A new annual incentive plan (AIP) was National Employees Professionals Country (percent of employees) (percent of managers and introduced in 2014. The AIP is an professionals) enterprise-first approach that rewards Denmark 87% 78% achievement and actions that drive the Equatorial Guinea 77% 46% performance of the enterprise ahead of business unit, function, asset and work Malaysia 74% 72% team. To ensure understanding and improve the overall transparency of our 2014 Women and Minority Representation pay programs, more than 40 interactive information sessions were held around Women Minorities (U.S. and International) (U.S.) the world by senior members of the AIP design team. Total Number Total Number Employees Percent Employees Percent Job Category of of in Job Women Women in Job Minorities Minorities As part of our social responsibility value, Category Category Executives Hess employees at various locations and Senior 64 9 14% 57 4 7% have formed committees that choose Ofﬁcers First and and support local efforts in areas such Mid-Level 833 165 20% 659 100 15% as education, social services, youth Managers sports and other endeavors. Support Professionals 1,424 475 33% 1,102 324 29% may include volunteering of time, Other 724 216 30% 554 150 27% small-scale funding and fundraising and Total 3,045 865 28% 2,372 578 24% in-kind donations. Note: There are 247 U.S. employees who are both minority and female. 33 C L IMAT E CHAN G E A N D E N E R GY Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2015 GOALS > Initiated a project to > Reduced absolute > Completed > Complete our strategy > Continue to expand > Reassess our Scope 3 refresh our climate greenhouse gas expansion of our refresh project North Dakota emissions inventory and energy strategy emissions (equity Tioga Gas Plant, gas gathering and material Scope 3 to align with our basis) by more than which significantly > Enhance discussion infrastructure in categories for reporting transition to an 4 million tonnes increased our of carbon asset risk 2015 and 2016 exploration and between 2008 and gas processing and methane leakage production (E&P) 2014 capacity in this year’s company sustainability report There is no easy solution to meeting the For years, Hess has viewed climate Hess is committed to help meet the long term global demand for energy change as a global challenge that will world’s growing energy needs in an while attempting to reduce our carbon require cooperation between a environmentally responsible manner by footprint. According to an International significant majority of world leaders and taking steps to monitor, measure and Energy Agency forecast, energy demand industry to develop comprehensive reduce our carbon footprint. We continue is expected to increase 37 percent by energy and climate solutions. to meet our goal of top quartile 2040. The United Nations performance in our sector for the quality Hess is an active member of IPIECA, an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate of our climate change disclosures. For international oil and gas industry Change recently confirmed that the risks the sixth consecutive year, Hess was association engaged in sustainable of climate change increase with included in the CDP S&P 500 Carbon development issues such as climate increasing temperature. Hess Disclosure Leadership Index, and for the change, biodiversity impacts and access acknowledges that rising greenhouse fifth consecutive year was also listed in to energy – issues that are too complex gas (GHG) emissions and global the 2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Index for individual companies to tackle alone. temperatures pose risks to society and (DJSI) North America. Our CDP IPIECA represents its members at the ecosystems that clearly warrant costresponses contain more detailed United Nations’ Conference of Parties effective policy responses that balance information on the company’s climate meetings, engaging with governments mitigation, adaptation and societal change related risks and opportunities. on climate related issues. priorities. See our CDP Climate Change response at hess.com/s/cdpclimatechange Interim Strategy and Progress Strategic Objective Status 2014 Status Update 2014 North Dakota wellhead ﬂaring increased to 28 percent; Reduce ﬂaring rate at the wellhead in North Dakota to 10 percent however, following completion of the Tioga Gas Plant by 2020 (North Dakota Industrial Commission regulatory expansion project (April–December 2014), wellhead ﬂaring requirement). averaged 21 percent. During our strategy refresh, we will revisit the current cost of Account for the cost of carbon in all signiﬁcant future investment carbon being incorporated into the project planning process decisions. as a sensitivity analysis for major new investments. Evaluate industry best practices to minimize emissions when We incorporate energy efﬁciency considerations into the designing production facilities. project planning process for major new investments. We collect and track monthly energy usage and spend data Implement select energy efﬁciency projects at an asset level. at the asset level. Select assets have initiated energy efﬁciency projects. Purchase at least 10 percent of annual electricity for company In 2014 we purchased 125,000 renewable energy certiﬁcates, operations from renewable sources. equivalent to 14 percent of our E&P net electricity usage. In 2014 we purchased 25,000 carbon credits, offsetting more Purchase carbon credits to offset greenhouse gas emissions from than 125 percent of the 19,800 tonnes of GHG emissions employee business travel on commercial aircraft and by rail. associated with 83 million miles of air and rail travel by company employees. In 2014 Hess was included in the CDP Leadership Index Meet top quartile performance in our sector for the quality of our for climate change disclosures and listed in the DJSI North environment, social and governance disclosures. America Index. Completed On target Behind schedule 35 C L IMAT E CHAN G E A N D E N E R GY CARBON ASSET RISK REPORT The purpose of this section is to discuss the economic growth and societal expectations. Over the past several years, the “stranded asset potential impact that future climate change concept” has received considerable attention. Meeting the long term growing global demand regulation may have on Hess’ financial market This movement suggests that endowments, for energy will require the use of all forms of valuation. Hess manages climate change risks, foundations and pension funds reevaluate energy. The International Energy Agency’s (IEA) along with many other business risks, through investments in fossil fuel companies. This New Policy scenario (base case) estimates that our enterprise risk management (ERM) process. concept downplays the growing demand for in 2040, global energy demand will be 37 All projects are rigorously screened to ensure fossil fuel resources in emerging markets, the percent higher than today with demand in that they meet or exceed established threshold categorization and timing of reserve development emerging market countries expected to increase return on investment criteria to balance risk and and how these reserves contribute to the market steadily. In this scenario, the IEA anticipates 74 return and meet Hess’ capital discipline capitalization of a company, as well as the percent of 2040 energy demand to be met by philosophy. We factor theoretical shadow carbon differing carbon intensities of coal, oil and gas. fossil fuels, down from 82 percent today. In dioxide (CO 2) prices into our economic evaluation Proponents of this concept cite the United 2040, coal, oil, natural gas and renewables each process for significant new projects. This Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate account for approximately 25 percent of energy enables us to evaluate project viability in the Change (IPCC) report, which states that the supply. Even in the IEA’s 450 Scenario, which is event of future carbon constraints. world will need to keep to a trillion tonne budget consistent with holding the long term global of carbon emissions, from the beginning of the As evidenced by recent reports, oil and gas temperature increase to 2 degrees Celsius (2 o C), industrial era to the year 2100, to maintain a companies will continue to play a significant role energy demand would increase by 17 percent in greater than 50 percent chance of limiting the in providing an affordable and reliable source of 2040, with fossil fuels accounting for maximum global atmospheric temperature rise to energy to help advance modern living standards, approximately 60 percent of energy supply. 2 o C. This would result in keeping two-thirds of recoverable fossil fuel resources trapped in the ground. This concept assumes that governments will unite now to enact climate change policies that will be implemented by 2020 in line with the 2 o C goal. This would require an abrupt and unlikely change in the global energy system, due to technical, economic and political factors. We expect climate policy and technological advances to develop at a more moderate pace and stringency. Given the IEA projection that fossil fuel demand is expected to remain robust in the foreseeable future, looking at reserves and how they contribute to the market capitalization of an oil and gas company is instructive. The stranded asset proponents assume a very broad definition of proved reserves and, therefore, misstate how fossil fuel reserves are valued and how they contribute to the market capitalization of an oil and gas company. According to IHS Energy’s Sept. 2014 report Deflating the Carbon Bubble, the intrinsic value of an oil and gas company is based primarily on its proved North Dakota Production Operations reserves, 90 percent of which are expected to be 36 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report monetized over the next 10 to 15 years. The 2014 Hess Proved Reserves ese es Securities and Exchange Commission defines by Resource Type* e* “proved reserves” as those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with 11% reasonable certainty to be economically 14% 39% producible – from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. 36% Conventional Stranded asset advocates use a much broader Unconventional definition of “reserves” that includes those Deepwater reserves with uncertain potential for Acid Gas development and commercialization. They argue * Deepwater and acid gas are conventional resources but they are shown separately here to provide more clarity on our reserve base. Deepwater refers to reserves found below 1,000 that extractive companies will be left with feet of water depth. Acid gas refers to conventional reserves with acid components that require additional treatment prior to sale. stranded assets and reserves over the next 30–40 years, thus undercutting current valuations. Using this broad definition of a 2014 20014 4H Hess e Proved Reserves by Region* gion o * company’s reserves inflates the perception of a company’s near-term carbon asset risk. According to IHS Energy, while proved reserves on average account for only 24 percent of the resource base by volume, they account for 81 51% percent of the resource base that drives a company’s total valuation. Reserves that are expected to be produced beyond a 15 year time horizon have limited impact on a company’s valuation due to discounted cash flows. The stranded asset concept also assumes that coal, oil and gas are equally vulnerable to climate policies restricting fossil fuels, without considering the differences in carbon intensities. Coal is the most carbon intensive * Proved reserves consist of 78 percent liquids (light and medium crude oils, fossil fuel, with a significantly larger carbon condensate and natural gas liquids) and 22 percent natural gas. footprint than natural gas. Combined cycle natural gas turbines generate around half the Natural gas, the least carbon intensive fossil Hess will continue to do its part to help provide greenhouse gas emissions of coal-fired power fuel, will benefit from coal to gas switching as reliable, affordable energy to meet growing plants, on a life cycle basis. Coal is used countries seek to reduce GHG emissions. Oil, demand, while endeavoring to take actions to primarily for power generation, for which there which is used primarily as a transport fuel, has reduce its carbon footprint through investments are alternative energy sources: renewables, few cost-competitive substitutes. There is also in energy efficiency, flaring reductions, fuel nuclear and hydroelectric, which have minimal limited indication of a significant change in the switching and new and emerging technologies. GHG emissions impacts. As a result, coal is the current transportation infrastructure that would most likely fossil fuel to experience demand lead to a transition away from oil to alternative degradation in a carbon constrained economy. transport fuels. 37 C L IMAT E CHAN G E A N D E N E R GY 2014 Operated Greenhouse Gas GREENHOUSE GAS Our major sources of emissions from Emissions by Source (Scope 1 and Scope 2) PERFORMANCE non-operated oil and gas assets in 2014 Thousand Tonnes CO2e We report GHG emissions from our oil included the Malaysia/Thailand Joint 3% 12% and gas assets on an operated and net Development Area (MTJDA) and equity basis. The majority of our direct SonaHess (Algeria) joint ventures. Total (Scope 1) emissions are associated with emissions from these assets accounted 31% fuel combustion and flaring. We report for approximately 1.8 million tonnes of 54% indirect emissions associated with our net equity emissions. purchased electricity (Scope 2) and In 2014 major sources of emissions from Flaring 2,959 other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. Fuel Combustion 1,706 operated assets included those from our Indirect 640 Other 161 Starting in 2014, Hess is using Global Equatorial Guinea and North Dakota Warming Potentials (GWPs) based on assets and the Seminole and Tioga Gas Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions Million Tonnes CO2e the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report Processing Plants, which altogether 6 Values: Climate Change 2007 (AR-4). accounted for 3.4 million tonnes of net 0.76 5 0.64 This is consistent with recent changes in equity emissions. All of our other 0.75 4 U.S. regulatory programs and operated and non-operated assets international acceptance of the AR-4 made up the balance of net equity 3 values. GHG data from prior years have emissions of 0.8 million tonnes. The 2 not been restated because the impact primary reason for the 0.6 million tonne 1 on GHG emissions was not material decrease in emissions year-over-year is 4.97 4.40 4.83 0 (about 1 percent). related to asset sales. 2012 2013 2014 Scope 1 Emissions Operated Emissions Between 2008 (our baseline year) and Scope 2 Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 2014, we have reduced net equity GHG Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions In 2014, of the 5.5 million tonnes of emissions from oil and gas operations Million Tonnes CO2e gross GHG emissions from our operated by 4.8 million tonnes of absolute 12 10.8 oil and gas assets, 4.8 million tonnes emissions or over 40 percent, primarily were Scope 1 emissions, primarily from through a combination of improved 10 9.5 flaring and fuel combustion, and slightly operating processes, selective asset 9.1 9.0 over 0.6 million tonnes were Scope 2 sales and shutting down refinery 8.0 emissions (gross) from purchased operations. If our 2008 baseline were 8 electricity. The increase in emissions restated for all collective asset sales, 6.5 over 2013 was primarily related to our GHG emissions reduction between 6.0 6 one-time additional flaring during the 2008 and 2014 would be 3.7 million shutdown and re-start of the Tioga Gas tonnes instead of 4.8 million tonnes. 4 Plant during its expansion. Process operations (primarily fuel combustion), Scope 3 Emissions flaring and indirect emissions Our largest source of Scope 3 emissions 2 (purchased electricity) accounted for 31 is customer and consumer use of sold percent, 54 percent and 12 percent of products. Our methodology for GHG emissions, respectively. calculating product use emissions 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 addresses the refined petroleum Hess E&P Net Equity Emissions products that we sell, as well as the Other Non-operated E&P HOVENSA JV (Scope 1 and 2) natural gas that we produce and sell for MTJDA Block A-18 Since 2007 Hess has also tracked GHG Samara-Nafta third party consumption. Due to SonaHess JV emissions from our operated and downstream divestitures, use of sold Hess Marketing and Reﬁning/Other non-operated oil and gas assets based on our equity interest. 38 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report products emissions have declined from purchased these credits from The 2014 Net Equity Emissions by Country 47 million tonnes in 2008 to 11 million Climate Trust. In 2014, combined Thousand Tonnes CO2e tonnes in 2014, or by about 77 percent. emissions from employee business 100 travel via commercial air carrier and rail In 2013 we evaluated the materiality and 90 40% was about 19,800 tonnes. We offset 125 80 relevance of each of the 15 categories percent of these emissions through the 70 included in the Corporate Value Chain 26% purchase of 25,000 carbon credits. 60 (Scope 3) Standard. We joined the CDP 50 Supplier Initiative for that year to improve EMISSIONS REDUCTION 40 24% 30 our understanding of third party GHG INITIATIVES 4% 20 2% emissions associated with purchased We track and monitor changes in air 10 2% goods and services and transportation, emissions at each of our assets. We 0 1% and disclosed information on all 15 then examine opportunities at our U.S. 2,412 Scope 3 categories in our CDP Climate largest emitting facilities, where it is Malaysia 1,555 Change disclosure. As a result of this technically and economically feasible Equatorial Guinea 1,428 Algeria 240 exercise, we eliminated nine categories within their operating rhythm to Other countries* 149 that were not relevant. potentially reduce GHG emissions. Denmark 137 Thailand 68 In 2014 we recalculated emissions from Flaring *Other countries include China, Ghana, Libya, Norway, the U.K. and the U.S. Virgin Islands. six Scope 3 categories based on In 2014 our gas flaring from operated available data for the full calendar year assets increased to 36,000 million North Dakota Flaring Rates for E&P and for the nine months that standard cubic feet (MMSCF), primarily at the Wellhead Hess operated the Retail Marketing due to temporary circumstances in Percent of Natural Gas Production business before divesting. These Equatorial Guinea and North Dakota. 40% categories, in order of magnitude of 35% In Equatorial Guinea, gas produced that 30% emissions, were Use of Sold Products, 25% is not used for running our operations or 20% Purchased Goods and Services (refined 15% being stored in the formation for future petroleum products for resale), 10% use is currently being flared. In the third 5% Processing of Sold Products (natural 0% quarter of 2013, we brought a new oil 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 gas), Waste, Fuel and Energy Related well online with an unusually high Services and Business Travel. Hess Industry associated gas content, which resulted Post-TGP Start-up Hess has also been a participant in in increased flaring in 2014. However, Flaring rates for conventional and unconventional wells. IPIECA’s Scope 3 Task Force, which has with the maturation of this Ceiba oil field, Source: North Dakota Industrial Commission, Department been developing sector-specific flaring thus far in 2015 has been of Mineral Resources Oil and Gas Division. guidance. With the completion of our considerably lower. transformation to a pure play E&P Several years ago, our expansion by 2014 Scope 3 Emissons company and the expected finalization Million Tonnes CO2e acquisitions in the Bakken formation of the IPIECA Scope 3 guidance by the included acreage in remote areas, where Use of Sold Products 11.5 end of 2015, we plan to revisit our gas gathering infrastructure was not in Purchased Goods and Services 2.9 evaluation of relevant and material place. This resulted in a significant Scope 3 categories based on our new Other* 0.5 increase in our flaring rates in North company profile. * Includes the following Scope 3 categories as set forth in the GreenDakota. To capture and monetize natural house Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard: Fuel-and-energy-related activities, waste generated in operations, We have purchased carbon credits gas from our wells and minimize flaring, employee business travel and processing of sold products. annually since 2010 to offset at least 100 we are investing more than $1.5 billion in percent of business travel emissions. infrastructure in North Dakota. In March For the past three years we have 2014 we completed the expansion of the 39 C L IMAT E CHAN G E A N D E N E R GY Tioga Gas Plant, one of our major percent in 2015 and 85 percent in expanded to include a 500 thousand infrastructure projects. This expansion January 2016. cubic feet per day (MSCFD) built-formore than doubled the plant’s capacity purpose unit. When operating at full from 100 million to 250 million standard Natural Gas Capture capacity, the 500 MSCFD unit is designed In addition to addressing our long term cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) and to average four to five gallons of NGL per flaring, in the nearer term we are also increased the liquids processing capacity MSCF processed and result in emission mitigating flaring by exploring ways to almost tenfold, from 260,000 to 2.5 reductions of 30 percent for nitrogen capture gas at the wellhead for use in our million gallons per day. oxides and carbon monoxide, 64 percent drilling operations and for conversion to for volatile organic compounds and 42 Hess has played a key role in the natural gas liquids. percent for carbon dioxide. The NGL formation of the North Dakota Petroleum Bi-Fuel Rigs and Boiler capture units are deployed throughout the Council’s (NDPC) Flaring Task Force and Conversions Hess Bakken acreage where field flaring the initial recommendations from the In 2013 we launched a bi-fuel installation is occurring. More than 3 million gallons Task Force that helped shape North project by retrofitting diesel engines to of NGL were captured in 2014, resulting in Dakota Industrial Commission (NDIC) gas/diesel engines on seven of the 14 more than 150 MMSCF of gas that was Order #24665. NDIC Order #24665 drilling rigs operating for Hess in the not flared. Wellhead gas capture was mandates operators to capture 77 Bakken. This engine retrofit captures and expanded in 2014 as we ordered 14 percent of produced gas in 2015, uses natural gas at the wellhead, which additional built-for-purpose units, and we increasing to 85 percent in January 2016 reduces fuel costs from fewer diesel will be at full contracted capacity of and increasing again to 90 percent in delivery truck trips and lowers air 10,000 MSCFD in the second quarter of October 2020. No further targets have emissions from the cleaner burn of 2015. For the last half of 2015 we been established. Expansion of our gas natural gas compared to diesel. As part anticipate 90 percent utilization, which will gathering infrastructure, including the of this project, nine boilers were also capture over a million gallons of NGLs per addition of compression lines and low converted to operate exclusively on month, equivalent to a 3,000 tonne per and high pressure gathering lines, was a natural gas during winter operations. month reduction in CO2e. top priority in 2014 and continues into 2015 and 2016. These infrastructure In 2014 this project saved 520,945 Power Generation projects leave Hess well positioned to gallons of diesel fuel and resulted in 65 Power generation utilizing Bakken gas achieve each of North Dakota’s stated fewer truck deliveries. Hess is also was also pursued in 2014 with the first capture targets. With a regulation now in exploring ways to capture gas at the working project in place in the first place and given current oil economics, wellhead and convert it to compressed quarter of 2015. This pilot project we plan to meet this requirement in lieu natural gas or liquefied natural gas, involved replacing diesel power of our 2017 projection. Through our which would allow us to utilize it generation with gas and was involvement with the NDPC, Hess throughout our North Dakota operations. implemented at a stranded site that is continues to be actively engaged in utilizing eight 170 kilowatt generators. As ongoing discussions around flaring Natural Gas Liquids a result of the project, the site is now concerns in North Dakota. In 2013 we began a wellhead gas using 200 MSCF of gas to directly power capturing project in North Dakota that all of its electrical needs. A review of all Flaring at the wellhead in North Dakota uses a mobile system to recover highremote power generation is currently increased from 27 percent of associated BTU gas from locations that are flaring underway. gas production in 2013 to 28 percent in and produce natural gas liquids (NGL) 2014, as a result of the shutdown of the and treated lower-BTU gas. This project Transportation Tioga Gas Plant to complete the provides dual economic and In 2013 in North Dakota we began using expansion project. However, post environmental benefits by converting gas flexible hose for freshwater transport shutdown, between April and December into marketable products, which reduces instead of trucks. This type of hose 2014, flaring at the wellhead averaged 21 the amount of gas flared and the collapses flat when not in use, like a fire percent. We are currently on target to associated air emissions. The project hose, and can be used to pipe water meet the established capture rates of 77 began with two prototype units and soon directly from the water source to our 40 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report wells. The 600-foot sections of hose can The 16 percent increase in electricity 2014 Energy Use by Country Thousand Gigajoules be connected to lengths of several miles. usage in 2014 is primarily attributable to We conducted our first pilot in September the use of new electric turbines to power 3% 2% 2013 with four well pads and have now the Tioga Gas Plant expansion project. expanded its use to 20 percent of our While electricity consumption is 7% wells. Use of these flat hoses eliminates increasing, the expanded gas plant is 14% the need for trucks to haul water, resulting capable of processing significantly more in less noise and lower GHG emissions, natural gas (previously flared), which is transportation costs and risk of vehicle being captured and transported to the 75% accidents. In 2014 our North Dakota frac gas plant for processing. team piped 43 percent of the water used for fracturing, exceeding its 25 percent U.S. 25,749 2014 Purchased Electricity by Equatorial Guinea 4,701 target. Approximately 4.5 million barrels Primary Energy Source Denmark 2,385 of water were piped, removing Thousand Malayasia 932 Energy Source Percentage MWh Other 660 approximately 41,174 truckloads from the Coal 480 56% road. The frac team developed operating Natural Gas 212 24% 2014 Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source procedures for cold weather operations, Thousand Gigajoules and, with the cooperation of vendors, Wind 101 12% piping was successfully utilized Nuclear 36 4% throughout the cold weather months. 22% Conventional Hydroelectric 22 3% See our CDP Climate Change response at Biomass, Solar, hess.com/s/cdpclimatechange Other Renewables 14 2% * Approximate ﬁgures based on U.S. Energy Information Administration 2013 state electricity generation proﬁles. 78% ENERGY USE Energy management is an integral part In 2014 our U.S. operations accounted of Hess’ lean approach because it for essentially all (approximately 865,000 Natural Gas 20,198 makes economic sense and reduces Diesel 5,631 megawatt hours) of our purchased greenhouse gas emissions. electricity. Based on U.S. electricity Our operations make and purchase generation profiles, we estimate that Energy Use approximately 14 percent of this Thousand Gigajoules energy primarily for power, processing, electricity was generated from renewable 40,000 heating and cooling. In 2014 energy consumption from Hess E&P operated sources, primarily wind power. An 6,913 8,597 7,429 assets was approximately 34 million element of our climate strategy is to use 30,000 gigajoules, essentially flat compared to more renewable energy through the our 2013 energy use. Seventy-five purchase of renewable energy 20,000 percent of our energy use was generated certificates (RECs) equivalent to at least directly by our operations, primarily at 10 percent of net electricity used in our 10,000 our Seminole and Tioga Gas Processing operations. In 2014 we purchased 28,074 26,421 25,829 Plants, at our production facilities in 125,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs 0 2012 2013 2014 North Dakota, South Arne and Equatorial for wind power, equivalent to 125,000 Guinea and from our Global Drilling megawatt hours or about 12 percent of Direct Indirect Operation. The remaining 25 percent was our purchased electricity from E&P gross indirect energy (including energy operated assets. Overall, approximately burned by utilities to provide net 26 percent of our indirect energy use was purchased electricity) purchased for our from renewables. North Dakota and Permian basin operations and gas processing plants. 41 CL IMAT E CHA N G E A N D E N E R GY IMPROVING OUR UNDERSTANDING OF METHANE EMISSIONS Methane emissions come from a range of emissions and trends in the United States. The associated with the natural gas industry’s sources and sectors of the economy that are study indicated that methane emissions gathering infrastructure and processing plants. unevenly dispersed across the landscape. decreased by almost 11 percent between 1990 This study is one of 16 studies sponsored by Methane is emitted by natural sources as well and 2012. Methane emissions from agricultural EDF and its industry partners to quantify natural as by human activities, such as from natural gas activities were found to have increased, but gas emissions across the value chain. The CSU systems and agriculture. The cleaner burning emissions from sources associated with the study, which was published in February 2015 in characteristics of natural gas will enable it to exploration and production of natural gas Environmental Science & Technology, is the play a critical role in the nation’s diverse energy decreased. During this same time period, largest and most comprehensive field study to future. The issue of fugitive emissions of natural gas production increased 40 percent. date for the oil gathering and processing sector. methane during natural gas production has Despite these decreasing methane emissions In this study, researchers found wide variations received attention as shale energy production in trends, our industry and Hess specifically are in the amount of methane being emitted at the United States has resulted in an increasing investing in efforts to improve methane data various sites – especially in the gathering supply of abundant, low cost natural gas. While collection and measurement, to improve our sector. The study found that less than 1 percent technology has made it possible for the industry understanding of methane sources and trends of the methane that passed through natural gas to produce more natural gas, questions related and to enable more effective management of gathering and processing facilities in the United to attribution and measurement have led to opportunities to reduce methane emissions. States leaks. It also revealed that roughly uncertainties in estimates of current and one-third of gathering facilities account for 80 projected methane emissions. Hess, together with a number of other percent of methane emissions. The study went companies, has collaborated with Colorado on to say that variations among similar facilities In 2014, the U.S. Environmental Protection State University (CSU) and the Environmental were being driven by differences in inlet and Agency (EPA) released an analysis of methane Defense Fund (EDF) to study methane emissions outlet pressure and abnormal process conditions. The research team is using the measurement data to develop an estimate of total methane emissions from all gathering and processing facilities in the country. Those results are expected to be published later in 2015. Hess is also collaborating with six other oil and gas companies, EDF and the Southwestern Research Institute in the Methane Sensor Challenge. This challenges technology developers and engineers to develop low cost methane monitors that can help the oil and gas industry better detect, and ultimately reduce, methane emissions. In January 2015 the Obama Administration announced plans to cut methane emissions from oil and gas operations by 45 percent by 2025 from 2012 levels. While we view this goal as ambitious, the Administration is focused first on regulation of new and modified sources of emissions and has deferred direct regulation of existing sources of methane emissions in hopes Gas Plant, Seminole, Texas that voluntary initiatives such as ONE Future, 42 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report which is described below, will minimize the our approach to reducing methane emissions Methane Leakage Rates Across the e need for regulatory action to control existing is focused on identifying and addressing the sources. most cost-effective emissions sources. To Percentage Gross Natural Gas Production resolve potential conflicts, ONE Future has Hess is a founding member of the ONE Future commissioned independent technical studies Distribution & Retail Exploration & Production Coalition, which was established in late 2014. by leading researchers in the field that will ONE Future is a coalition of companies from determine specific emission reduction targets 0.42% across the natural gas industry focused on 0.26% for each sector in order to achieve the overall identifying policy and technical solutions that goal of an industry-wide average target of 1 yield continuous improvement in the percent or less of gross production. management of methane emissions associated with the production, processing, With improvements in measurement 0.44% 0.19% transportation and distribution of natural gas. methodology and strategies to reduce ONE Future offers a performance-based, methane emissions that will likely result from Gathering & Production flexible approach to managing methane studies like the CSU study, we are confident Transmission & Storage emissions that is expected to yield significant that we can gain a better understanding of the reductions in emissions. The goal is to methane issue. The company commits to work * of 1.31% overall average methane leakage rate voluntarily lower methane emissions to less toward setting reasonable methane reduction than 1 percent of gross natural gas production targets over the next one to three year period, across the value chain. ONE Future’s approach working in collaboration with the ONE Future will be for each of the four industry sectors to coalition. aim for reduction targets proportional to their share of total emissions. As shown at right, For the past 18 years, Hess has been a emissions across the full natural gas value partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas Star program. chain are averaging 1.31 percent, according to This program created a partnership between Other the EPA’s established methodology. the EPA and industry to identify and share Flare Reduction 4.2% best practices that yield reduced methane 5.0% Installation of Vapor Recovery Units ONE Future, through the use of an external emissions. Since joining the Natural Gas Star Installation of Catalytic Converters consultant, will review current methane Program in 1997, Hess has achieved 28.4% emissions factors, in light of the recent EDF cumulative methane emission reductions of 117.8% % coordinated research studies, to determine 1.6 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent whether those methodologies are (3,325,333 MCF). These results have been representative and include all major sources. achieved through employing the Natural Gas 18.4% This will allow ONE Future to establish and Star methane reduction technologies and 26.2% agree on an emissions protocol with the EPA. practices shown in the pie chart at the right. Installation of Installation of Electric After a baseline is established, ONE Future Flash Tank Compressors will set sector targets for proportional The EPA is currently developing the next Separators on Glycol Dehydrators reductions beyond current emissions rates. generation of Natural Gas Star through a Consideration will also be given to the safety, program called Enhanced Natural Gas Star, * of 1.6 million tonnes of CO2e emission reductions practicality and cost effectiveness of potential which Hess is helping to shape through ONE reductions and, if appropriate, they may place Future and the American Petroleum Institute. increased emphasis on specific processes and While all of this collaborative activity is sectors. Each of ONE Future’s member going on, Hess is continually looking for companies seeks to provide maximum value opportunities to reduce our methane footprint. to the consumer, and it is for that reason that 43 ENV IR O N ME N T Utica Drilling Operations 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2015 GOALS > Conducted study to > Continued progress > Continue initiatives to > Utilize Environmentally > Conduct hydrogeological evaluate water on environmental reduce environmental Friendly Drilling study to assess efficiency options at and social impact impacts of shale scorecard to assess capacity of Ogallala Seminole Gas Plant assessments at energy development drilling performance Aquifer to better several of our assets in North Dakota understand long term availability and yield We consider responsible management of year-over-year, due to growth in our shale Freshwater Use our environmental footprint to be an operations in Ohio and North Dakota. Million Cubic Meters important component of our operational Our Seminole Gas Processing (SGP) plant 12 excellence. We dedicate significant staff in West Texas remains our biggest single 10 0.89 and resources to ensuring compliance 0.07 0.45 water user, accounting for 66 percent of with environmental laws and regulations, 8 2.0 1.5 2.2 our usage in 2014. The SGP plant uses international standards and our voluntary 6 water primarily for process cooling and 6.5 6.3 6.2 commitments. 4 sources it from a Hess owned and 2 We have several key performance operated groundwater well field that metrics that we track at the asset and withdraws from the Ogallala Aquifer. 0 2012 2013 2014 enterprise levels, and performance on The SGP plant is located in a region Surface Water these metrics is included in the employee Municipal Water where baseline water stress is bonus formula. Our assets have spill Groundwater categorized as “high risk,” based on preparedness and response plans and evaluations we have conducted using the 2014 Freshwater Use by conduct emergency response exercises. World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Business and Facility Through these efforts, we continuously Thousand Cubic Meters water risk mapping tool. Water demand strive to reduce the amount of water and in the region is driven primarily by 3% 2% energy we use, limit our emissions to air, agricultural uses, and Hess’ consumption and prevent spills and other unplanned is a small fraction of that use. According 11% releases. to Texas Water Development Board data, WATER our withdrawals from the aquifer 18% At Hess, we recognize public concern represent only 0.1 percent of estimated 66% about our industry’s use of water, and we annual water demand. are committed to using water wisely in We have been working for several years our operations. We understand the Seminole Gas Plant 6,078 to find ways to reduce our water use at importance of a risk-based approach to North Dakota 1,688 the SGP plant. The facility recirculates Ohio 1,000 water management, which means Tioga Gas Plant 271 water in its cooling towers between three International 192 considering the entire water lifecycle – to five cycles, and to prevent buildup of from sourcing to use to disposal. We solids in the circulating water, a portion is closely monitor our water use and are removed as “blowdown.” This blowdown always looking for ways to reduce our water, which totaled 939,000 cubic water footprint. We also work hard to meters in 2014, is reused in our Permian safeguard underground drinking water production operations to maintain aquifers in the areas near our wells, as reservoir pressure. discussed in the Shale Energy section of this report. In 2014 a consultant completed a feasibility study of water efficiency Our total exploration and production options for the SGP plant. The study water use increased by 11 percent (continued on page 49) 45 ENV IR O N ME N T SHALE ENERGY In recent years Hess has made significant operate,” as discussed in the Community and environmental commitment, we aim to reduce investments in unconventional oil and gas plays Social Performance section. our freshwater use. – first in the Bakken formation in North Dakota, Protection of Water Quality Hydraulic fracturing accounted for about 28 the premier tight oil play in the United States, To help ensure that water resources are percent of Hess’ total freshwater consumption in and more recently in the Utica formation in Ohio, protected, we make groundwater and surface 2014, with North Dakota at 18 percent and an emerging shale gas play. In both plays we water monitoring a priority. In Ohio we determine Ohio at 10 percent. extract hydrocarbons from tight rock formations baseline groundwater and surface water using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing. No flowback water was reused, due to high conditions at sites prior to drilling. We also The oil and gas from these two plays constitute salinity in North Dakota and limited quantities perform post-drilling assessment and, depending about 30 percent of Hess’ total production. in Ohio. on risk, we annually sample wells and surface We recognize that the public has voiced concerns water at select assets. In North Dakota, the state In early 2015 we analyzed our full-year 2014 about the potential effects of shale energy operates a regional network of groundwater water use in the Bakken compared to 12 major operations on the environment, public health and quality monitoring wells. We sample surface peers in the region. Using publicly available data safety. At Hess, we aim to develop our resources water where requested by landowners and when reported to state regulatory authorities, we found responsibly and with minimal impacts. To do this, the surface water body is close to our activities that Hess used 46,000 barrels of water per well we employ multidisciplinary risk management and test the water to assess its suitability for fractured, which was significantly less than our processes in our planning and decision making. hydraulic fracturing. peers. Our enterprise risk management process, Groundwater resources are protected by sensible In recent years we have tested several discussed in the How We Operate section, onsite operating practices, including the alternatives to fresh water – including nonincludes activity aspect identification and development of plans to prevent spills of potable water sources such as treated domestic technical review as well as value assurance chemicals used in well construction and wastewater, saline water and frac fluid flowback activities. completion. We employ closed-loop fluid – to assess their suitability for hydraulic All of our assets also undergo several stages of containment systems for drilling fluids at our fracturing. In North Dakota, we do use small detailed, activity-based risk assessment during North Dakota and Ohio shale energy drilling quantities of non-potable, underground water the capture, appraisal, development and sites. Frac fluid flowback is stored in closed top (from the Beaver Lodge Devonian Unit formation) production phases. These multidisciplinary risk tanks with secondary containment. These for workover and drilling operations. In Ohio, in assessments help us identify mitigation practices prevent potential surface water and early 2015 we successfully piloted the use of measures we can pursue to ensure protection of groundwater impacts. In addition, the practices produced water for pump down operations in one the environment, protection of the communities allow for the recycling of drilling materials and well, and the use of produced water for in which we operate, and the safety of our reduce the volume of waste that needs disposing additional wells is planned. Though several combined contractor and employee workforce. onsite in lined impoundments or transported projects have shown promise, most have not offsite for disposal at regulated facilities. proven economically feasible to date. We also have a multi-year internal audit plan in place that ensures we perform Environment, Water Use Well Integrity Health and Safety (EHS) audits of our assets A recent study showed that, on average, Whether for conventional or unconventional regularly. Our North Dakota and Ohio assets hydraulic fracturing uses less water than resources production, the key to protecting were audited in 2013, and our Tioga Gas Plant conventional drilling to retrieve the same amount underground water resources is well integrity – was audited in 2014. Going forward, we will be of oil or gas.1 That said, fracturing does require that is, ensuring strong and impermeable conducting focused EHS audits at our significant amounts of fresh, locally sourced physical barriers between our wellbores and the unconventional assets on an annual basis. water, and that water is sent deep underground surrounding rock and underground aquifers. Furthermore, we continue to identify and address and thus removed from the Earth’s water cycle. stakeholder concerns to improve our We understand the importance of managing this While the well completion and hydraulic performance and enhance our “license to precious resource responsibly, and as part of our fracturing processes occur miles below the Earth’s surface, our wellbores pass through 1. Comparison of Water Use for Hydraulic Fracturing for Unconventional Oil and Gas versus Conventional Oil. B. R. Scanlon, R. C. Reedy, and J.-P. Nicot. Environmental Science & Technology 2014 48 (20), 12386-12393. DOI: 10.1021/es502506v 46 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report Note: Bakken example. Drawing is not to scale and numbers are approximate. groundwater at shallower depths during drilling • A “surface casing” is installed from the • Due to potential fracture stimulation and well construction. Therefore before surface to below the lowest known interference (i.e., stimulating one well and designing or constructing any well, we freshwater zone and then cemented in that observing increased pressure on nearby investigate the depth and lateral extent of any interval from the deepest point to the surface producing wells), nearby oil and gas wells are underground fresh water to ensure that we around the casing, thereby creating a shut-in during fracturing activity (based on protect that water and conform to regulatory physical barrier between the materials in the distance from the well being stimulated), and requirements and internal standards. well and the strata containing the wellhead systems are tested for integrity prior groundwater being protected. to any activity. In the U.S. we are typically required by state agencies to design casing and cementing plans • Inside • Inside surface thethe casing, surface casing,a second a second • During hydraulic fracturing, procedures are in that will isolate any underground fresh water “intermediate” casing is installed “intermediate” casing is installed and and place to operate surface and downhole from the contents of the wellbore. We submit this cemented in place. cemented in place. equipment within their design ratings. information in applications for well construction • An acoustic cement bond log is selectively • Monitoring of microseismic events is permits, which must be reviewed and approved employed to ensure the cement barrier is in conducted in real-time, for two purposes: by regulators. Even in locations where such place, which prevents fluid migration. • to monitor the growth, i.e., the orientation permitting processes are not in place, we use and dimensions of induced hydraulic prudent industry well construction standards, as • The well completion is performed through a fractures, which are created during the described below. Well completion designs can third casing (Ohio) or liner (North Dakota) completion of wells, and vary from asset to asset due to differences in the placed inside the intermediate casing to the • to monitor for any low-level seismicity. formation, the management of drilling risks and depth of the lateral. In North Dakota, a “frac technology applications. string” is then run and connected to the top Using these and other practices, we ensure of the liner. This provides an additional annullar integrity in our well construction To help ensure well integrity, our wellbores are physical barrier to isolate fluids within operations. In North Dakota we have drilled over lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and the well. 200 new wells annually for the past several encased in cement to depths well below the deepest freshwater zones. Specifically: years and experienced zero cases of failed well integrity in our unconventional operations. 47 ENV IR O N ME N T SHALE ENERGY CONT. Frac Fluid Additives infrastructure. This eliminates the need to flare, Since 2013 in North Dakota we have been rapidly To conduct drilling and fracturing operations although we do occasionally need to flare gas for increasing our use of flexible hose for effectively and safely, we use water mixed with testing purposes. In some well locations in North transporting fresh water to drilling sites, rather very small concentrations of chemical additives in Dakota, this type of infrastructure is still being than trucks. In 2014 more than 43 percent of our the wellbore. Each additive has an essential built. We have a flaring reduction strategy for water was transported this way, and we expect to purpose, such as reducing friction, killing bacteria North Dakota and have been steadily investing in reach 60 percent in 2015. See the Climate or inhibiting corrosion or scale deposits. The well infrastructure, as discussed in the Climate Change and Energy section for more information casing and cementing processes described Change and Energy section. on this initiative. previously help to ensure that the chemicals in See the Climate Change and Energy section for Crude-by-Rail Safety our fracturing fluid never come into contact with more information on greenhouse gas emissions, The transport of crude oil by rail has become an groundwater or surface waters. and the Environment section for more on other air issue of increasing concern in the United States We know that some stakeholders are concerned emissions. and Canada, as shipments have increased about the makeup of these fluids, however, and alongside the increase in shale oil production, and Land Use we have worked to select the compositions of several high-profile derailments have occurred. We seek to minimize land use and reduce the least concern. For instance, we do not use diesel Improving crude-by-rail safety is a shared effort number of well sites needed to develop our or benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene or xylene among railroad companies, regulators and acreage. In North Dakota, we continue to (BTEX) in our frac fluids. Also, we require our operators. At Hess, we are taking the issue very transition from a single well per pad to hold the hydraulic fracturing contractors to provide seriously and are committed to doing our part to lease to multi-well pad drilling. In 2015 we are non-proprietary data regarding the chemicals minimize the risks involved. developing one “super pad” that will contain 19 used in each fractured well. This information is wells on a single well pad with shared surface Hess’ Tioga Rail Terminal is fed by pipeline and a publicly available on the FracFocus website, and facilities. In Ohio, we have employed a geographic truck offloading facility. Hess was the first we conduct periodic audits of FracFocus information systems (GIS) tool for use during company in the industry to have a fleet comprised submissions to ensure accuracy. appraisal activities in order to minimize impact on entirely of the AAR Petition P-1577 railcar, which We participate in stakeholder forums that are the environment and streamline permitting. The was designed to safely transport crude oil, developing science-based frameworks for the tool incorporates environmental and social including the light sweet crude found in the evaluation of hazards and risks associated with baseline data as GIS layers and is used to identify Bakken. In 2015 Hess will be one of the first chemical additives and the promotion of safer and sensitive areas and select well pad locations. companies to procure crude oil tank cars more protective alternatives. We respect our frac equipped with thicker shells and full height head Transportation Impacts fluid and service providers’ desire to keep shields for puncture resistance, enhanced thermal We are sensitive to stakeholder concerns about proprietary formulations confidential, while we protection, and bottom fittings protection as increased trucks on the road in areas of high also encourge our suppliers to voluntarily disclose called for in the latest DOT-117 enhanced tank car drilling activity. In North Dakota, we have all chemical additives. design standard. participated in multi-stakeholder initiatives aimed Air Emissions at minimizing the oil industry’s impact on public We have an internal, cross-functional Rail In our shale energy operations, greenhouse gases roads and traffic congestion. And we have Transport Working Team, which meets weekly to and other air pollutants are emitted during collaborated with community partners and state share information regarding any and all issues flowback and production operations when the officials in North Dakota to ensure adequate relating to rail safety. We are also actively infrastructure is not available for immediate infrastructure funding to improve traffic safety engaged with oil and gas industry efforts to connection to the wellhead. Where a pipeline and support road maintenance. In 2015 we plan further improve the safety of rail crude oil connection is unavailable, flaring of the natural to remove additional trucks from the road through transport. We are represented on the American gas produced during flowback may be utilized to the use of remote truck offloading at the Ramberg Petroleum Institute (API) Rail Policy Committee, create a safe working environment during that truck facility and the addition of new crude oil Government Affairs Committee and Rail process. booster pumps, which will deliver oil from Transportation Group, and are active on several Ramberg to the Tioga Rail Terminal. multi-stakeholder task forces addressing these In Ohio, during well completions, we typically issues. Also, we work closely with railroad direct gas directly into the gas gathering companies to help ensure that our oil is delivered safely. 48 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report included both practiceand technologyWe typically conduct formal these listings. Already, we have adjusted based recommendations for reducing environmental and social impact drilling site locations to accommodate water use. For 2015, we have contracted assessments (ESIAs) on all major capital habitat features and priorities for certain for a hydrogeological study to be projects as part of site evaluation, species. completed, to assess the capacity of the selection and risk assessment. These In the Permian Basin in Texas, we aquifer and help us better understand ESIAs include biodiversity baseline conducted a biological survey of lesser long term water availability and yield. studies as well as screenings of identified prairie chicken habitat, as this species species against the International Union Drilling and completion activities in North was listed by the FWS as threatened in for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red Dakota and Ohio comprise our secondearly 2014. We determined that our List and other threatened, endangered largest water use. Most of this water is leased areas did not overlap with habitat and protected species lists. The results used for hydraulic fracturing. As for this species. As part of an of the ESIAs are used to create mitigation discussed in the Shale Energy section of Environmental Assessment process that strategies. When a full ESIA is not this report, in North Dakota we have is currently underway, we are working appropriate, we still routinely conduct tested several options for using with the FWS in North Dakota to help biodiversity risk screenings and impact nonpotable water for this purpose, ensure that our proposed Hawkeye assessments and undertake appropriate though none have proven economically pipeline does not unduly impact the mitigation activities. In addition, we feasible to date. Dakota skipper, a butterfly species listed conduct assessments where the as threatened in October 2014. Because water optimization is a concern classification of species and habitats not just for our company but for our entire change in areas where we operate. We maintain a list of IUCN Red List industry, we participate in two industry species with habitat that overlaps with In 2014 we completed two full ESIAs – forums focused on this issue. A Hess our operations (see table).1 one for our deepwater Stampede project representative is vice chair of a water in the Gulf of Mexico and one for our We also identify IUCN protected areas working group convened by IPIECA, the onshore Pires asset in Kurdistan. The (categories I-III) adjacent to our oil and gas industry association for Stampede ESIA found no species of operations. In 2014 there were three such environmental and social issues. The concern and recommended no mitigation areas – two in North Dakota (Lostwood working group aims to help companies efforts beyond those already outlined in Wilderness Area and Theodore Roosevelt improve their water use performance and the regulatory permits. The Pires ESIA National Park) and one in Australia reduce their water footprint by providing identified three birds and one plant from (Wanjarri Nature Reserve). 2 sound analysis, assessment tools, good the IUCN Red List in our area of practices, credible data sources and operation. We subsequently developed Number of appropriate indicators. IUCN Category mitigation measures to help protect these Species We are also a founding member of the species, which included surveying drilling Critically Endangered 13 Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative locations for these species. Endangered 30 effort among 18 oil and natural gas In the United States we have been companies to study, describe and Vulnerable 141 monitoring the addition of new species to improve lifecycle water use and Near Threatened 188 the national endangered and threatened management in upstream unconventional species lists by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife 1 The numbers in this table – especially for vulnerable and oil and natural gas exploration and near threatened species – are greater than reported in Service (FWS). (The FWS is expected to previous years because both our operational footprint and production. our internal measurement techniques have changed. We add approximately 250 new such species are now using internationally verified data sets at a less BIODIVERSITY by the end of 2015.) We are identifying granular scale for consistency across our assets, while previous measurement was based more on individual At every Hess location around the globe, locations where we may need to conduct biological assessments, localized to each asset. 2 Our reporting on IUCN protected areas has also become we include the protection of biodiversity new biological risk assessments and more robust compared to past years, as we now have tools to categorize protected areas in an internationally in our project decision making and develop mitigation plans as a result of consistent way. management. 49 ENV IR O N ME N T Waste We regularly work with our industry practices at our Ohio assets; we plan to Thousand Tonnes peers on biodiversity-related issues. For use it at our North Dakota assets in 2015. example, we are an active member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services WASTE Our operations generate a variety of 300 working group of IPIECA, the global oil waste streams, including construction and gas industry association for 200 1.7 debris; scrap metal and wood; oily tank environmental and social issues. In 3.6 187.6 bottoms; contaminated soil; office and 3.9 145.1 October we helped lead (and had several 100 103.6 domestic waste such as paper, staff members participate in) the working cardboard and light bulbs; and other 0 group’s first peer-to-peer training 2012 2013 2014 waste items specific to drilling and workshop on managing biodiversity and production operations. It should be noted ecosystem services in the oil and gas that, consistent with IPIECA reporting Hazardous industry. Non-hazardous guidelines, our waste data do not include We also participate in the Cross Sector mud and cuttings generated in our Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI), a partnership onshore operations. Wastes are Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea of IPIECA, the International Council on managed according to the waste Mining and Metals and the Equator management plan specific to each Oil Volume in Water (tonnes) 140 136 140 Principles Association. This initiative operating location. The waste Oil Concentration in 119 120 120 brings the mining, oil and gas and management plan is designed to comply 100 100 80 70 80 financial sectors together to develop and with all applicable regulatory share good practices for safeguarding requirements and to protect human Produced Water (ppmv) 60 60 40 40 biodiversity and ecosystems. In 2014 the health and the environment. Following 20 9 10 14 20 CSBI published a timeline tool designed our lean philosophy, our operations try to 0 0 2012 2013 2014 to help align project development, minimize waste generation and recycle biodiversity impact management, and wherever possible. Oil Volume in Produced Water (tonnes) financial timelines and milestones. Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmv) In 2014 we generated approximately Hess is also a sponsor and active 188,000 tonnes of waste, nearly all (99 member of the Environmentally Friendly percent) of which was deemed nonDrilling (EFD) program. The EFD program hazardous according to applicable is a partnership among multiple oil and regulations. In addition, we disposed of gas companies, academia and 84,693 tonnes of drill cuttings from our environmental organizations and is North Dakota and Ohio operations at coordinated by the Houston Advanced licensed disposal sites in 2014. Research Center. It aims to provide unbiased science and develop solutions DISCHARGES Discharges from our offshore facilities to address environmental issues include drilling mud, drill cuttings and associated with oil and gas development. produced water. At some of these For example, the EFD developed a facilities, these waste streams are scorecard that provides oil and gas reinjected for disposal or reservoir companies with a means for objectively management, whereas others discharge assessing and continually improving their directly to the ocean. In some other environmental performance and that of cases we ship drilling waste to shore for their service providers. In 2014 we used treatment and disposal. the scorecard to assess and improve 50 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report Offshore discharges of non-aqueous with respect to improved data collection Criteria Pollutants drilling mud and cuttings in Equatorial and indicators and to provide targeted SO2 Emissions (tonnes per million BOE) Guinea and Ghana in 2014 contained input to spill mitigation strategies. Based 25 25 NOx/VOC Emissions 21.1 21.7 approximately 140 tonnes of low toxicity on encouraging results from this analysis 20 20 synthetic fluid. This represents an we embarked on a more detailed analysis 15 13.7 15 increase from the previous year because as part of our 2015 EHS “Must Do’s.” of an increase in the number of offshore 8.1 9.2 9.0 (tonnes per thousand BOE) 10 10 We maintain strong relationships with wells drilled. 7.7 mutual aid and emergency response 5 7.1 6.5 5 Offshore produced water discharges organizations at the local, regional and 0 0 2012 2013 2014 totaled 6 million cubic meters in 2014. global levels to enhance our ability to Produced water discharges had an respond swiftly and effectively to any SO2 VOCs average oil content of 14 parts per million incidents. More information about our NOx volume (ppmv), totaling 70 tonnes of oil emergency response program, including discharged. This reflects a year-over-year our memberships and partnerships with Hydrocarbon Spills decrease in total oil discharged and an spill response organizations, is provided increase in the average oil content, in the Safety and Health section of primarily due to the divestiture of our this report. 1,000 200 900 offshore operations in Indonesia which Volume of Spills (bbls) 800 had high volumes of discharges with CRITERIA POLLUTANTS 150 700 734 Number of Spills Air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NO X) 600 relatively low oil content. 601 500 468 and sulfur dioxide (SO 2) result from fuel 100 400 SPILL PREVENTION combustion, process operations and 300 79 79 75 50 The number of spills remained relatively flaring activities. Volatile organic 200 100 flat year-over-year. The volume of compounds (VOCs) are mainly emitted 0 0 non-hydrocarbon spills decreased, while during product loading and storage. In 2012 2013 2014 the volume of hydrocarbon spills 2014 our normalized emissions of VOCs Volume of Spills (bbls) Number of Spills increased due to a handful of larger spills remained relatively consistent with the in our Denmark and North Dakota previous year, while emissions of NO X operations. and SO 2 decreased. The decrease in NOX Non-Hydrocarbon Spills emissions is due to reduced drilling In 2014 we conducted a detailed analysis activity in 2014. The decrease in SO 2 of our spill reporting. The aim of this 5,000 100 emissions is due to the completion of the Volume of Spills (bbls) analysis was to better identify root 4,000 Number of Spills Tioga Gas Plant expansion. 80 causes and to make recommendations 3,000 58 50 52 60 2,000 40 1,867 1,923 1,000 20 1,120 0 0 2012 2013 2014 Volume of Spills (bbls) Number of Spills Okume Complex, Equatorial Guinea 51 P E R FO R MA N C E DATA Units 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Business Performance Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 10,737 11,905 12,245 10,647 9,123 Net income attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million 2,317 5,052 2,025 1,703 2,125 Total assets $ Million 38,578 42,754 43,441 39,136 35,396 Total debt $ Million 5,987 5,798 8,111 6,057 5,583 Stockholders’ equity $ Million 22,320 24,784 21,203 18,592 16,809 Debt to capitalization ratio % 21.2 19.0 27.7 24.6 24.9 Exploration and Production Total net hydrocarbons produced Thousand BOE/D 329 336 406 370 418 Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,431 1,437 1,553 1,573 1,537 Liquids (crude oil (light and medium oils), condensate & natural gas liquids) % 78 77 75 74 72 Gas % 22 23 25 26 28 Reserve life Years 12 12 10 11 10 Replaced production % 158 118 141 147 176 Economic Contributions Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 5,606 6,209 8,152 7,462 5,855 Operating costs $/BOE 21.0 22.6 20.6 19.7 14.5 Income tax $ Million 744 565 1,529 702 1,188 Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 707 807 920 947 1,542 Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 303 235 171 136 131 Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 1,040 1,037 1,045 1,057 992 Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 323 406 419 383 361 Supplier spend $ Billion 8 8 8 6 2 * (approximate) Communities and Social Performance Total social investment $ Million 42 37 40 23 18 Education % 80 52 47 33 34 Health % 1 2 4 5 12 Disaster relief % 2 3 13 5 9 Community contributions (not in-kind) % 13 25 22 20 19 In-kind % 4 12 9 28 18 Arts and culture % — 6 5 8 7 Environment % <1 <1 <1 1 1 Our People Number of permanent employees # 3,045 12,128 13,277 13,021 12,587 U.S. % 78 91 90 91 91 International % 22 9 10 10 9 Part time employees % 1 27 23 24 NC Full time employees % 99 73 77 76 NC Employee turnover – voluntary Y % 9.1 13.1 10.4 7.9 NC Employee layoffs Y % 19.8 14.6 3.2 1.1 NC Female employees (U.S. and International) % 28 43 40 39 40 Minority employees (U.S.) % 24 39 38 37 36 Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 1 4 6 7 9 Safety Performance Fatalities – employees + contractors # 0 0 1 0 0 Hours worked – workforce (employees + contractors) Million hours 37.8 47.1 45.3 35.5 22.5 Employee Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.20 0.20 0.14 0.25 0.24 Contractor Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.45 0.60 0.71 0.75 0.50 Workforce (employees + contractors) Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.40 0.52 0.60 0.64 0.42 Employee Lost Time Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked — 0.05 0.05 0.08 0.09 Contractor Lost Time Incident Rate cident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.14 0.16 0.20 0.12 0.08 Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.12 0.14 0.17 0.11 0.08 Products with Material Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100 Health and safety fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 37.5 0 0 0 0 Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. See Our Approach to Reporting for details. * Supplier spend for 2010 is U.S. only; 2013 and 2014 data are E&P only. Y Reflects data for exploration and production only. 52 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report P ER FO R MA N C E DATA Units 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons MMSCF 35,987 29,356 26,386 21,604 15,491 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million Tonnes CO2e 4.8 4.4 5.0 4.3 3.7 CO2 Million Tonnes CO2e 4.4 4.2 4.7 4.2 3.5 CH4 Thousand Tonnes CO2e 403.1 166.5 207.4 139.6 123.7 N 2O Thousand Tonnes CO2e 28.4 31.1 24.5 21.8 23.6 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source Flaring/venting % 61 54 49 43 36 Fuel combustion % 35 41 46 55 61 Other % 3 5 5 2 3 Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million Tonnes CO2e 0.64 0.75 0.76 0.74 0.78 CO2 Million Tonnes CO2e 0.6 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.8 CH4 Thousand Tonnes CO2e 0.29 nil 0.15 0.15 0.15 N 2O Thousand Tonnes CO2e 2.7 3.1 7.8 7.2 6.7 Net equity GHG emissions (includes HOVENSA) Million Tonnes CO2e 6.0 6.5 8.0 9.1 9.0 Scope 3 emissions – use of sold products Million Tonnes CO2e 11.5 13.9 22.1 35.7 40.2 Energy Use Production energy intensity Gigajoules/BOE 0.29 0.28 0.24 0.25 0.22 Operated direct energy use Thousand Gigajoules 25,829 26,421 28,074 27,125 26,617 Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand Gigajoules 8,597 7,429 6,913 6,729 6,447 Net purchased electricity by primary energy source Thousand MWh 865 688 663 646 619 ** Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) Thousand MWh 125 140 140 180 140 Freshwater Use Groundwater Million m3 6.2 6.3 6.5 8.5 6.6 Municipal water Million m3 2.2 1.5 2.0 0.7 0.2 Surface water Million m3 0.89 0.45 0.07 0.02 0.04 Reused/recycled (estimated) % 10.2 10.7 11.0 11.1 NC Waste Non-hazardous waste Thousand Tonnes 187.6 145.1 103.6 152.8 83.5 Hazardous waste Thousand Tonnes 1.7 3.6 3.9 4.0 4.2 Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Tonnes 0 22 10 0 0 Spills Hydrocarbon spills – number # 75 79 79 56 23 Hydrocarbon spills – volume bbls 601 468 734 445 306 Non-hydrocarbon spills – number # 52 50 58 86 38 Non-hydrocarbon spills – volume bbls 1,120 1,923 1,867 4,351 436 Air Emissions (Excludes GHGs) X Sulfur dioxide (SO2) Tonnes 2,016 2,888 3,168 3,069 2,911 SO2 intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 13.7 21.7 21.1 21.3 18.9 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Tonnes 9,595 10,270 10,600 9,784 8,882 NOx intensity Tonnes/Thousand BOE 6.5 7.7 7.1 6.8 5.8 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Tonnes 13,288 12,279 12,175 7,152 10,879 VOC intensity Tonnes/Thousand BOE 9.0 9.2 8.1 5.0 7.1 Exploration & Production Discharges Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 70 136 119 149 221 Oil in produced water to sea ppmv 14 10 9 10 13 Produced water to sea Million m3 6.0 16.7 16.5 17.4 20.1 Other Environmental Indicators ISO 14001-certified operations % of production 7 2 8 12 13 ISO 14001-certified operations # 2 2 3 3 3 Environmental fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 84 509 105 115 — Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 12 16 19 19 13 Environmental reserve $ Million 80 65 55 60 55 Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. See Our Approach to Reporting for details. ** Third party power generation X The gross operated hydrocarbon production (normalization factor) was 403,781 BOE/D in 2014. 53 GRI CO N T E N T I N D E X This index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 indicators, with cross-reference to the 10 Principles in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and IPIECA sector-specific guidelines. Detailed information on GRI indicators related to Board-level governance (4.1–4.7, 4.9, 4.10) and defined benefit plan obligations (EC3) can be found at hess.com/investors and in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) forms 10-K and DEF 14A. An expanded GRI Index is available at hess.com/gri-index. GRI G3.1 Core & OGSS Indicator GRI G3.1 Additional Indicator IPIECA only O Fully reported Partially reported GRI Page(s) GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Message from the CEO 2–3 O 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities (a) 2–5 O Organizational Profile 2.1–2.9 Organizational profile (a) 4 O 2.10 Awards received during reporting period 58 O Report Parameters O 3.1–3.4 Reporting period, scope and boundary 6–7 O 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report 59 O 3.5–3.8 Determination for content 6–7 O 3.9 Data measurement techniques and basis of calculations 6–7 O 3.10–3.11 Explanation of restatements and significant changes 6–7 O 3.12 GRI content index (c) 54–56 O 3.13 External assurance 7, 57 O Governance 4.1–4.7, 4.9, 4.10 Information on highest governance body (a, b, c) 9–10 O 4.8 Internal values, codes of conduct and principles 12–13, 20–21 O 1–10 4.11 The precautionary approach OCI O 7 4.12 Externally subscribed or endorsed voluntary initiatives (c) 17 O 1–10 4.13 Key memberships and associations 27, 58 O 4.14–4.17 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key topics and concerns 6–7, 17–20 O Economic EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to economic performance (a, b) 2–4 O EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to market presence 2–4 O EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to indirect economic impacts 4, 14–15, 17–23 O EC1 Direct economic value (a, b) 4, 52 O SE4, SE13 EC2 Financial implications of climate change 35–37 O 7 EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations (a, b, c) OCI O EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government (c) OCI EC5 Comparison of standard entry level wage with local minimum wage (c) OCI O 1 EC6 Local supplier spend at significant locations of operation 14–15 SE5, SE7 EC7 Local hiring at significant location of operation 32–33 O 6 SE5, SE6 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 21–23, 52 O SE4 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts (c) 21–23, 52 SE6 OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production 4, 37, 52 O Environment EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to environmental aspects 34–51 O 7 OCI: GRI Online Content Index b – See also hess.com/investors NM: Not Material c – See Online GRI Content Index (hess.com/gri-index) a – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-K 54 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report GRI CO N T E N T I N D E X GRI Page(s) GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator EN1, EN2 Materials used and percentage recycled input materials (c) 45, 53 8 EN3, EN4 Direct and indirect energy use by primary source 41, 53 O 8 E2 OG2, OG3 Total amount invested in renewable energy and total amount generated by source (c) OCI O 8, 9 EN5 Energy conservation and efficiency initiatives and improvements 39–41 8, 9 E2 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable products and services (c) OCI O 8, 9 E3 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 39–41 8, 9 E2 EN8, EN9 Total water withdrawal by source, significantly affected water sources 45–46, 49 O 8 E6 EN10 Water recycled and reused 45, 49, 53 O 8, 9 E6 EN11, EN12 Proximity of protected areas/areas of high biodiversity 49–50 O 7, 8 E5 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 49–50 O 8 E5 EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impact on biodiversity 49–50 O 8 E5 OG4 Significant operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored 49–50 7, 8 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List and national conservation list species 49 O 7 EN16, EN17 Total direct and indirect and other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 38–39, 53 O 8 E1, E4 EN18 Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives and resuts 39–43 8 E1 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (c) OCI NM 8 E7 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 51, 53 O 8 E7 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 50–51, 53 O 8 E9 OG5 Volume of formation of produced water (c) 50–51, 53 O 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type of disposal method 50, 53 O 8 E10 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 51, 53 O 8 E8 EN24 Basel Convention waste management summary (c) OCI O 8 EN25 Biodiversity value of receiving waters for water discharges and runoff 49–51 O 8 OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons 39–40, 53 O 8 OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and strategies for treatment and 50–51 8 disposal EN26 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 34–51 O 7–9 EN27 Products sold and packaging reclaimed (c) OCI O 8, 9 OG8 Benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels (c) OCI O 8 EN28 Fines, penalties and non-compliances (c) OCI O 8 EN29 Transportation impacts 38–41, 48, 53 O 8 EN30 Environmental expenditures (c) OCI O 8 Labor Practices and Decent Work LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to employment, labor/management relations, 30–33 O training and education and diversity and equal opportunity (c) LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to occupational health and safety (c) 24–29 O LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 31, 52 O LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 31, 53 O 6 LA3 Benefits provided to full time employees that are not provided to temporary or part time OCI O employees, by major operations (c) LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (c) 52 O 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice period of significant operational charges (c) OCI O 3 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in joint safety committees (c) OCI 1 HS1, SE16 LA7 Injury, occupational illness, lost days, absenteeism and fatalities by region (c) 25, 52 1 HS3 LA8 Disease prevention programs (c) 28 O 1 HS2 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in collective bargaining agreements (c) OCI O 1 SE16 LA10 Average hours of training per employee by employee category (c) OCI O SE17 LA11 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning and career endings 32–33 O SE17 55 GRI CO N T E N T I N D E X GRI Page(s) GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and development reviews 32–33 O SE17 LA13 Governing bodies and employees by category according to diversity indicators (c) 33 O 1, 6 SE15 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category (c) OCI 1, 6 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender (c) OCI NM IPIECA Process safety 25–26 N/A — HS5 Human Rights HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to human rights aspects 8–15, 20–21 O HR1 Human rights and significant investment agreements (c) 14–15, 20–21 1–6 SE8 HR2 Significant suppliers/contractors screened for human rights (c) 14–15, 20–21 1–6 SE9 HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights 20–21 O 1–6 SE8 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken (c) OCI O 1, 2, 6 SE18 HR5 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: freedom of association and collective (c) OCI 1, 2, 3 HR6 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: child labor (c) OCI 1, 2, 5 HR7 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: forced and compulsory labor (c) OCI 1, 2, 4 HR8 Security personnel trained on human rights 15, 21 O 1, 2 SE10 HR9 Violations of indigenous peoples' rights (c) OCI O 1, 2 OG9 Indigenous communities present or affected by operations; location of engagement 19–21 O strategies HR10 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments (c) 20–21 O HR11 Grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved though formal OCI O grievance mechanisms (c) Society SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to corruption, public policy, anti-competitive 8–15 O 10 behavior and compliance SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to community 16–23 O SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage impacts of operations on communities 16–23 O SE1–SE5 SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption (c) OCI O 10 SE11–SE12 SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures (c) 12–13 O 10 SE11 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption (c) OCI O 10 SE11 SO5 Public policy positions/participation in public policy development and lobbying (c) 13–14 1, 10 SE14 SO6 Political contributions (c) 13–14 O 10 SE14 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and outcomes (c) OCI O SO8 Fines and penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations (c) OCI O SO9, SO10 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 16–23 O OG10 Significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples (c) OCI O OG11 Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process (c) OCI O OG12 Extent and impact of involuntary resettlement (c) OCI O OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity 26 O Product Responsibility PR DMA Disclosure of management approach (c) OCI O PR1 Life cycle assessment for health and safety impacts of products/services (c) OCI O 1 HS4 PR2 Non-compliances with health and safety impact requirements for products/services (c) OCI O 1 HS4 PR3 Product and service labeling requirements for significant products (c) OCI O 8 HS4 PR4 Non-compliances with product and service labeling requirements (c) OCI O 8 HS4 PR5 Customer satisfaction practices (c) OCI O PR6 Marketing communications compliance programs (c) OCI O HS4 PR7 Non-compliance with marketing communications regulations/voluntary codes (c) OCI O PR8 Substantiated customer privacy complaints and data loss (c) OCI O 1 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations re: products and services (c) OCI O OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting sustainability criteria (c) OCI O 56 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report I N D E PE N D E N T ASS U R A N C E STATEM ENT ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance in relation to the 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report (the Report). Engagement Summary • Whether the report is presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with GRI G3.1 including the Oil and Gas Sector Supplement guidelines. Scope: • Confirmation of Hess’ self-declared GRI Application Level. • Confirmation that the report meets the common elements of the IPIECA/API reporting requirements. The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative (including the Oil and Gas Sector Reporting Criteria: Supplement) and the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) – Oil & Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 2nd Edition, 2010 ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) Assurance Standard: Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information Assurance Level: Limited assurance Hess is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the information within it. Respective ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and responsibilities: exercising our professional judgement Our conclusions Based on our assurance activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the report is not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. GRI application level and IPIECA reporting requirements We conclude that the Application Level A+ as stated on page 6 and based on the GRI Content Index on page 54 of the Report is consistent with the GRI criteria for this Application Level. We also confirm that the report meets the IPIECA/API reporting requirements. Our assurance activities A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed the following activities: • A review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period. • Interviews with relevant staff to understand Hess sustainability strategy, policies and management systems. • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the information. • Visits to production and drilling sites in Utica, Ohio, the Tioga Gas Plant in North Dakota, and the Baldpate platform in the Gulf of Mexico, USA to verify the source data and review sustainability management systems. • An analytical review of the year end data submitted by all sites included in the consolidated 2014 group data. • A visit to Hess Exploration and Production office in Houston, Texas to review the data from all sites, the consolidation process and the results of the internal data validation process. • Reviewing selected evidence related to the design, information collection, and production of the Report in accordance with GRI requirements. • Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings, including the results of ERM CVS separate engagement providing verification of the Hess 2014 CDP submission. The limitations of our engagement The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. Our Observations We have provided Hess with a separate detailed management report. Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we have the following key observation: • Hess’ restructuring now means that the focus for collecting and managing HSE data for the purposes of annual reporting has shifted from the Woodbridge, New Jersey office to the E&P function in Houston, Texas. This change has highlighted the need for additional user guidance and instruction to be implemented to ensure the ongoing consistency of reporting and review of annual GRI/IPIECA performance data from operations. ERM Certification and Verification Services, London www.ermcvs.com Email: post@ermcvs.com Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Partner, Head of Report Assurance 27 June 2015 ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to Hess Corporation in any respect. 57 AWA R DS A N D R E COG N I TI ON Sustainability Workforce • CDP • Workforce Diversity for Engineering & S&P 500 Leadership Index IT Professionals magazine’s Top 50 Employers S&P 500 (#1 in Energy Sector) • Woman Engineer Magazine’s Top 50 Employers • Dow Jones Sustainability Index North List America • Gas Processors Association Safety Award • Corporate Responsibility Magazine 100 Best Corporate Citizens • North Dakota Safety Council Occupational Safety Merit Award • Newsweek Green Rankings U.S. Energy Sector (#1) • STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index • MSCI ESG Indexes MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes MSCI Global SRI Indexes MSCI KLD 400 Social Index • Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations • Environmental Investment Organization Environmental Tracking Carbon Rankings Global 800 North America 300 M EMB E R S HIPS A N D ASS OC I ATI ONS • IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association • Center for Offshore Safety for environmental and social issues • MIT Energy Initiative • Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative • Business Roundtable • U.S. Oil and Gas Association • U.S. Chamber of Commerce • International Association of Oil and Gas Producers • Brookings Institute • Council on Foreign Relations • Greater North Dakota Chamber • American Petroleum Institute • Center for Strategic and International Studies Design: incdesign.com 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report REQUE STS FOR I N FOR M ATI ON For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy or Human Rights Policy, or for more information regarding our operations, please visit our website at hess.com. We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this report. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more information or additional copies of this report, please contact: Vice President, Environment, Health and Safety Hess Corporation 1501 McKinney Street Houston, TX 77010 You can also send us an email at sustainability@hess.com. SPE CIA L N OTE R E G A R DI N G FORWARD LO O KI NG STAT EM ENTS This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, expectations and other forward-looking statements, including information about sustainability goals and targets and planned social, safety and environmental policies, programs and initiatives. These statements reflect the company’s current views with respect to future events and the company’s performance. No assurance can be given that the development or continuation of any policy, program or initiative expressed in any forward-looking statement will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those expected for a number of reasons, including risk factors affecting the company’s business. A discussion of these risk factors is included in the company’s annual report of Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 The savings below are achieved when PCW Savings from the use of emission-free, certified printer with Forest Stewardship recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: wind-generated electricity: Council™ (FSC®) Chain of Custody, printed 112 trees preserved for the future 5,244 lbs. GHG emissions not generated the Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind 322 lbs. water-borne waste not created Displaces this amount of fossil fuel: power resulting in nearly zero carbon 47,370 gallons wastewater flow saved 5 barrels of fuel oil unused emissions. This report was printed on FSC®-certified Mohawk Options paper, a 5,241 lbs. solid waste not generated In other words your savings from the use of process-chlorine-free 100 percent wind-generated electricity are equivalent to: 10,319 lbs. net greenhouse gases post-consumer waste (PCW) paper (GHGs) prevented Not driving 5,190 miles or manufactured entirely with 100 percent certified wind energy and containing 100 78,988 BTUs energy not consumed Planting 357 trees percent post-consumer recycled fiber. Learn more at www.hess.com/sustainability Community and Social Safety and Health Our People Performance Aiming to get everyone, everywhere Creating a company culture and high A review of corporate social every day, home safe quality workforce that innovates, responsibility as a way of doing www.hess.com/sustainability/safety-health leads and learns business www.hess.com/careers/life-at-hess www.hess.com/sustainability/communities Environment -social-performance Responsible management of our GRI Content Index environmental footprint Performance against GRI G3.1 Climate Change and Energy www.hess.com/sustainability/environment indicators Balancing the world’s energy needs www.hess.com/sustainability/ with cost-effective greenhouse gas sustainability-reports/GRI-Index emissions reduction policy www.hess.com/sustainability/climatechange-energy www.hess.com
