07 July 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, With our third annual Communication on Progress, I am pleased to reaffirm Ecolab’s support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We also confirm our continued endorsement of the UN CEO Water Mandate. Ecolab is the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services that provide and protect clean water, safe food, abundant energy and healthy environments. Our company delivers programs and services to the food, energy, healthcare, hospitality and industrial markets in more than 170 countries around the world. Fundamental to our approach is an understanding that real and lasting change is accelerated when economic, environmental and social benefits align. With this communication, we express our continued intent to advance the principles of the Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate within our sphere of influence. Our 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report further describes our actions to integrate those principles into our strategy, operations and customer interactions. This information is available to stakeholders through our website at www.ecolab.com/sustainability. Sincerely, Douglas M. Baker, Jr. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Ecolab Inc. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORTING PERIOD: 1 JANUARY – 31 DECEMBER 2014 Implementing the Ten Principles into Strategies and Operations At Ecolab, sustainability is core to our purpose and business strategy. We deliver sustainable solutions that help companies around the world achieve business results, protect the environment and enhance the well-being of people and communities. The work we do matters, and the way we do it matters to our employees, customers, investors and the communities in which we operate. VALUES The work we do matters:  We make the world cleaner, safer and healthier.  We protect vital resources. Ensure water and energy are available everywhere.  Our products and services prevent disease and infection. Keep food supplies safe. Protect the places where people eat, sleep, work, play and heal.  We touch what is fundamental to quality of life: We keep people healthy. We enhance well-being. We provide assurance, so life can be lived fully.  We help our customers succeed. Reduce risk and worry. Free them to grow. How we work matters, too:  We work with purpose. When there’s a goal, we reach it. When there’s a problem, we solve it.  We work safely. Take care in all we do.  We strive to do what’s right, what’s fair, what’s honest.  We take action together. In teams. Teams made stronger by diverse perspectives.  We find inspiration and energy in what we do and how we do it. In growing, learning and celebrating together. In making a difference and serving the greater good. OUR PRINCIPLES  ECONOMIC: Drive economic growth for our customers, employees, shareholders and communities.  ENVIRONMENTAL: Promote stewardship of natural resources and protect the environment.  SAFETY: Ensure safe processes that protect our employees, contractors, customers and communities.  SOCIAL: Enhance the well-being of people and communities. SUSTAINABILTY GOVERNANCE Ecolab’s sustainability strategy is governed by a Sustainability Executive Advisory Team (SEAT) comprised of 10 members of the company’s executive leadership. The SEAT meets with the Corporate Sustainability Team on a quarterly basis and is responsible for operationalizing sustainability across the company; coordinating and communicating company policy and decision-making related to sustainability; setting annual goals and metrics for key sustainability priorities; sustainability outlook assessment; and risk management. While the full board of directors monitors the company’s progress regarding sustainability, the Safety, Health and Environment Committee of the board of directors has the highest level of direct responsibility for sustainability matters, including environmental and social impacts. The board of directors receives an annual presentation from this committee on the company’s progress regarding its sustainability goals. The committee members are appointed by the board and are comprised of no fewer than three directors. The primary responsibility for assuring the corporation’s compliance with applicable safety, health and environmental (SHE) laws and regulations is vested in management of the corporation. This includes review and oversight of the corporation’s SHE policies, programs and practices that affect, or could affect, the corporation’s employees, customers, stockholders and neighboring communities. TRANSPARENCY & DISCLOSURE In 2014, Ecolab continued to advance our commitment to transparency and disclosure of our environmental, social and governance practices and performance. Ecolab’s 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report was prepared in alignment with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Core Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Ecolab’s 2014 Corporate Sustainability Summary and GRI G4 responses can be found on our company’s website at http://www.ecolab.com/sustainability/sustainability-reports. Ecolab completed third-party verification by Anthesis Consulting (Ltd) (Anthesis) of its publicly reported 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report. Anthesis completed its Limited Assurance level review against the Accountability AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008)—Type 2 Assurance by testing the components of the Principles for Quality and Content (per GRI G4 Guidance) and coverage across the three principles defined in the AA1000 Assurance Standard (Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness). Ecolab also completed third-party verification by Bureau Veritas North America (BNVA) of its publicly reported 2014 Global Scope 1, 2 and 3 (Business Travel only) Greenhouse Gas Emissions in accordance with the ISO 14064-3 Standard, and its publicly reported 2014 Global Water withdrawal in accordance with Bureau Veritas Assurance Procedures and International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (basis for Bureau Veritas assurance procedures). In keeping with our commitment to transparency, Ecolab also responds to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index RobecoSAM Sustainability Assessment and the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Carbon, Water and Supply Chain surveys. Robust Human Rights Management Policies and Procedures Global Compact Principles Principle 1: Human Rights As a socially responsible company, Ecolab has concern for the well-being of people and Businesses should support communities. We conduct business fairly and ethically, respect human rights and comply with laws and respect the protection and regulations. Our employees’ human rights are respected across our global operations. We aspire of internationally proclaimed to create an inclusive and respectful work environment; one in which employees recognize each human rights. other’s worth and dignity. Our Human Rights Policy and Code of Conduct guide the way we conduct business internally, with our customers and suppliers, and within the communities in which we operate. As stated in our Code of Conduct, any conduct that detracts from the worth and dignity of our employees is contrary to our values and has no place in our culture. We also are committed to showing respect to people and cultures in all of the countries where we do business. CODE OF CONDUCT (G4-HR2) Our Code of Conduct guides the way we conduct business internally, with our customers and suppliers, and within the communities in which we operate. Ecolab adopted its first Code of Conduct policy in 1976. The policy was last amended on November 29, 2012. The Code of Conduct applies to all Ecolab officers, directors and employees. Ecolab intends to promptly disclose on our website should there be any further amendments to, or waivers by the board of directors of, the Code of Conduct. Ecolab’s Code of Conduct contains detailed human-rights aspects of relevance to our operations. New employees participate in a facilitated training session on the Code of Conduct or are made aware of the requirements of the Code of Conduct. On an annual basis, employees with Ecolab email addresses are required to participate in a 45-minute Code of Conduct online training module and provide a signature of completion and compliance. Globally, Ecolab has implemented various programs in regions to assess conformance and ensure our policies are in place and in practice. Human-rights issues identified within the UNGC framework are incorporated in Ecolab’s Code of Conduct policy. Human Resources regularly visits the plants and confirms compliance with our employee handbook. This set of policies is fully aligned with corporate policies but also addresses situations specific to the plants. We also have annual Code of Conduct and workplace-respect training at the plants. To review our complete Code of Conduct visit www.ecolab.com/document-library/code-of-conduct/. OUR HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY (launched in 2013) As a global company, Ecolab is committed to enhancing the well-being of people and communities around the world. Our employees’ human rights are respected across our global operations and we are committed to respecting the international human-rights standards defined by the United Nations Global Compact. We aspire to create an inclusive and respectful work environment; one in which employees recognize each other’s worth and dignity. As stated in our Code of Conduct, any conduct that detracts from the worth and dignity of our employees is contrary to our values and has no place in our culture. We also are committed to showing respect to people and cultures in all of the countries where we do business. ALIGNMENT WITH GLOBAL HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Ecolab supports the efforts of human rights organizations to end violence and atrocities in Central Africa (the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and nine adjoining countries: Republic of Congo, Central Africa Republic, South Sudan, Zambia, Angola, Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda). For more information, read Ecolab's Policy Statement on Conflict Minerals. We do not have any facilities that are certified to the SA8000 Standard. However, in accordance with our Human Rights Policy and related programs, Ecolab operates in alignment with the policies and procedures outlined in the SA8000 Standard which seek to protect basic human rights of workers. Ecolab does not currently have a formal relationship with a body which enforces the Global Sullivan principles. As a company with a presence in South Africa, we support and subscribe to the principles. We also adhere to Employment Equity and Black Economic Empowerment legislation in South Africa, which is designed to enforce the Global Sullivan principles. ETHICAL SOURCING Our Ethical Sourcing Standards are the foundation of our global supply chain initiative requiring our direct suppliers to protect the health, safety and human rights of their associates. We will not conduct business with suppliers who do not support the fundamental principles of human dignity and rights of workers to fair and equitable treatment. Suppliers must meet our standards regarding forced labor, child labor, health and safety in the workplace, fair pay, harassment, diversity and ethics, and environmental policies. We require that our suppliers identify and act swiftly to eliminate any unacceptable conditions or practices in their facilities. We base our supplier requirements on international standards including the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the Conventions of the International Labour Organization, including its Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In 2014, we did not identify any operations with actual or potential negative impacts on local communities. (G4-SO2) Our Ethical Sourcing Standards and Conflict Minerals Policy are available at www.ecolab.com/sustainability/commitment-to-sustainability/ethical-sourcing Ecolab participates in SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange), which is a non-profit membership organization dedicated to driving improvements in ethical and responsible business practices in global supply chains. It is a web-based platform for sharing information and audit results on four pillars: (1) labor standards; (2) health and safety; (3) environment; and (4) business integrity. As a member, Ecolab is committed to conducting audits annually and sharing these results within SEDEX. Principle 2: Human Rights It is Ecolab’s policy to disclose any human-rights controversies that may relate to labor issues, child Business should make sure employment, female or minority rights infringement or other issues pertaining to human rights. they are not complicit in Ecolab has not been involved in any litigation, pending or settled, related to human rights issues in human rights abuses. the past five years. No fines related to human rights issues have been levied against the company by any governmental organization in the past five years. We utilize an Ethical Sourcing Survey to screen our most material suppliers. In 2014, we strengthened our Ethical Sourcing Survey process by establishing a cadence to survey our global suppliers. In 2014, all North American Contract Manufacturers completed the Ethical Sourcing Survey. In 2015, Global Contract Manufacturers and suppliers that comprise more than 80 percent of Ecolab spend globally by category and region will be surveyed. Ecolab’s Ethical Sourcing Survey covers employment practices, safety practices, wages and compensation, child and slave labor, and working hours and serves as a benchmarked survey of our ethical sourcing practices. It is not our practice to screen all new suppliers using the Ethical Sourcing Survey. (G4-HR10) In 2014, we did not identify any operations or suppliers with actual or potential negative human-rights impacts. We continue to evaluate our suppliers for any negative human rights impacts via the Ethical Sourcing Survey. We utilize a Supplier Code of Conduct hotline to facilitate reporting by anyone concerned about potential violations. (G4-HR11) CONFLICT MINERALS POLICY Ecolab also supports the efforts of human rights organizations to end violence and atrocities in Central Africa, specifically the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and nine adjoining countries. A major driver of this violence is the natural abundance of the minerals tin, tungsten, tantalum, and gold, collectively referred to as “conflict minerals,” with armed groups fighting for control of mines in this region and using forced labor to mine and sell the minerals. In 2013, Ecolab initiated development of a process for managing conflict minerals in our supply chain, as we are subject to the final rule regarding sourcing of these minerals as defined in the DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Section 1502, approved by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in August 2012. This included adoption and communication to our suppliers of a Conflict Minerals Policy, which includes our expectations for our suppliers with regard to ensuring conflict-free supply chains. In 2014, we became members of the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) as a means of supporting the independent third-part audit process for smelters and refiners. We finalized and implemented our conflict minerals reporting process for the 2013 reporting year, which included a robust process for scoping our products for the inclusion of conflict minerals as well as conducting a reasonable country-of-origin inquiry of the direct suppliers of the products believed by us to contain conflict minerals. These efforts culminated in our filing of the Form SD and Conflict Minerals Report with the SEC. For the 2013 reporting year, notwithstanding our compliance efforts, we were unable to determine the country of origin for a portion of the necessary conflict minerals contained in our inscope products. However, none of the necessary conflict minerals contained in our in-scope products were determined by us to directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the DRC or an adjoining country. (HR-10) View our Policy Statement on Conflict Minerals, published in 2013, here: http://www.ecolab.com/sustainability/commitment-tosustainability/~/media/02A5D56E293A4E29A2DD5C49AD573C60.ashx Robust Labour Management Policies and Procedures Global Compact Principles Principle 3: Labour We recognize employees’ right to form or join unions and encourage them to make an informed Businesses should uphold decision on the matter. Where employees have chosen to be represented by a labor union, we fulfill the freedom of association our bargaining obligations as defined by law. Only a small percentage of our employees are currently and the effective recognition covered under trade unions or collective-bargaining agreements. In the United States, 471 of the right to collective employees are covered by collective-bargaining agreements. This is approximately .03 percent of the bargaining U.S. employees. (G4-11) Ecolab had three U.S.-based collective-bargaining agreements in 2014. For these agreements, a minimum of 60 days’ notice prior to the contract end date is required to propose any changes to the contract agreements. All collective-bargaining agreements contain a specified notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation. Approximately 38 percent of employees covered by a collective-bargaining agreement are in Texas. Approximately 62 percent of employees covered by a collective-bargaining agreement are in Illinois. (G4-LA4) We adhere to National Labor Relations Board protocols to support employee rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. We recognize employees’ right to form or join unions and encourage them to make an informed decision on the matter. Where employees have chosen to be represented by a labor union, we fulfill our bargaining obligations as defined by law. We have not identified any U.S.-based operations at which freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at risk. We are unable to report on violations or risks of our suppliers. (G4-HR4) Principle 4: Labour Ethical Sourcing represents a global supply-chain initiative requiring our direct suppliers to protect the Businesses should uphold health, safety and human rights of their employees. Suppliers must meet standards regarding forced the elimination of all forms labor, child labor, health and safety, fair pay and harassment in the workplace. Ecolab’s commitment of forced and compulsory to protecting human rights is located on our website labour (http://www.ecolab.com/sustainability/commitment-to-sustainability/people/human-rights). In 2014, we strengthened our Ethical Sourcing Survey process by establishing a cadence to survey our global suppliers. In 2014, all North American Contract Manufacturers completed the Ethical Sourcing Survey. In 2015, Global Contract Manufacturers and suppliers that comprise more than 80 percent of Ecolab spend globally by category and region will be surveyed. This survey covers employment practices, safety practices, wages and compensation, child and slave labor, and working hours and serves as a benchmarked survey of our ethical sourcing practices. It is not our practice to screen all new suppliers using the Ethical Sourcing Survey. As suppliers are surveyed, all red flag suppliers have additional follow up and corrective actions which can result in termination of our relationship. We follow a rigorous supplier-screening process that includes an initial Ethical Sourcing Survey, annual compliance training by our associates (which is documented) and efforts by our Quality Function to continue to stress the importance of human rights through physical audits. In 2014, we did not identify any operations or suppliers at significant at risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labor. We do have operations in geographic areas considered at risk for forced labor, including China and India. If we find out that one of our suppliers is using forced or compulsory labor, we will take the appropriate steps necessary. (G4-HR6) Principle 5: Labour Ethical Sourcing represents a global supply-chain initiative requiring our direct suppliers to protect the Businesses should uphold health, safety and human rights of their employees. Suppliers must meet standards regarding forced the effective abolition of labor, child labor, health and safety, fair pay and harassment in the workplace. A statement about child labour Ecolab’s commitment to protecting human rights is located on our website. In 2014, we strengthened our Ethical Sourcing Survey process by establishing a cadence to survey our global suppliers. In 2014, all North American Contract Manufacturers completed the Ethical Sourcing Survey. In 2015, Global Contract Manufacturers and suppliers that comprise more than 80 percent of Ecolab spend globally by category and region will be surveyed. This survey covers child and slave labor. As suppliers are surveyed, all red flag suppliers have additional follow up and corrective actions which can result in termination of our relationship. We follow a rigorous supplier-screening process that includes an initial Ethical Sourcing Survey, annual compliance training by our associates (which is documented) and efforts by our Quality Function to continue to stress the importance of human rights through physical audits. In 2014, we did not identify any operations or suppliers at significant risk of incidents of child labor or young workers exposed to hazardous risk. We do have operations in geographic areas considered at risk for child labor, including China and India. If we find out that one of our suppliers is using child labor, we will take the appropriate steps necessary. (G4-HR5) Principle 6: Labour We believe the success of our employees and the success of our company go hand-in-hand. We are Businesses should uphold committed to a culture that leverages our employees' talents by promoting an environment where the elimination of people can make a difference, be heard, be supported, be developed and be rewarded for their discrimination in respect of contributions. We strive to make Ecolab a place where talented and capable people are inspired, employment and occupation motivated and fully engaged in their work. PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT Ecolab is committed to providing an effective performance-planning and development system providing employees and their managers with the tools and processes to help employees optimize their performance. All Performance Planning and Development (PP+D) tools are housed and accessible to all employees in nine languages, with the forms available in 25 languages. Ecolab strives to provide 100 percent of our employees, male and female and by all employee types, with an annual performance assessment, through a predefined, standardized and annual performanceappraisal process. The annual review is one of the tools found in the PP+D toolkit, with the expectation that all employees have an annual review. Annual reviews consist of three sections: 1) Past-year results summary 2) Objectives for new year 3) Coaching and development plan Annual reviews for calendar year 2013 performance were conducted in 2014, and 94 percent of Ecolab employees in the United States received an annual review in 2014. Seventy nine percent of employees in Asia Pacific and 87 percent of employees in Canada, 83 percent of employees in Latin America and 85 percent of employees in the Middle East and Africa received an annual review in 2014. (G4-LA11) ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY Ecolab complies with applicable labor and employment law and does not discriminate. Our recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, transferring, training, corrective action and termination practices are based exclusively on an individual’s qualifications and ability to perform the job. Only criteria which are relevant to the job are considered. Specifically, in order to maintain a work environment that is free from discrimination, all employment-related decisions must be made without regard to:  Gender  Race  Ethnic origin  Nationality  Sexual orientation  Gender identity  Religion  Age  Disability  Marital status  Veteran status  Other personal characteristics or conditions protected by national, state or local law Respect for others is fundamental to Ecolab’s culture. Disrespect can disrupt the productivity of our employees and threaten Ecolab’s success. To help ensure an environment of mutual respect, Ecolab does not tolerate any form of harassment or other intimidating behavior, including physical, emotional or verbal abuse. We prohibit any form of harassment, whether by an employee, a temporary employee or an external vendor, in which:  Submission to the harassment or abusive conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of employment;  Submission to, or rejection of, the harassment or abusive conduct is used as the basis for an employment decision; or  The harassment or abusive conduct has the purpose or effect of interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment. Violating this policy subjects an employee to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Ecolab has a proactive set of programs in place to ensure that we provide equal employment opportunities and encourage diversity and inclusion throughout our operations. Ecolab supports nine employee networks to foster employee development and connections. For a list of employee networks visit: http://www.ecolab.com/sustainability/commitment-tosustainability/people/workforce-development For additional employment data, refer to Ecolab’s 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report GRI G4 Index, disclosures G4-10, G4-EC5, G4-EC6, G4-LA9, G4-LA12. Robust Environmental Management Policies and Procedures Global Compact Principles Principle 7: Environment Our mission is to provide and protect what is vital: clean water, safe food, abundant energy and Businesses should support healthy environments. With this as our business focus, we operate at the nexus of the world’s most the precautionary approach critical business, environmental and social challenges. Our commitment to delivering sustainable to environmental challenges solutions has been core to our purpose for the past 90 years and remains the driving force behind our company’s business model. Our sustainability leadership is rooted in our enterprise-wide commitment to operational efficiency and environmental stewardship. We operate with respect for the environment and promote stewardship of natural resources through customer solutions and our own operations. As our company grows, entering new industries and geographies, minimizing the impact of our own operations is increasingly important. Fundamental to our purpose is an understanding that real and lasting change is accelerated when economic, social and environmental benefits align.  We partner with customers across industries, working side-by-side to address complex challenges: With a broad suite of technologies and unparalleled commitment to personally delivered service, we help customers across more than 40 diverse industries make lasting transformations to their operations – and in many cases, to surrounding communities – by improving performance, reducing costs and minimizing environmental impact.  We take a total impact approach to product and system development: We take a broad view of the full impact of each of our offerings. With a holistic view of the environmental, economic and social impact of our offerings, we consider how each of our solutions increases efficiency, minimizes use of natural resources, and improves safety – from sourcing to manufacturing to use and through disposal.  We’re committed to continuous improvement: Through our Create & Maintain Value (CMV) program, we employ our expertise and technology to continually find more ways to deliver strong business/operations results while saving water, energy and wastewater and prolonging equipment life, for our customers and throughout our own facilities. We do this with consideration for how the impact of our solutions extends beyond the operations/facilities we serve to local people and communities. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE GOALS Sustainability is core to Ecolab’s purpose. Stewardship of natural resources is an integral part of our operational and business strategy, from the way we run our plants and facilities to the products we develop and the way we serve our customers. In 2014, we reaffirmed and strengthened our commitment to environmental stewardship. We have a history of strong environmental performance and have made significant strides in recent years to reduce our environmental impact. We are holding our company to a higher standard with aggressive new global sustainability targets, including a 25 percent reduction in effluent discharge and waste, a 20 percent reduction in water use and a 10 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2017 from a 2012 baseline. We made incremental progress against our global sustainability targets in 2014, reducing total water use by 6.9 percent, GHG emissions by 7 percent, waste disposal by 6.7 percent and wastewater discharge by 2.7 percent from our 2012 baseline. Our strengthened focus on continued integration of systems and processes across our global footprint resulted in actionable strategies to achieve the new goals. With a global team deployed to improve operational efficiency and performance, we expect to make significant strides toward our sustainability goals in 2015. Our Global Safety Health & Environmental Position, released in 2013, is available at www.ecolab.com/sustainability/commitment-to-sustainability/people/committed-to-safety-and-health For specific information on Ecolab’s 2014 environmental performance and practices related to Principle 7 refer to refer to Ecolab’s 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report GRI G4 Index, disclosures G4-EN1, G4-EN3, G4-EN8, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN20, G4-EN21 Principle 8: Environment We apply the same continuous improvement model we use with our customers to improve our own Businesses should operations. Through our Create & Maintain Value (CMV) program, we employ our expertise and undertake initiatives to technology to save water, energy and wastewater and prolong equipment life throughout our facilities. promote greater We do this with an eye for how our impact extends beyond our operations to local people and environmental responsibility communities. In 2014, we completed 77 process improvement projects that delivered resource reduction outcomes across our global footprint. Our 2014 achievements are the result of an enterpriseand facility-level commitment to increasing the efficiency of our operations through action and investments that result in greater environmental stewardship. Examples of plant-specific projects in 2014 include the following:  In Burlington, Ontario, Canada, we updated steam condensate piping in our warehouse to reduce boiler system condensate water overflow, reducing natural gas use by 26,000 therms and saving 790,000 gallons of water.  Our plant in Celra, Spain, improved steam generation processes, reducing natural gas use by 8,000 therms and saving 800,000 gallons of water.  At our plant in Clearing, Illinois, we improved steam systems and cooling tower performance, reducing natural gas use by 63,000 therms and saving more than 17 million gallons of water.  Our plant in Joliet, Illinois, improved insulation of process heating piping and implemented a new boiler economizer, reducing natural gas use by 155,000 therms.  At our plant in Nieuwegein, Netherlands, we streamlined our steam pipes system, reducing natural gas use by 6,000 therms.  Our Schuman Campus in Eagan, Minnesota, the largest energy-consuming nonmanufacturing facility in our global operations portfolio, received recertification of its LEED GOLD status through September 2019. WATER STEWARDSHIP We actively seek to improve the use of water resources within our own operations and within the watersheds in which we operate. Our commitment extends beyond our operations to partnerships with thought leaders and leading organizations that support advancement of responsible use of the world’s limited fresh water resources to the benefit of nature, communities and business. Ecolab is a founding partner of the Alliance for Water Stewardship’s (AWS) International Water Stewardship Standard, a globally consistent and locally adaptable framework to inform decisions and encourage collective action to promote sustainable freshwater use. In April 2014, Ecolab joined nearly 30 leading organizations from across industries to launch the Standard. In 2014, we initiated programs to implement the framework at our own facilities. Our Taicang, China, plant, located in the Yangtze Taihu basin, outside of Shanghai, has been a pilot location for the Standard since 2013 and is one of the first facilities to seek certification under the AWS Standard. We expanded implementation to our Carson and City of Industry manufacturing plants in California, where extreme drought is impacting all water users. As a leading adopter of the Standard in this region, we partnered with AWS and the WWF to provide training to other local water users. We also collaborated with companies in the watershed to implement the Standard within their facilities and to identify ways to work together to further reduce our collective impacts. For specific information on Ecolab’s 2014 environmental performance and practices related to Principle 8 refer to Ecolab’s 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report GRI G4 Index, disclosures G4EN1, G4-EN2, G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN7, G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4-EN11, G4EN12, G4-EN13, G4-EN14, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN20, G4EN21, G4-EN22, G4-EN23, G4-EN24, G4-EN25, G4-EN26, G4-EN29, G4-EN32, G4-EN34 Principle 9: Environment With products and services touching people every day in nearly every corner of the world, we have a Businesses should responsibility to embed sustainability into every aspect of our innovations. We pay careful attention to encourage the development ingredient responsibility, human health and environmental impact, without compromising and diffusion of performance. environmentally friendly technologies Every Ecolab solution is developed with specific intention:  Informed by customer needs  Developed to solve particular challenges  Designed to conserve resources and help protect the environment We take a comprehensive look at the environmental, economic and social impacts of our product and service offerings and consider how each solution increases efficiency, minimizes the use of natural resources and improves safety—from sourcing to manufacturing, to use and disposal. From concentrated formulations and antimicrobial solutions to advanced monitoring and innovative packaging and dispensing methods, Ecolab leads the industry in developing new, effective solutions that help our customers drive operational efficiency, product quality, safety and compliance while minimizing environmental impact. We leverage our capabilities, expertise and technology throughout our enterprise. By applying learnings and technologies from one industry to another, we are meeting more customers’ needs for resource-saving solutions. Our health and safety procedures for product formulation start with raw materials. Our product safety team screens all raw materials for chemicals of concern and each raw material is reviewed for regional and global chemical inventory compliance. This process informs final product safety analysis and safety data sheets (SDSs) for all Ecolab products. Our Customer Impact Product Profile process evaluates products based on more than 20 attributes relating to human, environmental and societal impacts. Included in these considerations are environmental exposure, packaging and delivery systems, use of natural capital (water, energy and materials) and identification of disfavored ingredients globally. As a result, sustainability factors are included early in the development process to reduce the potential impacts of our products, from development through use and disposal. Our unwavering commitment to innovation brings new depth to our impact across the value chain each year. In 2014, we invested $197 million in Research, Development, resulting in more than 85 new product introductions, including solutions that further enhanced our ability to help customers achieve better results at a time when the desire and need to do more with less has never been more prominent. Examples include:  RenewIQ™: A comprehensive oilfield water management program that effectively cleans contaminants across a wide range of water applications. From fracturing water pretreatment and flowback reuse to impoundment and wellbore treatments, saltwater disposal wells and waterfloods, RenewIQ improves water quality without interfering with the activity of other oil and gas chemicals. Built on an oxidation technology platform, this solution is an effective, faster-acting alternative to traditional nonoxidizing chemistries resulting in residuals.  3D TRASAR™ Water Saver Technology: Targeting food and beverage processors and manufacturers, 3D TRASAR™ Water Saver Technology can reduce cooling tower blowdown up to 80 percent, saving millions of gallons of water annually. The technology maintains chiller system efficiency, extends asset life, reduces maintenance costs and chemical footprint and enhances employee safety through the elimination of acid traditionally used to keep the system clean.  SuperWash: A combination of innovative chemistry, world-renowned technical expertise and PARETO™ Mixing Technology provides on-site, custom-designed solutions that can increase pulp production and reduce costs for the paper industry. SuperWash improves operational efficiency by up to 20 percent, reduces chemical use by up to 30 percent, improves pulp quality and reduces energy use by up to 25 percent.  3D TRASAR™ Technology for Clean-In-Place (CIP): Designed for the food and beverage processing industry, this technology utilizes advanced sensors to monitor traced chemistry in CIP systems and provide more in-depth visibility to operational and food safety issues. The technology detects CIP system variances that can inform corrective actions to improve operational efficiency and enhance productivity while reducing water and energy use by minimizing wash times and helping identify opportunities to minimize the thermal energy necessary in CIP processes.  DryExx™ PRO: A water-efficient versatile conveyor lubricant for beverage operators that provides excellent lubrication in both wet and dry modes to enhance the mobility of PET and aluminum packages, promote line cleanliness and improve efficiency while enabling increased conveyor speeds and more throughput. In dry mode, DryExx™ PRO can eliminate water consumption for conveyor lubrication.  3D TRASAR™ Solid Cooling Water Program: 3D TRASAR™ Technology leverages solids technology and dispensing equipment to deliver a safe, simple and sustainable cooling water solution to facility managers. The result is water savings of up to 15 percent and reduced energy use while extending asset life and reducing total cost of operations. The use of solid chemistry reduces plastic waste by 94 percent when compared to traditional 5-gallon pails.  Syncra™: An automated, touch-free, water-and-soap delivery system for hand hygiene that follows a strict, yet adjustable, three-step process to ensure increased employee compliance, standardized hand-washing procedures and consistent results. This first-of-its-kind hand hygiene faucet uses 50 percent less water than traditional hand washing.  Nexa™ Hand Hygiene Dispenser and Concentrates: A new hand hygiene solution featuring a dispensing platform that makes it easier to promote good hand-washing practices and help reduce the spread of infectious diseases in healthcare, foodservice, hospitality, longterm care and commercial facilities. The dispenser is efficient, safe, simple and sustainable with a small storage footprint and improved battery life, antimicrobial protection on the push bar and a locking option. The hand hygiene solution includes a concentrated product (not available in healthcare), featuring color-coded badges and modular packing. It is diluted onsite in refillable bottles, offering a sealed system and in-chemistry preservatives helping to ensure safe and effective application time after time. Use of recyclable bottles reduces waste by up to 90 percent while reducing shipping costs and frequency. In 2014, our partnerships with customers led to exponential outcomes for businesses and the communities in which we operate. Examples include:  We helped ArcelorMittal save 2.2 billion gallons of water and $1.42 million by optimizing the boiler and cooling systems at its Galati steel Mill in Romania.  We helped a major gas-to-liquids refinery reduce unplanned shutdowns due to variable water quality, saving 184 million gallons of water over a 3-year period and delivering a 560 percent return on investment.  Implementation of Inspexx™ Inside Outside Bird Washer Water Recycling System helped GNP Company, a leading poultry company, save 68 million gallons of water and increase production capacity by 20 percent.  Our Clean-in-Place solution and water management technology helped Mengniu, a dairy company in China, reduce annual water use by 24 percent.  Our partnership with Sodexo resulted in savings of 65 million gallons of water and eliminated 4.5 million pounds of wastes across its U.S. operations.  We helped Berendsen, a leading textile services operator in Europe, reduce water use by 22 percent and costs by 19 percent, saving the company $13.5 million over the past four years.  Our Aquanomic Laundry Program helped Sangri-La Hotels save more than 360,000 gallons of water at its property in Taiwan.  Implementation of our OptiPro solutions helped a large medical center save more than 490,000 gallons of water and eliminate more than 800 pounds of plastic waste. Additional sustainable innovations launched in previous years include:  PARETO Mixing Technology: In 2014, we helped customers save an estimated 1.1 trillion BTUs globally through the use of our PARETO Mixing Technology, which enhances chemical performance by optimizing the injection of chemical additives into industrial-process streams. By allowing reuse of warmer process water in papermaking, papermakers avoid the need to heat water from freshwater temperature to process.  HVAC Performance Services (energy and air [CO2e]): In 2014, we helped customers in the United States save an estimated 126 million kWh and avoid 191 million lbs. of CO2e through our HVAC Performance Services. The goal of this program is to maintain HVAC systems at peak performance. Dirty coils and inefficient filters can reduce cooling capacity, causing cooling-comfort or production-climate-control problems while wasting energy and increasing the waste stream of filter disposal. Ecolab achieves these emissions reductions by cleaning cooling and heating coils using an innovative process that recovers the heat-transfer capabilities of the coils. On average, the cooling capacity of the system is improved by 50 percent (based on internal national energy data). This coil-cleaning service is backed up by energy audits that document cooling capacity improvements, including energy savings and carbon-footprint reduction due to improved heat transfer and increased airflow/lower pressure drop across the cooling/heating coils.  APEX: In 2014, we helped customers in the United States save an estimated 138 million kWh and avoid 215 million lb. of CO2e through the use of our APEX warewashing program. By using the APEX program, restaurant owners are able to minimize rewash while maintaining cleaning performance and operating at a lower wash temperature.  AQUANOMIC: In 2014, we helped customers in the United States save an estimated 402 billion BTUs and avoid 47 million lbs. of CO2e through the use of our Aquanomic laundry program. By using the Aquanomic program, lodging owners are able to reduce the number of rinse cycles while maintaining cleaning performance and operating at a lower wash temperature. REACH Ecolab is leading significant scientific and regulatory coalition work on REACH, the European Union’s Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals. Ecolab successfully met the 2013 REACH deadline, registering chemistries to maintain continuity of supply to our customers. It is Ecolab’s intent to comply fully with the REACH regulations. Our commitment includes securing the long-term future of important cleaning and sanitizing chemistries upon which customers can rely, helping customers understand their obligations under REACH, and working with suppliers to ensure that our expectations under REACH are understood. It is Ecolab’s intent to comply fully with the REACH regulation and to secure the long-term future of chemicals upon which customers can rely. Our commitment includes helping customers understand their obligations under REACH and working with suppliers to ensure that our expectations under REACH are understood. For more information, visit http://www.ecolab.com/sustainability/commitment-to-sustainability/product-responsibility/reach For specific information on Ecolab’s 2014 environmental performance and practices related to Principle 9 refer to refer to Ecolab’s 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report GRI G4 Index, disclosures G4-EN6, G4-EN7, G4-EN19. Robust Anti-Corruption Management Policies and Procedures Global Compact Principles Principle 10: AntiEcolab is committed to maintaining the highest ethical and leadership standards. Our Code of corruption Conduct and Anti-corruption Policy applies to 100 percent of our employees, contractors and Businesses should work subsidiaries. First adopted in 1976, our Code of Conduct serves as a guide for how to act and make decisions as an employee of Ecolab. The Code was last amended on November 29, 2012. The Code against corruption in all its of Conduct applies to all Ecolab officers, directors and employees, and is available in 20 languages. forms, including extortion and bribery Ecolab’s Anti-corruption Policy is communicated in numerous ways, including through the annual Code of Conduct training, which is mandatory for substantially all employees globally. Associates must complete Code of Conduct training on an annual basis (either online or through classroom-style training for plant employees). All governance body members are required to certify compliance with the Code of Conduct on an annual basis. In addition to the anti-corruption topics included within the annual Code of Conduct training, detailed anticorruption training is provided to the senior managers and sales leaders in all regions — Europe, MEA, Greater China, Asia Pacific and Latin America—both through face-to-face or WebEx training sessions and through on-line training. This same training is also provided global-business-unit managers, including the Energy Services business unit. Our Anti-corruption Policy applies to any agents, representatives, distributors or intermediaries who do business on our behalf. Ecolab employees must follow the Procedures for Dealing with Intermediaries, which can be found in our Anti-Corruption Policy, before retaining a third party who may have dealings with a government official on our behalf. Our Anti-corruption Policy requires most intermediaries outside the United States to sign anti-corruption representations, thus communicating our policies. In addition, in higher-risk countries, certain intermediaries have received training from company personnel. (G4-SO4) Ecolab has a Code of Conduct Help Line for associates who need assistance or wish to report a possible violation. The Help Line is toll-free and is answered 24 hours a day, seven days a week by an independent company that offers interpretation services in 150 languages. Callers have the option of remaining anonymous, subject to the terms and conditions of Ecolab’s policy and local law. Ecolab also has an on-line form available for anyone to use anonymously if they wish to submit complaints to the Ecolab Audit Committee of the Board of Directors regarding accounting, internal controls and other auditing matters, available at http://investor.ecolab.com/corporate-governance.cfm. Ecolab’s Anti-Corruption Policy also prohibits facilitating payments to government officials to expedite or secure the performance of routine government action. COMMERCIAL BRIBERY In addition to prohibiting bribery of government officials, Ecolab also prohibits bribery and corruption in our commercial dealings. Employees are prohibited from offering anything of value to, or accepting anything of value from, existing or potential customers, suppliers or other third parties to improperly obtain business or gain an unfair advantage for the Company. For additional information on Ecolab’s 2014 practices to support Principle 10 refer to refer to Ecolab’s 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report GRI G4 Index, disclosures G4-56, G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO6. CEO WATER MANDATE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORTING PERIOD: 1 JANUARY– 31 DECEMBER 2014 Direct Operations Sustainability is core to our purpose at Ecolab. Stewardship of natural resources is an integral part of our operational and business strategy, from the way we run our plants and facilities to the products we develop and the way we serve our customers. In 2014, we reaffirmed and strengthened our commitment to environmental stewardship. We have a history of strong environmental performance and have made significant strides in recent years to reduce our environmental impact. We are holding our company to a higher standard with aggressive new global sustainability targets, including a 25 percent reduction in effluent discharge and waste, a 20 percent reduction in water use and a 10 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2017 from a 2012 baseline. We made incremental progress against our global sustainability targets in 2014, reducing total water use by 6.9 percent, GHG emissions by 7 percent, waste disposal by 6.7 percent and wastewater discharge by 2.7 percent from our 2012 baseline. Our strengthened focus on continued integration of systems and processes across our global footprint resulted in actionable strategies to achieve the new goals. With a global team deployed to improve operational efficiency and performance, we expect to make significant strides toward our sustainability goals in 2015. Our Create and Maintain Value (CMV) approach —a continuous improvement process our sales engineers use at customer locations—remains a core strategy at our own facilities to identify best practices to reduce water use and wastewater discharge by installing state-of-the-art company technology. In 2014, we initiated CMV projects projected to reduce water use by more than 43 million gallons per year across our facilities. Ecolab is working to integrate technologies and processes into our facilities that increase water efficiency. Examples of plant-specific water-reduction projects in 2014 include the following:  Our Clearing, Ill., plant made improvements on its cooling towers, replaced steam traps, and made steam leak repairs that resulted in savings of more than 17 million gallons of water.  Our Celra, Spain, plant implemented various steam generation improvements throughout the plant that allowed for almost 800,000 gallons of water savings.  Our Burlington, Ontario, Canada, plant updated its steam condensate piping in an effort to reduce overflows in the steam boiler that resulted in savings of more than 790,000 gallons of water. Supply Chain and Ecolab undertakes an annual water-risk assessment to identify facilities that may operate within Watershed Management water stressed regions, both in the near and long term. The analysis is based upon combining our supply chain water consumption footprint and production metrics with water risk inputs provided by the WRI Aqueduct tool. Ecolab augments watershed risk and stress input from this tool with valuations from the Water Risk Monetizer Tool as a means to inform decisions at an operational level. In 2014, Ecolab created and launched the Water Risk Monetizer Tool, and has incorporated the risk premium and financial cost of water results from this tool into its overall analysis for determining whether any facilities in operation are exposed to water risks, either current and/or future, that could generate a substantive change in business, operations, revenue or expenditure. In 2014, we evaluated 118 manufacturing and campus/tech center facilities, representing 86 percent of our total global water-withdrawal footprint. This list of facilities was refined by using four primary criteria: an overall water-risk factor greater than 2.0 (e.g., medium to high risk and above) provided by the WRI Aqueduct Tool, a facility-to-total water use intensity ratio of greater than 0.20 percent, a water withdrawal per ton of production intensity ratio of greater than 2.30, and a 10 year water price escalation percentage of greater than 100 percent. Medium-to-High Overall Water Risk and above was selected as a preliminary filter to identify those sites operating in river basins subject to current and/or future water stress (inclusive of physical, quality, quantity, regulatory and reputational risks). We established the two internal indicators by quantifying the total water-withdrawal intensity for each site and established a threshold coverage of greater than 95 percent for our facilities; as a result, any sites that have a withdrawal factor of less than 0.20 percent would be excluded based on their materiality to business operations. Similarly, we calculated an enterprise wide water-withdrawal-toproduction-intensity factor and set the threshold for sites to include in our analysis at those sites that are greater than the average of 2.30. Finally, we are now including the insight available through the Water Risk Monetizer tool which quantifies the impact of water scarcity on a facility in monetary terms resulting in a 10 year projected risk premium to the current price a facility pays for its water today. The water risk premium, when added to the local price a business pays for water, quantifies the value a business should place on water based on real and future risk related to water scarcity. Using this tool, we identified facilities that have a projected risk premium greater than 100 percent of current water costs within 10 years. Our analysis found that there are Ecolab facilities that operate in regions with a defined level of water stress, however only eight facilities representing 10.8 percent of our total water consumption and 7.3 percent of our total production operate in river basins with current and/or future defined water stress and could be affected by Ecolab’s withdrawal of water. As such, we believe our water-related risk threshold remains low and is diversified across our global portfolio of production facilities. Collective Action Ecolab collaborates with nonprofits and nongovernmental organizations to advance new solutions and standards for responsible water management, and to build awareness of the environmental impacts of industry. Founding partner of the Alliance for Water Stewardship Ecolab is a founding partner of the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS). Since 2010, Ecolab has dedicated resources, expertise and practical application of principles to assist in the development, launch and implementation of the AWS International Water Stewardship Standard, a global framework to promote sustainable freshwater use. In April 2014, Ecolab joined nearly 30 leading organizations from across industries to launch the Standard. Throughout 2014 we initiated programs to implement the framework at our own facilities. Our Taicang, China, plant, located in the Yangtze Taihu basin, outside of Shanghai, has been a pilot location for the Standard since 2013 and is one of the first facilities to seek certification under the AWS Standard. We expanded implementation to our Carson and City of Industry manufacturing plants in California, where extreme drought is impacting all water users. As a leading adopter of the Standard in this region, the company partnered with AWS and the WWF to provide training to other local water users. The work included collaboration with companies in the watershed to implement the Standard within their facilities and to identify ways to work together to further reduce our collective impacts. Ecolab’s 2014 commitment to water stewardship included a $300,000 partnership with WWF to advance the company’s three-year water stewardship partnership to promote implementation of the AWS Standard and implement solutions to protect Taihu Lake, China. $2 million commitment to The Nature Conservancy In 2014, Ecolab committed $2 million through the Ecolab Foundation to The Nature Conservancy, a leading conservation organization working to protect the lands and waters on which all life depends. The partnership supports The Nature Conservancy’s Securing and Restoring Water Sources Around the Globe initiative. The support is part of Ecolab’s newly launched Solutions for Life program, which enhances the company’s work to conserve water and improve hygiene around the world through new partnerships, global philanthropy and employee volunteerism. This three-year commitment to The Nature Conservancy expands upon Ecolab’s 25 years of support for the organization’s work in Minnesota and, for the first time, focuses on water conservation globally, with initial projects in China and Mexico. The grant supports:  land and water conservation activities in Minnesota;  strategies to protect water resources in Shanghai, where more than 24 million people depend largely on the Yangtze River for their water needs; and  expanded efforts in the metropolitan area of Monterrey, Mexico, to reforest and implement other conservation methods to help slow the flow of water upstream from the city and provide clean water for Monterrey. Introduced Water Risk Monetizer As a company with deep expertise in water management, and in-depth understanding of the issues facing companies across industries, Ecolab is committed to helping all water users better understand, evaluate and take action to mitigate their water related risks in order to ensure business success and the availability of the world’s fresh water supply for future generations. In 2014, Ecolab partnered with Trucost, the global leader in valuing natural capital, to develop the Water Risk Monetizer. The Water Risk Monetizer’s methodology and modeling approach is informed by an advisory group of experts who provided invaluable advice and counsel throughout the development process. While Ecolab and Trucost alone take full responsibility for the content and calculations of the Water Risk Monetizer, the advisors’ input is greatly appreciated and critical to the tool’s functionality. The advisory group members included:  Andrew Boyd, Director, Sustainability and Environment for Integrated Supply Chain, Mondelez  International  Eric Israel, (former) Director, GRI North America, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  Jerry Lynch, Chief Sustainability Officer, General Mills  P.R.P. Ramakrishnan, Area Director, Engineering, Marriott International  Paul Reig, Associate, Water Program, World Resources Institute (WRI)  Tien Shiao, (former) Senior Associate, Food Forest and Water Program, Corporate Water Risk, WRI  Ellen Silva, Sr Manager, Global Sustainability, General Mills The Water Risk Monetizer is a financial modeling tool that provides a new way for businesses to incorporate water risks into business decisions by helping businesses understand the full value of water to their operations and assess business value at risk. This online tool is available to the public at no cost, it’s easy to use and it provides valuable, actionable information. The tool is designed to drive more informed decisions around water use, management and conservation. The tool is helping change the way companies value and manage water to reduce global water use, enable business growth despite water scarcity and drive demand for transformational water-saving innovation. It is a game-changer for industry that aims to help businesses succeed and ensure that limited fresh water supplies are available for future generations. In partnership with the Trucost, advisory group members and Ecolab customers, Ecolab leverages the Water Risk Monetizer to support collective action toward more responsible stewardship of the world’s limited fresh water sources. Public Policy Ecolab works with policy makers to identify and support key programs and policy agendas that would improve water quality and water efficiency. We also support the development and voluntary implementation of international water standards to improve water stewardship and mitigate operational risks associated with water. In addition, we lend our expertise to help shape global standards, partnering with key industry groups to define and implement product responsibility best practices and voluntary standards. At the United States federal level, we have sought to advance provisions to support innovation to drive water and energy efficiency improvements. Legislation passed in 2014 includes provisions on industrial energy efficiency and energy management, including water efficiency solutions for industry through the United States Department of Energy (DOE). Additional efforts continue through the development of an energy bill in the House and Senate that would focus on the industrial sector and gains that could be achieved through increased water efficiency. Ecolab also chairs a water-energy nexus subcommittee in the Alliance to Save Energy that has led to our participation in roundtable discussions with the Secretary of Energy to advance water efficiency associated with the production of power. Ecolab is a member of the “Environment Technologies Trade Advisory Committee,” which advises the United States Secretary of Commerce on trade competitiveness issues facing United States environmental solutions providers. Ecolab will be seeking to enhance our participation in the United States Department of Commerce online Environmental Toolkit, which will share our most recent solutions with foreign environmental officials and customers attempting to tackle water scarcity and water quality concerns in their respective countries. As part of this committee, we are contributing to the on-going efforts between the United States and the European Union to implement a free-trade agreement, known as the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. In 2014 Ecolab sought out and participated in trade missions and engaged in dialogue with decisionmakers in China and India on the topic of water management and water scarcity. Community Engagement Ecolab is an industry leader in the area of water stewardship. Our 45,000 associates work hard to drive positive economic and sustainable impacts through our customers, operations and the communities in which we operate. We work within our company to strengthen operations, supply chains, customer and supplier relationships, and to continue to earn a positive reputation. Building on Ecolab's longstanding commitment to our communities, in 2014, the Ecolab Foundation's giving program extended globally through the introduction of Solutions for Life. The new signature global giving program enhances our mission to conserve water and improve hygiene around the world through collaborations with non-governmental organizations, global philanthropy and employee volunteerism. In 2014, Ecolab announced an initial commitment of $3.5 million over the next three years to support Solutions for Life initiatives. Initial partnerships include:  The Nature Conservancy: Through the “Securing and Restoring Water Sources Around the Globe” program, Ecolab supports new and ongoing conservation efforts to protect water resources in Minnesota; Shanghai, China; and Monterrey, Mexico.  Project WET Foundation: Through the co-created “Clean and Conserve” Education Program, Ecolab and Project WET aim to reach more than two million people with hands-on learning activities to improve water conservation and hygiene practices around the world. Transparency Ecolab is committed to transparency in how we report our environmental performance and in how we measure and document the sustainability benefits we provide to customers. In addition to our annual Communication on Progress, Ecolab’s comprehensive 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report (GRI Index), for reporting period 1 January through 31 December 2014, has been completed in alignment with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative’s new G4 framework. We report on many water-related performance indicators as part of that communication, including EN8, EN9 and EN10 in our 2013 Corporate Sustainability Report GRI Index available at http://www.ecolab.com/sustainability/sustainability-reports. For 2014, Ecolab advanced its dedication to transparency by completing third-party verification by Bureau Veritas North America (BNVA) of its publicly reported 2014 Global Water withdrawal in accordance with Bureau Veritas Assurance Procedures and International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (basis for Bureau Veritas assurance procedures). GHG Reporting Protocols against which verification was conducted include the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the WRI/WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Based on the verification process and procedures conducted, BVNA found no evidence that the Water withdrawal assertion is not materially correct; is not a fair representation of the Water withdrawal data and information; and is not prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (basis for Bureau Veritas assurance procedures), and for Corporate Reporting on Carbon and Water on Behalf of Investors and Supply Chain Members. It is in BVNA’s opinion that Ecolab has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data for determination of Water withdrawal for the stated period and boundaries. We also completed the Carbon Disclosure Project Water Information Request in 2014, as well as again in 2015. Additional information is available in our CDP online submission, available at cdp.net. Externally, Ecolab’s eROI program measures and documents the resource savings we provide to customers through our innovative solution across a comprehensive set of sustainability categories that include water, energy and waste. By linking environmental and social metrics to cost savings, we demonstrate the triple-bottom-line benefits of sustainability, and help customers track their own progress toward their internal water goals. eROI also helps to catalyze our internal research and development efforts by measuring Ecolab’s full impact across the industries that we serve and identifying new opportunities to help solve sustainability challenges for our customers, many of which are water-related.
