UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS REPORT BY GENERATION ALLIANCE PTY LTD FOR THE PERIOD 22 JULY 2014 – 23 JULY 2015 CONTENTS 1. Introduction and statement of continued commitment 2. Embedding the Ten Principles into our organisation Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption 3. Supporting our community Cover Image: by David Faulks (2014). ZSTC facility, Stonetown, Zanzibar (Tanzania). Project: Brand development of Zanzibar Exotic Originals – a joint initiative of Gen.a, the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and the International Trade Centre (ITC) 1 INTRODUCTION AND STATEMENT OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT Generation Alliance Pty Ltd (Gen.a) is proud to be a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and a member of the Global Compact Network Australia (GCNA). This Communication on Progress Report demonstrates our continued support for the Global Compact and its Ten Principles. Since 2009, Gen.a has been a signatory to the United Nation’s Global Compact, a foundation member of the GCNA Steering Committee and until recently, a Board member. We are a small business committed to social development and compliance with the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Within Australia, our business has played a leadership role in helping to promote the work of the GCNA and the value of the Global Compact to small businesses, particularly within the creative industries sector. We also actively promote the Ten Principles of the UNGC through our work with international clients, particularly in Africa. I have pleasure in presenting our 2015 Communication on Progress. David Faulks Managing Director 23 July 2015 2 EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION This section details Gen.a commitment to the UNGC’s Ten Principles across areas including human rights, the environments, labour and anti-corruption. In 2014 and 2015, Gen.a has actively furthered its commitment to the Ten Principles through numerous activities, procedures and systems. Gen.a intends to continue and develop this commitment over the next 12 months. In our 2014/15 Business Plan goals, we have made specific commitment to ensure we work with clients that are engaged in international development agenda and the principles of the UNGC. As strategic brand and communications consultants we have worked with international clients and stakeholders including the African Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), Vietnamese Government, the World Bank Group and the Australian Government’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Our Managing Director, has also provided pro-bono consulting services to the UNHCR (Australia) senior management on their communications strategy. 2 EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION Gen.a is committed to embedding the principles of the UNGC in their everyday business. Below is a summary of our progress and development over the past 12 months working towards the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. HUMAN RIGHTS –Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and – Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Gen.a – Supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights – Acknowledges the Traditional Custodians and the present Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people who reside in this area. – Is committed to maintaining and supporting the health and safety of all employees, contractors and visitors. Examples 1. Through a joint initiative with the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and the International Trade Centre (ITC), Gen.a developed a sectoral brand strategy, new identity and premium packaging for Zanzibar’s largest export industry, cloves. Aligned with Aid for Trade principles, the outcomes of the project will help reduce poverty by delivering greater value and returns to farmers and producers in Zanzibar. 2. Gen.a has provided high-level strategic advice to the Kenya Tea Board on how to increase the value of returns to Kenyan tea farmers and producers through premium branding and packaging. 3. As part of a World Bank initiative, Gen.a has worked on the creation of a country brand for The Gambia with the aim of increasing international perception and addressing human rights record, to increase investment, visitation and export potential. 4. In consultation with WIPO, Gen.a has provided high-level strategic brand advice to the Vietnamese Government related to the branding and marketing of Da Lat Province’s cut flower industry, with the aim of delivering higher value to returns to the community. 5. Gen.a has provided high-level strategic advice to the Botswana Investment & Trade Centre (formerly Botswana Export Development and Investment Authority) related to leverage their national brand strategy to deliver greater value back to the people of Botswana. 6. Gen.a was a contributor to the ‘Using Intellectual Property to Sustain Sport: Guidelines and Tools’ Report commissioned by WIPO in response to requests from member states, particularly in developing countries, for a sustained approach in guiding national undertakings for the formulation of strategies on supporting the sport industry. 7. Through a joint initiative between the Australian Government’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Westpac, Gen.a has provided design and editorial services to a new initiative around encouraging women in the Pacific to engage in business and finance projects. 8. Gen.a provided high-level strategic branding advice to WIPO in relation to maximizing the economic value of Rastafarian culture in Jamaica. 9. Through our working relationship with Nairobi-based local partner, Eny Heri, Gen.a provided advice to Nairobi City County related to the impact of corruption on economic performance and reputation. 10.Gen.a has provided initial advice to UNHCR (Australia) on maximizing their impact through strategic communications. 2 EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION Measurement of outcomes – Code of Conduct developed to deal with abuses of human rights, no reports registered. – No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to report. LABOUR – Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; – Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; – Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; and – Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Gen.a Has systems in place to monitor and manage labour rights issues within the business. – Creates a safe and secure workplace for employees. –S  upports the elimination of employment discrimination, child labour and forced labour. – Committed to ensuring comparable pay for comparable work. – Is committed to the development of principles to support employment conditions in the coming year. Examples 1. As per 1. To 10. above under Human Rights. 2. Through a joint initiative between the Australian Government’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Westpac, Gen.a has provided design and editorial services to a new initiative around encouraging women in the Pacific to engage in business and finance projects. 3. Implementation of an internal Code of Conduct ensures that employees understand their rights, responsibilities, compensations and benefits. 4. Regular internal discussions with employees about topical human rights and labour issues and suggestions to improve the business and support mechanisms. 5. A commitment of 10% of profits to low-bono and pro – bono work with clients who encourage businesses to work in ways which support the UNGC’s 10 principles. Measurement of outcomes – Significant support for gender equality in the workplace – 75% of fulltime employees are female. – Introduction of intern policy – ensuring a good representation of age groups within the business. – No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to report. 2 EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION ENVIRONMENT – Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; – Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and – Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Gen.a – Is committed to reducing the impact of its operations and services on the environment. – Is committed to the ongoing measurement and monitoring of environmental initiatives and protocol within the business. – Aims to continue to reduce its impact on the environment in the coming year. Examples – Purchasing of recycled paper products (including paper towels, printing paper, toilet paper etc.) – Recycling and proper disposal of printer cartridges, excess electrical equipment and e-waste. – A preference to work with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified printers wherever possible. – Development of car-pooling programs and walk to work incentives for employees. – Election to pay the carbon-offset surcharge (i.e. when travelling). – Participation in an internal clothes recycling project “Exchange for Change.” Measurement of outcomes – Quarterly reports on recycling of cartridges and office products, from Close the Loop – total of 21.36 kg of waste diverted from landfill in Australia. – Internal awareness of environmental awareness tested through weekly WIP sessions for all staff. – No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to report. ANTI-CORRUPTION – Principle 10 – Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Gen.a – Is committed to high standards of personal, ethical and professional conduct. – Supports the UN Convention Against Corruption. – Will continue to develop its support against corruption in the next year. Examples – Code of Conduct enforced for all employees, suppliers and contractors to maintain ethical and professional standards within the business. Measurement of outcomes – No reports of corruption, extortion or bribery within the business through internal issues management mechanism. – No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to report. 3 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITY In 2014/15 Gen.a continued its commitment to social development and community support locally and internationally. The following examples demonstrate Gen.a’s belief in the Ten Principles and the impact of this within our local community over the past 12 months. UNHCR (Australia) Our Managing Director, David Faulks, has recently donated pro bono communications support to the senior management at UNHCR. Volunteering Support Gen.a supports employees who wish to volunteer their time and make a difference in the local community. This commitment is outlined in Gen.a’s internal Code of Conduct. Exchange for Change Gen.a employees hold a regular clothing swap and make a donation to the charity of their choice including the Australian Red Cross and Sydney Children’s Hospital.
