Sustainability Report Communication on Progress We are the change we want to see in other people! COP 2014 2015 Contents About INSOFT 4 Stakeholders6 Clients and partners 6 Employees7 Leading responsibly a dynamic and growing business 8 Strategic leadership 9 Principles of social responsibility 10 Profitable and transparent business development  11 Commitment to satisfying customers’ needs –our priority 12 Respect for partners 12 Support for disadvantaged groups 12 Responsible attitude towards the community and the environment 13 Performance, development and merits recognition of the employees 13 Anti-corruption14 CSR – key areas of involvement 15 Education16 Research & development and academic support  16 Education projects  17 Internal training program 17 Labor market access 18 Environment  19 Certifications19 Recycling  20 Environment projects  20 Events  20 Charitable activities 21 Plans for the future  22 2 “Sustainability is one of the concepts defining our activity, and a strong driving force for our business. INSOFT team shares Global Compact’s values and objectives, maintaining through all our actions, an ongoing commitment to the organization’s principles. Our sustainability efforts grew up together with our business, trying constantly to focus on areas where we can have the most impact and can make the most significant difference. Through our sustainability strategy, we will continue to achieve outstanding results on our way to respect all our commitments.” Cristian Aciubotăriței – CEO & Founder of INSOFT Development & Consulting 3 About INSOFT INSOFT Development & Consulting is an IT company, Last years INSOFT has substantially increased its valuing young talents and focusing on achieving market share, and in order to explore emerging positive results for the final beneficiaries. The opportunities and to differentiate ourselves from company aspires to include innovation and to achieve other similar suppliers, we focused on attracting excellence in all the developed projects, succeeding European funds and investments in R&D projects. to increase substantially in a short period of time. Thus, INSOFT is developing 5 R&D projects partially INSOFT is one of the largest systems integrators in funded by EU programs. These projects bring new Romania. The company provides, nationally and products in the company’s portfolio: 2 products in the internationally, advanced IT solutions in different eEducation suite, an eHealth platform and an UAV areas: governmental, educational, health, emergency, based solution for the critical infrastructure and large labor market, research and innovation and business. energy distribution networks monitoring. The company had an impressive increase of the sales and turnover reaching 31.9 mln euro in 2014. An investment of 11 mil USD has been made for By diversifying the range of projects implemented one of the main R&D projects developed in the during 2014, the company has confirmed its status of region – CREVIS project. This project will include a a complete IT systems integrator. unique Center of Excellence for remote monitoring by means of augmented and virtual reality of the critical We followed an extensive process of internal infrastructures and people training as well. Eleven reorganization that helped us to improve our partners from both, business and academic areas are efficiency while maintaining high quality standards involved. in providing IT products and services. Our team has grown to 150 specialists, each member contributing Innovation is the concept we build our framework to the development of outstanding IT solutions with around, a beneficial approach for our company, final high impact potential in one of the most competitive beneficiaries, industry and society as a whole. national and international market. The efficient management and continuous development are among Although we have already generated value added by the key elements of any successful project. The deep the used technologies and implemented projects, we understanding of each project requirements, a sound are aware there is more we can do. That’s why social methodology, coherent procedures and services’ and environmental risks are treated as business quality standards are the fundamentals of our strategic risks and are evaluated regularly as a part of business approach and elements differentiating us the risk management process. from the competitors. 4 INSOFT takes its first steps in implementing a strategy The following report shows the impact that contributing at local community life improvement INSOFT has had on the Romanian society, namely and our CSR policy, guides our progress. We believe the customers, employees, business partners, that setting a good example is the greatest benefit that communities it belongs and the environment. This might inspire other organizations, companies and report launches new challenges for us as a company individuals to increase the efforts and performance and for other companies in Romania showing the level concerning the social and environmental effects of implementation of CSR policies and how responsibility. they contribute to the company’s efficiency growth. By joining the UN Global Compact we undertook the long term commitment in implementing and promoting the universal principles covering human rights, labor and environmental protection, anticorruption and ethical behavior in business. 5 Stakeholders Customers, partners and employees appreciate Our CSR policy proves the stakeholders, we share INSOFT’S dedication to serve the social environment. their own values, this fact improving our business This engagement generates a sense of pride and and social relationship focusing our joint efforts on accomplishment and often leads to further additional creating together a better world. actions for the communities they live in and their personal lives improvement. Clients and partners We are interested to develop cooperative, mutually INSOFT team understands and anticipates clients’ beneficial relationships with our clients and partners. and partners’ needs, thus responding promptly to The INSOFT team does its best to offer its clients their requests. We like taking challenges and we the high level quality products, developed on the provide innovative solutions, thus, becoming our basis of the latest technologies in order to answer client’s long-term partners in implementing successful professionally to their business needs. In this regard projects. we focus on innovation and establishing long-term partnerships with top suppliers, whose expertise can We recognize our clients’ and partners’ contribution bring added-value to the projects we develop. We are to our business success; that is why we treat them committed to provide the highest level of professional with respect and honesty. We always try to establish excellence in developing complex IT solutions. win-win relationships in order to build long-term partnerships. 6 Employees Our success relies on the knowledge, creativity, We developed a health benefits program, our integrity, skills and teamwork of all the INSOFT employees taking advantages of private health services. employees. In order to ensure a productive workplace This program is available to all our employees. In we focus on creating an environment rewarding the addition, we offer a pleasant work environment and commitment and performance, being responsive to in this respect we established a recreational space the employees’ needs. We support all the employees in featuring tennis tables. Once a year we organize an achieving their full potential and encourage them to internal table tennis championship. We encourage fulfil their professional development needs. healthy hobbies and sport practicing among employees promoting them by means of our internal Newsletter. Our main objective is to create a team of young, innovative, technology enthusiast professionals. The employees’ dedication is fundamental in achieving That is why our team is composed of highly trained our sustainability goals. In this effect we ensure an and experienced people, who help us to efficiently ongoing, clear and open communication program just deliver first class solutions to our clients. More than to be certain they know what our main objectives are 80% of the team is represented by people with a and their important role in the company. strong background in software development, project management and implementation. In addition, INSOFT is certified according to international standards requirements. The company is We actively promote gender equality. That’s why SR OHSAS 18001: 2008 certified for the management from the total number of the employees, 39.5%, are system of occupational health and safety. The standard women. We encourage equal opportunities for both, SR OHSAS 18001: 2008 (Occupational Health and women and men, women having unlimited access to Safety Assessment Series) represents the alignment of all available management positions in the company. INSOFT to a management standard concerning the Moreover, we discourage the discrimination of occupational health and safety, creation of a unique the persons with disabilities by facilitating their framework for the occupational risks removal, the access through special designed ramps, by adapting identification and assessment of the occupational the workplace to their needs and assuring close-by hazards. parking spaces. 7 Leading responsibly a dynamic and growing business Corporate responsibility is embedded in our strategy of business. Consequently, as strategic leaders, we have an additional set of challenges, we have to create inspiring opportunities and translate them into productive methods of working. We share a vision of innovation. Strategic changes are one of the most central concerns of the company. We are articulating this vision by all our social actions, trying to mobilize and support others to develop and reach their full potential for achieving change. INSOFT believes that these activities are beneficial to society and strengthen corporate value leading to a more prosperous and healthy community. 8 Strategic leadership We are constantly adapting to the challenges of doing business in a global environment and our entire management team is involved in leading successfully a business that is very rapidly expanding. We implement major projects and initiatives based on consideration of resources and an assessment of the internal and external environment in which we compete. Our vision on changes involves tactics of communication, management, motivation and involvement of the INSOFT team, partners and customers. A well-formulated, implemented and sustained change strategy, helps us to draw up a clear company policy. Developing a successful business requires an analytical perspective on the dimensions of the development stages, of allocated people, time and funds. By the efforts of the INSOFT strategic support team, our company has set a successful business model and the results followed swiftly. The tone at the company top, defines the management commitment toward an efficient mechanism against bribe, corruption, frauds or law violation. This approach has become a matter of policy within the company. We are dedicated to implement an efficient risk management, and our entire management team has zero-tolerance to any inappropriate action that might affect the company, the employees, our partners or clients. 9 Principles of social responsibility The INSOFT organizational culture defines a business the highest quality standards, to respect our partners model built on ethical values as our actions, decisions and collaborators, to have a constant responsible and behavior will always feature respect, integrity, attitude towards the community and the environment transparency, honesty and trust. INSOFT is committed and to support by all means the development of our to the highest ethical standards in every aspect of the employees and teamwork. business. We try to integrate the ethical behavior into all our business activities. We encourage each employee to respect the INSOFT ethical values and the main principles that guide our Our Code of Ethics is based on these values and on strategy. Ethics is part of our corporate branding 5 principles – to manage a profitable and transparent and we require that every employee of the company business, to satisfy our customers’ needs by applying commit to this value. Respect Code of Ethics Development Responsability Our values Quality 10 Profitable and transparent business development In a challenging and unpredictable market, we INSOFT is complying with the anti-corruption aim to achieve performance and contribute to the regulations and strongly believes in the rule of law. Our improvement of the IT&C domain. By all our internal company will always condemn any act of corruption or procedures we support a transparent communication, other form of deviation from the law. All the activities both within the company as well as with the external we undertake and all the projects we implement are stakeholders. always in accordance with our company’s ethic values and the legislation in force. We consider transparency as being one of the main elements of a successful business, and we focus on Our development benchmarks include practices communicating efficiently our business goals and such as: accountability, integrity and transparency. achievements. We also value integrity and honesty, They guide us when we make decisions, formulate and believe that these are also important elements development policies and strategies for projects for managing a sustainable business in today’s global implementation. market. 11 Commitment to satisfying customers’ needs –our priority It is our commitment to offer products and services In order to achieve this goal, we resort to a classical but at the highest level of quality in order to meet our still vital instrument when building our development customers’ needs at all times. We are in a continuous strategy besides the financial, social and structural process of thoroughly monitoring, analyzing and benefits, our customers enjoy the opportunity improving our internal procedures as well as our to develop a partnership based on initiative, external delivery processes in order to best adapt responsibility, sustainability and transparency. and come up with the most effective and innovative solutions to our customers’ requests and promptly In the same spirit of sustainable relationships respond to any challenges. development, we offer our customers assistance prior to developing a project by identifying their Long-term partnerships are built in time and are based specific needs, accompanying them in all stages of on honesty and respect. In order to create, maintain the deployment and providing post implementation and strengthen relationships with customers and maintenance services, intervening whenever they other business partners, we focus our activities on a need support. long-term horizon of action, involving, in this regard, all the company departments. Respect for partners We always focus on establishing long-term partnerothers: partners, suppliers and customers, respect ships that rely on a clearly defined and commonly for the community and authorities, respect for the shared set of values. We believe that equal rights, employees and our own shareholders. Avoiding respect, mutual confidence and knowing each conflicts and discrimination, sustaining transparent other’s strengths and weaknesses are one of the key communication, confidentiality, fair competition, elements in building sustainable and successful discipline, common values, diversity, dignity and national and international partnerships. By the human rights are the pillars that make our company a policies INSOFT promotes, we adhere to the Code reliable long-term partner. of Business Conduct and claim the respect for the Support for disadvantaged groups INSOFT solutions bring added value to the social These customized solutions are user friendly, based environment and promote performance and on the customers’ specific needs and developed in the excellence, consequently reducing the digital gap and respect of international standards (for example the supporting e-Inclusion. All the solutions we develop web based eLearning solution is SCORM compatible, and implement are easily accessible even to users and integrates highly interactive content that is with little IT&C literacy. adapted for adults, students, pupils etc.). 12 Responsible attitude towards the community and the environment We are aware of the environmental and social Thus, we contribute to an efficient solution of the challenges the modern society is facing. That is why social and environmental problems, through a we get involved in solving some of these challenges. proactive approach; we encourage the development Focusing on an open communication and being in and implementation of environmentally friendly a close relationship with the community, trying to equipment and technologies. contribute to its development and engaging in finding solutions for the current social problems represent a We organize campaigns in support of society education continuous challenge for us. for a clean and healthy environment, promote balance and moderation in the use of natural resources; in Integrating the principles and recommendations of the same spirit, we formulate public policies that we the international institutions, the rules and regulations share with the employees, partners and customers to of national institutions and local administrative support a “desirable corporate behavior”. decisions in our development policy is an essential component of our business vision. Performance, development and merits recognition of the employees The success of the developed projects is made possible The concepts of “lifelong education” and “personal thanks to the experience, professionalism and development” include activities helping to develop outstanding quality of the INSOFT team. We insist practical skills of communication, networking, on the professional and personal development of socializing, professional skills upgrade, creativity each one of us and in this regard we encourage and and motivation. Thus, by the trainings, workshops facilitate the participation in continuous trainings and and teambuildings we organize, we help our specific educational programs. employees to define better their vocation, establish priorities, motivate themselves, learn new practices INSOFT action program in support of the lifelong in their professional areas, improve skills they have education and development of its personnel has and develop new skills. Furthermore, we have a several directions integrating principles of respect of psychologist within our team, to offer the employees human rights, namely the right to education, freedom support and counselling, regarding their career plan of expression and association. and professional development. In this regard, we contribute to the elimination of We perform in a challenging environment, the all forms of forced labor, fight against all forms of importance of the teamwork being essential for all discrimination, facilitate and promote the employment involved parties success. Therefore we are concerned of people with disabilities, organize professional and that each employee has been given the opportunity personal development courses. to achieve his personal and professional goals contributing this way to the accomplishment of the companies’ objectives. 13 Anti-corruption Corruption is not a peripheral social concern that The fight against corruption is an important issue that corporations can ignore or passively address — it is businesses need to address promptly and efficiently. a bottom-line business issue that influences directly and negatively the companies’ ability to compete fairly That is why INSOFT is committed not just to fight on the market. against corruption and fraud but to support by all means honest business and fair human resource Furthermore, it produces imbalances in the economy, practices by implementing specific procedures within in the detriment of the population, by diverting the company. We condemn any corrupt behavior and resources allotted to critical areas like education, social develop the necessary mechanisms to prevent any services and health care, to dishonest groups of people dishonest activity undertaken by our team members, or organizations that use the financial resources for partners or suppliers. their personal benefit. Thus we will continue to: • Ensure compliance with ethical standards • Provide transparent information through programs increasing our level of regarding the sponsorships we choose integrity throughout all business lines and to make based on our business and departments; communication strategy, and avoid any conflict of interest by selecting carefully the • Strengthen preventive actions discouraging beneficiaries and monitoring the process any corrupt behavior within the company to ensure that the funds/products/services and strongly recommend our employees are used for the intended and approved to promote corruption zero-tolerance and purposes; disclose it in any situation; • Take immediate corrective actions • Commit to fight against any corruption whenever any corruptive or dishonest risks that might be generated by public behavior has been identified within our tenders, procurement procedures or contract team, on the “supply side” (suppliers) or the processes of large-scale projects that are “demand side” (beneficiaries). designed to support sustainable development; 14 CSR – key areas of involvement INSOFT’s corporate social responsibility activities Our CSR strategy prioritizes the issues that are most reflect its philosophy of implementing sound important to our business and to our stakeholders. business practices: innovative products and services We implemented various educational projects and and inspiring content development. Assisting the having acquired the necessary know-how in this field, communities in which we operate and helping to we succeeded to improve our CSR activity. Our CSR shape a better, more sustainable society are core agenda focuses mainly on educational projects and values that guide our actions. As the company moves environment initiatives, because our lines of business forward in strengthening its development strategies at are targeting these domains. all levels and achieving its business targets, it will also continue to promote bold initiatives, including in its CSR agenda. 15 Education We are making all the efforts to have a positive impact eLearning business line is one of the most profitable in the community, so we got involved in a series of departments within the company. That is why we educational projects that help us achieve our goal to want to return to the society a part of the profit, in improve our society by long lasting sustainable and terms of added value, including our knowledge and durable actions. Our interest for getting involved in expertise in developing modern educational resources educational projects is a direct result of the fact that the addressed to various groups of final beneficiaries. Research & development and academic support In order to consolidate our capacity to deliver better INSOFT sustained the 11th International Colloquium products, based on high end technology, we run a on Theoretical Aspects of Computing – ICTAC 2014, series of research and development activities for the gathering practitioners, researchers, academicians, existing products, services, systems and processes industry and governmental representatives. They improvement. submitted their research outcomes and exchanged ideas and experience addressing challenges in The research and development department activity is both, theoretical aspects of computing and theory one of the key components in providing high quality exploitation in systems development. Another standards and in innovative services development conference purpose was to promote research complying with our clients’ needs. This approach cooperation and education between participants and encourages us to support different academic initiatives organizations they belong to. in order to promote new technologies generating positive impact for the future development. In 2014, ICTAC Colloquium took place in Romania and gathered a significant community of researchers in theoretical computing sciences. 16 Education projects Besides the commercial projects, we are involved in The “Mobile Education” project promotes the mobile several projects such as “Chess in school” and “Mobile technologies and Internet usage in the educational Education” two educational projects that support our process. Within the project, pupils from ”Adrian objectives, set for contributing to the improvement Păunescu” school, learned how to use the Internet in a of our society and community by long lasting and more efficient and secure way and acquired important sustainable actions. notions of Internet networking, digital security and web-based communication. INSOFT was one of As a result of the “Chess in school” pilot project the partners involved in the project initiated by the implementation, the 3rd and 4th grade pupils from Romanian Internet Society (NGO) department. the Primary School no. 22 “Mexic”, Bucharest had the opportunity to discover the chessboard and the chess main pieces by using the innovative eLearning method – learnIN. Thanks to the learnIN digital interactive educational content, pupils acquired basic information on chess in a relatively short time, the results of the psycho-pedagogical research showing the school performances have been improved after the program implementation – School of I – VIII grades nr. 22 “Mexic”, Bucharest. Internal training program Young people are the society future. That’s why, “INSOFT INternship” gives students the possibility to INSOFT support them in acquiring the skills, participate in training sessions focused on applying knowledge and expertise giving them a competitive and deepening the knowledge accumulated during edge in today’s labour market. For this purpose, we the study period. Meanwhile, they have the chance focus on providing dedicated programs for their to develop their personal and professional skills. professional development support. Thus, the interns are integrated into existing teams interacting, this way, with the everyday working Each year, students and master graduates from environment gaining experience in real projects. technical faculties have the opportunity to participate in training and skills development internships within Moreover, we support all our employees to participate INSOFT Development & Consulting. “INSOFT in various trainings according to their personal career INternship” program aims to familiarize bachelors and development plan. master students with the most modern IT solutions, applied in practice. 17 Labor market access The employment has become a major issue for most of Concerning the next social responsible projects we the countries. In the European Union member states, target, they will aim to assist people from vulnerable 27 million people are unemployed and many more are groups in their professional and personal development, economically inactive or working in poor conditions. finding a job for them being a guarantee of a better standard of living. Starting with the projects addressed to the labor market we are involved in, we examined the possibility Work search and employment requirements have to expand our contribution. Thus, we obtained the changed in the contemporary society. That’s why new license of Training Service Providers for professional approaches are needed. We understood the society development programs, a key element we can rely on, need of change and developed innovative software in building our future partnerships. products bringing benefits to thousands of people from vulnerable groups. 18 Environment Working to protect and preserve our environment The planned activities included ecological clean-ups and contribute to the improvement of the social and Tourist Paths marking throughout the Arges climate has always been one of our long-standing County. Besides its ecological activities, the Association commitments. Environment proper care is essential runs a series of support programs for underprivileged to the quality of life for present and future generations. children. Annually, the club members collect and It is also fundamental to our business. In this spirit, distribute aids, including educational resources, for INSOFT joined “Junimea Bratienilor” Organization as underprivileged children from the Danube Delta area. a sponsor for their eco-camp “Fagaras 2014” activities. Certifications INSOFT is complying with the legislation regarding environmental regulations for the environment protection and pollution prevention, being ISO certified for the environmental management system. INSOFT is ISO 14001:2005 certified for the environmental management system a proof that we meet the required standards. This assures that the company complies and follows the legislation with regards to the environment, implementing, in this purpose, a series of regulations for the pollution prevention and the social environment protection. In doing so we try to maintain a proactive approach and encourage recycling and other Eco friendly actions. 19 Recycling INSOFT formulates and implements policies and As a part of the internal communication strategy, procedures for the natural resources conserving, we created an ECO Friendly Flyer, promoting useful preserving the current state of natural environment advice complying with the office everyday activities and where possible, fighting against its degradation. and making the difference in the environmental protection. These are common habits to implement, The INSOFT building is equipped with special and employees are encouraged to adopt the same recycling bins encouraging the waste sorting and healthy habits in their personal lives. In the same sparing printing habits. The recycling bins are spirit, we didn’t print this flyer but distribute it online. responsibly used by all the employees and a specialized We strongly recommend our staff to reduce their company picks them up every month. When needed, printing needs to a minimum, and use the e-mail we recycle electronic waste and used batteries. communication, as much as possible. Environment projects We are involved in several EU funded projects on the man-made crises, including joint emergency response priority axis 2 – “Environment” and 4 – “Appropriate services and on the development of infrastructure Management Systems implementation for the nature and management plans for protecting the biodiversity protection”. The projects focus on the development of within Nature 2000 network. joint infrastructure and services to prevent natural and Events We celebrate once a year, the Earth Day event that is a In the period prior to this event, the company sends culmination of a year’s green efforts and a call to action e-mails and reminders that encourage employees to for employees. To us, Earth Day is a day for action; a shut down and unplug their appliances for this day chance to show how important the environment is to and adopt this habit on long term in order of saving INSOFT. valuable resources. 20 Charitable activities In 2014, we encouraged some initiatives taken by INSOFT employees among which we can mention: Fund raising for Kola Kariola dogs’ shelter Donations to the charitable group “Give and you shall be rewarded!” Helped by the colleagues involved in the During the Christmas holidays INSOFT fundraising, we succeed to purchase 165 kg employees made donations to families in need of food for the dogs’ shelter of the Animal who are part of the charitable group “Give and Protection Association Kola Kariola. you will be rewarded!” 21 Plans for the future In 2015 we intend to continue the works we’ve already As some interest of the employees for the philanthropic begun. We’ll maintain the established partnerships activities has been noted, their initiatives will be and will conclude new ones to strengthen and supported following a careful analysis, in 2015. diversify the CSR actions accomplished in 2014. In addition, we are considering a plan with quantifiable In order to encourage employees to lead an active and measurable objectives to be met during 2015 that life, initiatives promoting a healthy lifestyle will be will help us to be more active and dynamic in the area encouraged. So, partnerships with sports organizations of corporate social responsibility. By implementing to encourage employees to practice healthy hobbies our CSR initiatives and programs, we can exploit will be established. opportunities to increase our positive impact. We will also promote the initiative “2%”, through Considering the company’s business strategy, we will which we have the opportunity to redirect the 2% work to establish important partnerships with nonof the income tax to a foundation, an association governmental organizations involved in activities or a non-profit organization. Employees will be aiming at promoting education, employment market encouraged to help different organizations to carry access for the disadvantaged groups and environmental out their missions by directing 2% of income tax protection. contributing this way to solving problems in an area they consider important: social, environment, child A special attention will be given to interesting protection, health, education etc. proposals towards social responsibility initiatives coming from our colleagues. By developing internal As an adherent member to the UN Global Compact communication campaigns, we intend to involve initiative, INSOFT will focus its future efforts to them in social responsible activities. They will be integration into the company’s development strategy encouraged to submit proposals for sustainable and current operations, several responsible activities projects they would like to get involved in, and the based on the 10 key principles promoted by the company communication team will analyze and organization. INSOFT will make all the necessary disseminate the messages. In case employees will be efforts to contributing in the United Nations interested, we will provide support in implementing Millennium Development Goals achievement. these projects. 22 INSOFT Development & Consulting 19D Virtutii Drive, District 6, 1st-4th floor and ground floor, postal code 060783, Bucharest, Romania Phone: +40.374.023.255 Fax: +40.314.370.015 Email: office@insoft-dc.ro Website: www.insoft-dc.ro © 2015 INSOFT Development & Consulting. All rigths reserved. The content of this material cannot be reproduced, published or modified without the written consent of INSOFT Development & Consulting.
