Dulas Ltd Unit 1 Dyfi Eco Park Machynlleth Powys, SY20 8AX Tel: +44(0)1654 705000 Fax: +44(0)1654 703000 solar@dulas.org.uk www.dulas.org.uk UN Global Compact Communication on Progress ‐ Dulas Date 27th August 2015 Statement To our stakeholders I am delighted to confirm that Dulas continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti‐corruption. Our core business is the delivery of renewable energy solutions to help people not hurt them, this means our values and activities embrace the three environmental principles. We are continually encouraging the diffusion of renewable energy technologies in areas of the world with poor power supplies particularly for the use of primary healthcare. Human rights have also always been at the heart of our business and our founding principles exclude manufacturing arms or arms related products. We have also recently added new policies within our Business Vision documentation and Employee Handbook. Labour rights and responsible management are vital to our operations and values. We are employee owned with no external shareholdings. We are anti‐corruption and our activities are undertaken through transparent bidding processes. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Phil Horton Managing Director, Dulas Registered in Wales No. 1629011 VAT No. G.B. 377 7317 15 Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy & Goals Dulas fully and passionately supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We have policies within our Business Vision documentation and Employee Handbook which support the declaration regarding: Capability Procedure Disciplinary Grievance Internal Secondment Redundancy Volunteering Right to Request Flexible Working Relocation Career Break Volunteering at Dulas Working Time & Annual Leave Equality & Diversity Maternity Paternity/Maternity Support Leave & Pay Probation Dignity at Work Recruitment & Selection Development & Objectives Review Learning & Development Sickness Absence Reporting Parental Leave Internal Recruitment & Selection Stress Volunteering Reviews Brand IT Telephone Implementation Our policies are implemented in our day to day operations. We adhere to the stringent UK and European recruitment and employment law and actively promote work‐life balance through flexible family friendly working practices. Every employee carries out an annual stress test to monitor the wellbeing of employees and management reviews are regularly carried out. Registered in Wales No. 1629011 VAT No. G.B. 377 7317 15 Our work specifically supports Article 25 through our provision of solar powered refrigeration and power systems for health care. These products enable improved health care and access to vaccinations in the most remote areas of the world. Measures of outcomes Dulas undertakes a 6‐mnothly survey on stress which is fed back to departmental managers and the Board of Directors. The employee representative Personnel Group monitors and ensures that human rights are upheld. A wider employee survey is undertaken annually to gauge employee responses to a number of questions about the working environment, team relationships, management and the Board. Anonymised results are circulated to all staff. Labour  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment Policy and Goals Dulas is a worker owned company. This brings unique commitment, equality and loyalty throughout our business. We encourage and support co‐operation in Dulas as well as common ownership of business ideas and processes throughout teams. The promotion of team working is paramount. We expect every employee to be self‐motivated and responsible, and to participate in decision making in a considered manner. Management style is expected to be inclusive, supportive & coaching, we expect everyone with management responsibility to have excellent listening skills and a democratic approach but not to be afraid to deal with difficult issues & show leadership. We take this approach as we believe this is the best for profit, people and the environment. Dulas does not use forced or compulsory labour or use child labour. Dulas adheres to UK and European laws regarding discrimination. Implementation Due to an increase in size Dulas instigated a new governance process which was undertaken through consultation during 2012. Dulas has a culture of consultation and participation and all employee/shareholders will contribute to major business decisions. Dulas has been very pleased to retain our status as a fully worker owned company and have set up the Shareholder Advisory Committee who is responsible for advising the Board of Directors through consultation. Registered in Wales No. 1629011 VAT No. G.B. 377 7317 15 Dulas has a human resource team in place to ensure UK legislation is implemented and supported. A democratically elected personnel group is also in place which is responsible for employee probations, appraisals and are available to assist and support with any employee matters as and when they may arise. Measures of outcomes Standards and policies are monitored, updated and recorded by the employee representative Personnel Group; the supply chain is monitored by the Quality Group. Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment Policy and Goals Dulas’ founding principle is: “To develop solutions to engineering and environmental problems that help people and the environment” Our core business of delivering renewable energy solutions that make a positive impact on the environment through the provision of solar, wind, hydro and biomass systems for domestic, commercial, humanitarian and public service applications around the World Our business is driven by the global targets for carbon reduction and the opportunity to deliver life‐saving technologies to areas of poor electricity supply through the provision of renewable energy technologies. Implementation The Dulas headquarters are situated in extremely energy efficient BREEAM standard office buildings on a purpose built Eco business park in Mid‐Wales. The area significantly benefits from the local employment opportunities presented by the business. The organisation’s transport policies reflect our environmental goals and location next to a mainline railway station ensures that car journeys can be minimised. The whole business is dedicated to the installation and facilitation of wind farms, individual wind turbines, environmentally sensitive run‐of‐river hydro schemes, biomass heating systems and solar PV systems for homes, businesses and remote, off‐grid applications. Dulas Environmental Management System Statement Dulas achieved certification to ISO14001 in June 2015. The following Dulas Ltd documents are held in support of this:  Environmental Policy Statement – this includes maintaining an Environmental Management System that conforms to ISO14001 Registered in Wales No. 1629011 VAT No. G.B. 377 7317 15  Environmental Management System model  Environmental Management System Manual contents  Management Review Procedure – this covers review of ISO14001:2004 sections 4.33, 4.4.1, 4.6  Documents register showing relationship between ISO9001 and ISO14001 documentation  Environment aspect chart  Environment aspect register  Legal Register  Minutes of ISO14001 review meetings And more recently the following documents:  Waste monitoring  Environmental Emergency Response and Pollution Prevention  Waste management procedures As of 2015 we are moving to an integrated health, safety and environment system. The plan is to incorporate our ISO9001 management system as well in the next 12‐18 months. As a fully environmentally aware company we continued to manage, review and improve our environmental management through our ISO9001 processes and as part of our Health & Safety management. We are continuing to improve our activities and there is support at director level and throughout the company. Environmental awareness is embedded in Dulas Ltd as it is contained as an object in our memorandum of association “22.4 – to make a real contribution to improving peoples lives and the protection of the environment”. Anti‐Corruption  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment Policy and Goals The Dulas Business Vision document states that: We are a highly ethical business, and that we specifically exclude trade with arms or arms related products. Dulas is against corruption and supports the UN convention against corruption. Implementation As an ethical business Dulas ensures that our business interactions do not infer any type of corruption. The organisation regularly bids for work through transparent tender processes and framework agreements. We have a system whereby new customers are identified / assessed before a PO is agreed Dulas disciplinary procedure clearly states that the acceptance of bribes or incentives of any sort is misconduct and appropriate action will be taken. Registered in Wales No. 1629011 VAT No. G.B. 377 7317 15 Dulas Ltd refers to and complies with the UK bribery act. The senior management team and directors have had a briefing on the bribery act and are regularly reminded to maintain the register of hospitality given or received. Actions All Heads of Team read, understand and communicate as necessary the brief and full guidance. Heads of Team remind all team members that bribery is illegal and an offence for UK nationals under UK law and ignorance of the law is not a defence. This is included in team meetings. We maintain a register of hospitality given and received. (to do) ensure that this issue is included in our induction process for new staff. Measures of outcomes Departmental teams monitor business interactions to ensure that ethical business practices are maintained. During the year no disciplinary action was required regarding corruption. The hospitality register is regularly updated. Registered in Wales No. 1629011 VAT No. G.B. 377 7317 15
