Continue to support the Global Compact We subscribed to the UN Global Compact, having faith in its importance. We hereby renew our commitment with its ten principles that cover the following four main fields: Human Rights, Labour, Environment, Anti-Corruption, We are committed to transparently apply these principles in running our company and to make them an integral part of its strategies. Although, this year, we have seriously contemplated the feasibility of our affiliation to that Compact, all the more because we have sensibly and tangibly noticed the global corruption, especially in the realm of information media and the ruining of Syrian companies… Albeit, we repeatedly requested in our preceding reports the necessity of seriously taking into consideration the problem of global depravity and of handling it with creditability and in-depth, not only through luring words and information… Never the less, we will continue to work by our values, which compel us to owner our commitment to the GC and continue to support these principles Maya Patsalides General Manager HUMAN RIGHTS Principal 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right; and Principal 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Given the meaning of its name and its own values, Direct Line decided to join the Global Compact for companies and to abide by all its principles which correspond to its own beliefs. From the rest of this report and from the diversity of its employees, we will find that Direct Line respects all human rights, giving a perfect example to all its business partners, companies, associations and individuals; therefore it participates in supporting and encouraging the Syrian society’s development on the basis of those principles. These principles faced a test during the upheaval which started in Syria since mid-May 2011 and is still waging. Divergence in the public opinion of Syrians is far and wide, involving even those in their workplaces. Some of our employees are pros and others are cons. Day in day out, they trade debates on what is going on in Syria. It has been our principle that each and every individual of Direct Line should respect the other individual’s opinion and his/her right in free expression pioneered by debate. This has led to moderation in stances and a better understanding of the other’s opinion; hence, intimacy has ruled among them all, and positive opinions have become increasingly prevailing as time wears on. LABOUR Principal 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining; Principal 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principal 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principal 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. In Direct Line we seek to act as one family in these critical circumstances plaguing us in Syria. Our company also supports several human societies and organizations through various activities such as: Back to the enormous crisis experienced by Syria since mid-March 2011, specifically its economic impact. Syrian economy has receded because of embargo, overseas sanctions, boycott on purchase of Syrian oil even on those who buy it, the war against the Syrian Pound exchange rate, etc.. This has led to closing down a number of commercial firms and to weakening of the workforce’s psychological and financial stability, so much so that they fear losing their jobs, accept lower wages and work on part time basis to keep earning their bread and butter (or whatever can be salvaged), away from unemployment and all misfortunes associated with it. Notwithstanding these precarious circumstances, our company kept on all its employees willing to stay with us, maintained their payroll scale and even supported those facing an adverse political situation without any discrimination as to gender, religious denomination or political affiliation. Anxious as we all are to survive and go ahead as a company and individuals, we have set up a sound studio in the company so that we may act and integrate our services and expand the source of our income. ENVIRONMENT Principal 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principal 8: undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility and; Principal 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. It would be worthwhile to refer in this connection to our frustration because of our inability to do anything against the tremendous pollution (let alone human victims) caused by various explosions and mortar shells blasted in Syria by terrorists who are, unfortunately, backed by most civilized nations purportedly seeking to disseminate the concept of environment protection on a worldwide scale. Despite all of the above, we seek to preserve the environment and supporting all environmental events. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principal 10: businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. So that we remain transparent and shy away from the corruption that we combat in say and deed, it is because of the war waged against our country that the number of our staff members has diminished as some of them left away (one of them was the victim of kidnapping). A condition of affiliating to the Global Compact network is that the company should have a minimum number of personnel who are fully prepared to comply with this proviso and quit that network if the Compact management so deems fit. The media being our line of business, we have noticed the huge corruption worldwide and the perilous sectarian incitation prevailing in information and TV stations. We have organized several seminars to counsel our employees on the risk of corruption and information lies and on making them feel that we are one and the same people living together under the roof of one and the same nation, despite our various doctrines and beliefs. Finally, While closing this COP, we kindly requet those in charge of the Compact project to: • Spare no effort and sincerely arrange to cut down the orchestrated ruining of Syrian companies. • Stand up against corruption, the looting of Syrian companies and the sale of their equipment to other countries with the knowledge (au vu et au su) of decision makers in those countries. • Arrange to cut short the corruption and killing of innocent people for the sake of crude oil and natural gas. To your kind selves and to all contributors to the Compact and its success, Best regards and deepest respect.
