Your Ref: Our Ref: 02 December 2015 H. E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY10017 USA Dear Mr Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Brown and Mason Limited supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Brown and Mason Limited will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognise that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global compact COP policy. Yours sincerely, Nick Brown Managing Director Chief Executive Statement I am pleased to confirm that Brown and Mason Limited continues to support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to: human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance these principles within our sphere of influence. We continue to be committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Brown and Mason Limited will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Over the last year all of Brown and Mason’s policies have been reviewed and updated to ensure they support and respect the protection of human rights. A particular focus has been auditing supply chain partners and involving them in developing policies and strategies. We have continued to build good community relations through our work with local communities. An example is our current project to decommission Coryton Oil Refinery in Essex. The power station covers a large area (1 square kilometre) and due to its visibility it is a significant local landmark. Brown and Mason has been liaising with the press to make sure the demolition programme is made widely available. We have also invited stakeholders to tour the site, view our methodology and meet our key site staff. Our good practice in this area has led to a 2-year extension to this contract to decommission tanks and other structures. Brown and Mason commits to developing our relationships with local communities over the coming year and introducing whatever means are practical to both minimise any negative impacts from our projects and engage local people in our demolition work. Principle 3: Freedom of association and collective bargaining Brown and Mason respects people’s rights to have employee representation, including their right to join unions and we do not tolerate harassment. This policy also applies to our supply chain partners. The company has a staff representative group which is involved in strategic decision making and communications. Brown and Mason commit over the next year to recognise formal staff associations which represent different aspects of issues important to our workers – these may include trade associations which primarily promote training / accreditations; or others which strive to improve workers’ rights. With regards to the former we are working towards corporate membership of the Chartered Institute of Building. Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour The construction industry has a poor reputation for the rights of individuals due to the high proportion of people engaged on a self-employed basis. Our HR policy is that all individuals must be employed on a fair wage. Our sustainable procurement policy and supply chain policy clearly state that all suppliers must eliminate all forms of force and compulsory labour. We monitor this through our pre-qualification system and supply chain management software. Brown and Mason’s sites are regularly audited by a number of external 3rd parties, these include our federations (the National Federation of Demolition Contractors and the Asbestos Removal Contractors’ Association); we use such audits to ensure our workers are treated properly. Over the coming year we commit to accreditation with an increasing number of external parties which will ensure our sites / working practices are examined remotely. Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour We have a policy of zero tolerance to the use of child labour. We check the policies of all our suppliers and monitor compliance through site inductions and audits. Brown and Mason is proud of the longstanding relationships we have with most of our suppliers (often many decades). The demolition industry tends to stand alone without much requirement for subcontracting. Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Brown and Mason is committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and to avoiding unlawful discrimination in employment or to customers. We already accept our responsibilities under all relevant UK legislation and we ensure our equalities policy is applied to potential as well as current staff. All employees of Brown and Mason have equal access to jobs and services on offer and no person receives less favourable treatment than others because of gender (including gender reassignment), disability, age, ethnic or national origin, nationality, race, colour, sexual orientation, marital status, religion or belief, sexuality or responsibility for dependants. Responsibility for monitoring and implementing our policy lies at a high level – with Nick Brown, Operations Director. Over the coming year we intend to increase our efforts in this direction by actively supporting specific sector groups within the construction sector, an example is the beonsite Women in Construction initiative. Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies The demolition industry has long been among the top-performing sectors with regard to environmental performance, if for no other reason than it pays to do so – a significant proportion of our profits comes from recycling demolition arisings. Brown and Mason develop Demolition Site Waste Management Plans (DSWMP) for each project. The plan details the processes and procedures required to manage waste removal from site and includes all requisite information and licences. It is our aim to minimise waste by reducing the amount and environmental impact of waste generated, with emphasis on re-use and recycling following the Waste Minimisation Hierarchy: Reduce Reuse Recycle Dispose Generally speaking there are 3 key stages in construction projects where waste minimisation initiatives can be implemented: • Contractual negotiation • Design phase • Site operations It is worth noting that some buildings and structures that are now being demolished today were not built with these important considerations in mind. Nonetheless Brown and Mason always endeavour to demolish buildings and structures in an environmentally friendly manner by controlling site operations and waste disposal requirements in line with our policy statement and current legislation. Where recycling of waste is not possible (eg asbestos bearing materials) these are systematically removed from the buildings/structures, double wrapped or bagged as appropriate and placed into sealed skips/containers. Brown and Mason has have longstanding relationships with a number of Materials Recycling Facilities throughout the UK and Europe. Ferrous and non-ferrous metals are sent for re-processing; masonry / concrete is crushed on site if the Client requires for use as hardcore; usable machinery / plant is sent to dealers for resale. Maximum value for money is achieved and waste prevented for the simple reason that this comes from our bottom line. A significant portion of our profits comes from the sale of scrap from our demolition contracts and it is in our interests to maximise returns by reclaiming as much material as possible. We have a longstanding relationship with a European scrap metal trader which, in view of our longstanding relationship and the sheer quantity of metal from our sites, is able to offer us the very best price for the metal from our sites. Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Brown and Mason has a zero tolerance policy towards corruption and bribery. We have a number of policies to support this including an anti-corruption policy and ethics policy. This is communicated throughout our procedures including our induction process. We have a requirement for all members of staff to complete an authorisation form with regard to entertainment or gifts. This has enabled us to control and monitor any form of potential corruption. Nick Brown Managing Director Brown and Mason Limited
