December 10th, 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Statement of continued support by Mr. Taher, CEO of Taher Inc Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Taher, Inc is proud to offer its continued support for the Global Compact and its mission: to create a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits to people, communities and markets. At Taher, we have worked hard to integrate this mission and the 10 principles as a part of our daily practice. We have clearly stated our stance and commitment to this with not only our employees, but also through the many partnerships we have built within the communities we service. We stand with the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We wish to renew the company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principals. With this communication, we are expressing our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles a continual part of the strategy, culture and daily operations of our company. As we grow, we challenge ourselves to continually further our involvement to this mission, and hope to constantly improve. I recognize that this expression of continual support by myself as the CEO of Taher, Inc is the first step in the requirements needed for continual participation in the Global Compact. Following this letter, the United Nations Global Compact will receive our annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support accountability and transparency and will include a description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken or plans to undertake to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas of human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption. Additionally, a measure of outcomes will be presented in this COP in order to further disclose the degree of which Taher has addressed its targets, the indicators that were met, and any other qualitative or quantitative measurement of results. Kind regards, Bruce Taher CEO of Taher, Inc Taher, Inc Communication on Progress (COP) Assessment, Policy and Goals – Human Rights At Taher, we strictly adhere to the human rights principle and are respectful of the rights all our employees, clients and partners deserve. Taher does not condone behavior that supports the abuse of anyone, and ensures that the principles mandated are a part of our assessment and hiring practices. We do a variety of things to ensure that we adhere to the principles on a daily basis. First and foremost, we are proud to offer a safe workplace for all of our employees, whether at our corporate offices, or within units throughout the communities we serve. To maintain this, training is paramount, and is not only a strict part of our onboarding process, but something we do continuously throughout the year. Our Human Resources Department (HR) works closely with all of our units to manage and address any grievances regarding the workplace, and are always available to help mediate or answer questions. We have a great Human Resources team here at Taher who is committed to continuous education and training to be as effective and supportive of our team as possible. They are active in collecting and maintaining all employee records, and regularly attend monthly manager meetings to reinforce continued best practices within the company. Our business is food, and through food we have a responsibility to ensure that those whom we serve are receiving the proper nutrition necessary. We have an onsite nutrition team that is constantly working with vendors and clients to understand all needs necessary, especially within K12 schools, which represent a large part of the population we provide meals for. In addition, we have created and grown our Thanksgiving initiative, which provides a full turkey meal for those who may not otherwise be able to celebrate with friends and family around a table. This initiative was born from connecting with others during a time of tragedy, and has grown into something that we hope is connecting a community. Recently, we gathered a team of leaders to discuss the Future of Foodservice and what that means for not only us as a company, but how we can best serve those whom rely on us for proper, daily meals. We are constantly challenging our teams to think outside the box to offer the most innovative food concepts, while still maintaining proper nutrition and abiding by specific dietary restrictions. We are excited to see how foodservice within companies, schools and organizations evolves and changes, and are ready for another great challenge! Assessment, Policy and Goals – Labor Rights Taher carefully practices fair and equal rights, including compensation and benefits, throughout the entire company. We have a strong stance against discrimination, which includes everything from gender, race, religion, sexual orientation, disabilities or status. We firmly stand behind the elimination of discrimination, child and forced labor, and create partnerships with others who believe in the same principles. Our hiring practices are representative of our adherence to these principles; working fairly to encourage employment and promotions within the company. We also practice an open door policy, which allows any and all individuals to come forward with any concerns or complaints that they have with not only their own employment, but the employment of others within Taher. We take all concerns seriously and address them as necessary, including arbitration with our executive leadership team Within our many workplaces, as well as the partnerships we have built, we are proud to say we have had zero reports of any form of child or forced labor. We continue to build relationships with businesses who practice fair and equal rights, as we do, and are built on similar foundations of employee and associate treatment. Assessment, Policy and Goals – Environmental Principles Taher is fully committed to reducing our impact on the environment. A small carbon footprint is important for our company in the present, as well as our future. We will continually search for ways to increase efficiencies in our methodology, as well as support technologies that are not only better for the environment, but are representative of businesses who stand behind the same environmental principles as ourselves. At Taher, it is standard practice to comply with all environmental laws that pertain to that specific location we are servicing. In all of our units, not only do we provide recycle bins, but we offer biodegradable disposables that are considered ‘green’ and more naturally compostable. Packaging and the materials we use to display our products is something that we are continually reviewing, so that we are educated about the best products to pass on to our clients. Everything from how we serve beverages to the utensils used to serve meals are researched and chosen based on their effect on the environment. With these small changes in what we utilize for service, we hope to make a lasting impact on our ecosystem for the better. As well, we have implemented several web based services, reducing our carbon footprint and paper trail as much as possible. Everything from payroll to invoicing has been moved to an online process, drastically altering the amount of paper we print on, envelopes we mail items in and gas used to move items from one place to another. The continuous improvement of this principle is important to us for not only reducing our environmental impact, but in streamlining our processes as best as possible. This is something we practice with all of our employees, clients and partners. When choosing partnerships in food, local and organic is something we seek out. Not only are we proud to partner with great vendors within our specific regions, but we appreciate the value and importance of ensuring that the food we provide is not only good for you from a nutritional standpoint, but environmentally and socially, as well. When we support our local communities, we are reducing the impact on the environment through several channels, including chemicals, gas, and water. Supporting local farms help us to also protect open spaces by keeping the land in agricultural use and that which surrounds it preserved in more natural habitats such as forests and wetlands. Assessment, Policy and Goals – Anti-Corruption Principles Taher fully supports the elimination of corruption, and the adherence to ethical principles and high standards of workplace compliance with those principles. We consider ourselves leaders within our industry, and with that, look to be a part of a community that encourages and supports this initiative. Any activities defined as dishonest, or looked upon in a similar nature, will not be tolerated and investigated to the full extent of the law in the region such activity occurred. Our company handbooks outlines the behavior that all employees are expected to uphold. As a company, we maintain standards of integrity that reflect upon us within the community and throughout our partnerships, and expect nothing less of anyone we bring onto our team. Employees are taught to treat all matters related to Taher as they would their own, and to handle business affairs as not only professional, but confidential. Wherever Taher conducts business we do so honestly and with integrity, without use of corrupt or unfair practices and bribery. We do not tolerate acts of corruption, fraud or theft, whether involving money, false reporting or omitting any facts necessary where appropriate. We uphold our responsibility as a leader within this industry, and work hard to grow responsible and healthy relationships with our partners. We hold everyone involved in our business practices accountable for their actions, including our employees, business partners and clients. We work closely with HR and our leadership team to uphold an anti-corruption work place, and utilize an internal checks and balances system to ensure infractions do not occur.
